01-07-2021||Other||Dial 112 helpline to ensure immediate response in emergency situation: Haryana DGP||Haryana director general of police Manoj Yadava said the centralised emergency response and support system (CSERC) ‘Dial 112’ emergency services will soon be launched in Haryana to ensure immediate availability and accessibility of police in emergency situations.Talking to the media on the sidelines of the passing out parade of the 89th batch of the Recruit Basic Course (RBC) at the Haryana Police Academy (HPA) in Madhuban on Thursday, he said that the CSERC’s centralised telephone number will be for emergency complaints concerning police, fire, health and road accidents.The DGP said this new service will be dedicated in the next 10 days and will ensure immediate response in any emergency.He did not comment on his letter to additional chief secretary (home) Rajeev Arora seeking repatriation to the intelligence bureau but said that he is fully satisfied with his working and the letter is already in public domain.61 WOMEN AMONG 280 NEW COPSTotal 280 constables, including 61 women, took part in the passing out parade of the 89th batch on completion of the recruitment course at the police academy.The newly-inducted cops took the oath in the ceremonial parade after successfully completing their basic training.Many of them are highly qualified as per their qualifications recorded, 32 of them are postgraduates, 135 graduates and 37 graduates in professional courses, eight diploma holders, 64 have attained secondary education and only four are matriculate.Addressing the new cops, the DGP said the new personnel have good educational background and this will give a new strength to the state police.He urged the new recruits to give their best to serve the people and do their service honestly. The DGP also hailed the efforts of the officials of HPA for training the cops during the pandemic.The DGP honoured women constables Geeta, Monika and Sangita for securing first, second and third positions, respectively. Dr CS Rao, director HPA, said the recruits of the 89th batch have been trained in police administration, traffic management, maintenance of law and order, human rights, safety, human behaviour and community policing and are ready to serve.The training of 61 female constables at HPA Madhuban, Karnal and 219 male constables at PTC, Sunaria, Rohtak commenced on August 1 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dial-112-helpline-to-ensure-immediate-response-in-emergency-situation-haryana-dgp-101625164118572.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt gives loan to sugar mills to clear cane dues||The Haryana government has released a loan amount of ₹315 crore to 10 cooperative sugar mills for clearing dues of sugarcane farmers for 2020-21 crushing season.Additional chief secretary (cooperation) Sanjeev Kaushal said besides the loan, a subsidy of ₹47 crore has also been released to the sugar mills. This also included subsidy for the Sarswati Sugar Mills.Earlier, cooperation minister Dr Banwari Lal had promised to clear the dues of sugarcane farmers by July 10. Kaushal said that ₹34.50 crore has been released to the Panipat Cooperative Sugar Mill, ₹14.60 crore to Rohtak Cooperative Sugar Mill, ₹36 crore to Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill and ₹33.30 crore to Sonepat Cooperative Sugar Mill.A sum of ₹32.70 crore has been released to Shahbad Cooperative Sugar Mill, ₹20.60 crore to Jind Cooperative Sugar Mill, ₹33.50 crore to Palwal Cooperative Sugar Mill, ₹48 crore to Meham Cooperative Sugar Mill, ₹31.80 crore to Kaithal Cooperative Sugar Mill and ₹30 crore to Gohana Cooperative Sugar Mill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-gives-loan-to-sugar-mills-to-clear-cane-dues-101625164000213.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccine drive continues to sputter||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 9,195 new Covid-19 cases even as the state’s vaccination drive was hit for a third straight day owing to a shortage of vaccine doses.In Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state vaccination centres suspended their drive.On Thursday, 272,714 doses were administered in Maharashtra. On Wednesday, the figure stood at 256,019, while on Tuesday, 387,644 doses were administered. This was after Monday’s figure of 620,400 doses and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s statement that Maharashtra had the capacity to vaccinate 1,500,000 people daily, provided it gets required doses from the Central government.Commenting on the situation, health minister Rajesh Tope said the normal vaccination process will resume from Friday. “We have received 900,000 from the centre and we will start the process again from Friday,” said Tope.Till now, Maharashtra leads the states, in terms of vaccination, as 32,715,362 doses have been administered till date. The state government has also allowed hospitals to conduct vaccination drives in housing societies to boost the vaccination process. In addition, some social organisations are also tying up with hospitals to conduct the drive in slums.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said it was imperative to speed up the process. “The Covid-19 menace still continues and will be there for some time. In this situation, vaccination will blunt the intensity of the virus and will play an important role in saving lives,” said Dr Mandot.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 656 new cases with 21 deaths as its toll reached 15,472.The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,070,599. There were 237,267 tests done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries clocked 8,634. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 116,667, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 122,197. There are currently 116,667 active patients across the state, with Pune topping with 17,086 patients, followed by Thane with 16,105 active patients. The death toll has now reached 122,197, with Pune leading with 16,812 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,472 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccine-drive-continues-to-sputter-101625163877758.html
01-07-2021||Other||Students indulging in malpractice in MDU semester exams||Students appearing for postgraduate first semester exams and Pre-PhD course work exams through the online mode under Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University are taking advantage of technology for cheating and the invigilators are facing a tough time to cope with the situation.Over 18,000 students are appearing in the exam and the exams for distance education students will start from July 3.After downloading the question paper, students are to write answers in separate sheets, which are to be scanned and uploaded. In addition, students also have to send in the hard copies via post.Three hours are provided to the students to write their answer script and one extra hour to upload it in a PDF format.The answersheets are purchased by students themselves and they have to write their name and roll number on every page of the copy.Flagging the issue, state president of JJP’s student wing India National Student Organisation, Pradeep Deshwal, alleged the MDU vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh’s “lackadaisical and incompetent nature is responsible for giving only online mode option to students”.“The students had paid the exam, university and other fees but they are using their own sheets to write the answers in the exam and using their own mobile data. Then why is the varsity charging these expenses from students? The university wants to keep rural students away from education and has failed to keep a tab on students indulging in malpractice,” he added.An MA (English) first semester student said he and his friends used to write answers of expected questions in advance in separate sheets and use the same after three hours.“I had never indulged in such malpractice earlier but I had no option now as my friends are doing the same. If I do not follow them, they will score more marks and it will hurt my academic performance,” the student added.Another student pursuing MA (mass communication) said many students write answers by taking help of notes and book as the screen of their phone is too small and the invigilators can only see the candidate’s face and not their activities.“If the university wants to conduct online exams, the questions should be prepared of higher-order thinking and open books should be allowed. If this is done, those who have studied the syllabus can answer the questions,” she added.Two invigilators, requesting anonymity, said it is difficult to keep tabs on students appearing for the exam from their homes.“The moment students switch off their video, move away from the screen or try to minimise the screen, we ask them why they are doing so. But it is difficult to ascertain whether they had switched off video for cheating or if there was some technical glitch,” they said.“After cheating issues raised by some students, the university has decided to provide both modes to students in the upcoming semester exams starting in the third week of July,” they added.MDU controller of examination BS Sindhu said there can be some issues with the online mode but the exams are going on smoothly.“We have asked the teachers not to ask direct questions so that students’ can’t attempt cheating. We have not received any complaint that students are indulging in malpractice during the exams. In the even semester, we will provide both online and offline options to students,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-indulging-in-malpractice-in-mdu-semester-exams-101625163818470.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Maratha reservation: State asks Centre to amend Constitution to restore state powers||Responding to the fresh verdict of the Supreme Court (SC), the state government and Maratha outfits have demanded that the Centre should amend the Constitution to restore state powers and remove the 50% cap on the reservation.Public works minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation said, “This has been a shocking ruling by the court. It has been reiterated that the powers to give the reservation are with the Centre. The Central government now needs to amend the Constitution to restore the state powers and also to do away with the 50% cap on the reservation. We do not want to politicise the issue and want all the political parties to join hands in the interest of the reservation. The Centre should take a call on it, in the ensuing monsoon session of the Parliament.”Vinod Patil, one of the petitioners for the Maratha reservation said that the state and Central governments need to have their own laws. “The SC has reiterated on its stands that there is no need to review its earlier verdict related to 102nd Constitutional amendment. This also means that the Centre has the power to give reservation to any community based on backwardness. The state and Central governments can take a clear stand with due deliberation in this issue and enact their own laws,” he said.Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil said, “We will request the Centre to clarify its stand on the reservation in the Parliament, but the state government should comply with its duties related to restoration of the reservation. The SC had clearly stated that the President can order the state to enact a law for the reservation. The state government should complete the process required for it by collating the required data through backward classes commission.”Leader of Opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar said, “The Central government clarified its stand by filing review petition that it did not intend to take away the powers of the state governments to give reservation based on backwardness. I have not read the SC’s fresh verdict, but I am sure the Centre will take all steps required in the interest of reservation. Not only the petition related to the Maratha reservation but also the petition by few other states are pending before the Apex court. A collective view needs to be taken in that context. BJP will do everything required to restore the Maratha reservation.”Reacting to the development, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said that the Central government will have to make the Constitutional amendment and if not, then it would prove that they are against the Maratha community. “We have been saying the same that the matter is in the hands of the Central government, post the SC judgment against Maratha reservation. The Centre will have to make an amendment in the Constitution to give the states their rights back to provide reservation to a socially and educationally backward community. If the Centre did not do this, then it will prove that they are against Maratha reservation,” said Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson of NCP and minority affairs minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-reservation-state-asks-centre-to-amend-constitution-to-restore-state-powers-101625163457691.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||More than 342,000 get Covid jabs in Uttar Pradesh, over 16,500 vaccinated in Lucknow||As many as 16,574 beneficiaries took the Covid vaccine jab in Lucknow and 342,959 across Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. In contrast, 4,956 beneficiaries were administered the Covid vaccine in Lucknow on Wednesday and 68,693 across the state as the health department had increased the focus on routine immunisation for children on the day. On Wednesday, the focus was on vaccinating children against TB, measles and other diseases. Hence, the number of vaccination centres was reduced to 20 government ones and eight in the private sector here. “In June, we had a target of administering one crore doses and we gave 1.29 crore doses,” said additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad. A total of 109 sites conducted Covid vaccination, including 98 sites at government health facilities, on Thursday. For Friday, 71 government vaccination sites were allowing slot booking for beneficiaries, apart from the 10 private hospitals running vaccination centres in Lucknow. “We are vaccinating the beneficiaries as per the availability of vaccines every day. As soon as more stock arrives, we shall increase the number of vaccination centres. On Friday, the number of beneficiaries shall go up slightly,” said Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, chief medical officer of Lucknow. UP likely to get 19.1 million doses in July Uttar Pradesh is likely to get 1,91,16,830 (1.91 crore or 19.1 million) doses of Covid vaccine for July that would be administered to people between 18 and 45 years of age. The central government has proposed to send 1,58,64,000 doses of Covishield and 32,52,660 doses of Covaxin for this age group that has a population of 15.04 crore in the state. The total doses include the ones to be sent to the private hospitals in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/more-than-342-000-get-covid-jabs-in-uttar-pradesh-over-16-500-vaccinated-in-lucknow-101625162858881.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka Covid-19 vaccine wastage cross 1 lakh since inoculation drive began||Karnataka has reported wastage of more than 1 lakh Covid-19 vaccines, since the beginning of vaccination drive in January. The state wasted 2.29 % doses per district on an average, according to report published in Prajavani on Wednesday citing a state health department official.Among the districts, Bagalkot reported the highest vaccine wastage with 22,196 doses at 12.66% followed by Hassan with 17,028 at 8.01%.One of the reasons for the wastage is vaccination of less than 10 people from each vial during the first vaccination drive, the state health officials informed. “Ideally, at least 10 people should get vaccinated within four hours of opening a vial containing 11ml of vaccine that remains effective for four hours,” a health department official said.Bagalkot district health officer Dr Ananth Desai said wrong statistics on the CoWIN portal about the doses administered has also caused wastage in Bagalkot’s Gulegagudda taluk. He clarified that the portal showed only 34,000 doses as being used, even though Guledagudda taluk had used 54,800 vials of both Covaxin and Covishield vaccines. “Due to the erroneously published data, Guledagudda taluk had wasted over 20,000 vials of vaccine. We are rectifying the data on the portal,” Dr Desai said.Deputy commissioner of Dharwad, Nitesh Patil said “all precautions have been taken to stop the vaccine wastage or minimise it in the district.”Despite the wastage of vaccines, 10 districts of the state have also achieved more than the targeted vaccination. Shivamogga, by administering 6% more doses than the target, has topped among these 10 districts. This could be achieved due to increased awareness and monitoring of the optimum use of vaccines, informed Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Shivakumar.The rest of the nine districts that have vaccinated above the target are Udupi, with 5.57 %, Dakshina Kannada with 4.71%, Dharwad with 4.25%, Haveri with 4.16%, Uttara Kannada with 3.65%, Chikkamagaluru with 2.25 %, Belagavi with 1.72%, Kodagu 1.36%, Bengaluru with 1.29% and Mysuru with 0.13%.The supply of vaccines also played a role in achieving above the target in 10 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-cross-1-lakh-since-inoculation-drive-began-101625162017028.html
01-07-2021||Other||Hours after kidnapping, burnt body of 12-yr-old girl found in mango orchard in Kanpur||The burnt body of a 12-year-old girl, allegedly kidnapped from her house on Wednesday night, was found some 300 meters away in a mango orchard in Kanpur Dehat’s Mangalpur area early on Thursday morning, said police officials.Her father alleged she was gang-raped before being burnt alive.According to officials, the killers took away the girl, along with the charpoy on which she was last seen sleeping by her parents. The charpoy was found close to the half-naked burnt body.Her father told police he was sleeping with his wife on the roof of the house. His children were outside the house on the ground floor.“We slept by 8 pm, she was there then. When I woke up, I thought she might have gone to attend the nature’s call in the field. She did not come home for long then I became worried,” father told the police.“I sent my sons and others to look for her. She was found in the mango orchard brutally murdered. We could identify her with the clothes, her face was burnt apparently to make the identification difficult, he said.Hundreds of people gathered at the orchard and at the house expressing anger at the incident. Police had a tough time in controlling the villagers who were demanding immediate arrest of the accused.SP Kanpur Dehat Keshav Chowdhary said the girl was burnt alive and the body had been sent for postmortem.On father’s apprehension that feared she was raped before she was killed, the police said the postmortem report would clear whether she was raped or not.The family, however, has denied any enmity angle as being probed by the police, which called the forensic experts to the spot.ADG Kanpur zone Bhanu Bhaskar and IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal also visited the spot. Bhaskar said the police were investigating the case the perpetrators would be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hours-after-kidnapping-burnt-body-of-12-yr-old-girl-found-in-mango-orchard-in-kanpur-101625162257655.html
01-07-2021||Other||BKU activists lay siege to toll plazas, allow toll-free movement of vehicles||The clash between protesting farmers and BJP workers at Ghazipur border on Wednesday and subsequent case registered against farmers led to protest in different districts of the region on Thursday.Angry farmers sat on dharna outside police stations in Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and other districts and overpowered staff at several toll plazas in Meerut and Moradabad region, allowing toll-free movement of vehicles.The call to make all toll plazas free during protest was given by the farmer unions to intensify their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.BKU’s youth wing state president Digamber Singh said that BKU leaders and supporters are staging protests at 22 police stations in Bijnor district.He flayed the ruling party for registering a case against 200 unknown farmers after Wednesday’s clash at Hajipur border and not registering cases on the complaint of farmers.“They (BJP) leaders and workers hatched the conspiracy to clash with protestors so that cases could be registered against peacefully protesting farmers,” said Singh.BKU’s district unit president in Muzaffarnagar, Dheeraj Latiyan claimed that farmers are protesting at police stations in the district and also laid siege to Rohana and Chapaar toll plazas situated in the district since afternoon.“Our protest will continue until leaders decide to end it,” said Latiyan, who also blamed the BJP for hatching conspiracy to create a situation of confrontation with farmers.Senior farmer leader and former general secretary of BKU (Bhanu) Ch Diwakar Singh claimed that farmers also allowed toll-free movement of vehicles at toll plazas in Garh Mukteshwar in Hapur, Joya in Amroha and Musha Pandey in Moradabad since afternoon.Like his other fellow leaders, Ch Diwakar too said that their protest at plazas would continue till new directions come from top leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-activists-lay-siege-to-toll-plazas-allow-toll-free-movement-of-vehicles-101625162138457.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||Doctors’ 100% effort gives two 90+ Covid patients new lease of life in Uttar Pradesh||Amid the many challenges posed by Covid-19, doctors in Agra and Jhansi did wonders by restoring two nonagenarians to health. While one patient was aged 98 years, the other was 95.The recovery of a 1923-born Covid-19 infected man from UP’s Agra district was one of the biggest testimonies to the perseverance of the doctors.“I still remember the Covid first wave. In the absence of the line of treatment and vaccine, even the doctors were clueless how to tackle the deadly virus that had gripped the state. And at the same time, we came across the case of a 98-year-old Covid patient, Gyan Chand Gupta, who was suffering from breathlessness and fever,” said a doctor at Agra’s Nayati Hospital where Gupta was admitted.Prashant Agyani, media advisor with Nayati Hospital, said Gupta, who was 98 years’ old, approached the hospital on May 29, 2020.“He was in a serious condition, suffering from UTI (urinary tract infection), weakness, breathlessness and other ailments. Because of his age, we got him hospitalised under the most vulnerable patient category,” said Agyani. He said initially Gupta was put on five-litre oxygen support.A dedicated team of doctors and paramedical staff was tasked with handling the case, he said. With regular treatment and proper medication, a massive improvement in Gupta’s health was witnessed.“We all were happy with the improvement and the way his body responded to the treatment. It took around 13 to 14 days for him to recover completely, and, on June 12, 2020, he was discharged,” he added.Gyan Chand Gupta’s son Arun Kumar Gupta thanked the doctors and called them the “real saviours”.“Indeed, it was a tough situation, but with the help of the doctors, my father has now recovered completely and by God’s grace he is healthy,” said Arun Kumar Gupta. His father had retired in 1983 as an executive engineer in the irrigation department and stays in the Gandhi Nagar area of Agra.On the senior Gupta’s recovery, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh had tweeted: “97 years old Mr Gupta, a Covind 19 patient, discharged hale and hearty from L2 facility Nayati Agra. He is a motivation to all of us and ray of hope to all Covid patients, especially those of old age. Salute to Mr Gupta.”This was not the lone example showing the never say die spirit of doctors in UP.Another befitting example was of Maan Kunwar, 95, fondly known as “Jhansi Ki Rani”. Kunwar was admitted in the Covid ward of Rani Laxmi Bai Medical College in Jhansi on July 19, 2020. She won the battle against Covid in a mere seven days.“This happened because of her indomitable spirit and the medical staff did not mind her flare-ups,” said Dr Anshul Jain, superintendent in-charge of the Covid-19 hospital. She was asymptomatic but the RT-PCR test had found her positive, said her son Chote Lal, resident of Talpura, Jhansi. Recollecting his experience of treating Kunwar, Dr Jain said initially the patient was worried as she was away from her family members.“Patients at this age take time to adapt to the hospital environment, but later she gelled well. The junior doctors made her talk with her family on the phone and arranged video calls,” Dr Jain said.After recovery, she was discharged on the evening of July 25, 2020, but advised seven-day home quarantine in accordance with Covid protocol. Jhansi district magistrate Andhra Vamsi said whoever had good immunity and did not lead a sedentary lifestyle had fairly a good chance of overcoming this infection.“Healthy diet, physical exercise and boosting the immunity through balanced lifestyle and diet improves the lymphatic activity,” he said.There were several other elderly patients who were given a new lease of life by doctors.In Uttar Pradesh, Covid-19 has affected more than 17 lakh people, suggested data available with the health department. Of these, the data suggested that 1,90,000 people who got affected were over 60 years of age. Over 22,000 deaths have been reported in Uttar Pradesh so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/doctors-100-effort-gives-two-90-covid-patients-new-lease-of-life-in-uttar-pradesh-101625161718116.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Shortage of doses in Mumbai: Vaccination to be carried out for just 3 hrs today||A day after suspending Covid vaccination across 300 centres in the city on Thursday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that vaccination will be conducted for a limited period of three hours on Friday.According to BMC officials, vaccination across 281 civic-run centres and 20 government centres will be conducted between 2pm to 5pm only due to a shortage of doses.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner said that the BMC will get around 125,000 vaccine doses of Covishield and 25,000 doses of Covaxin, from which vaccination will be continued in the city.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department said, “Each centre will be given around 200 vaccine doses approximately. However, vaccination will be conducted only for three hours between 2pm to 5pm on Friday.”Though civic-run centres were shut, private hospitals were conducting vaccination drives. Four state government-run centres were operational due to limited stock.On Thursday, 32,074 citizens were vaccinated in the city. Over 21,000 citizens were administered the first dose, while the remaining were given the second dose.Meanwhile, as of Thursday, a total 5,467,805 citizens have been vaccinated, of which 4,384,539 were administered the first dose and 1,083,266 were given the second dose.Further, of the total vaccinated, 1,746,811 are between 18-44 years, 1,594,238 are between 45-59 years of age, 1,426,396 are above 60 years of age, followed by 3,316 are lactating mothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shortage-of-doses-in-mumbai-vaccination-to-be-carried-out-for-just-3-hrs-today-101625161597559.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai vaccination scam: Ninth FIR registered; 218 from Andheri firm given saline||The Amboli police on Thursday registered the ninth first information report (FIR) in connection with the fake vaccination scam. Police officers said the complainant Avinash Bidaya, 32, from the marketing department of Kwan Company, located on New Link Road, Andheri (West), approached the police claiming that Dr Rajesh Pandey introduced himself as the employee of Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital on June 1 and offered to organise a vaccination camp for their 218 employees.On June 3, Pandey sent an invoice of ₹294,840 and on July 4 he conducted the camp by giving the employees saline water instead of the Covidsheild vaccine. On July 8, he again sent an invoice of ₹12,636.When the employees did not receive the certificates and heard about the scam, they approached the Amboli police to complain.“We have booked Dr Rajesh Pandey and his accomplices. We are now investigating to find out who else among the 13 accused were present during the vaccination camp at Kwan,” said a police officer from Amboli police station.Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order) said that till now 10 FIRs have been registered, nine in Mumbai and one in Thane against the accused.The vaccine given by the accused after April 23 was saline water, however, the vaccine given to people before this date (April 23) could have been a mixture of expired Covidsheild and saline water or the doses admixture could have been less. The police are still to establish the source of the Covidsheild which was procured by accused Dr Shivraj Pataria, his wife Nita and Dr Manish Tripathi.The vaccination scam came to light after Hiranandani Heritage society in Kandivli approached the police complaining they were duped by Mahendra Singh and four others who administered fake vaccines to their society members on May 30. The society members claimed they received the vaccination certificates, but they had names of different hospitals and different dates, but when the residents checked the Co-WIN portal, their status was shown as “yet to receive the first dose.”Thereafter, eight more cases have been filed at Versova, Borivli, Bangur Nagar and Khar, Samta Nagar police stations against the same group. So far, police have arrested 13 accused and are on the lookout for two more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccination-scam-ninth-fir-registered-218-from-andheri-firm-given-saline-101625161537568.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Vax drive in Mumbai societies: New SOP makes informing police must||In the backdrop of a Covid-19 vaccine scam, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revised its standard operating procedure (SOP) for housing societies making it mandatory to inform the local police station about it at least three days in advance. The society will also have to inform the nearest police station to have one police officer present at the site. The BMC has also asked housing societies to do due diligence to verify the genuineness of the vaccine and the hospital staff giving it. Citizens have been requested to download their vaccine certificate on the spot. The BMC has also asked societies to hold a meeting and approve the plan in the general body meeting. The BMC has reiterated the societies should sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the private hospital undertaking the drive. The SOP issued by the health department of the BMC dated June 29, read: “In view of various instances of illegal vaccination drives brought to the notice of BMC, it is necessary to reinforce roles and responsibilities of Private Covid Vaccination Centres (PCVC) and housing societies mentioned in earlier guidelines. The housing society will have to display the details regarding the date of vaccination, the name of the PCVC engaged, charges per dose for a beneficiary on the notice board of the society.” The SOP adds: “It is the responsibility of the housing society to inform the details regarding the date of vaccination, name of the PCVC engaged to the respective medical officer of health and local police station at least three days in advance. The society should also intimate the local police station to ensure a police officer is present at the site of the vaccination drive.” The BMC had in May issued guidelines for conducting vaccination drive at housing societies and at workplace. However, in second of week of June, a major vaccine scam broke out in a housing society at Kandivli, wherein over 390 citizens were given fake vaccines. Post this, multiple first information reports (FIR) were filed with the Mumbai Police. The BMC’s investigation into the Kandivli incident had also found that the society did not sign MOU with the hospital, nor did it verify the credentials of those promising the vaccine. The housing society had also not informed the nodal officer of the BMC before undertaking such a drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-drive-in-mumbai-societies-new-sop-makes-informing-police-must-101625161417533.html
01-07-2021||Other||Software has cut job time to one-fifth, Kashi weaver tells PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Varanasi’s Anupama Dubey, who uses the Digi Bunai (digital weaving) software and asked her about the experience of weaving with the help of the software, on Thursday. The software has been developed under Digital India. On the completion of six years of Digital India, Modi spoke to beneficiaries from across the country via video conferencing. Dubey along with fellow Varanasi weavers, Diksha Singh and Yasmin Bano, who work with Digi Bunai, were present in the auditorium of the divisional commissioner’s office here.Chatting with Dubey, the PM asked her how much the work (weaving) has changed using the software as compared to manual weaving.Informing the PM, Dubey said that when “we used to work manually, it would take five days, but through the software, the same work (weaving designs) on a Banarasi Saree takes only a day.”Dubey said that she took a three-month digi weaving training under the Digital India campaign. She makes designs on a tablet computer using a digital pen and takes a printout. Later that design is printed on sarees, stoles and suits. Thereafter, the design is woven on a saree through the software. She makes an earning of ₹400 to 500 per saree. PM Modi wished her a very bright future and success.Addressing Dubey, the Prime Minister said that women’s power is the strength of the country and for the help and convenience of weavers in Varanasi, a trade facilitation centre and handicraft complex has also been built in Lalpur.Modi said that crores of Indians are benefiting from the platforms developed from online education to medicine. Digital India has played an important role in providing health facilities far and wide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/software-has-cut-job-time-to-one-fifth-kashi-weaver-tells-pm-101625161298783.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body submits vax guidelines to high court||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday submitted to the Bombay high court (HC) the draft guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP) framed by the civic body for holding private vaccination camps at housing societies, commercial entities and educational institutions etc. According to the draft guidelines, a member of the said body will be appointed as a nodal officer who will be responsible for monitoring the vaccination activities and inform the local police and health authority in case of any malpractices. On its part, the BMC on receipt of a request for such a camp will verify the registration of private Covid vaccination centres (PCVC) on the Co-WIN portal. The BMC has also written to the registrar of cooperative housing societies and higher and technical education authorities to intimate all housing complexes and educational institutions under them the SOPs and guidelines. The division bench of chief justice Dipanbkar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Mumbai resident Siddharth Chandrashekhar, was informed that as per the directions of the court on July 29, and previous hearings guidelines and SOPs for organising vaccination camps, had been prepared and the same would be published for the public after it was approved and signed by the concerned officer. Chandrashekhar’s PIL had sought directions for booking vaccination slots on the Co-WIN portal, easy and accessible to the general public and the elderly. After advocate, Anita Shekhar-Castellino, who represented Chandrashekhar drew the attention of the bench to news reports of fake vaccination camps, the court had directed the police to take strict action against the perpetrators and also asked the BMC to frame mandatory guidelines to be followed by organisers of such camps. While making submissions on behalf of the police, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the bench that investigations had revealed that the 2,053 victims had been injected with saline water and no adverse effects were reported from those who were inoculated with the fake vaccines. Sakhare submitted the draft guidelines which mentioned that a member of the housing society, commercial entity or educational institution would be appointed as a nodal officer and would be entrusted with the task of monitoring vaccination activities at the camp. The BMC and police would provide support to the camps as and when required but it would be the responsibility of the nodal officers to ensure that all vaccination centre protocols were followed diligently. After hearing the submissions the court expressed satisfaction and directed the BMC to ensure that the same was made known to the general public as soon as possible and posted a hearing of the PIL for next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-submits-vax-guidelines-to-high-court-101625161297578.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||15K reconciliation Covid deaths added; Maharashtra to study pattern in first, second wave||In the second wave of the pandemic, around 15,000 backlog deaths related to novel coronavirus have been added to the cumulative fatality in the state. Now, the state Covid-19 death audit committee will conduct a study on the fatalities reported in the first and second waves to understand the epidemiological characteristics of Sars-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) and its variants.In the state, till May 30, a total of 121,945 citizens have succumbed to the Covid since its outbreak in March 2020. However, the experts have observed that district-wise death rates have varied in the first and second waves. For instance, in the first wave, the highest death rate was recorded in Bhiwandi, Latur, Nagpur rural and Solapur, while in the second wave, rural areas like Nanded rural, Malegaon, Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, Amravati rural have registered the highest fatality.Taking this into consideration, experts from the state Covid-19 death audit committee have decided to study each death to find out any hidden clues about the changing pattern of the new virus which is still 16 months old.“We have decided to start a comparative study of the deaths recorded in the first and second wave which may help us to understand the new characteristics of the virus. We need to check if symptoms of infection among the deceased patients varied from last year. If we can find any hidden clue, it may also help us in the third wave,” said Dr Avinash Supe, in charge of the committee.It has been observed that many of the rural areas have recorded a high fatality rate. Experts believe that this could be attributed to the variant of Sars-Cov-2.“A few variants of Sars-Cov-2 have been found in Ratnagiri where the fatality rate has been high. So, there is a possibility that it is related to the mutated virus but until we do the study, it would be unscientific to confirm any hypothesis,” he said.The state’s overall case fatality rate stands at 2.01%. In the first wave, the case fatality rate in the state was 2.7%, which means that for every hundred positive cases, Maharashtra witnessed around three deaths. During the second wave, the mortality rate has fallen to 0.71%“The disease load was tremendously high in the second wave but the fatality was under control. This could be because of a variant that is more infectious but deadly. This has been observed in all age groups,” said Dr Pradip Awate, surveillance officer in Maharashtra’s epidemic control department.Dr Sanjay Salunke, civil surgeon at Sangli, said most hospitals mention Covid-19 as the primary cause of death on the application. But it is officially confirmed only after the auditing team puts a confirmation stamp on it. “All districts have Covid death audit committees that examine health complications or casualties that are part of the deceased patient’s medical reports before confirming the death as Covid or non-Covid. If a deceased patient had too many health complications which the district-level experts fail to categorise, then it is referred to the state audit committee,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15k-reconciliation-covid-deaths-added-maharashtra-to-study-pattern-in-first-second-wave-101625161177607.html
01-07-2021||Other||Delhi Police commissioner orders senior officers to hold public meeting every Saturday||New Delhi: Balaji Srivastav, who took over as the Delhi Police commissioner on Wednesday, has directed all assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) to hold a two-hour public meeting in their areas every Saturday, officials privy to the information said on Thursday. The ‘Jan Sunwai’ (public hearing) will be held between 4pm and 6pm at the ACP office every week, the officials said. Senior officers, who asked not to be named, said the commissioner has directed that redressal of public grievances should be one of his main priorities, apart from ensuring women safety, and curbing street crime.“ We will begin the public hearing from July 3. The meeting with area residents will be held in an open place such as the lawns of the police station area. People can speak directly to the ACP and discuss their problems. There will also be a mechanism to follow up on the complaints,” a senior police officer who asked not to be named said.Every ACP handles at least 2-3 police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-commissioner-orders-senior-officers-to-hold-public-meeting-every-saturday-101625161117530.html
01-07-2021||Other||Sisodia lays foundation stone for new govt school||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday laid the foundation stone for a new government school in the city that will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and can accommodate up to 2,500 students. “This land was given to DDA (Delhi Development Authority) by the gram sabha. Then, the DDA handed over the land to the education department to construct a school but it was unlawfully captured by the land mafia. The Delhi Government recently reclaimed the land from the land mafia,” the government said in a statement adding that the school will accommodate 2,500 students.Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said, “Delhi government will complete the construction of this school within nine months and establish a state-of-the-art schooling facility..At present, the nearest school in the area has 6,000 students. With the construction of this school, the pressure on the other school will also decrease.”Sisodia and public works department minister Satyendra Jain inspected the new school buildings being built in Delhi on Thursday. The deputy chief minister also laid the foundation stone for the construction of a new placement centre, open theatre and auditorium at the Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-lays-foundation-stone-for-new-govt-school-101625161060582.html
01-07-2021||Other||Jamia admin okays Covid care centre on campus||The administration of Jamia Millia Islamia on Wednesday gave the approval for setting up a Covid care centre in the campus ahead of a possible third wave in the country and also directed its officials to prepare a feasibility report on a medical college of the varsity.After receiving government assurance, the university, under vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar, had started work on a new medical college in July 2019. A series of protests in 2019, followed by the pandemic, derailed the project, said university officials“The executive council approved that an elaborate feasibility report and a proposal be made and submitted to the government for approval and funding of JMI medical college and 350-bedded hospital,” the university said in a statement on Thursday.The university will also appoint consultants for the proposal and start the project afresh, said the vice-chancellor. Akhtar said, “I had met the Prime Minister in 2019 and discussed the demand for a medical college put forward by the Jamia fraternity. The government gave us an assurance on the project but then the pandemic disrupted everything. There were some issues with procuring land as well. But this is the first time a statutory body has undertaken the task of preparing a proposal and sending it to the government for funding.”After losing several teachers, staff, and students to Covid-19, the university is also planning to set up a 50-bed Covid care centre on its campus ahead of the expected third wave. “The executive council approved starting of a 50-bedded Covid care centre under Ansari health centre of the university for JMI staff and wards only. It will provide preliminary care to patients affected during the expected third wave of Covid-19,” said university officials. Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University are also planning to set up Covid care centres on the campus.“We will have oxygen facilities at the centre. If the oxygen level of the patients drop, we will ask them to move to a regular hospital. This will be only a primary care centre,” said Akhtar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jamia-admin-okays-covid-care-centre-on-campus-101625161059396.html
01-07-2021||Other||DMRC builds its first-ever underground integrated parking at Dhansa||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will soon open its first ever underground integrated parking facility, which will come up at the upcoming Dhansa bus stand metro station on the Grey Line (connecting Dwarka and Dhansa Bus Stand), said senior Metro officials on Thursday. Metro officials said the Dhansa bus stand metro station on the Dwarka-Najafgarh-Dhansa bus stand corridor will be the first ever underground metro station of the network to have an entire underground floor dedicated for parking vehicles. “The parking facility will be integrated with the main station area, where vehicle users will be able to park their cars and two-wheelers and then proceed to the concourse of the station directly using lifts and escalators,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Officials explained the Dhansa bus stand station has been designed as a four-level underground structure, with the platform at the bottom—at an approximate depth of 18 metres, followed by the concourse, and then an entire floor for parking above it. The parking facility will have space for about 110 cars and 185 two-wheelers and will be connected to the station by lifts and escalators. The design has also made provision for property development activities at the ground level. “The parking facility will benefit local residents as the adjoining areas are extremely congested with very little space for parking vehicles. There will be two entry/exit facilities, which will connect the parking lot both with the surface above and the platform below. The Delhi Metro currently operates parking lots in about 100 metro stations across the network,” said DMRC officials. The 4.3km Dwarka-Najafgarh section on the Grey Line is already functional and was opened for public in October 2019. However, a small section of the corridor, extending the line up to Dhansa bus stand located at the Delhi-Haryana border, is still under construction. The DMRC on Thursday said the work on the 1.8km stretch connecting Najafgarh with Dhansa bus stand is “almost complete”. Metro officials said the section connecting to Dhansa bus stand maybe made operational by July end. “With the completion of this section, the Dwarka-Dhansa bus stand Grey Line corridor will be 6.1km long with four stations. This extension will immensely benefit the residents of the interior areas around Najafgarh. All efforts are being made to open the Najafgarh - Dhansa bus stand section sometime later this month after complying with all statutory requirements,” said Dayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmrc-builds-its-first-ever-underground-integrated-parking-at-dhansa-101625161058812.html
01-07-2021||Other||Delhi registers highest max temp for July in last nine years: IMD||New Delhi: Delhi on Thursday recorded a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius -- the highest for the month of July since 2012, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the entire city, was 43.1 degrees Celsius, six degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was recorded at 31.7 degrees Celsius, four degrees above the season’s normal. According to IMD records, both in 2012 and 1987, the maximum temperature in Delhi touched 43.5 degrees Celsius on July 2. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 43.5 degrees Celsius, which was the highest of the season. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 28.2 degrees Celsius. A heatwave is sweeping through the Capital as monsoon’s arrival has been inordinately delayed. In the plains, heatwave days are classified – when the maximum temperature crosses 40 degrees Celsius, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees Celsius. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5 degrees Celsius or above from normal temperatures.Met officials said a brief breather from the heatwave is expected on Friday, forecasting light rain and thunderstorm in parts of Delhi and NCR, which is expected to bring down the temperatures by 1-2 degrees. “There will be a brief relief from the high temperatures, but temperatures are still expected to be above the 40-degree mark,” said a senior Met official. Officials said that the monsoon is unlikely to reach Delhi till at least July 8. “The monsoon arrival is unlikely before July 8, and till then the temperatures are likely to remain high. Usually, such high temperatures are seen in Delhi till June second week, but this time we are receiving hot and dry westerly winds that are keeping the mercury levels up,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-registers-highest-max-temp-for-july-in-last-nine-years-imd-101625160999253.html
01-07-2021||Other||Two junior doctors hurt after scuffle with shopkeeper||Two junior resident doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung hospital were injured after they broke into a fight with a shopkeeper in Gautam Nagar who alleged that they were spreading Covid-19 in the area, said doctors from AIIMS where the injured medicos were admitted late on Wednesday night. One of the doctors was taken to the red area in the AIIMS trauma bay earmarked for the most serious cases. The doctor was taken for a CT scan to assess the injury sustained from a metal rod, said a doctor from the hospital. “(The) fight started over a discussion on how Covid-19 is being spread by doctors in Gautam Nagar and all local residents are being put at risk by letting them (doctors) stay there,” said the doctor. The incident comes to the fore on National Doctors’ Day, which is celebrated on July 1 every year in honour of legendary physician and former chief minister of West Bengal Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on the same day. The Indian Medical Association declared the theme of this year’s celebration as Save the Saviours Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said on Wednesday night, the two doctors went to an eatery named Bhagat Singh Verma Paranthe Wala in Gautam Nagar and allegedly consumed alcohol with the owner of the shop, Bhagat Singh. Later, an argument broke out and both the parties assaulted each other. “The two doctors as well as Singh and his son Abhishek sustained injuries in the fight, Their statements were recorded for legal action. Later, both the parties compromised and resolved the issue among themselves. However, we have initiated our legal enquiry into the matter. Further action would be taken accordingly,” said Thakur. On the allegations of the doctors that they were referred to as carriers of Covid-19 and assaulted for protesting against such remarks, police said both the parties have made allegations that are being looked into.The incident did not go well with the medical community. The AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association came out with a tweet which read, “Gift on doctors’ day. Junior resident doctor of AIIMS beaten by goons and shopkeeper in Gautam Nagar at midnight saying that you doctors are spreading COVID 19! Shocked. Can @DCPSEastDelhi assure us some action? Culprits must be arrested immediately.” The Federation of All India Medical Associations (FAIMA) demanded a central protection law be brought in to punish those who assault doctors and other health professionals. In June, the organisations had held a black ribbon protest after several instances of violence against doctors surfaced from across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-junior-doctors-hurt-after-scuffle-with-shopkeeper-101625160997488.html
01-07-2021||Other||Asst prof recruitment exam - UPHESC reopens website for applications’ submission, corrections||Considering the request made by several candidates, Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Services Commission (UPHESC) has given them another chance to apply for the recruitment drive to fill 2003 vacant posts of assistant professors in government aided colleges of the state. “The Commission has reopened its website from July 1 (Thursday) on request of the candidates,” said UPHESC secretary Vandana Tripathi. “Candidates can now register online from July 1 to 7 as well as deposit fees online for the recruitment exam. Last date for final submission of the form has been fixed as July 8. Candidates who wish to make corrections in the application forms submitted earlier too would be able to do so till July 8,” she added. The opportunity has been given as earlier owing to Covid-19 and server problems, many candidates could not complete the application process in time. The UPHESC secretary has made it clear that after this opportunity, the commission would not consider any application or requests concerning online errors and problems of candidates with regard to this recruitment exam.Earlier the last date for submission of fees and applications for this recruitment exam was April 12 and April 13 respectively. Around one lakh candidates had applied for it at the time.On May 30, a delegation of aspirants had submitted a memorandum to UPHESC officials demanding weightage to those candidates who had completed their PhDs. They said the UGC had made PhDs mandatory for appointments of assistant professors in varsities with effect from July 1, 2021 and many state, central universities and commissions had been granting weightage to PhD degree holders in selection process. As the UPHESC was still in the process of accepting applications for this recruitment process, the weightage for PhDs should be extended to eligible candidates, they had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asst-prof-recruitment-exam-uphesc-reopens-website-for-applications-submission-corrections-101625160937511.html
01-07-2021||Other||Delhi govt outlines fee rules for 460 private schools||New Delhi: Three days after the Supreme Court refused to stay the Delhi high court order on annual fee collection by 460 private schools, the Delhi government on Thursday issued guidelines for the process of collecting last academic year’s annual charges and development fee retrospectively for these schools. On May 31, the high court set aside two orders, prohibiting private schools from collecting annual charges and development fees during the Covid-induced lockdown, issued last year. The court directed that schools may collect these charges for the last academic year retrospectively in six monthly instalments starting from June 10, but only after applying a 15% reduction on total school fees in lieu of facilities not used by students during the lockdown. The court also allowed schools to charge the whole fee, including tuition fee and other charges, for the 2021-22 academic year.“In order to clear the confusion and give much-needed relief to parents, Delhi government has issued an order to private schools to charge fees on monthly basis, under approved heads only but with a 15% deduction in the fees for academic year 2020-21,” said a statement issued by the government on Thursday.For instance, if the monthly fee of the school in the academic session 2020-21 is ₹3,000, the schools are entitled to collect monthly fee of ₹2,550 following a deduction of 15%. “If the school has collected the fee in excess to the direction referred above, the same shall be refunded to the parents or adjusted in the subsequent month,” the statement said.The clarification came after several parents said that the schools were offering a 15% rebate in the annual and development fee component instead of the tuition fee.On Thursday, the Directorate of Education (DoE) asked schools not to debar any student from ongoing activities of the school or strike off their names from the school rolls if the parents are unable to pay the fee. The state education department also said that the order is applicable only on the 460 schools which petitioned the high court.“If any individual request is made by the parent/ward finding it difficult to remit annual fees for the academic year 2020-21 in the above terms, the school management (is) to consider such representation on a case-to-case basis sympathetically,” stated a circular issued by Director (Education) Udit Prakash Rai to private schools on Thursday.The order directed that schools cannot charge transportation fee, collect fee on a quarterly basis, increase their fee this academic session until further orders. A senior education department official said that apart from the 460 petitioner schools, the remaining private schools cannot charge annual and development fee. “The petitioner schools had moved court for the annual and development charges and we are now enforcing the court order on it. The remaining schools will follow DOE orders issued in April and August last year,” the official said.“[petitioner schools] shall neither stop payment of monthly salary nor reduce the existing total emolument to the teaching and non-teaching staff of their schools in the name of non-availability of total funds and arrange the funds in case of any shortfalls from the society/trust running the school,” the order stated.Advocate Kamal Gupta, who appeared for the Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools in the case, said “These directives are in contempt. What has been dealt with and allowed in courts is annual and development charges with a discount of 15%. Tuition fee or reduction in it was never an issue in the court and was thus, never dealt with or reduced. If we charged other earmarked levies like transport, caution money, registration and admission fee, computers, medical and activities, then we would have given a 15% discount on everything. But when schools are charging on three heads, where is the question of giving a discount on tuition fee?”Activists and parents welcomed the government intervention. Advocate Shikha Bagga, secretary at NGO Justice for All who represented parents in the case, said, “The DoE circular was much needed to clarify the actual fees that can be charged as per the orders from the high court. This is also subject to the outcome of the appeals scheduled in the high court on July 12. Schools would now need to refund the amount collected in excess, after deliberate misreading of order.”Delhi Parents Association president Aprajita Gautam said they had been receiving multiple complaints from parents on the fee collection issue. “This is a welcome order but the order mentions petitioner schools. What about the rest of the private schools? The order isn’t clear about that. In case of violation of the order, the education department should opt for takeover instead of passing the order for inspection. Also, since a double-bench hearing is scheduled for July 12 on the same matter in the high court, the department could have waited before issuing these directives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-outlines-fee-rules-for-460-private-schools-101625160877576.html
01-07-2021||Other||Suspect in Red Fort violence case gets protection from arrest till July 20||A Delhi court granted interim protection from arrest till July 20 to Jugraj Singh, who allegedly hoisted a religious flag on the rampart of the Red Fort on January 26.Additional sessions judge Neelofer Abida Perveen on Wednesday granted protection to Singh from any coercive action till July 20 and directed him to join the investigation.“Interim protection granted to accused subject to the condition that the accused shall join investigation in the case on July 8, July 11, and July 15 and as and when called upon by the IO (investigating officer),” the judge stated in an order passed on June 30.Fearing arrest, Singh had moved Delhi’s Tis Hazari court seeking anticipatory bail in two cases related to the violence.Police said Singh had climbed onto one of the flagpoles on the rampart of the Red Fort, a restricted area of the protected site, and hoisted Nishan Sahib, a religious flag of the Sikh community. “The Red Fort is a national heritage site and by hoisting the Nishan Sahib, humiliation and embarrassment has been caused to the nation at Red Fort on Republic Day,” the police told the court while opposing his pre-arrest bail plea.Police said he was the key executor of the well-orchestrated conspiracy to convert Red Fort into a protest site and was seen in video footage climbing the flagpole at the rampart.On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.Actor-activist Deep Sidhu is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence and is currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspect-in-red-fort-violence-case-gets-protection-from-arrest-till-july-20-101625160817522.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||Monsoon session of UP legislature likely in August||The Uttar Pradesh government may convene monsoon session of the state legislature in the next few weeks to carry out the legislative business and meet the constitutional requirement providing “six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for first sitting in the next session”.The state legislature’s budget session ended on March 4, 2021. The state government will have to convene the monsoon session by the end of this month or in August 2021 to meet the constitutional requirement and holding the first sitting of next session before completion of six-month period on September 3.“Yes, the state government will have to convene the monsoon session of state legislature by end of this month or in August 2021. Besides requirement of holding session within six months, the state government will also have to carry out important business,” said a senior officer on the condition of anonymity.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has made some important announcements in recent months to provide relief to the people affected by Covid-19. He recently announced a scheme for upbringing of children who lost their parents to the pandemic.He has also asked women and child development department to work out a scheme to help women who lost their husbands to Covid and have no other means of sustenance. He may also make more announcements in coming weeks. The CM will also like to see completion of important development projects before the state goes into poll mode by the end of 2021 or early in 2022.Under such a situation, the state government may have to move and get passed its first supplementary budget for 2021-2022 to fund his important announcements/schemes/projects.“Yes, the state government may move first supplementary budget for 2021-2022 to fund important announcements/schemes or development projects ahead of 2022 UP assembly elections,” said the officer.The state government already has some important bills that need to be tabled and passed by the state legislature in the monsoon session.These include the bills cleared by the state cabinet recently to set up two pilgrimage development boards titled Uttar Pradesh Sri Chitrakoot Dham Tirth Vikas Parishad and Uttar Pradesh Vindhya Dham Tirth Vikas Parishad for conservation of cultural heritage and development of Chitrakoot and Vindhyavasini region of Mirzapur as pilgrimage centres of international importance.The state legislature’s budget session in 2021 and other sessions in 2020 have been held in the midst of the pandemic. Special arrangements were made for the previous sessions of the two houses of the state legislature. These included mandatory Covid-19 tests for all the members and the staff. The members of 65 year plus age group were allowed to attend the session online.This time the members may be required to get vaccinated before taking part in the proceedings of two houses of the state legislature.“Most of the members are well aware of importance of the Covid-19 vaccination. They are busy getting people of their respective constituencies vaccinated. We understand most of them have got vaccinated by now. We will also advise them to get vaccinated once dates for next session of state assembly are finalised,” said Uttar Pradesh assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/monsoon-session-of-up-legislature-likely-in-august-101625160757542.html
01-07-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man held for killing brother following family spar||Greater Noida A 55-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly killing his brother in Surajpur in Greater Noida. The suspect, identified as Satyapal, is a native of Sakipur village in the city. The 45-year-old victim, Mahendra, lived with his family in the neighbourhood of Satyapal.Mahendra’s 20-year-old son, Sobindra, had filed a complaint on June 22, 2021, saying that Satyapal’s son, Shekhar, had married a woman in Bulandshahr a few years ago. However, Shekhar and his wife had some domestic issues.Sobindra, in the FIR, said, “The family members of Shekhar and his wife held a meeting with the panchayat members on this in Greater Noida on June 21. My father had intervened to resolve the issue, but my cousin brother Shekhar and his family members were unhappy with the meeting’s outcome as the panchayat had asked Shekhar to pay ₹60,000 to his wife.”Sobindra said that he had come to his maternal uncle’s place in Dankaur on June 21. Sobindra’s father and the victim — Mahendra was at home with his wife Seema (45), daughter Neha (18), and son Tanishq (16). “That night, Shekhar, his father and the suspect — Satyapal, and two brothers Bhoora and Rakesh, barged into our house and attacked my father with a sharp knife. When my family members tried to rescue him, they were attacked, too,” Sobindra added.A case was registered against them under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), and 147 (rioting) at the Surajpur police station on June 22.Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said that the four victims were admitted to a private hospital, where Mahendra died during the treatment. “The four suspects had been absconding since the day of the attack. Later, police arrested Satyapal near ATS roundabout in Greater Noida on Thursday. He was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a hunt to nab the three absconding persons,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-held-for-killing-brother-following-family-spar-101625160457501.html
01-07-2021||Noida||Gang involved in over 500 vehicle thefts in NCR busted||Noida: Five members of a gang involved in over 500 cases of vehicle theft in Delhi-NCR were arrested on Thursday, police said. Ten vehicles were recovered from them, they said. The suspects were identified as Harun, Gulfam, Amit, Sajid and Yusuf.According to police, the gang had been active for over seven years and its leader, Harun, has been nabbed for the first time. At least four more members of the gang have been identified and efforts are on to arrest them, police said. “The suspects were involved in a few thefts under the Sector 24 police jurisdiction a while back and were captured in the CCTV footage. They were arrested in a joint effort by teams from sectors 24 and 58 police and the anti-vehicle theft unit,” said a senior police official. Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1, said that the gang would roam around and target a parked luxury vehicle. “They kept tools and master key fobs with them, along with requisite softwares to break into cars. In June alone, they have stolen 18 vehicles in NCR and over 500 so far in the past seven years. They would change the engine and chassis numbers of the vehicles and sell them in Delhi, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Nepal, and Jammu and Kashmir. The gang was also involved in vehicle modification,” said the ACP. The gang would use code ‘pigeon’ for the vehicles and was known as the pigeon gang in its circle, said police. “We have also identified a Delhi-based scrap dealer to whom a lot of vehicles were sold by the gang. SUVs like Fortuner or Innova were sold for over ₹3 lakh, while Scorpio for ₹2.5 lakh,” said Verma. According to police, the suspects would also steal vehicles involved in accidents which were sold for parts and their specifics used to produce documents of other stolen cars. Police said they have also recovered several sets of duplicate number plates, key fobs, and tools from them. The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gang-involved-in-over-500-vehicle-thefts-in-ncr-busted-101625160397444.html
01-07-2021||Noida||Traders at Sector 18 market ask Noida authority to waive off parking charges||Noida: Traders have claimed that the footfall at the Sector 18 market is almost zero due to “high” parking rates in the area and asked the Noida authority to waive off the parking fees for a few months.According to SK Jain, president of the Sector 18 Market Association, high parking charges are a deterrent for shoppers to come to the market. “We earlier used to have walking crowd in the market because of the large number of offices located here. But now, since most of the offices are closed, we can only rely on those customers who prefer to visit the market for shopping. But even such shoppers are driven away from the market due to the high parking charges here,” said Jain.The parking rates at the Sector 18 market for four wheelers are ₹50 for the first two hours and ₹50 for subsequent hours. Similarly, for two wheelers, the charges are ₹25 for the first two hours and ₹25 for each subsequent hour.Amit Jain, who owns a watch showroom at the market, believes that the high parking charges have not just reduced the number of shoppers, but almost stopped them from coming to the market. “The business has been badly hit due to the Covid pandemic. On top of that, the high parking charges are driving customers away from the market. A shopper usually spends 2-3 hours at the market. Why would they pay ₹100 for parking charges when they can easily order online the same product?” said Amit.Last week, the market association wrote a letter to the Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari, requesting her to waive off the parking charges in the market until all restrictions are lifted by the district administration.“After the lifting of lockdown last year, you had accepting our demands and waived off the parking fee in Sector 18 for about four months. We sincerely thank you again for providing this facility. Now since restrictions have not been removed completely, with weekend and night curfew still imposed, we request you to keep the parking free at least till the restrictions imposed due to the pandemic are removed completely.” When asked, Maheshwari said that the authority has no plans to reduce the parking charges or waive off the fees.“We had accepted the association’s demand last year. However, there are no such plans this year — neither to reduce the parking charges nor to waive off for a limited period,” said Maheshwari.Another issue that the traders say has been a nuisance to shop owners as well as shoppers is the frequent clipping (jamming of tyres) of four wheelers and lifting (in case of two wheelers) of vehicles by the parking contractors.As per the Noida authority officials, the frequency of clipping of cars parked in ‘no parking’ zone has been increased after allegations that the contractors were making money by charging for cars parked in that zone as well.“After these allegations were raised by the Sector 18 Market Association, the contractors were told that if any vehicle is found parked in the ‘no parking’ zone, they will be held responsible. Hence, they were told to clip the vehicles and fine them if found in the ‘no parking’ zone. Currently, around 25-30 vehicles are being clipped in a day at the market,” said an authority official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traders-at-sector-18-market-ask-noida-authority-to-waive-off-parking-charges-101625160337473.html
01-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Govt school vandalised, some goods stolen||Noida: A primary government school in Noida’s Sector 12 has been allegedly vandalised by unidentified persons who also decamped with furniture and bathroom fittings, among other things. The school was closed in the wake of the pandemic, officials said.The incident came to the fore on Thursday morning when the school’s staff visited the establishment. “The locks were broken, and furniture and electrical fittings were missing. The miscreants have taken the sports equipment which had been purchased recently. Kits from science and computer labs were missing. They didn’t even leave washroom fittings,” said Sapna, principal-in-charge of the school. The rooms had also been vandalised, she said, adding that there are no CCTV cameras on the school premises. “We keep visiting the school every few days to keep an eye on things. The last inspection had taken place less than two weeks ago. The staff, who have to return to work from today, noticed the theft,” said Sapna. The school authorities have filed a complaint with the Sector 24 police station. “Our team visited the school. We have found a few footprints there. The thieves decamped with aluminium toilet fittings and electrical fittings, among other items. A probe in the matter is underway,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1. Police officials said that they suspect some locals to be behind the incident and that the footage from a nearby CCTV camera is being looked at.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-govt-school-vandalised-some-goods-stolen-101625160337990.html
01-07-2021||Noida||Clash at UP Gate: Ghaziabad police book 200 unidentified farmers||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police have booked 200 unidentified members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in connection with an incident on Wednesday in which a group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters and farmers protesting the Centre’s three farm laws had allegedly clashed at UP Gate on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME). Police said that they received complaints from both the groups, but prima facie found that the farmers’ group was the “aggressor” during the incident. The FIR was registered at Kaushambi police station under IPC sections for rioting, use of criminal force to any person otherwise than on grave and sudden provocation, voluntarily causing hurt, and causing damages and criminal intimidation, police said. As per the FIR, unidentified suspects armed with sticks and swords attacked the BJP workers at the UP Gate and damaged their vehicles. “The FIR was registered against 200 unidentified farmers on the basis of complaint given to us. The farmers’ group also gave a complaint to us, but they seemed to be the aggressor group. So, their complaint was not registered. We held discussions with them on Thursday and will soon decide future course of action over their complaint,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). “We have started an investigation in the case and are also trying to scan the available video and CCTV footages,” he added. The BKU said that they will launch a statewide protest against the “biased” police action. “Our farmers will protest at police stations across the state against the biased action. The incident on Wednesday was pre-planned and aimed to malign the farmers’ movement. They (BJP workers) came to our site area and the FIR was lodged against us. We condemn this,” said Dharmendra Malik, national media in-charge of BKU.The two groups had allegedly clashed when the BJP supporters were waiting on the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway to welcome a party leader who was to arrive from Delhi. The BJP supporters had alleged that unidentified farmers came from the other side of the DME and attacked them. Sanjeev Sharma, BJP city unit president, could not be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts.Meanwhile, the farmers’ leaders said that the BJP workers were waving their party flags near to the camp of the farmers’ protest site and their cadres later started waving black flags in retaliation. In the melee, several BJP supporters, including women, suffered injuries and some of their vehicles were damaged, the BJP supporters alleged. However, the farmers’ leaders said that the BJP workers damaged their vehicles on their own and were trying to malign the “peaceful” protest by the farmers. “Our protest has remained peaceful. We came to know that police have not registered our complaint, but registered a case against our farmers. We will intensify our protest against this, and a decision will soon be taken in a meeting of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The FIR against farmers is uncalled for and the action is biased,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP Gate site spokesperson of Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The farmers are protesting at the UP Gate site since November 26 last year and demanding rollback of the three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/clash-at-up-gate-ghaziabad-police-book-200-unidentified-farmers-101625160278635.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka makes negative RT-PCR report mandatory for travellers from Kerala over Delta plus scare||The Karnataka government on Thursday announced new restrictions in place for travellers visiting the state from neighbouring Kerala, citing the detection of Delta plus Covid-19 variant in some districts there.According to the new order, a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test, not older than 72 hours, is mandatory for travellers from Kerala to enter the state. However, some exemptions have also been provided for those fully vaccinated or for people travelling in situations of dire emergency.“Negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours shall be compulsorily produced by the passengers coming to Karnataka by flight, bus, train, taxi, personal transport etc. This will also be applicable for all the flights originating from Kerala to Karnataka,” the order said. The government has also directed the airlines to issue boarding passes only to passengers who carry a negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours.Also read | Covid-19: Karnataka may adopt decentralised way to reopen schoolsSimilarly, the government also said that the railway authorities would ensure compliance in case of passengers training by trains. Meanwhile bus conductors have been ordered to check passengers travelling by bus.Districts affectedIn its order, the government directed the deputy commissioners of Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagara, districts that border Kerala, to make necessary arrangements and deploy personnel at check posts to ensure that all vehicles which enter the state are compliant with the rules.Also, students and the public visiting the state every day for education, business and other reasons have been asked to undergo a RT-PCR test once in 15 days.ExemptionsThe new restrictions however came with some exemptions. Negative RT-PCR certificate is not mandatory for people in possession of the Covid-19 vaccination certificate (those fully vaccinated with two doses).Children below two years of age, constitutional functionaries and health care professionals have also been permitted to travel without the negative certificate.Also, people travelling in dire emergency situations (death, medical treatment etc.,) would be permitted but a swab sample along with necessary details like phone number address etc., would be collected on entering the state. Further action would be taken as per state protocol upon receiving their test report, the order said.The government also warned of legal action against those found in violation of the rules. Currently there are two cases of the Delta Plus variant detected in the state, according to a bulletin from the health department earlier on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-makes-negative-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-travellers-from-kerala-over-delta-plus-scare-101625159415164.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||DTCP demolishes 3 illegal colonies in Manesar||The enforcement team of Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) demolished three unauthorised colonies in Baskusla village in Manesar on Thursday. The enforcement team demolished the colonies, all of which were in the initial stage of development with demarcated plots, five to six under-construction structures, and boundary walls.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the developers had demarcated large plots, and planned to sell those to small factory owners and transporters. “They had not taken any permission from the department for developing a colony or changing the land use. The plots were being developed and sold illegally,” Bhath said.Locals have revealed that a resident of Dhana village was developing this colony illegally. “It appears that this person was also involved in developing illegal colonies in the area earlier. A case will be registered against these people within a week,” Bhath added.These three colonies were spread over 15 acres and the DTCP officials had to use two earth-moving machines to demolish the structures. “Five under-construction structures, 30 plinths, and boundary walls were cleared on this land. As many as 150 officials of the Gurugram police ensured law-and-order during the demolition drive,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, Gurugram.The enforcement team also said that it will conduct an awareness workshop in villages around IMT Manesar and tell landowners about how they could obtain licences and permissions from the DTCP to set up affordable projects, farmhouses, and similar developments without violating the rules. “This exercise will be carried out across the district,” said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-demolishes-3-illegal-colonies-in-manesar-101625160098944.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||Ambience underpass nears completion, city MO reviews work||With the completion of over 98% work on the Sirhaul underpass near Ambience Mall, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said on Thursday that it would be done by the end of July and opened for traffic in the first week of August.NHAI officials said this during a review visit by Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh on Thursday morning. During his visit, Singh asked NHAI officials to expedite work on the project as it would help people, travelling to Delhi, avoid taking a U-turn at Rajokri.Earlier on Thursday morning, Singh took stock of the work and asked officials of the authority to complete the project at the earliest as it would largely improve the traffic situation at the Sirhaul border. “Several projects in Gurugram, which comes under the NHAI, are underway. Several projects such as underpasses at Hero Honda Chowk, Iffco Chowk, and Rajiv Chowk have been completed. These projects have improved the traffic situation, and this underpass will further make commuting easier for the residents,” said Singh.The deadline for the completion of work on the Sirhaul underpass, which had started on March 5, 2019, was September 4, 2020. However, the November 2019 ban on construction work due to air pollution, and the coronavirus-imposed nationwide lockdown on March 24, 2020, stalled the project work twice. NHAI officials, however, said that they had continued working on the project despite intermittent breakdowns, and it is almost over.“About 98.67% of the work on the four-lane underpass is done and only a 15-metre stretch inside the tunnel is incomplete, which shall be completed by the end of July. We will open the underpass for traffic in the first week of August,” said Gaurav Mittal, senior manager, NHAI.The length of the U-turn underpass is 377 metres, while the entire stretch including access roads is 1.5-km-long — which includes a 559-metre-long and 7-metre-wide service road. The designated speed in this underpass has been set at 40kmph.NHAI project director Shashi Bhushan said that the width of the underpass is 14 metres and vertical clearance of the tunnel is 5.5 metres. LED lights of 75 watts have been installed, and signages and dividers have been constructed as per the NHAI norms.The flyover at Shankar Chowk, which is functional, was also built as part of this project. This grade-separated flyover has been designed for a motorable speed of 30kmph. It will be 455-metre-long with three lanes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambience-underpass-nears-completion-city-mo-reviews-work-101625160097503.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi enquires about KGMU tele-medicine facility during virtual interaction with doctor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday spoke via video link to a King George’s Medical University (KGMU) doctor about the tele-medicine facility being run by the medical university and asked him about his experience of being a part of the initiative.On the completion of six years of Digital India, Modi was speaking to beneficiaries from across the country in various fields via video conferencing and KGMU was one such institution his interaction focused on.During the virtual interaction, Dr Bhupendra Singh briefed the PM about the benefits of tele-medicine facility, a digital way to treat patients.A patient from East Champaran in Bihar, who is under treatment via KGMU tele-medicine facility, was connected simultaneously. The elderly woman’s grandson Shubham spoke to the PM.“Shubham is very happy with Digital India, what is your experience with the telemedicine initiative?” the PM asked Dr Bhupendra Singh.“When the pandemic came a year ago, we were worried about how patients will get treatment as they won’t be able to come (to hospital)? But telemedicine has not only made it easy to prescribe medicines but also helps us understand the behaviour of patients just as if we were face-to-face,” said Dr Singh, who is treating the woman patient from Bihar.“E-Sanjeevani is a better alternative. Old records can be uploaded for reviews during consultations,” said Dr Singh.Earlier, after extending his greetings on the National Doctors’ Day, the PM said, “Doctors have served humanity during the pandemic.”“KGMU has till now given consultancy to over two lakh patients and this is the highest among all other such facilities in the country,” said Dr Sheetal Verma, nodal officer of the telemedicine facility at KGMU. The Digital India programme was started on July 1, 2015. “It is due to the confidence of patients that we have helped the maximum number of patients in India and still the numbers are being added every day,” said Dr Sheetal.Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri, vice chancellor of KGMU, said that it was indeed a momentous occasion and a matter of immense pride that the beneficiaries of e-Sanjeevani and doctors from KGMU were chosen for the interaction with PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-enquires-about-kgmu-tele-medicine-facility-during-virtual-interaction-with-doctor-101625159980648.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath dials Akhilesh on his birthday, Gadkari, Stalin too wish Samajwadi Party chief||The Samajwadi Party (SP) marked the 48th birthday of the party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav by cutting cakes, including a 48-kg one, holding mass marriages, blood donation and free food camps for the needy, as well as distributing sweets, across the state.Before the celebrations began, chief minister Yogi Adityanath called Akhilesh Yadav in the morning and wished him over the phone. The two leaders exchanged pleasantries. Later, the chief minister also tweeted birthday wishes to the SP chief: “I pray to Lord Ram for your good health and long life.”Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule and Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin also tweeted birthday wishes to Yadav. Stalin called the SP chief “my brother” in the tweet and posted a picture of his sitting with Akhilesh along with the tweet.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) national secretary Anil Dubey called on Yadav at the SP headquarters and greeted him with a bouquet. Akhilesh Yadav thanked them all.A delegation of saints from Ayodhya came to the party office and wished the SP chief, gifting him idols of Ram-Sita-Laxman.Party leaders in Lucknow, several other districts and even the Uttarakhand unit organised celebrations. Former MLC Ashu Malik organised a mass wedding of 48 underprivileged Hindu and Muslim women from three villages in his native district of Saharanpur on the eve of the party president’s birthday. On Thursday, the newly weds sought blessings from Akhilesh Yadav through video conferencing. Akhilesh Yadav sent the couples ₹25,000 cash each as a wedding gift. In several districts, party outfits organised blood donation and fruit distribution in hospitals. Party members from other states such as Kerala and Maharashtra, also greeted him at the party office.The SP’s Lucknow city unit office at Qaiserbagh too held an event that included cake-cutting and distribution of sweets.Will take jab once everyone in UP gets it: AkhileshSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said he too will take Covid vaccine once all the people in the state got vaccinated. He was speaking to newspersons on the sidelines of an event held at the party office to mark his birthday.“People want to take the vaccine, but they are not getting it due to shortage. The government is not able to make the vaccine available. The entire vaccination system has collapsed,” he said.In January, Yadav had said that he would not take the vaccine, calling it “BJP vaccine” but he changed his stance early in June, saying that he too would take the vaccine.The SP chief also took a jibe at the BJP and said: “Those who were causing infighting in other people’s houses now have infighting in their own house.”Earlier, while addressing party colleagues and workers on his birthday, he said the party had many challenges before it. Describing the “rival party” as extremely shrewd, he said it resorted to lies, made false promises and spread hatred.“And today, we get a new wave of energy through so many wishes and blessings pouring in. Our confidence has risen further,” he said. He reiterated the party will win the 2022 UP assembly elections with the support and blessings of people.In the last more than four years, the BJP violated the Constitution and did not even honour the promises it made in the manifesto, he alleged.“People now want change,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-dials-akhilesh-on-his-birthday-gadkari-stalin-too-wish-samajwadi-party-chief-101625159979280.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||Monsoon prep: GMDA constructs breakers at underpasses to prevent flooding||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) constructed speed breakers at entry and exit points of all underpasses in the city to control the flow of water and avoid flooding during monsoon, officials said on Thursday.Pradeep Kumar, the chief engineer for infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said, “When there is excessive rainfall, a sheet of water flows on the road and enters the underpasses, affecting the movement of traffic. In areas such as Mehrauli Road, water that gets accumulated on the roof of the malls and shops also flows onto the roads, which leads to flooding. To control this, foot-high speed breakers have been constructed at the entry and exit points of all underpasses in the city which will control the flow of water.”Last year in August, when the city received 118mm of rainfall in about six hours, at least seven of the city’s 11 underpasses were heavily flooded. Most of the underpasses were shut for hours for commuters. Three underpasses on Golf Course Road (at DLF Phase 1, Genpact Chowk and Bristol Chowk), two in Cyber City next to Shankar Chowk, and two others at Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway were submerged in rainwater and had to be closed for commuters at various points.Even in 2019, the underpasses at Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway had to be shut for commuters due to flooding during the monsoon.Meanwhile, officials also said that check dams have made in Aravallis to arrest stormwater in the forest.“We have made diversions near Golf Course Road to ensure that stormwater flows into the forest areas of Aravallis and waterlogging can be controlled on roads. This will help in groundwater recharge, along with ensuring availability of water for fauna in the region,” said a GMDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/monsoon-prep-gmda-constructs-breakers-at-underpasses-to-prevent-flooding-101625159978066.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG hands over Aravalli park to Hero MotoCorp for maintenance and upkeep||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) formally handed over the maintenance of Aravalli Biodiversity Park to Hero MotoCorp on Thursday, officials said. In April, the MCG had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Hero MotoCorp Limited for the ecological restoration and conservation of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park till 2031, but the handover got delayed owing to the second wave of Covid-19. Subhash Yadav, nodal officer for environment and sustainability wing of MCG, said, “Since the past week, we had been in talks with HeroMoto Corp for the final handover of maintenance of Aravalli Biodiversity Park. On Thursday, the process was finalised. As the park is already saturated in terms of plantation and the private firm will work on setting up an interpretation centre, creating public conveniences and an office complex, among others.” Yadav said the MCG will continue to look after the security of the park. “Now, MCG will focus on the security of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park. There are 16 security guards at the park, the salaries of whom will be paid by MCG and we will also repair infrastructure on a one-time basis, including walls or fences that are broken, so that the security of the park is strong,” added Yadav. According to the MoU, Hero Motorcorp Limited will maintain and beautify the Aravalli Biodiversity Park for a period of 10 years and spend ₹1.25 crore annually on maintaining the park under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding.Bharatendu Kabi, spokesperson for Hero MotoCorp, said, “Conservation and sustainable development initiatives are integral to preserving biodiversity, and our adoption of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram is a constructive step in that direction. In partnership with the MCG, we will soon put in place a holistic plan to maintain the park and protect its key habitats and species.” Vijay Dhasmana, an eco-restoration practitioner, who helmed the development of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park and will now work as an advisor, said, “One of the most important things for us is to secure the land and MCG has assured us that they will help us with that. We will now work on the in situ interpretation, guided walks in nature trails once the Covid-19 situation improves and also enhance the biodiversity of the place.” The Aravalli Biodiversity Park is spread across 390 acres and has semi-arid vegetation, with around 300 native plants, 101,000 trees, 43,000 shrubs, and 185 different types of birds. IAmGurgaon, a non-government organisation (NGO), was looking after the maintenance of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park from 2014 till December last year when its contract with the MCG expired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-hands-over-aravalli-park-to-hero-motocorp-for-maintenance-and-upkeep-101625159868455.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||Fake call centre busted for duping US citizens on pretext of tech support||An illegal call centre operating on Sohna Road was busted on Wednesday, and two persons were arrested for allegedly duping US citizens for the past two years, police said on Thursday. Police said the suspects had been duping each victim of at least $250 ( ₹18,621.50) on the pretext of providing technical support and software development through bogus websites.The suspects — identified as Man Mohan Singh of Uttarakhand’s Nainital and Nishant Padhiar of Jharkhand’s Tata Nagar — live in rented accommodations in sectors 38 and 48, respectively. Their aide — Sunil Kumar of Haryana’s Hisar, who was also involved in the crime, is still on the run, according to the police.Police said that they made at least ₹2 crore in the past two years and paid their workers between ₹20,000 and ₹30,000 per month.Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao said that Singh and Padhiar had formed a company, Paciwire Innovair Solutions Private Limited, in 2018, and had an equal partnership. “Padhiar worked as a manager of the call centre for the past two years. Earlier, they used to work on domestic money projects, and the company started a website development project two years ago. But it didn’t do well. In 2019, they started a computer troubleshooting and software development company, and began duping US nationals,” Rao said.The company had 12 tele-callers who used to make calls and dupe US nationals, police said, adding that the employees were unaware of the company’s fraudulent activities.Rao said the suspects had downloaded RingCentral website’s dialer to operate string website to transfer payment and had created a website That’s Them, and they used to search for all area codes and cellphone numbers of US citizens. The executives used to call on the given numbers, and they had also uploaded two toll-free numbers to resolve technical issues faced by the customers.Police said the executives used to sell technical support to people facing issues with computers and laptops fraudulently. They also offered to develop software for them, but Padhiar, who allegedly used to handle technical operations, voice and accent training, along with process training, used to stop taking their calls once the payments were done.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police, DLF, said the executives also duped people on the pretext of developing websites for them or their companies. “They used to send emails to people through a payment processing platform, allowing merchants to accept credit card payments on their applications and websites, where they provided a link of payments with different options. The money used to get transferred to their company account through the stripe website, which was synchronised to it,” Goel said.They had rented an office in IRIS Tech Park in Sector 48 for nearly ₹50,000 per month. The suspects could not give the victims the company’s registration certificate, DOT licence, source of customers, source of data, and mode of payment, Goel added.A case was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 420 (cheating), and IT Act sections 66D and 75 at the Cyber Crime police station. The arrested two suspects were produced before a court on Wednesday and were sent to a 14-day judicial custody, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fake-call-centre-busted-for-duping-us-citizens-on-pretext-of-tech-support-101625159869109.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Over 51K take vaccine shot, 333 at Huda City Centre Metro station||Over 51,241 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the district on Thursday under a mega vaccination drive, on the occasion of which a vaccination centre was started at the Huda City Centre Metro station and 333 people receiving jabs there.It is for the second time since June 21, when over 100,000 doses were given, that the district has given the maximum possible vaccine jabs in a day to cover people above 18 years of age. Continuing with its initiatives to increase the vaccination coverage of the district, the health department also inoculated at least 186 people through a mobile vaccination van that started on Thursday to cover vulnerable populations living in slums. Till now, 1,426,475 doses have been administered in the district, the highest in the state. “The department on Thursday exceeded its target of administering 50,000 doses in a day to observe Doctors’ Day. Now, the plan is to administer about 20,000 doses a day. Based on the availability of the vaccine, it can be increased further. However, due to Gurugram’s location, where migration is extremely high, it is difficult to say when the entire population will be covered. But the department will continue to conduct mega vaccination drive based on the state government’s directive,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer for Gurugram. According to the health department data, over 38, 778 people in the 18-45 age group and 12,066 above 45 years took the vaccine shot. Overall, 42,907 people took their first dose, while 8,334 took the second dose of the vaccine at 220 vaccination centres. At the Huda City Centre Metro station, the managing director of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Mangu Singh, was also present during the inauguration. DMRC tweeted: “DMRC-MD Dr Mangu Singh and chief medical officer, Gurugram Dr Virender Yadav today inaugurated a vaccination centre at Huda City Centre metro station. The centre has been opened in order to facilitate everybody to get their vaccination (Covishield) done for free of cost without any registration or slot booking.”People stood in a queue at the entrance of the South Court of the Metro station from 8am. Divya Madan, a resident of Sector 11, who reached the site around 8.30am, waited for more than two hours to get the vaccine shot. “Many government health centres are overcrowded. It stopped me from getting vaccinated. I was not expecting that many people will be aware of the vaccination centre in a metro station.” YK Garg, 50, a resident of Sector 56, also reached the site to get vaccinated without hassle. “After reading about the vaccination centre in a newspaper, I directly reached the site.” Mudita, 26, who works in the merchandise sector, came along with her office staff to take the vaccine shot. “Huda Metro station is easily accessible. Therefore, I decided to come along with the staff, who cannot do online registration and slot booking.” According to Yadav, the target was to administer at least 250 doses, while they administered 333 doses, with 16 people taking the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-over-51k-take-vaccine-shot-333-at-huda-city-centre-metro-station-101625159866966.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||Four held for forging death certificate of ‘alive and well’ man to claim insurance of ₹30L||The police on Thursday arrested four persons, including a former insurance agent, on charges of forging the death certificate of the chairman of a prominent university and attempting to dupe him and his family of insurance money of ₹30 lakh. The family is currently overseas and confirmed to HT that the chairman is doing well. They got wind of the fraud only when a claims surveyor visited their home in South City-1 for verification purposes on June 20 and the same day they alerted the police. While there were four policies in the chairman’s name, with a total claim amount of ₹10.5 crore, police said the fraudsters had initiated the process to claim only one of the policies that amounted to ₹30 lakh.After coming to know about the claim from the surveyor, the wife of the chairman complained to the police that a fraudulent insurance claim has been made on her behalf by impostors. “The data regarding my nomineeship in four insurance policies of my husband were leaked from the insurance company and resultantly, some nefarious elements hatched a plan to fraudulently dupe us of the insurance amount. It is outrageous how private and confidential data of this nature could be leaked by the insurance company and a proper investigation into it may kindly be undertaken,” she said in her complaint. She said the suspects falsely registered the death of her husband with the registrar of births and deaths at the Sector 10 government hospital and forged cremation records to obtain a death certificate dated April 11. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the family was fearful about the motives of the gang. “They were concerned over the safety of their personal information, which they said was in the hands of the fraudsters. They were apprehensive about falling victim to cybercrime such as hacking, counterfeiting of documents and data theft. So, we investigated all angles of the case,” he said, adding that the entire claims process was done online. Sangwan said they tracked the duo who raised the claim using their IP address and mobile phone records available with the insurance firm. One of the suspects had stolen insurance policy documents during his stint with the insurance company, he said. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said based on details of the policyholder and nominee, they prepared a fake driving licence and Aadhaar card in the name of the nominee. “They used these fake documents to open an account with the help of their friend, an agent of a leading private bank in the city. They sent all documents to the claims department and were expecting to cash the claim within 10 days,” he said. The suspects were identified as Rajnikant Kumar, the mastermind, who earlier worked with the insurance company, Durgesh Dubey, a call centre employee, Naval Kishore, who helped with the opening of the bank account, and Nitish Kumar, a Delhi-based property dealer. Another gang member, who arranged for the death certificate, has been identified and will be arrested soon, the police said. Sangwan said the gang members created a fake email account in the name of the nominee and sent the forged documents to claim the insurance money from that ID. “Of the four suspects, two earlier worked with insurance companies and were aware of the claims process and the documents required. Physical verification is not mandatory for insurance claims of less than ₹40 lakh. Aware of this fact, the accused made one insurance claim of ₹30 lakh. However, they were unaware that the policyholder had multiple policies with the same company, amounting to ₹10.5 crore,” he said. Once a policy claim with a death certificate is made, all other policies in the name of that person are merged into the claim application, following which the insurance company sends a team for physical verification. The fraudsters were unaware of the verification and the subsequent registration of an FIR at the Sector 29 police station. “The accused in question were on a temporary role in the back office for few months through a third party (outsourced),” said a spokesperson for the insurance company, adding that as a process, when an insurance claim is made (after death), the company checks its records and merges all insurance claims of a policyholder. This is done because the spouse/nominee may or may not be aware of all the insurance policies the policyholder had, or they might not have documents of all policies, the spokesperson explained. A case under sections 419,420,424,463,465,467,468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 43 and 66B of Information technology ACT 2008 was registered at Sector 29 police station on June 21. Sangwan said Kumar, a Jaipur native, moved to Gurugram in 2011 and in 2012, started working with an insurance company where he met Durgesh Dubey, who, at that time, was deployed in the back office of the insurance company. In 2014, Kumar moved to another insurance company where he worked till August 2019. In 2017, Dubey left the insurance company and started working with a call centre. Nitish and Kishore were school friends, while Naval was an acquaintance of Nitish, the police said. “Durgesh was seeking funds for his sister’s wedding when Kumar approached him with a plan to make money by forging insurance claims,” said Sangwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-held-for-forging-death-certificate-of-alive-and-well-man-to-claim-insurance-of-30l-101625159857701.html
01-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG to speed up revenue collection to stave off funds crunch||Facing a severe funds crunch, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Thursday directed officials to expedite revenue collection, during a review meeting at the MCG’s Sector 34 office.Ahuja called for a meeting on Wednesday night and issued an order stating that there is a “dire need to give impetus to revenue recoveries” as “revenue collections are far behind the budgetary targets.” So far, the MCG has recovered only 7% of its projected target of ₹235 crore through property tax collections, which is the main source of revenue for the MCG and accounts for more than 85% of its income.MCG’s cash crunch is a matter of concern, especially, given that it is the only government body in Gurugram which has a financial surplus and it regularly supports other agencies, such as the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran and even the National Highways Authority of India locally for developmental projects, both financially and with machinery.According to MCG officials privy to the matter, the civic body is yet to recover around ₹930 crore from property tax dues.While reviewing the property tax collections in the meeting, the commissioner said that dues from property tax defaulters, who have been given notices, should be recovered before the next meeting, scheduled for every second Tuesday of a month, as per the order issued on Wednesday.The MCG has compiled a list of more than 3,600 property tax defaulters, each of who owe the civic body more than ₹5 lakh in dues. Officials said that nearly half of the defaulters in this list have been issued notices warning of action unless they cleared their dues.“The commissioner has directed zonal taxation officer (ZTO) for taking whatever action is needed according to the rules for achieving full recovery and to complete the same prior to next review meeting. He further said that by imposing the duty of zone-wise employees, the property tax defaulters should be asked to deposit the property tax by giving information through the phone also,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.As per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, property owners are initially given 15 days to pay property tax dues after a notice is served, following which their sewerage and water connections may be cut if dues are still unpaid. If the property owner continues to default on the payment of property tax repeatedly, his or her property can be sealed and subsequently, auctioned off by the MCG to recover the tax dues.Ahuja also directed officials to make people aware of a 10% rebate on property tax payment currently on offer for the 2021-22 financial year, announced by the Haryana government, on pay property tax payments till July 31.He also directed officials that property tax bills for the financial year 2021-22 should be sent through registered posts immediately.Other decisions for increasing revenueAhuja directed all concerned zonal taxation officers to survey commercial institutions in their respective zones and send notices to the institutions located in the designated areas for procuring trade licences. He directed the MCG joint commissioners to supervise this work.Ahuja also directed officers concerned to collate data on all the mobile towers located within the MCG limits, to check how many are authorised, and to calculate the pending fees for the ones that are unauthorised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-speed-up-revenue-collection-to-stave-off-funds-crunch-101625159798096.html
01-07-2021||Noida||Light rain likely in Noida on Friday||Noida: Heatwave persisted for the third day in Noida on Thursday as the city continued receiving warm westerly winds, with no sign of southwest monsoon advancing towards the National Capital Region for the next seven days, experts said.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there is a possibility of slight respite due to drizzling towards the evening on Friday and Saturday, however, the mercury will again spike from Sunday. The weatherman said that due to excessive heat and intrusion of moisture laden north-westerly winds in the region, there is possibility of formation of clouds that may bring some temporary relief.“There are chances of light rain due to the formation of convective clouds which are formed when the mercury is high and is accompanied by some moisture-laden winds. This could lead to drizzling on July 2, but possibly towards the evening. So there are chances that the heat wave could persist on Friday as well. The relief from the heat, however, would be very little on Friday and Saturday evening, and the temperature will rise again from Sunday. There are so far very less chances of monsoon advancement or arrival within the next seven days,” said Kuldeep’s Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.On Thursday, the IMD recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 43.6°C and 33.6°C against 43°C and 30°C a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 43.6°C, which is 6°C higher than the season’s average, and 31.7°C, which is 4°C higher than the season’s average, respectively.According to weather analysts, a heat wave occurs when the maximum temperature is either 45°C and above, or is over 40°C and at the same time above 5°C of the season’s average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/light-rain-likely-in-noida-on-friday-101625159317366.html
01-07-2021||Other||ZP to hand out revision practical books for Classes 1-8 in ₹1 crore project||PUNE In a bid to help the students from rural areas of Pune district, Pune Zilla Parishad’s education department is handing out “revision practical books” to students from Class 1 to 8 for this academic year. Learning from last year’s experience of issues with online education, this decision has been taken as many students were unable to study online due to issues with online connectivity. Funds of ₹1 crore for this quarter have been allocated for this project.“We realised that there are several issues and practical problems which students face while having online education. According to our study survey of last year’s studies, of a total of 232,000 students in Pune ZP 70,000 students were unable to study online. Also there is no accountability for students and nor for teachers. Children of Class 1 to 8 hardly study properly and parents need to be with them while online classes are going on,” said Ranjit Shivatare, vice-president of Pune Zilla Parishad.“We are now going to provide a physical revision practical book to each and every student from Class 1 to 8 for this academic year. These practical books will be subject-wise, and it will be delivered to the doorstep of every student. Teachers will be given the responsibility to take classes as per this practical book.” he added. Meanwhile to make it easy for students, Pune ZP is also developing a new mobile application. Through this app, a subject or a chapter will be taught in multiple ways, by adding videos, diagrams, pictures and audios. When asked about the implementation of this project, Shivatare said, “This project will start from this academic year, it will be on quarterly basis and our books are being checked and will now go for printing. In next 15 days the printing of these books will be completed and the project will be launched in all the schools of Pune ZP. In this quarter we have alloted ₹1 crore funds for this project and as per the further requirement more funds will be allocated in next quarter.”While students and parents have welcomed this move, Shantaram Kandale, a parent from Indapur taluka said, “Both my son and daughter, who are in Class 1 and 4 respectively, are struggling to study in online mode. We have only one smartphone at home and their school classes are mostly at the same time. Now if they get books at home, then it would certainly make studies easy for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-to-hand-out-revision-practical-books-for-classes-1-8-in-rs-1-crore-project-101625159197452.html
01-07-2021||Noida||Vax shortage mars mega vaccination drive in Noida, Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Even after suspension of vaccination drive for two days, Gautam Budh Nagar district could not muster enough vials of Covid-19 vaccines to kick off the near-to-home mega vaccination drive in the district on Thursday. Though the district health department had planned to inoculate at least 40,000 people without slot booking every day in July, with some 8,000-odd doses available it had no option than to give the jabs to only those who had booked their slots for Thursday.Going by sources, the situation is likely to persist in the first fortnight of July with fewer number of cluster vaccination centres administering jabs.District magistrate Suhas LY said that due to state-wide paucity of vaccines, the near-to-home vaccination is unlikely to take off in the first half of the month in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. “For the mega vaccination drive, we had sent a requisition of 100,000 doses for the first lot, before it was to kick off. However, as the state headquarters have to evenly distribute the available stock of vaccines, we could only get around 8,000 doses on Wednesday. As many as 6,789 persons were vaccinated at 37 government health centres on Thursday,” he said.Echoing similar views, district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that for Friday, the district health department has received around 8,000 doses. “Till more stock comes, we’ll continue vaccination with the available doses. The staff has been told to give jabs to only those who have booked their slots for that particular site. This practice will continue till further notice,” he said.According to the Co-WIN portal, till Thursday as many as 1,170,218 doses have been administered in the Gautam Budh Nagar district, of which 1,033,127 people have taken their first dose.In Ghaziabad as well, officials said they have been getting only 8,000-9,000 doses per day for the past two days.“For the cluster vaccination drive, we had planned to administer about 35,000-40,000 doses per day but the process has been hampered due to short supply. Still, we are creating sessions as per vaccine availability,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Officials familiar with the development said they have learnt that supply will be restored within a fortnight. They added that during normal days, they run 90-100 sessions for vaccinations, which have reduced to about 40-42 sessions due to supply issues.“People come to our centre early to get the shots but with limited supply, we could only administer 200 doses in the morning and with great efforts, could manage 200 more doses by afternoon. There was a huge rush at our centre in the morning and we had to rope in the police for help. Normally, we administer 500-600 doses per day,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital.Under the cluster vaccination program which was to start from Thursday, the district had planned vaccination in 568 clusters in urban and rural areas with 9,176 sessions.“Several centres are not able to run their vaccination drives due to short supply. We are trying to provide doses to centres which have been initiated by local councilors or pradhans, however they are also getting few doses. We have told them that once the supply is regularised, sufficient doses will be provided,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vax-shortage-mars-mega-vaccination-drive-in-noida-ghaziabad-101625159137396.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Barhate’s son arrested after wife remanded to police custody||The son of RTI-activist-at-large Ravindra Barhate, Mayur Barhate (21) was arrested by Pune police crime branch on Thursday. The arrest was made hours after Barhate’s wife Sangita Barhate and one other person was remanded to five days in police custody. The man arrested along with Sangita Barhate was identified as Pitambar Dhivar, according to the police. They have all been arrested in a case registered at Hadapsar police station against Barhate and a group of people, including a dismissed Constable and a journalist, who have at least 10 other cases against them. The stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked in this case and two other cases against the gang. The RTI activist, the alleged head of the gang, used the information gained from RTI to blackmail land owners into handing over their land. The police have identified property worth crores that was grabbed by this gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/barhates-son-arrested-after-wife-remanded-to-police-custody-101625159017391.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||Dhankhar-TMC in face-off mode on eve of assembly budget session||A day before the beginning of the Bengal assembly’s budget session that Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is scheduled to address, ties between Raj Bhawan and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) worsened further on Thursday with the ruling party releasing two photographs to insinuate a link between the main accused in the fake Covid-19 vaccination racket and Dhankhar. The TMC alleged again that the latter was an accused in the Jain hawala case in the 1990s.Though Dhankhar did not react to the allegations till 7 pm, political observers said his speech at the assembly on Friday may raise a storm.On June 28, chief minister Mamata alleged that Dhankhar was accused in the Jain hawala case and branded him “corrupt”. While rubbishing the allegation on that day, Dhankhar told the media that he was not bound to read out the speech prepared by the state government while inaugurating the budget session. “Am I supposed to read out everything that is written?” Dhankhar said on the evening of June 28.This triggered speculations because in February last year Dhankhar wanted to edit the speech prepared by the state for the budget session. The government rejected his suggestion. Dhankhar finally followed convention and read out the speech that was critical of the Citizenship Amendment Act.In January this year, Dhankhar criticised the government for not inviting him to the year’s first assembly session although the House conducted its business for only two days.On Wednesday, the Governor shot a letter to assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, saying he was “more saddened than anguished” at the allegation Banerjee made against him at the June 21 national speakers’ conference chaired by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla.Banerjee complained to Om Birla that Dhankhar was interfering in the functioning of the assembly. Dhankhar also wrote to Banerjee that the allegation, that Raj Bhawan was not clearing some important bills passed by the assembly, is not true.“According to the intimation sent to me, the Governor will address the inauguration of the budget session tomorrow. As far his letter is concerned, I will reply to it later,” the speaker told HT on Thursday evening.During the day, TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy released two photographs, showing a man who allegedly worked as the security guard of Debanjan Deb, the main accused in the fake vaccination racket, standing near Dhankhar, his wife and two other women.“The man in the photograph is Arabinda Baidya, who worked as the security guard of Deb. In one photo, he can be seen standing behind Deb while in the other he can be seen standing near the Governor and his family,” Roy said at a press conference.Deb, an imposter who posed as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer posted at the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), held at least two vaccination camps for the general public in Kolkata. Amikacin, an antibiotic, is suspected to have been used on a few hundred people. Deb also cheated some people of a few crores of rupees. The Centre has sought a report from the state on the fake vaccination camps.“We want the special investigation team formed by the Kolkata Police to probe this because we have learnt that that Baidya’s job was to take expensive gifts and envelopes to important people. It must be found out what he was doing at Raj Bhawan,” said Roy, implying that the photograph was taken at Raj Bhawan.Referring back to the Jain hawala case probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 1990s, Roy said Dhankhar’s name is mentioned as an accused in the book ‘Bad Money Bad Politics- the untold hawala story’ written by Sanjay Kapoor.“The book says that Jagdeep Dhankhar, a former Janata Dal MP, received ₹12.25 lakh in three or four instalments. We all know that Dhankhar was a Janata Dal MP and served in the VP Singh government as a minister. Since the money transacted through hawala was used by terror groups, this angle should be probed as well as it involves national security,” said Roy.“The Centre should have probed the man’s background before posting him as a Governor. We will demand his recall and raise the issue before the President of India and also at the Parliament,” said Roy.Roy also referred to the death of Surendra Jain, one of the main accused in the Jain hawala case, three days ago. “Is it a coincidence that Jain died after Mamata Banerjee held a press conference and named Dhankhar, and journalist Vineet Narain, who conducted a probe, wrote on Facebook that Dhankhar should resign on moral ground? We are not drawing any inference but there is ground for suspicion,” said Roy.TMC Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra has alleged that Dhankhar was involved in the allotment of residential plots that was cancelled by a full bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court. She tweeted, “Man of integrity Governor WB was beneficiary of illegal residential land allotment which later came to be cancelled by a Full Bench of Punjab & Haryana HC. Was this also constitutional, Uncleji?”Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh defended the Governor saying, “If the TMC government has any proof against the governor then it should make it public instead of bringing wild allegations against him every other day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dhankhartmc-in-face-off-mode-on-eve-of-assembly-budget-session-101625158838183.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Last date to pay property tax extended by SDMC and NDMC||Delhi’s municipal corporations on Thursday extended the last day to pay property tax. The North Delhi Municipal Commission pushed the date to July 15 while the South Delhi civic body set the revised date to July 31.“With the approval of Competent Authority, it has been decided to extend the last date for filing online Property Tax Return and payment of property tax with, 15% timely payment rebate with 3% Covid vaccination incentive till July 31,” South Delhi civic body said in a statement.“This is the last opportunity to avail the benefit of 15% timely payment rebate on lump sum payment of property tax for the F.Y. 2021-22 along with 3% Covid vaccination incentive rebate (Only for residential properties) till July 31,” the statement further added.The decision to push the last day to pay property tax was taken after several residents complained of glitches in the online portal. It also said that the decision was also taken because people faced problems due to Covid-19 pandemic.South Delhi civic body mayor Mukesh Suryan said the decision was taken for the convenience of property taxpayers. He also asked taxpayers to make payment of their due property tax before July 31 so that they can avail the 15% rebate.North Delhi civic body mayor Raja Iqbal Singh also said that the date was extended for convenience of taxpayers. “The NDMC has extended the last date of payment of property tax with 15 per cent rebate along with three per cent COVID-19 vaccination incentive for timely payment, for the lump sum payment of the property tax for the year 2021-22,” Raja said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/last-date-to-pay-property-tax-extended-by-sdmc-and-ndmc-101625158203939.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,160 fresh Covid positive cases, 119 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 1,160 fresh Covid positive cases and 119 deaths in 24 hours. Of 119 deaths, 105 were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 12 deaths were reported in rural Pune. Two deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 494,647 Covid cases and 8,270 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 251,014 cases so far and 2,747 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 310,556 cases so far and 5,795 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,056,217 Covid cases. Of this, 1,022,114 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 17,017 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 17,086 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 8,634 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 5,828,535 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.01%. Across Maharashtra, 9,195 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 252 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.01%. The state health department stated that of 41,875,216 laboratory samples, 6,070,599 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 14.5% patients till Thursday. Currently, 617,285 people are in home quarantine and 4,339 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-160-fresh-covid-positive-cases-119-deaths-101625158177281.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Pune admin to review Covid relaxations on Friday||Pune: The district administration is likely to review Covid restrictions at the weekly meet in the light of the demand from some traders to ease curbs. The city last week returned to Level 3, prompting administration to bring back some of the old curbs. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that there will be a discussion about the Covid curbs based on facts and numbers. “We will discuss all the angles and the final decision will be taken after reviewing facts and figures. I cannot say right now whether there will be relaxations or not,” said Rao on possible Covid relaxations in the coming days. As the positivity rate had reduced in Pune, more relaxations such as increased timings for shops, restaurants and reopening of malls were announced. However, following the guidelines from the state government following reports of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus, the civic administration rolled back some of the exemptions, prompting business community to demand the increased timings to keep shops open and hoteliers have asked permission for dining in the evening hours. Currently, all shops are allowed to operate till 4 pm, the deadline also set for restaurants for dine-in facility. Meanwhile, the weekly RT-PCR positivity rate (June 23-June 30) of Pune district has dropped to 7.7%. Rao pointed out a marginal increase in the positivity rate of Pune city. “On Wednesday, Pune city recorded a positivity rate close to 8%. So, it will be too soon to say anything about Covid relaxations. Rural parts are still reporting a higher number of cases,” he said. Crowding in markets and tourist spots remains a challenge for the administration. Rao said that efforts are made to sensitise residents to remain indoors unless it is important to venture out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-admin-to-review-covid-relaxations-on-friday-101625157757244.html
01-07-2021||Ranchi||Cong legislator Amba Prasad booked for ‘obstructing public servants on duty’||Hazaribag police have booked Congress legislator from Barkagaon Amba Prasad for “obstructing public servants from doing their duty” after half a dozen tractor drivers, whose vehicles were seized and parked at Katkamdag police station, escaped with their vehicles allegedly in the presence of the legislator. The drivers of tractors allegedly carrying illegal sand, who fled with the vehicles, are said to be supporters of the legislator. Prasad visited the police station on Tuesday after learning of the seizure and the drivers drove away with their sand-laden tractors allegedly in her presence. Seven out of eight tractors were seized again and two FIRs were filed in the incident, one against tractor drivers and owners and the second against the legislator. Meanwhile, police officials said the legislator has also filed a counter case accusing officials of misbehaviour. “An FIR has been filed against Barakagon MLA under Section 353 of the IPC (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). We also received a complaint from the legislator. We have registered that as well. The investigation is on,” said Hazaribag Superintendent of Police Kartik S. Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad could not be reached for her comments. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cong-legislator-amba-prasad-booked-for-obstructing-public-servants-on-duty-101625157397246.html
01-07-2021||Other||Bihar: Four held in liquor haul||The Bettiah police have arrested four persons and seized over 4,000 liters of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from two separate places in West Champaran, police said on Thursday. Upendra Nath Verma, superintendent of police, Bettiah, said the seizure includes IMFL consignment from a truck which overturned near Manuwapul police outpost. “The consignment, being brought from Uttar Pradesh, was to be delivered at Chapra,” said SP Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-four-held-in-liquor-haul-101625157337786.html
01-07-2021||Other||Woman crushed to death by tractor, mother critical||BHABUA:A woman was killed and her old mother critically injured when a speeding tractor ran over them on NH 2 at Lalapur market in Kaimur district on Thursday, the police said.The deceased, identified as Priyanshu Devi, was returning from famous Mundeshwari Bhawani temple along with her husband Anshu Gupta, mother Prabha Devi and two-month-old son on a bike. They were bound for their village in adjacent Rohtas district, the police said.On way at Lalapur market, Gupta, who was driving the bike, lost balance and the vehicle upturned, throwing off the woman, her infant son and her mother on the road. Meanwhile, a speeding tractor, coming from opposite side, ran over the two women, killing Priyanshu on the spot. Her critically injured mother was rushed to Varanasi for treatment. The infant was unhurt, the police said.Kaimur’s superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar said a case of lodged and hunt is on for the driver who fled the spot after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-crushed-to-death-by-tractor-mother-critical-101625157337170.html
01-07-2021||Patna||Heavy rain lashes parts of Bihar||Very heavy rain lashed at few places over northern and southeast parts of the state while light to moderate rain occurred at northcentral parts, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Thursday. As per the daily bulletin, Gaunaha received 150mm rain, Baigania and Ramnagar 80mm each, Nimali 70mm while Galgalia and Katihar 60 mm each during the past 24 hours.MeT officials said that the state would continue to receive enhanced rain activities for two to three days.Meteorologist SK Mandal said, “A monsoon trough line is passing from east Uttar Pradesh to Assam via Bihar, which has triggered intense rain activities in northern districts. The intensity of rain is likely to subdue after July 4.”Talking about rain analysis of June, he said, “Majority of the northwest parts of the state received rain above normal while some parts of the northeast state witnessed below normal rain. Overall, the state recorded a 111% surplus rain in June. The early arrival of monsoon and surplus rain also brought the highest average temperature down by 0.3°C in comparison to the previous year.”As per weather warning, several places in the state, including West Champaran, East Champaran, Supaul, Araria and Kishanganj are likely to receive heavy rain ranging between115.5mm to 200 mm for the coming two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-bihar-101625157278054.html
01-07-2021||Patna||16-year-old held on charges of killing professor in Bihar||Madhubani police Thursday arrested a 16-year-old boy for allegedly murdering a professor and stealing his phone. The boy confessed his involvement in the crime, police said.“During the investigation, we found that the boy ran away from his home after his father refused to buy him a smartphone. Then he decided to steal professor Vijay Shankar Jha’s phone, following which the incident took place on May 7,” said SDPO Kamini Bala. The boy ran away after the incident. Police kept surveillance on the stolen mobile. He returned from Delhi on Monday and switched on the stolen phone through which his location was tracked and he was nabbed, the SDPO added.The SDPO said the boy revealed that after doing recce, he entered the house of the victim as the door was usually open around 9-10 pm. “When the professor saw him picking up the phone and identified him, the boy feared his arrest and attacked him with a weapon leading to his death,” the SDPO said.According to the boy’s statement before the police, on May 6 around 9.30 pm, when the professor was preparing food, he entered the house and hid under his bed. After taking food, the professor plugged his mobile for charging and went to his bed. Around 10.30pm, the boy came out from under the bed and tried to take out the phone from charging, during which the professor woke up and started screaming.“Out of fear, I took a weapon kept inside the house, attacked the professor’s head and fled from the spot with the phone,” said the accused.A case had been lodged with the Rajnagar police station based on the statement of the victim’s son Ritesh Kumar Jha. The 16-year-old accused has been sent to a remand home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/16yearold-held-on-charges-of-killing-professor-in-bihar-101625157277281.html
01-07-2021||Patna||PU gears up for clearing pending exams||Patna University (PU) is set to commence online examination form filling process on Friday, varsity officials said. Higher educational institutions in Bihar are set to reopen after July 6 following the long shutdown due to raging Covid-19 pandemic. Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare, said, “Students of BA, BCom and BSc part III can fill examination forms from July 2 to July 17 through online portal. We have made arrangements for conducting exams at all exam centres. Examination schedule will be announced following the government’s Covid-19 guidelines.”“The varsity would soon announce schedule for admission in new academic session. If all goes well, we are likely to begin admission process in early July,” he said.Meanwhile, the final-year students of traditional undergraduate courses have pinned hopes for timely examination and result announcement so that they don’t miss the chance of taking admission in post graduate courses.Amit Kumar, a third-year BSc student of BN College, said, “Delay in exam and result announcement will have adverse effect on post graduate admissions. Final marksheet is an essential requirement for taking admission in post graduate courses. In case of delay, we might miss the opportunity and suffer loss of a year.” PU takes admission in traditional postgraduate courses on the basis of marks obtained by students in their last qualifying exams.Similarly, Patna Women’s College has also tentatively scheduled examination for fourth and sixth semesters in the third week of July.Principal Sister M Rashmi AC, said, “We are likely to begin examination from July 12. We are waiting for the government’s guidelines for finalising exam dates.”Last week, the state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary announced that educational institutions would open after July 6 in a phased manner if the Covid-19 situation remained stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-gears-up-for-clearing-pending-exams-101625157217876.html
01-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Interviews for hiring asst professors to begin July 15||The process for the long-awaited appointment of assistant professors for Bihar’s seriously understaffed universities and colleges is set to start from July 15.Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) has started sending interview letters through email. Candidates will be required to report with the Covid-19 test report of the last 72 hours and all the original documents at the Commission’s office. BSUSC chairman Rajvardhan Azad said that in the first phase, interview for 25 subjects would be conducted and the second round of short listing for 15 subjects has been done by the experts. “We are starting with five subjects, including Angika, Puran, Prakrit, Persian etc., and after that, the schedule for the second lot of five subjects will be announced. The number of candidates called for interview is approximately three times the number of vacancies in that subject,” he said.BSUSC had advertised 4,638 vacancies for assistant professors in 52 subjects on September 23, 2020, just ahead of the announcement of state assembly elections. However, soon after the statute for appointment was notified, it had to be amended on the intervention of chief minister Nitish Kumar to give weightage to candidates from Bihar following opposition from many quarters.Bihar legislature had passed the Bihar State University Service Commission Act in 2017 to vest the power of recruitment back with the commission, which was earlier dissolved in 2007. Ahead of the Lok Sabha elections, Bihar government had constituted the commission in February 2019 with Azad, former chief and professor of ophthalmology at the All India Institute of Medical sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, as the chairman.Bihar’s universities and colleges have perennially remained understaffed due to delayed appointments, one of the key factors blamed for poor show by state institutions in grading by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Last time, the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) had advertised 3,364 vacancies in 2014, nearly 17 years after the previous advertisement in 1997, and the interview process got underway in 2015 and stretched up to 2020.Azad said there was a lot of delay owing to assembly election and Covid-19 pandemic, which led to extension of date twice for filling up applications. The last date for submitting online applications was December 10, while it was December 24 for submission of hard copy. “We have completed the first round of preliminary scrutiny for all the subjects and now the second round of scrutiny involving experts of the subjects is on in a phased manner,” he said.BSUSC has received over 69,000 applications. While the maximum number of applicants are from Bihar, followed by neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, applications have come from almost all states and union territories.“After first round of shortlisting, around 57,000 were found valid, as many candidates had left the application form incomplete or filled up multiple times. During the second round, the experts assessed the research papers and awards to find out if the research papers are peer reviewed or not. Academic points are calculated automatically and they are added with the scores for research papers, awards, work experience. Now, our effort is to carry out the process in a systematic manner and complete the exercise at the earliest,” he said.A big gap to bridgeIntro: Bihar’s universities and colleges have perennially remained understaffed due to delayed appointmentsVacancies: 4,638 Subjects: 52 No. of applications: 69,000 Applications found valid: 57,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharinterviews-for-hiring-asst-professors-to-begin-july-15-101625157217258.html
01-07-2021||Other||Bankatwa is country’s first block to complete first dose of Covid vaccination: Sanjay Jaiswal||BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal Thursday described East Champaran’s Bankatwa as the first block of the country where the entire eligible target population above 18 years of age have taken the first dose of vaccination against Covid-19. Talking to HT over the phone, Jaiswal, a three-time MP from West Champaran, said, “It is a matter of pride for all of us that Bankatwa isn’t Bihar’s but entire country’s first block where entire available eligible persons have been vaccinated.”Felicitating as many as 42 health personnel ranging from drivers to facilitators to doctors and other stake partners promised the setting up of an additional primary health centre at Bijbani South, a panchayat in Bankatwa block, which became the first panchayat in the state to be inoculated against Covid-19 recently. “Yes, in recognition of stupendous performance, we are going to recommend for setting up of an additional primary health centre in Bijbani South panchayat and residences for the staff as demanded by them would be taken care of,” the BJP state president said. HT on June 29 carried a report informing the readers about the measures undertaken by East Champaran district administration to achieve this feat in Bankatwa block which falls in Sikarahana subdivision, comprising ten panchayats and 27 revenue villages with 130 Anganwadi centres. According to officials, 52500 people above the age of 18 dwelling in ten panchayats have been vaccinated in Bankatwa block which has a population of 1,16863 as per the 2011 census. Of those vaccinated, 35,000 were in the 18-45 years of age group and the remaining 17,500 above 45 years of age.It took over two months for the team to complete vaccination that registered the highest inoculation of over 20,000 on June 21 and June 22, said officials.Meanwhile, Sanjay Jaiswal said that in a move aimed at ensuring assistance to the dependents of Covid victims, the NDA government in the state is set to provide ₹1 lakh ex gratia to those who died outside the state. “Such family would be benefitted from ex gratia of the labour department if their Aadhaar card mentioned the address of Bihar,” said Jaiswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bankatwa-is-country-s-first-block-to-complete-first-dose-of-covid-vaccination-sanjay-jaiswal-101625157157230.html
01-07-2021||Patna||On its 25th foundation day, RJD bets on Lalu to fire up rank and file||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad, who is currently in New Delhi after being granted bail in fodder scam cases in which he was convicted and incarcerated for nearly four years, will address party leaders and workers through virtual mode on July 5 to mark the party’s 25th foundation day, a senior party leader said.This will be Prasad’s first major interaction with RJD workers in four years, which is expected to galvanise the party’s rank and file. RJD leaders said party workers at the district, block and panchayat level have been directed to participate in the event and listen to Lalu Prasad, who had briefly interacted with party MLAs on May 9 through a video conference. After being discharged from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi days after he was granted bail by the Jharkhand High Court on April 30, the RJD chief has been staying at the residence of his eldest daughter and MP Misa Bharti. Prasad was being treated at AIIMS for various ailments.“This will be Lalu’s first interaction with party workers after a gap of several years. There is palpable excitement among the workers. We have sent online links to all our party units from panchayat level to the state level. Representatives from 26 states would be also attending the event. Key decisions would be taken about future programmes of the party at the event,” said Shyam Rajak, senior party leader and former minister. Top RJD leaders are also hopeful that the party chief will be returning to Patna by mid-July. “There are chances that the RJD chief would be returning to Patna after July 15. It will depend on his health condition. His presence will galvanise the workers,” said Rajak.Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the RJD chief’s younger son and leader of the opposition in the Bihar assembly, had on Wednesday met his party’s office bearers and leaders and asked them to ensure that the event was widely publicised. On its foundation day, RJD will also pay tributes to Lok Janshakti Party founder late Ram Vilas Paswan, whose birth anniversary falls on the same day.Paswan’s son Chirag is currently locked in a bitter feud with uncle and MP Pasupati Kumar Paras to regain control over the party that was recently hit with rebellion. Birth of the partyLalu Prasad, then Bihar CM, announced the birth of RJD at a function in New Delhi on July 5,1997, after breaking away from the erstwhile Janata Dal following differences with Sharad Yadav over leadership issues in the backdrop of CBI filing a charge sheet against Prasad in fodder scam cases. Among the founding members were former MPs Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Kanti Singh. Prasad was elected as its president. He later resigned as chief minister on July 25 ,1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/on-its-25th-foundation-day-rjd-bets-on-lalu-to-fire-up-rank-and-file-101625157097281.html
01-07-2021||Patna||Bihar minister Madan Sahni threatens to resign, says officials don't listen to him||Bihar’s social welfare minister Madan Sahni on Thursday threatened to resign from Nitish Kumar-led cabinet while alleging high-handedness by the bureaucracy.“I’m offering to resign. If officers don’t listen to me, I won’t be able to get people’s work done. And if I cannot, I don’t need this,” Sahni told reporters. The minister said he was also not satisfied with the residence and vehicle provided to him.“For years, they (ministers) have been facing trouble and torture. They are not allowed to enjoy the perks and powers of ministerial posts. Even peons of the department do not listen to them... I will remain in the party and will follow the path shown by the chief minister, but I will resign from the post of minister,” said Sahni, who is a legislator from chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party, the Janata Dal (United).Asked if he had shared his grievances with the chief minister, Sahni said, “Why should I do so? He would think I am taking recourse to blackmail.”Asked when did he plan to hand over his resignation letter to his boss, the minister said, “It (the letter) is being prepared.”Sources familiar with the matter said the trigger for the minister’s outburst was the transfers and postings in his department in which he was overruled. On June 30, there was a big reshuffle of state government officials across departments.“Many officers have stayed put in the social welfare department for years and are working in an arbitrary manner. When I sought their removal, the additional chief secretary of the department (Atul Prasad) refused to listen. And it is not only me. Officials do not listen to any minister in Bihar. It is known to all that in the month of June, those officers who have been posted at the same place for three years are transferred. We sent the list of all those officers to the additional chief secretary, but it was ignored,” he alleged.Sahni also alleged that officers close to chief minister had created a lot of wealth.Reached for comment, Prasad said he was not aware of the allegations.This is not the first time a minister has entered into a fight with the top official of his department. A few months back, another minister had requested the government to transfer his department’s top bureaucrat, officials said.Meanwhile, BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu took a swipe at Sahni, alleging that ministers took money in transfers and postings of officials. “We are constantly getting information about this from the officials of the department,” said Gyanu, who had raised a banner of revolt in the party after he was not inducted into the cabinet.He, however, did not reveal the names of ministers.Responding to Gyanu’s statement, RJD leader Shakti Yadav said Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav had always highlighted corruption in government. “Today, the BJP leader has made everything clear,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-minister-threatens-to-resign-says-has-no-say-in-transfers-postings-101625157037174.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra continues to report over 9,000 daily new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai sees 656 new cases||The daily infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra continued to remain above the 9,000-mark on Thursday as the state added 9,195 new cases to its tally. With this, 6,070,599 cases have been detected in the state so far, according to the latest data. Also, 252 people succumbed to the disease in the previous 24 hours as the state’s death toll climbed to 122,197, the data also showed. Active caseload in the state currently stands at 116,667.The capital city of Mumbai saw 656 more Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths in the day as the city’s tally reached 722,878 and the death toll climbed to 15,472. Meanwhile, the overall recoveries in the state reached 5,828,535, as 8,634 people were discharged from hospitals on Thursday.As many as 237,267 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the previous 24 hours and so far, 41,875,217 tests have been conducted by medical workers in the state.Also read | India logs 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72%The state recorded 9,771 new cases on Wednesday (June 30), 8,085 cases on Tuesday (June 29) and 6,727 new cases on Monday (June 28).Meanwhile, Mumbai’s active caseload witnessed a slight increase and stood at 8,498 on the day, according to a bulletin released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). It is an increase of 147 cases from the 8,351 reported previously on Wednesday.The bulletin also showed that 7,181,452 samples have been tested in Mumbai and 38,652 of those tests were conducted on Thursday. Also, there are 11 active containment zones within the city as of date.Among other major cities, Pune reported the maximum of 305 new cases on the day as its tally reached 494,647 cases. Navi Mumbai recorded 148 more cases while Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and Thane logged 91 new cases each. Also, 23 more people tested positive for the disease in Nagpur.So far, 32,439,765 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in Maharashtra, including 26,067,919 first doses and 6,371,846 second doses, as of 7am in the day, data from the Union health ministry showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-continues-to-report-over-9-000-daily-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-sees-656-new-cases-101625156132842.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Broken traffic signal was lying unattended for two weeks, residents say||The residents of boat club road have been facing a harrowing time, in crossing the main road where the Metro work has been going on for months. Many of the footpaths have been encroached upon on both sides of the road, while for the past two weeks, a knocked down traffic signal and a lamp post at the crossroads of Monish petrol pump, and Connaught place has made it impossible for residents to use the footpath. After several complaints to the local municipal authorities by residents the lamp post and the signal were removed on Thursday evening. A team of HT photographers confirmed the removal during a visit to the spot. Shenaz Setna who lives in the housing society behind the boat club main road often walks to the nearby shops for her daily groceries but for the past two weeks, this lamp post and knocked down traffic signal had become a major hurdle and has forced her to walk along the road, with oncoming traffic. “I usually walk towards Ganapati mandir chowk but now it has become a mess for there is no space left on the footpath with this huge traffic signal knocked down laying diagonally across the footpath, forcing me to walk on the road. With Metro work ongoing in the centre, it has already caused a lot of chaos and left no space for us to cross the road, this has now added to our woes,” said Setna. Speaking to DCP traffic Rahul Shrirame said, “The traffic signal maintenance and clearing of broken poles is with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and they have been informed of the fallen traffic signal pole and they are yet to take action. We will inform them once again about clearing it at the earliest.” Another resident, A Mukherjee, living near Gera Park also added that there is no median left for residents to cross the road at main road. “We have been writing to the authorities about the problems like locked thelas and shops still blocking the footpaths leaving us senior citizens no choice but to walk on the road. We even saw a maid getting hit by speeding car last week and yet no one from the officials is coming to help clear the footpaths,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/broken-traffic-signal-was-lying-unattended-for-two-weeks-residents-say-101625155357030.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Doctor couple found dead within hours of each other||A doctor was found dead by suicide on Thursday morning, hours after his wife was found dead in their house in Azadnagar, Wanowrie. The 28-year-old husband was an ayurvedic doctor while the 26-year-old wife was a homeopathic doctor. The wife’s private clinic was located at the ground floor of the house whereas the husband clinic is at Kasaradi, Saswad. While the man and his family live in Pune, the woman was a native of Uruli Kanchan in Pune.The husband’s parents are working as teachers. “The two had married in December 2019. Prima facie, finances do not seem to be a source of distress. We are yet to speak with their distraught parents,” said Police sub inspector Sudha Choaudhury of Wanowrie police station who is investigating the case. No suicide note has been recovered from the premises. The woman was found dead on Wednesday by her husband hours after their last phone call. “We are looking into what that phone call was about and enquiring with others in the family. After she was found, the husband called his family and the police were informed. However, in the morning when his family members knocked on the door, he failed to open. So, they broke the door open and found him in the bathroom,” said PSI Chaudhury. Two separate accidental death reports have been lodged and are under investigation at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/doctor-couple-found-dead-within-hours-of-each-other-101625155237120.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Laptop trader duped of ₹29 lakh||Two men were booked by Pune police for allegedly duping a computer trader of ₹29 lakh in the first quarter of 2021. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shivaji Jejurkar (31), a resident of Dhankawadi area of Pune and the owner of 7Tech Systems firm. The accused had contacted Jejurkar in the first week of January at Clover Plaza in NIBM road area of Kondhwa. The two men had asked for scores of laptops on rent for their company named Black Cafe Infrastructure Company, according to the complaint. The two men took 67 laptops from the complainant - 14 of HP, 4 of Dell, 49 of Lenovo company. The collective cost of the laptops was estimated to be ₹20,82,000. The rent of these laptops, per month, was decided at ₹8,13,750, according to the complainant. Between February and June of this year, the two men failed to pay rent of ₹28,95,750 to the complainant. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breaach of trust), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) of Indina Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station. Assistant police inspector Chetan More of Kondhwa police staiton is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/laptop-trader-duped-of-29-lakh-101625155177031.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Two dead, one live rare turtle found: Smugglers arrested||Two people were arrested by the state forest department officials for smuggling three turtles of endangered species in Pune. The animals were smuggled allegedly for further sale, according to Rahul Patil, district forest officer, Pune. The two were identified as Atharva Shashikant Deshmukh and Shrikrushna Avdhut Wanjari, according to the police. While two of the turtles were dead, one of them was alive, according to the police. The forest officials set a trap based on information provided by an anonymous source about a sale of the animals that was going to happen. The man was slated to arrive at an eatery in Mankar Chowk, Wakad. However, after entering, he left the eatery immediately. The source told the police that he is headed to meet his accomplice and the forest officials followed the first accused to find the second one in Maitri Chowk, Pimpri. The two were questioned and in the meanwhile, their houses were searched by another team. “In the house of Atharva Deshmukh, in a small box, two turtle were found dead while one was alive. Upon inspection, the turtle was found to be on Indian Tent Turtle and two Indian Roofed Turtle. They are in annexure-1 as rare and protected,” read a statement from the forest department. A case under relevant Sections of Wildlife Protection Act was registered by the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-dead-one-live-rare-turtle-found-smugglers-arrested-101625155117064.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Father-son booked for attempted murder of son’s wife||A businessman from Pune and his son were booked for attempted murder and unnatural sexual assault of the son’s wife who has lodged a complaint. The accused were identified as Ganesh alias Kedar Gaikwad (36) and Nanasaheb Shankarrao Gaikwad (70) both residents of Aundh. The accused businessmen own NS Gaikwad Infra companies that is into real estate development, hospitality and infrastructure projects, according to their website. Ganesh Gaikwad is also a member of the Indian national congress political party. The two men are facing a case of extortion and kidnapping of a hypnotist that was registered against them in January this year. The woman claimed in her complaint that the abuse happened between May 2019 and June 2019. The two men allegedly beat her up and the husband forced her into unnatural sexual acts, according to her. The 36-year-old man had once fired a gun in her direction which she had alleged ducked. The 70-year-old man had beaten her up with a wooden stick, she submitted in her complaint. A case under Sections 377 (unnatural sex), 307 (attempted murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily casuing grievous hurt), 504, 506, 109 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(27) of Arms Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fatherson-booked-for-attempted-murder-of-son-s-wife-101625155057045.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||Will Samajwadi Party to go solo in UP Polls? Akhilesh Yadav reveals||The Samajwadi Party to forge an alliance with smaller parties in Uttar Pradesh, party chief Akhilesh Yadav reiterated on Thursday as state gears for the high octane elections in 2022, news agency ANI reported.Stressing that residents of the country's most populous state want a new government, Yadav said, "People will vote for change."Taking shots at the ruling-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the former chief minister of the state, said, it "doesn't want to hold a debate on real matters like unemployment, inflation." Yadav also said that the state party has "dumped its manifesto in the garbage bin."Yadav further claimed that the Yogi Adityanath-led state government has "given free hand to DM, SP just to gain dominance."Speaking on the vaccination drive against the Covid-19, Yadav said, "Everyone should get the vaccine" and suggested that the state government should hospitals for the imminent third wave. Upon asking about when he will get the jab, Yadav said after "I am ready to take the vaccine after all the residents of Uttar Pradesh are vaccinated and the last jab is left," news agency ANI reported.Earlier, Yadav had asserted that the 2022 elections in Uttar Pradesh will usher in "a democratic revolution" against the current "disruptive" and "negative" politics.In a tweet in Hindi on Wednesday, Yadav said, "United against today's disruptive, conservative, negative politics, new politics of exploited, neglected, oppressed, humiliated, Dalit, oppressed, deprived, poor, farmers, workers, women and youth is taking birth". "In 2022, there will be no election in UP, there will be a democratic revolution," he also said.He has also exuded confidence that his party would win 350 seats out of the total 403 seats in the assembly, claiming people are against the BJP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/will-samajwadi-party-to-go-solo-in-up-polls-akhilesh-yadav-reveals-101625154800447.html
01-07-2021||Pune||PMC serves notices to property owners and beneficiaries of urban poor health scheme||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has served notices to around 4,000 citizens who paid property tax while availing the benefit of the urban poor health scheme, originally meant for poor citizens. The urban poor scheme is meant for those who have less than Rs1 lakh income per annum. PMC assumes that those who are pay property tax means they have their own home and enough income source. In its notice signed by health officers, PMC stated, “As the people owne a house in Pune city, it means their family income is surely more than Rs1 lakh per annum and they have duped the municipal corporation to take the benefit of the scheme.” The health department asked those people to submit their reply within a week to the notice served by PMC.Shiv Sena leader Vishal Dhanwade said, “PMC issued around 4,000 such notices. Instead of issuing notices to the citizens, ideally the PMC should ask the district administration about how they issue the income certificate?” Dhanwade said, “The income certificate is issued by district administration. If people took the benefit of the urban poor health scheme, it means they are needy and can’t afford the medical bills. There is no scheme for middle class people who use to pay all the taxes.” Shiv Sena demanded to withdraw all such notices within a week and stop torturing citizens, otherwise, Shiv Sena would do agitations. One of the official from the health department confirmed on anonymity, “The health department had done a scrutiny of the people who took the benefit of the urban poor scheme. It was found that many people having higher income are taking the benefit of this health scheme. Under this scheme, citizens can take the treatment in private hospitals. PMC use to bear 50 per cent of medical cost and rest of the bill should be paid by the concerned person. It is a very popular scheme. As many citizens found paying property tax and showing income below Rs1 lakh, the PMC is issuing notices to them.” Hindustan Times in its report on June 11 highlighted how around 1,900 people are under the scanner for availing benefit of the scheme. Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal told Hindustan Times that the PMC is reviewing all the three schemes. As many as 12,000 citizens benefited from the urban-poor scheme in 2020 with PMC probing the financial condition of these beneficiaries and whether they have properties in their name. Of the total beneficiaries, 632 beneficiaries have been found to have properties in their names, Agarwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-serves-notices-to-property-owners-and-beneficiaries-of-urban-poor-health-scheme-101625154937052.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Family of 14-yr-old brain-dead boy donates organs, Pune’s first heart transplant this year||Pune: The city saw its first heart transplant of 2021 after the family of a 14-year-old boy decided to donate his multiple organs late on Wednesday night and saved lives of six persons. It was the fifth organ transplant since June 1 this year in Pune city. The donated organs include kidneys and corneas, liver and heart. Mayuri Barge, a social worker at DY Patil Hospital where the donor was admitted, said that the patient’s family agreed for the noble cause post counselling. “The 14-year-old boy met with an accident that resulted in major injuries. He was later declared brain dead. The family that hails from Bihar settled in a nearby village 20 years ago. They run a small-scale family business of water purifier making and repairing. Post Covid outbreak, the donor lost interest in online studies and started helping his father in his business. He learned driving at 12 years and used to love making TikTok videos,” said Barge. Aarti Gokhale, central coordinator, Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), Pune said the donated heart was sent to Sahyadri Hospital. “The recipient is a 29-year-old girl from Pune city. The donor’s kidney was donated to a 40-year-old man from Pune and another sent to Jupiter hospital in Pune, liver to a 60-year-old man from the city.” The city saw a marked drop in transplant surgeries post the Covid outbreak and lockdowns. Gokhale said that since January, Pune has seen 14 organ donations. “Since June 1 this year, as the unlock began once again, we saw five donations. Earlier, a heart was extracted in Pune but it was sent to Mumbai,” said Gokhale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/family-of-14-yr-old-brain-dead-boy-donates-organs-pune-s-first-heart-transplant-this-year-101625153076935.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi to inaugurate 340.82-km long-Purvanchal Expressway next month||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adtiyanath will inaugurate the 340.82-km-long Purvanchal Expressway next month, state minister for industrial development Satish Mahana said on Thursday. Describe as the "dream project" of the UP government, the six-lane expressway will connect Chand Saray village near Gosainganj in Lucknow district with Haydaria village on NH-31 in Ghazipur district.The work is almost completed and will be functional by next month, Mahana also said in the release. The expressway has a total project value of ₹22,494 crore and is aimed the for the development of the remotest eastern region.Apart from this, the construction work of the 594-km-long Ganga Expressway will also pick pace in September, Mahana also informed while addressing the media virtually."Owing to a conducive environment, Uttar Pradesh has become the first choice for industrialists nationally and internationally," he said at the briefing. "Better infrastructure, safety, security and adjusting attitude of the state government have allured industrialists to set up their industry in Uttar Pradesh," he added.Mahana, further informed that even during the Covid-19 pandemic Uttar Pradesh has received its first overseas investment and leading electronic companies such as Samsung and Microsoft have shown interest in setting up production units in the state.Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary and chief executive officer, Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) was also part of the press briefing. The Uttar Pradesh government is geared up to boost construction of the 594-km Ganga Expressway which will be built at a cost of ₹36,387.17 crore, Awasthi informed.He also informed that more than 85 per cent of land has been acquired for the construction of the longest Ganga Expressway in the state and more than ₹5,000 crore has been given to over 62 thousand farmers.The Ganga Expressway will pass through 12 districts -- Meerut, Bulandshahar, Hapur, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-to-inaugurate-340-82-km-long-purvanchal-expressway-next-month-101625152436838.html
01-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt makes property returns mandatory for all employees||The Rajasthan government has made the declaration of assets mandatory for all its employees every year. Those who fail to comply with the order will not be eligible for promotions, annual raise and vigilance clearance, a government notification stated.As per a circular issued by the department of personnel on Tuesday, employees of all departments will be required to submit online the details of their immovable properties from January 1, 2021, and thereafter.“Those employees not submitting the details would not get a promotion, annual raise and vigilance clearance,” the circular read.Rajasthan is among few states like Odisha, which has made the declaration of assets mandatory for all its employees. At present, only gazette officials – civil and state services – are required to declare their assets.There are more than eight lakh government employees in the state.A provision has also been made for employees for the year 2020, where they will need to submit the details of assets from July 1 to August 31, 2021, the circular stated.This provision will cover employees of all boards, corporations, government enterprises and autonomous bodies.The circular was issued as per the directions of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. While holding a review meeting of the anti-corruption bureau in September last year, Gehlot had directed strengthening the arrangement of chief vigilance officers in every department. He had also asked officials to make declaration of assets mandatory for all its employees.“This will bring transparency in the working of the government and also help the anti-corruption bureau in uncovering cases of disproportionate assets,” the chief minister had said.Welcoming the move, former president of the secretariat employee association, Pankaj Kumar, said the new provisions will help in curbing corruption.As many as 363 cases were filed by the anti-corruption bureau last year. Over 30 cases against gazette officials have been filed this year till April.“The state ACB in the last 2.5 years has conducted over 500 traps activities and in such cases, on an average, 55% of the accused have been punished,” a senior official of ACB said, wishing not to be named.In February this year, the Odisha government also made submission of an annual property statement mandatory for public representatives and government servants of all ranks.According to a resolution passed by the General Administration and Public Grievance department, all government servants will be required to submit annual property returns as of January 1 of each year by January 31 of the year. Up-to-date filing of property returns has been made a prerequisite for promotions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-makes-property-returns-mandatory-for-all-employees-101625152537622.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s first of its kind underground integrated parking facility to address parking woes||Delhi Metro will open its first-ever underground integrated parking facility at the upcoming Dhansa Bus Stand metro station on the Grey Line in July, officials familiar with the development told news agency PTI. The underground integrated parking facility will allow commuters to park their vehicles and move to the concourse area directly, the officials cited above further added.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that the work on the 1.8km-long Najafgarh–Dhansa Bus Stand section is nearing its completion and this corridor will now become 6.1km-long with four metro stations.“The Dhansa Bus Stand metro station on the Dwarka-Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand corridor will be the first-ever underground metro station of the Delhi Metro network to have an entire underground floor dedicated for parking of vehicles,” Delhi Metro said in a statement.It also added that the parking facility will be integrated with the main station area which will allow vehicle users to park their vehicles and directly move towards the concourse of the metro station using lifts and escalators. Dhansa Bus Stand metro station is a four-level underground structure. The platforms will be at the bottom followed by the concourse. There will be an entire floor for parking above the concourse, DMRC said.The DMRC also said that the facility can house at least 110 cars and 185 two-wheelers and will be equipped with entry and exit ramps, lifts, staircases and escalators. It also said that in the future provision for property development activities at the ground level will be considered. The passengers can reach the concourse with one lift at the centre of the parking lot. There will also be two staircases and two escalators. The officials also said that the location of the parking lot will benefit passengers to commute faster during peak hours.The DMRC said that the parking facility is a major design-based improvement and first of its kind in the Capital’s metro network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-underground-integrated-parking-facility-to-address-parking-woes-101625149976293.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru railway station gets India’s 1st movable freshwater tunnel aquarium||The Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station also known as Bengaluru City Railway Station has become the first railway station in India with a movable freshwater tunnel aquarium, news agency PTI reported on Thursday. The aquarium has been opened by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC) in collaboration with the HNi Aquatic Kingdom, the report added.The aquarium is based on the concept of Amazon River and is one-of-its-kind, promising to be a visual treat and a passenger’s delight, the IRSDC said in a statement.Besides augmenting the experience of passengers, the initiative would add to the revenue of the Indian Railways, IRSDC added in the statement. The nominal entry fee of the aquarium at the Bengaluru railway station has been kept at ₹25 for each passenger.Addressing the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, IRSDC CEO and MD SK Lohia said that strict norms would be in place and that up to 25 visitors can visit the aquarium at a time, the PTI report stated.In the statement, IRSDC added that the aquatic kingdom, which is 12-feet long, is Indian Railways first paludarium housing myriad flora and fauna, and when a visitor will enter the venue, a dolphin will greet them with a “slight bow and a smile.”Notably, IRSDC stated that the establishment of the aquarium comes after it was given the mandate to undertake facility management of five railway stations across India in order to make travel hassle-free and boost customer experience. Apart from Bengaluru, the other stations are located in Anand Vihar (Delhi), Secunderabad, Chandigarh and Pune.The company also noted, as reported by PTI, that it will soon undertake the facility management of 90 additional railway stations of India in a phased manner.The news comes on the same day when the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) resumed operations in the Karnataka capital from 7am to 6pm. In a statement, BMRCL said that metro services will be available from Monday to Friday in view of the weekend curfew. The frequency of the trains will be five minutes in peak hours and 15 minutes in non-peak hours.Notably, Bengaluru metro also known as ‘Namma’ metro was supposed to resume operations on June 21 in two time slots – 7am to 11am, and 3pm to 6pm, but was later changed to Thursday after the Karnataka government relaxed the Covid-19 curbs due to drop in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-railway-station-gets-india-s-1st-movable-freshwater-tunnel-aquarium-101625150154697.html
01-07-2021||Patna||Persons with disabilities in Bihar demand representation in panchayats||Persons with disabilities in Bihar want representation in panchayats to have their voices heard at the local level. Under the banner of the Bihar Association of Persons with Disabilities (PwD), a group of PwDs demanded here on Wednesday that in the forthcoming panchayat elections in the state, there should be reservations for the divyaangs also. They said they want 5% reservations in panchayat elections for the posts of mukhia, panchayat samiti, zila parishad sarpanch, ward members and panch, as per the provisions of the Rights of the Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016. They have threatened if their demands are not considered, they would resort to agitation. In the three-tier panchayat system in the state, some seats have been reserved not only for the members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, but 50% of seats have been reserved for women belonging to both reserved and general categories. Also Read | 5-year-old girl allegedly raped, murdered in DehradunElection for the reserved and general category seats of panchayats in the state is to be held in the first week of August and it’s expected to be held in 10 phases.There are 8,387 gram panchayats created at the village level, 534 panchayat samitis at block level and 38 Zila parishads at district level in the state. These gram panchayats are divided into nearly 115,000 wards.“But the representation of Divyaangs in the panchayats is almost nil while the state has around 5,100,000 Divyaangs are in the state,” Sugandh Narayan Prasad, secretary of the association, said. A memorandum in this connection will be submitted to the state election commission on Friday, the association secretary said. Shivajee Kumar, former disabilities commissioner, said the demand for reservation in the panchayats is quite logical. “It’s needed to ensure justice and protection of their rights,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/persons-with-disabilities-in-bihar-demand-representation-in-panchayats-101625149957347.html
01-07-2021||Indore||IIM Indore announces free leadership course ‘Kritagya’ for 100 selected doctors||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Indore on Thursday announced that it will conduct a leadership programme for 100 selected doctors free-of-cost, news agency PTI reported. The announcement came on the day when the entire country celebrated the National Doctors’ Day.IIM Indore director Himanshu Rai, on the occasion of the Doctors’ Day, said that the institute wishes to express its gratitude to the medics and as part of its “institutional social responsibility (ISR) initiative,” has planned to impart the leadership programme called ‘Kritagya’ for a duration of 70 hours.According to the PTI report, the programme’s cost will be covered for all the 100 selected doctors by the institute itself, Rai said. He added that the regular cost for such programmes is ₹1.5 lakh per candidate.Rai stated that as the institute has decided to bear the cost for all the selected doctors, the notional contribution of IIM Indore comes to ₹1.5 crore, thereby making the biggest ISR contribution among all educational institutions, the PTI report added.The certificate programme, PTI reported, will have contemporary topics of interest for doctors such as effective communication skills, conflict management, understanding new-age technology, service operations, negotiations, leadership and financial management.On Thursday, on the occasion of the National Doctors’ Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the medical fraternity virtually, and thanked them on behalf of 130 crore citizens of the country. “Our doctors, their knowledge and experience are helping us battle this Covid-19 virus,” he added during the address.Earlier in the day, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu took to Twitter to salute the medical fraternity for “rendering selfless service and working round-the-clock” to save lives by “risking their own”.The Vice President also urged citizens to follow Covid appropriate behaviour in order to ease the pressure on the doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers as the Covid-19 pandemic has put enormous pressure on them and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/iim-indore-announces-free-leadership-course-kritagya-for-100-selected-doctors-101625149328429.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospital begins administering Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine||The Indraprastha Apollo in New Delhi started the administration of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to the public from Wednesday, people familiar with the developments told Livemint.The hospital said that it has administered Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to around 1,000 people. The hospital authorities also highlighted that spot registration and walk-in facilities for Sputnik V are currently restricted. “We are encouraging beneficiaries to register and make appointments through the CoWIN app,” the hospital said. Indraprastha Apollo was scheduled to begin administration of the Covid-19 vaccine by June 25.Several other hospitals on the other hand who were scheduled to begin inoculation using Sputnik V said that they have not received the doses from Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories who is the marketing partner for the vaccine in India.Officials of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital and Fortis Healthcare at its Gurugram and Mohali hospitals, have not been able to administer the vaccine to beneficiaries until now. The vaccine developed by Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans and its both doses which are administered 21 days apart are different and not interchangeable.The Centre fixed the price of Sputnik V at ₹1,145 per dose. Dr Reddy’s is importing the shots from Russia and will begin domestic production soon. Dr Reddy partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) earlier this year to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Sputnik V in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospital-begins-administering-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-101625149445572.html
01-07-2021||Other||35-yr-old shot dead by unknown assailants in Rohtak||A 35-year-old man was shot dead by unidentified assailants at the Jhajjar bypass, Rohtak in the wee hours of Thursday, said police.The deceased has been identified as Saurabh Sona, of Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri and he was working at a private company in Panipat.In her complaint, the victim’s daughter Nainsi said that they had come from Mainpuri and her father was out to pick them from Rohtak.“My father’s phone was switched off and when we started searching for him, his body was found near the Jhajjar bypass. The assailants had fled with the car that my father brought from his friend to pick us up,” she added.Rohtak police spokesman Sunny Loura said they have registered a case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance with common intention), and 378 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.“We have started an investigation into the matter and launched a manhunt to nab the assailants,” the spokesman added.PANCHAYAT POLL ASPIRANT SHOT DEAD IN JHAJJARIn another incident, a man who was aspiring to fight in the upcoming panchayat elections was shot dead by a group of assailants of his village at his service station at Asandha village in Jhajjar on Wednesday evening. The deceased was identified as Sunil Kumar.In his complaint, victim’s brother Shrawan said his brother had been running a construction materials’ shop and had been helping at their service station for the last three weeks.“A few days back, Vinod Kumar of our village had threatened my brother of dire consequences if he fought in the sarpanch election but my brother ignored the threat. A group of assailants, including Vinod and Rocky of our village, intercepted my brother at our service station and fired shots at him. We rushed him to a private hospital in Rohtak, where the doctors declared him brought dead,” he added.Investigating officer Mukesh Kumar, of Asaudha police station, said the entire incident was captured in the CCTV footage. A group of men can be seen getting down from a Brezza car and firing shots at Sunil.“We have booked Rocky and Vinod under Sections 302, 120-B and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act and launched a manhunt to nab them. The murder seems to have been plotted due to personal rivalry,” the IO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35yrold-shot-dead-by-unknown-assailants-in-rohtak-101625148936571.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Sant Dnyaneshwar palkhi to depart Alandi on Friday||The departure ceremony of the Sant Dnyaneshwar palki, known as the prasthan, will be held on Friday at Alandi. Earlier, the state government had given permission for 100 warkaris (pilgrims) to be present at the ceremony, but after a request made by the Alandi Devasthan trust, one representative from each of the 430 registered dindis (groups) will be allowed. Since June 30, one representative of each dindi has made their way to Alandi. Each representative currently has a negative RTPCR test. These 430 pilgrims come from each district of Maharashtra. “Earlier, we had permission for 100 warkaris for the prasthan ceremony, scheduled on July 2 in Alandi, but after our discussions with the state government, special permission was given to allow one representative from each of the 430 registered dindis. We contacted each dindi and told them to send one warkari, ideally, a younger person who has taken at one dose of the Covid vaccine. All arrangements for stay, food and other necessities has been taken care of by the temple trust,” said Abhay Tilak, trustee, Alandi Devasthan temple trust. “So far, 300 representatives have reached Alandi and we had done RTPCR tests for each of them. Only those negative will be allowed inside the temple for the prasthan ceremony. If anyone tests positive, then as per state government Covid protocol, s/he will be sent to a quarantine centre further treatment,” added Tilak. On Thursday, the prasthan ceremony for the Sant Tukaram palkhi took place in Dehu, following all Covid safety measures and guidelines issued by the state government. A few warkaris and temple trust representatives were present for the ceremony. The palkhi will remain in the temple itself till July 19, Ashadhi Ekadashi, when it will be taken by MSRTC bus to Pandharpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sant-dnyaneshwar-palkhi-to-depart-alandi-on-friday-101625147856360.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC alleges link between vaccination scam accused and Raj Bhawan||Adding to the acrimonious ties between Raj Bhawan and the West Bengal government, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday released two photographs wherein a man who allegedly worked as the security guard of Debanjan Deb, the main accused in the fake vaccination racket, is seen standing near governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, his wife and two other women.“The man in the photograph is Arabinda Baidya, who worked as the security guard of Deb. In one photo, he can be seen standing behind Deb while in the other he is seen standing near the governor and his family,” TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said at a press conference. Raj Bhawan did not react to the allegations till 4.30 pm.Deb, an imposter who posed as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer posted at the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) held at least two Covid-19 vaccination camps for the general public in Kolkata. Amikacin, an antibiotic, is suspected to have been used on a few hundred people. Deb also cheated many people of a few crores of rupees. The Centre has sought a report from the state on the fake vaccination camps. “We want the special investigation team formed by the Kolkata Police to probe this because we have learnt that Baidya’s job was to take expensive gifts and envelopes to important people. It must be found out what he was doing at Raj Bhawan,” said Roy, implying that the photograph was taken at Raj Bhawan. Reiterating the allegation, chief minister Mamata Banerjee earlier raised regarding Dhankhar’s name appearing in the Jain hawala case probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 1990s, Roy said Dhankhar’s name is mentioned as an accused in the book ‘Bad Money Bad Politics- the untold hawala story’ written by Sanjay Kapoor. “The book says that in 1991 Jagdeep Dhankhar, a former Janata Dal MP, received ₹12.25 lakh in three or four instalments. We all know that Dhankhar was a Janata Dal MP and served in the VP Singh government as a minister. Since the money transacted through hawala was used by terror groups, this angle should be probed as well as it involves national security,” said Roy. “The Centre should have probed the man’s background before posting him as governor. We will demand his recall and raise the issue before the President of India and also at the Parliament,” said Roy.Roy also referred to the death of Surendra Jain, one of the main accused in the Jain hawala case, three days ago. “Is it a coincidence that Jain died after Mamata Banerjee held a press conference and named Dhankhar, and journalist Vineet Narain, who conducted a probe, wrote on Facebook that Dhankhar should resign on moral ground? We are not drawing any inference but there is ground for suspicion,” said Roy.TMC Lok Sabha member Mohua Moitra has alleged that Dhankhar was involved in the allotment of residential plots that was cancelled by a full bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court. She tweeted, “Man of integrity Governor WB was beneficiary of illegal residential land allotment which later came to be cancelled by a Full Bench of Punjab & Haryana HC. Was this also constitutional, Uncleji?”Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh defended the governor saying, “If the TMC government has any proof against the governor then it should make it public instead of bringing wild allegations against him every other day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-alleges-link-between-vaccination-scam-accused-and-raj-bhawan-101625145697113.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||SC decision on dropping of KCOCA against Lankesh’s killer key to probe||The outcome of the plea filed by slain journalist Gauri Lankesh’s sister, challenging the dropping of charges under the Karnataka Control of Organized Crime Act 2000 (KCOCA) against one of the accused in the murder case, holds the key to the future of the murder investigation, say police officers and lawyers in the know of the developments. The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Karnataka government and state police on a plea filed by Kavitha Lankesh. Kavitha Lankesh, a filmmaker, had approached the top court for staying the Karnataka high court order of April 22, 2021, which had quashed the charges under KCOCA against Mohan Nayak, one of the accused men on trial for Gauri Lankesh’s murder. KCOCA is a law enacted by Karnataka in India since 2000 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The Act was modelled on the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA).Also Read | SC notice to govt on dropping of charges against Lankesh’s killerAccording to police, if the charges of KCOCA are dropped against Nayak, it could set a precedence for the charges to be dropped against other accused in the case as well. “We, in our charge sheet, have provided evidence to suggest that a considerable amount of planning has gone into the murder. This clearly amounts to the conspiracy and murder being an organised crime. We will wait for the Supreme Court decision,” said a senior SIT official. A senior home department official, who was aware of the developments, said that the SIT had approached the government to file an appeal against the Karnataka high court decision, however, the government didn’t act on it. The home minister didn’t respond to HT’s call for a comment regarding this allegation. As per the charge sheet, Mohan Nayak is accused of providing accommodation for the killers on the outskirts of Bengaluru. He was arrested on July 19, 2018. Nayak was arrested after the main suspects in the case, including the shooter and the mastermind of the crime, were taken into custody. During the interrogation, Parashuram Waghmare, who pulled the trigger, told the investigators that three others and he were living in an acupuncture centre in Kumbalagodu on the outskirts of Bengaluru, before the murder; however, he didn’t know who provided the house. According to SIT officials, they found a vital clue in the diaries kept by Amok Kale, the alleged mastermind of the murder. They found a number from Kumbalagodu and found “MN Sampa”, written against it. When the cops checked the call details of the phone number, they found two Bengaluru numbers. These numbers belonged to two real estate agents, and one of them told the SIT he had rented out this house to a man to run an acupuncture centre. However, the real estate agents couldn’t identify the person. Since the number was last active in Sampaje in Kodagu, police realised that Sampa stood for Sampaje. Soon, police began looking for acupuncture professionals in the area, said the SIT official. With the initial MN, the SIT soon tracked down Mohan Nayak, who confessed to renting out the house and opened an acupuncture centre on the instructions of Kale, to house these men without drawing any attention. The arrest of Nayak also led the SIT to Rajesh Bangera, the man who allegedly trained the shooters. Bangera was arrested, and during the interrogation, he admitted having given arms training to the other accused at a farmhouse in Belagavi district. The SIT filed an additional charge sheet in November 2018, in which Nayak was named. According to the charge sheet, Nayak also took training from Bangera. On April 22, the Karnataka high court dropped the organised crimes charges against Mohan Nayak, one of the accused. Since the government didn’t appeal against this decision, Kavitha Lankesh approached the Supreme Court. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for Kavitha Lankesh, pointed out Nayak’s involvement in multiple murders involving activists Narendra Dabholkar in 2013 (Pune), Govind Pansare in 2015 (Kolhapur, Maharashtra), and noted Kannada writer MM Kalburgi in Dharwad (Karnataka) in 2015. According to the petition filed through advocate Aparna Bhat, Nayak was involved in arranging logistics for the killers both before and after the crime. It stated that the high court erred in setting aside the order of the Bengaluru Police Commissioner passed in August 2018 invoking KCOCA against Nayak and the subsequent supplementary charge sheet filed by the Special Investigation Team under provisions of KCOCA. “In order for the KCOCA to be applicable in the case, there has to be at least two prior charge sheets against the accused. This is not so in the case. In such a situation, where KCOCA is not there, SIT had to file the charge sheet in 90 days. Since they took 180 days, bail should be given to the Nayak,” advocate Amrutesh NP, founder member of Hindu Vidhidnya Parishad, who appearing for some of the accused in the Gauri murder case. Nayak’s lawyers were not available for comment. Amrutesh further added that if KCOCA is removed in this case, he will approach for the removal of KCOCA against other accused in the case who do not have two charge sheets filed against them. A retired public prosecutor, who didn’t want to be named said that if the high court order is upheld, it would impact the trial. “Essentially, this would become a murder case, instead of an organised assassination of someone. The investigation so far, whatever information available in public, shows there was a well-planned conspiracy. We will need to wait and watch what the Supreme Court has to say,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sc-decision-on-dropping-of-kcoca-against-lankesh-s-killer-key-to-probe-101625145576771.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Blue Line services disrupted for second day, Yellow Line hit too||Services on the Blue Line of Delhi Metro were affected for the second consecutive day on Thursday forcing commuters to wait for a longer time to board the trains. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited (DMRC) wrote, “Slow movement of trains between Dwarka Sector 9 and Dwarka Sector 21. Normal service on all other lines.”A similar disruption was also reported on the Blue Line on Wednesday due to a signalling issue, an official said, as reported by news agency PTI. The official stated that the disruption caused the services to slow down for 10 to 15 minutes, but was soon rectified and services returned to normal.Interestingly, a few hours after the tweet by DMRC on Thursday morning, the company took to the social media platform once again in the afternoon to give an update on the disruption of services on the Yellow Line of Delhi Metro. “Delay in services between Huda City Centre and Sultanpur,” the tweet read.Later, the DMRC stated that owing to a technical issue at Huda City Centre, train services between the station and Sikanderpur were temporarily suspended.However, in less than 30 minutes the company tweeted again to inform that services have been restored on the Yellow Line.Yellow Line UpdateDue to a technical issue at Huda City Centre, temporarily no train services will be available between Huda City Centre and Sikanderpur. We apologise for the inconvenience.Yellow Line UpdateNormal services have resumed. Thank you for your patience.On Wednesday, after the services on the Blue Line were disrupted and later rectified, DMRC said that the average waiting time at Rajiv Chowk – one of the Blue Line stations, was 50 minutes. Later, after three hours, the company announced that the waiting time has become normalised.A few days before, addressing the matter of overcrowding outside Delhi Metro stations, DMRC said in a statement that “long queues are caused as single entry points are only permitted” at most metro stations because it is difficult to regulate the number of persons inside a mass transit system once their entry is permitted.Notably, Delhi Metro services resumed in early June after a gap of nearly one month, with 10 to 15 percent of its capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-blue-line-services-disrupted-for-second-day-yellow-line-hit-too-101625144427743.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka deputy CM tells V-Cs to vaccinate all college students before July 7||Since the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic hit India, the educational scenario of the country has mostly been driving digitally as schools and colleges have been closed. With the nationwide vaccination drive underway alongside the universal free-of-cost inoculation campaign, the Karnataka government has asked all vice-chancellors of universities to vaccinate all college students above 18 years by July 7 in order to facilitate the reopening of educational institutions in the state, news agency ANI reported.Karnataka deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan told ANI that students ought to be administered with Covid-19 vaccines by the stipulated date as per the “schedule of the vaccine drive” and that the vice-chancellors should try to make sure that the vaccination of all students is completed before the deadline. He added that if required, the deadline of July 7 can be stretched by another two to three days.According to the ANI report, the deputy chief minister, while interacting with the vice-chancellors during a virtual meet, highlighted that students are currently being vaccinated as a priority group so that physical classes pertaining to higher education can soon be restarted.However, Narayan noted that opening of offline classes in Karnataka depends on the success of the vaccination drive and that the state government is ready to extend all forms of cooperation.The state health minister Dr K Sudhakar reportedly recently told that parents of children, who are below 10 years, will also be administered Covid-19 vaccine jabs on a priority basis. According to reports, he added that educational institutions will be opened in the state step-by-step because while education is important for students, their lives have more significance.The deputy chief minister’s remarks come at a time India and the 11 other nations are fighting against the more virulent Delta Plus variant of Covid-19, which has also been identified in Karnataka. The variant – a subtype of the Delta variant, was first detected in India on June 11 and has until now claimed 50 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-deputy-cm-tells-v-cs-to-vaccinate-all-college-students-before-july-7-101625143422497.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 94 new Covid-19 infections, 4 deaths in 24 hours; active caseload dips slightly||Delhi on Thursday reported 93 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the city’s cumulative tally to 1,434,281 cases so far, a bulletin from the health department showed. The daily positivity rate was 0.12% according to the bulletin. Also, four people lost their lives to the infection in the previous 24 hours as the death toll reached 24,981.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 1st July 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/IHwrJb28KgActive caseload witnessed a slight decline and currently stands at 1,357. It fell by 22 cases from the 1,379 reported previously on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 111 people recovered from the disease in the previous 24 hours and the cumulative recoveries climbed to 1,407,943.Daily new infections in Delhi continued to remain above 90 for the second consecutive day as 94 people had tested Covid-19 positive previously on Wednesday. Earlier on June 28 (Monday), 59 new cases were detected, the lowest single-day spike in Delhi since April 2020.Also read | India logs 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72%As many as 76,468 samples were tested for the disease in the last 24 hours. With this the number of cumulative samples tested rose to 21,559,572 and the tests per million count in the city stands at 1,134,714, data from the bulletin showed.The cumulative positivity rate stands at 6.65% and the case fatality rate (CFR) was recorded at 1.74% as per the latest data. The city currently has 1,349 containment zones in effect and 314 patients are under home isolation.In the last 24 hours, 146,161 beneficiaries received a dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi. This includes the 121,769 people who were given the first dose and 24,392, who were given the second. With this 7,900,147 people have been immunised against Covid-19 in the city, of whom, 6,094,386 have received their first dose and 1,805,761 have received their second, data from the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-94-new-covid-19-infections-4-deaths-in-24-hours-active-caseload-dips-slightly-101625143249719.html
01-07-2021||Ranchi||Confer Bharat Ratna on scientists who made Covid-19 jabs: J'khand minister to PM||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to honour the scientists who helped in developing indigenous coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccines with the Bharat Ratna, news agency ANI reported.Gupta, in his letter, highlighted that everyone should express their gratitude to the scientists who invented the homemade vaccines in a short period of time. The minister said that the scientists be bestowed with a Bharat Ratna on this year’s Independence Day for their “patriotism, outstanding service and extraordinary work”.“Certainly, this will become a source of inspiration for young scientists,” the health minister was quoted as saying by ANI.Gupta further stated that it was because of the manufacture of the indigenous vaccines and a systematic and strategic vaccination programme that Indian citizens have been able to save their loved ones. The minister added that the vaccines and the vaccination drive not only strengthened the country’s immunity but also made India self-reliant on the international platform.His remarks come on the same day that he blamed the Centre for not rendering Jharkhand with sufficient Covid-19 vaccine doses. Accusing the Centre for slowing the process of distributing vaccine doses, Gupta said, “The central government demands an advance plan from us, which we duly provide. We don’t produce vaccines. It is the Centre that has to procure and provide vaccines to the state.”According to the schedule, Jharkhand is supposed to receive six lakh coronavirus vaccine doses on Friday and a total of 9.5 lakh doses by July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/confer-bharat-ratna-on-scientists-who-made-covid-19-jabs-j-khand-minister-to-pm-101625142331249.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||After lockdown, Delhi govt’s employment portal sees surge in job-seekers||The Delhi government’s online job portal established a record 75,000 connections between job seekers and employers in June, signifying a surge in people looking for employment as the national Capital opened economic activities after a strict seven-week long lockdown meant to curb the brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Data shared by the government showed that in the month of June alone, the portal jobs.delhi.gov.in saw 1,000 new job seekers on an average every day. Accordingly, the number of avenues offered by employers also picked up in the same month with around 300 new jobs being posted on the portal on a daily basis, though the number of employment opportunities continues to be lower than the demand. Between June 1 and 30, a total of 34,212 job seekers were registered and 9,522 new vacancies were posted. On an average, 2,500 connections were made every day between job seekers and employers – through WhatsApp, phone calls and direct application to the employers. In total, 75,000 connections were made between job-seekers and employers in June, a government spokesperson said. Also Read | Heatwave warning for NW India, including Delhi, for next two daysAs on Thursday, the top three sectors with maximum available vacancies were customer support, delivery executives and sales and business development. Roughly about half of the vacancies (45%) were available for freshers. In terms of gender distribution, nearly 41% jobs were open for all, while 36% were for males only, and 23% were for females.The portal was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on July 27 last year, with the aim of helping those who had lost their jobs during the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25, 2020 because of Covid-19 and also for boosting the national capital’s economy.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the city’s employment minister, said the portal, has helped many to get jobs or at least apply for different posts. “The Kejriwal government is most concerned about the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and had therefore, launched the Rojgar Bazaar portal last year to provide job opportunities to unemployed youth. Lakhs of youth had registered and found jobs last year. It is a matter of their faith and trust in CM Arvind Kejriwal that even now, thousands of job-seekers and employers are registering every day in Rojgar Bazaar. We will do everything possible to help youth find jobs at this time of crisis,” he said. The minister said that during the lockdown, the “Rojgar Bazaar” portal helped businesses hire for delivery and customer support. Now, during the unlocking process, we have witnessed a surge in sales and office jobs again. “The Rozgar Bazaar has proved to be a one-stop portal for all segments - employers ranging from micro enterprises, street vendors looking for cooks, tailors, technicians, MSME looking for accountants/web designers/sales and marketing personnel to hospitals looking for staff. Along with the full time jobs, part time and work from home job options are also available on Rojgar Bazaar,” he said. Between July 27 and November 4 last year, the portal had more than 1.25 million job seekers, while at least 44,440 employers were registered on the portal and there were 826,603 job openings. In November last year, the Delhi government had blacklisted at least 207 registered employers from the portal for allegedly demanding money from job seekers whom they contacted through the platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-lockdown-delhi-govt-s-employment-portal-sees-surge-in-jobseekers-101625142936783.html
01-07-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh anti-corruption bureau raids locations linked to former chief||The Chhattisgarh Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday raided 11 locations linked to senior IPS officer and former ACB chief GP Singh in the state, an official said. Sources said that the raid began at 6am in at least 11 locations, including his official residence in Raipur. “There were complaints against Singh about disproportionate assets. He is presently posted as director of State Police Academy. We have done primary investigation and registered an FIR under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act and are conducting raids,” said Arif Sheikh, director, ACB and Economic Offence Wing. Also Read | Four killed, 4 others injured in J&K road accidentSheikh further said that the raids are going on across the state and at a location outside the state. Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, was posted as additional director general of ACB and Economic Offence Wing (EOW) in the state, before being shifted to the state police academy in June last year. Earlier he had also served as Inspector General of Police (IGP) in various ranges, including Raipur range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-anti-corruption-bureau-raids-locations-linked-to-former-chief-101625142397269.html
01-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Cong legislator booked for ‘obstructing public servant on duty’||The Hazaribag police in Jharkhand have booked Congress legislator from Barkagaon, Amba Prasad, for obstructing public servants from discharging duty after half a dozen tractor drivers took their vehicles away from the police station which were seized and parked at Katkamdag police station allegedly in presence of the legislator, police officials said.“An FIR has been filed against Barakagon MLA under Section 353 of the IPC (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). We also received a complaint from the legislator. We have registered that as well. An investigation is on,” said Hazaribag Superintendent of Police (SP) Kartik S.The tractor drivers, allegedly carrying illegal sand, who fled with the vehicle, are said to be supporters of the legislator. Prasad visited the police station on Tuesday after learning of the seizure and the drivers drove away with their sand-laden tractors allegedly in Prasad’s presence.Seven out of eight tractors have been seized again ever since even as two separate FIRs have been filed in the incident -one against tractor driver and owners and the second against the legislator.Police officials said the legislator has also filed a counter case accusing officials of misbehaviour.Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad, a first-time legislator and the youngest in the current Jharkhand assembly, could not be reached for her comment. She is a second-generation politician with both her parents, father Yogendra Saw and mother Nirmala Devi, having represented the constituency in the past.Illegal sand mining is a major issue in the state. Several legislators, including from the ruling Congress and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), have raised the issue repeatedly in the assembly sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cong-legislator-booked-for-obstructing-public-servant-on-duty-101625142336754.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||An awkward encounter at Punjab secretariat||Working with the government, a transfer always brings conflicting emotions of excitement and apprehension at the same time. The reasons for both being the same – moving out of the comfort zone, dealing with a new subject, meeting and working with new people. The transfer orders in August 2020 announced the inevitable for me, moving from the field to the intimidating secretariat at Chandigarh. Over the years, I have always romanticised the idea of moving back to Chandigarh – it’s the city where I spent most of my short career as a journalist. It brings back thrilling memories of zipping from spot-to-spot to cover the education beat as a cub reporter on my scooter after the iconic Press Club poolside morning meetings. Even though the second stint in the city was not expected to match the thrill, the prospect of catching up with old friends, making new friends and maybe picking up a hobby was incentive enough. As with most things in 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic played a spoilsport here, too. I joined my new assignment at the peak of the pandemic, the usual apprehensions were double-fold. There were no friendly smiles from strangers – just masked faces, temperature checks and muffled sounds. Introductions and briefings that generally take days and copious cups of tea were limited to a quick exchange of user IDs. The new norms restricted all personal interactions. Meetings were to be attended online, agendas shared by email and e-files to be cleared on the portal. Staring at the screen all day long made the new environment stifling. To add to the uneasiness, I started hearing strange noises from the roof. As I didn’t want to alarm and sound eccentric to my new staff, I waited for it to stop. And it did! I heaved a sigh and went back to the screen. But as soon as I did, wild scampering started above my head. I gratefully realised it wasn’t the isolation playing with my head, as two screws of a ceiling light got unhinged and it drooped down. I rang the bell to announce to the staff that there’s a cat trapped in the roof. Expressions of disbelief from them made me point to the light as proof. We made a strategy to rescue the cat. A ladder was procured and a part of the ceiling panel removed. Cell-phone lights were flashed to locate the feline, but there was no movement or sight of life. I got some visitors in my isolated office, to offer solutions as word spread that there was a cat living in the roof. Since all the activity made the cat disappear, a bowl of milk was left, in the hope that it would climb down and leave for a safer place overnight. The next day, the milk was gone but the activity on the roof increased. My suggestion to leave the balcony door open for the cat to escape should it decide to climb down was met by strong opposition as monkeys could walk in. As the day went by, the bustle increased overhead and while attending an online meeting, I spotted the cat looking at me suspiciously through the opening in the roof with two kittens in tow. The AC vents were opened to help the cat lead the kittens to the corridor and down the stairs. This time round, the milk was left in the corridor. The next day, the cat and the kittens were gone. And so was my awkwardness. parneetshergill@gmail.com The writer is a Punjab-cadre IAS officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/an-awkward-encounter-at-punjab-secretariat-101625142216931.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Number of domestic passengers at Delhi airport rose three times from May to June||The number of domestic travellers at Delhi airport has increased three times between mid-May and June-end, its operator Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said on Thursday. DIAL’s statement also pointed out that the majority of the travellers fell in the ‘Visiting Family and Relatives’ (VFR) category followed by business travellers.“The Delhi airport has witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid of May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021. Similarly, the number of international travellers grew from around 4,500 per day in mid of May to nearly 7,500 per day in June end,” DIAL said in the white paper. This increase could be because of the relaxation of norms in various states.Also Read | Prominent warnings at IGI against carrying bullets soonThe month of June also saw a drop in people heading for a vacation with 48% of the travellers being in the VFR category in contrast to 41% in June 2019. In pre-Covid times, around 44% of flyers were vacationers, and that has dropped to a mere 2% this time.Mumbai, Patna, Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad, Leh, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Kolkata and J&K have emerged as the top 10 destinations from Delhi during May and June.Air passenger traffic in India rose for the fourth straight week last Monday. The average number of daily fliers rose to 114,000 for the week ended 26 June, from 108,000 fliers a week before, brokerage firm ICICI Securities said in a report.Subhendu Ray, head of Media relations at GMR group, told HT, “All the airports are witnessing this growth trend but Delhi airport’s passenger numbers are higher. This is because of the connectivity Delhi airport offers and the safety protocols adopted by the airport. People feel safe while travelling from here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/number-of-domestic-passengers-at-delhi-airport-rose-three-times-from-may-to-june-101625141976719.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Punjab no more power surplus, needs to diversify from paddy’||Patiala: Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad on Thursday denied that Punjab is a power surplus state, particularly during the peak paddy sowing season. He said the corporation had no choice but to pull the plug on industries for two days a week besides imposing shutdowns for domestic consumers, both urban and rural. Though the measures have not gone down well with farmers and consumers, the CMD said the state should look to diversify beyond water-guzzler crops such as paddy. Edited excerpts: Why is a power-surplus Punjab seeing cuts? The delay in the arrival of monsoon and the failure of the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited to produce electricity have forced us to impose restrictions. Punjab is no more power surplus, particularly during the peak season that lasts 15 days. We are short of power for paddy sowing. The demand has risen beyond expectation. Power supply from hydel stations has decreased due to low reservoir levels. How did Punjab suddenly become power deficit? Where is the problem? Punjab has a transmission system to meet the demand of around 14,000 MW, but at present the demand has gone beyond it. Power is available in the grid, but we can’t bring more than 7,500 MW from outside of state. Today, the unrestricted demand is above 15,000 MW. It’s because of the rising power load from the agriculture sector, which draws free power. As the water level has gone down, the farmers have installed higher BHP motors to draw water. This has led to significant increase of peak power demand. What is the solution? The solution is diversification. Day by day, the groundwater level is going down. We need more power to pull out the water. The Kandi and Malwa areas are worst affected. The permanent solution is that Punjab has to diversify from paddy. Otherwise, if we install motors of more capacity, it will lead to another aspect of paying fixed cost for around the year for drawing power for a limited period of a fortnight. Engineers blame the over-dependence on the private sector for the erratic supply. That’s wrong. The PSPCL shut the 800-MW Bathinda thermal plant and two units of Ropar thermal plant, while it added 800 MW power through solar net metering. Another 250 MW solar plant inside Punjab territory has been planned and a tender will be floated soon. We are planning to install a peaking station. Fixed cost is a problem, but Talwandi Sabo Power Limited has failed to deliver in the peak season. Any action against independent power producers (IPPs) ? We are going to serve a notice to the TSPL. Regarding penalty, there is no provision for penalising for supplying during the peak season. Still, I have decided to sort out this issue to ensure that in future PSPCL gets full power from power plants during peak season. When will the consumers get respite from power cuts? We are anticipating that the monsoon will arrive around July 3. With the onset of the rainy season, the demand for power will see a dip. The monsoon arrives, I’m hoping that by next week, we will be comfortable to meet the peak demand without any restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-no-more-power-surplus-needs-to-diversify-from-paddy-101625141496502.html
01-07-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh man called his village ‘mini-Pakistan’ on Facebook, arrested: Cop||BHOPAL: A Madhya Pradesh man who referred to his village as a ‘mini Pakistan’ has been arrested in Rewa district, 500 km from state capital Bhopal, police said. Abrar Khan, 32, posted his photograph on his Facebook account with a caption, “See Amreti - a Mini Pakistan”. Rewa district’s superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar Singh said on Thursday.Singh said Khan told the police during his questioning that “it was a casual remark” as neighbouring villages used to taunt his Muslim-dominated village as “a mini Pakistan”. Khan has been arrested under section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) of IPC and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, “We are also investigating the details of those who liked his post. We will issue a warning to villagers (in the neighbouring villages) not to indulge in such activities (call this village mini-Pakistan),” the district police chief said.Abrar Khan reportedly told the police that he worked in an oilfield in Oman and returned to his village during the lockdown a few months earlier. Singh said the police has seized his passport and asked the passport office to cancel the travel document.Rakesh Kumar Singh said the district’s cyber cell is investigating the case and verifying his credentials. “We will also check what exactly he used to do in Oman and who helped him find the job in Oman,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-man-called-his-village-mini-pakistan-on-facebook-arrested-cop-101625140056956.html
01-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan political turmoil: Cong candidates camp in Delhi to meet leadership||After a brief lull, the ongoing political turmoil over cabinet expansion and appointments in Rajasthan has started again. The Congress candidates, who lost assembly elections in 2018, and supporters of senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot are camping in Delhi to meet the party leadership, HT has learnt.These leaders earlier wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi about the undue influence of BSP turned Congress MLAs and independents in the state government.Party candidate from Shahpura assembly candidate, Manish Yadav said, “We will continue to camp in Delhi till we meet leaders and convey our issues.”He said AICC general secretary and in-charge Rajasthan, Ajay Maken had given time on Tuesday afternoon but it was postponed because of some meeting. All 15 candidates who wrote to Sonia Gandhi wanted to meet Maken but were asked to come as a small delegation of five.“Our rightful dues are being killed. The CM heads the government and organization is by the state party chief – both are avoiding us,” said Yadav.The workers and public who voted in 2018 aren’t being heard in the government, he added.In Rajasthan, Pilot and chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s factions have been sparring against each other for a fortnight over state cabinet expansion and political appointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-political-turmoil-cong-candidates-camp-in-delhi-to-meet-leadership-101625138486598.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Temples reopen in Himachal Pradesh amid strict Covid-19 guidelines||After more than two months, temples in Himachal Pradesh opened for devotees on Thursday.With Covid-19 cases on a decline, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet decided to reopen religious places, which were closed due to the second wave, but people were asked to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Also read: Vaccine inequities fuelling two-track pandemic, warns WHOFew devotees turned up in major temples across the state with strict guidelines being enforced at Jwalamukhi, Chamunda Nandikeshwar, Brajeshwari, Baijnath and Mahakal temples. More rush was witnessed in temples in areas bordering Punjab, such as Naina Devi in Bilaspur and Chintpurni in Una district.Omkar Vyas, a priest at the Chamunda temple, said that devotees were being allowed to pay obeisance in strict compliance with the guidelines issued by the state government. “There wasn’t much crowd today as it’s the first day. There were more devotees from outside Himachal,” he said.Jwalamukhi Temple officer Nirmal Singh said only darshan (paying obeisance) is allowed at the shrine and a record of the devotees is being maintained. No gatherings for kirtan, bhajan or jagratas are allowed yet. Masks are a must and social distancing is being maintained. “The devotees shall not touch bells, idols or railings and entry to the sanctum sanctorum and physical offerings shall remain prohibited,” he said, adding the footfall was normal on Day 1. “We are expecting a rush during the weekend when tourists head uphill,” Singh added.Priest Kapil Sharma said the reopening of temples has brought cheer to local shopkeepers for whom business had been crippled during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/temples-reopen-in-himachal-amid-strict-covid-guidelines-101625138126567.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||Motorcyclist killed, 19 injured after bus hits Fort William wall in Kolkata||A motorcyclist died and 19 others were injured when a bus hit his bike before ramming into a wall of the Fort William, headquarters of the army’s eastern command, in Kolkata on Thursday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Vivekananda Dab, 45, a constable of the Kolkata Police. “One person was killed, and some people were injured. The bus would be sent for a mechanical examination to check whether it developed any failure and what could have led to the accident,” said Kolkata Police commissioner Soumen Mitra. Bus services had resumed on Thursday, after almost one-and-half months, as Covid-19 restrictions were relaxed by the state government. Also Read | Fake vaccine case: 2 more, including fake IAS officer’s cousin, held in KolkataThe accident took place around 12noon when a minibus heading towards Howrah hit the motorcycle. The rider sustained severe injuries and was rushed the state-run SSKM hospital where he was declared brought dead. At least 19 passengers who were injured when the bus rammed into the wall were also shifted to the same hospital. There were at least 30-35 passengers in the bus. “The bus driver lost control and hit the motorcycle, crushing the rider. It then hit the guard wall. The body could only be retrieved after a crane was brought and the bus was lifted. The bus was severely damaged,” said Ayan Debnath, a passer-by. Mitra, who visited the site of the accident, said the matter was being looked into, and more details will be available after a thorough investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/motorcyclist-killed-19-injured-after-bus-hits-fort-william-wall-in-kolkata-101625137346611.html
01-07-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Poona bazaar shopping trip with an Anglo-Indian twist||Lady Constance E Gordon published the first edition of her cookbook “Anglo – Indian Cuisine (Khana Kitab)” in 1904. It took her 10 more years to publish the second edition of the cookbook. The first edition of the cookbook featured “Bazaar lists” of Poona (Camp), Bombay, and Calcutta. The second edition had another list added to it – that of Poona city. This was the only Anglo-Indian cookbook to have lists for both Poona Camp and the city.Most Europeans found the bazaars overcrowded and, because of lack of toilets, and ailments like typhoid, cholera, and malaria, they tended to avoid going out to buy groceries. The bazaars were particularly viewed as places that could contaminate food and water and where prostitution and venereal diseases were rampant. This fear was greater than another fear, that the food might be contaminated by native cooks.JK Stanford wrote in “Ladies in the Sun: The Memsahib’s India”, that “no lady should ever demean herself to visit the bazaar and buy her own food. She should leave that entirely to her native cook, for to enter and bargain in the meat or fish stall, quite apart from the smell, is bad for prestige. Nor should she ever enter their back premises, the ‘cookhouses’ in which their viands are prepared… people are satisfied if the cook produced, unwatched, edible food on a tiny charcoal fire and with a minimum of fuss.”Gordon clearly ignored this advice. She and her husband would often travel to Khandala and Mahabaleshwar on Sundays and during summer. The travelogues were often droll and recorded mishaps and quirky European characters. They would appear with some regularity in “Bombay Chronicle” and “The Times of India”. They never mentioned any recipes or her cookbook, but did mention meat, vegetables, and fruits they would find in the bazaars of the villages, towns, and cities they visited. In the write-ups, Gordon would often record the seasons in which certain fruits were available, their prices, and quality. She would note colours, textures, smells, and tastes. Her articles make one believe that she loved visiting Indian bazaars, especially those in Poona, Mahabaleshwar, and Khandala.Food supplies in the hills were more difficult to source than on the plains. Gordon believed that it was possible to have plain, but sufficient food at Mahabaleshwar and Khandala. These places had hillside estates for the cultivation of European fruits and vegetables to cater to the European population.Her articles suggest that she preferred buying vegetables from a garden twice or thrice a week to buying from the bazaar. Although the former was more expensive, Gordon wrote that eating vegetables from the bazaar was dangerous if the water used to wash the vegetables and fruits was contaminated.Gordon might have had a garden in her house in Bombay. One of her travelogues mentions how she would gift parsley, potatoes, and other fruits to her friends. She was especially proud of the “knoll khol” cultivated in her garden. She compared it with the “best quality from Poona”.According to Gordon’s list, “knolkhols”, turnips, beetroots, celery, lettuces, radishes, carrots, tomatoes, onions, green peas, French beans, artichokes, parsley, brinjals, math, chawali, fenugreek, ghole, mayaloo, chandanbatwa, and kapi-chawali were supplied to Bombay, from Poona, throughout the year. Watercress cultivated in Poona was supplied to Bombay between February and April. Bombay got its potatoes from Italy, Cawnpore, Karachi, Mahabaleshwar, and Talegaon, and some of it was brought to Poona by a few European shopkeepers.Poona also sent figs, pears, chikoos, jambhool, oranges, custard apples, ramphal, guavas, and papaya to Bombay. Gordon noted that some natives in Poona had built farms where they reared rabbits, grey pigeons, partridges, wild ducks, and quails. These were then sent to the markets in Bombay.According to Gordon, the prices in the markets of Poona were liable to more fluctuation than those of Bombay, owing to less regularity in the supply. In the season the principal articles of European consumption were generally a little dearer; if a quantity was required it should be ordered a day prior, she suggested.Gordon’s bazaar list for Poona (Camp) started with Mutton. Grain-fed Mutton, 4 lb., cost a rupee. So did 6 lb. of Saddle. A lamb cost Rs3 while the cost of Mutton Suet was 6 annas. 4 seers of prime pieces of beef cost a rupee. The “Poona Seer” was equal to 1 lb.“Prime pieces” of beef cost Re 1 for 4 lb. Hump cost 12 annas, while 8 lb. of Brisket cost a rupee. Soup meat and ox-tail were 1 anna per pound, while ox-tongue cost 4 annas. Gordon also provided prices for veal, poultry (these were available plenty in the market and included chicken, ducks, geese, country fowls, pigeons, turkey-cock, and turkey-hen), and “game meat” like quail, partridges, teal, wild duck, and hare.Gordon noted that since Poona (Camp) was chiefly dependent on Bombay for its supply of fish, whenever a quantity was desired a previous order should be given. Oysters were 6 annas per dozen. Salmon cost 6 annas per pound, while a turtle could be bought for a rupee. Bombay duck, pomfrets, prawns, phatte and murrrell were also available in Poona, “but were dearer than the markets in Bombay”.Poona (Camp) was “well stocked with various kinds of vegetables”, but “few were available throughout the year”, Gordon wrote. Many vegetables were specially cultivated all through the year to be supplied to Bombay, and if there was an extra demand from Bombay, some vegetables would not be available in Poona for a few weeks. The same was true for fruits.Gordon’s “bazaar list” for Poona city is testimony to the fact that she did not see the old cities and native bazaars as areas linked with dirt, disease, and prostitution. Her list also clearly shows the contrast between the bazaars of Poona Camp and the city. Only chicken, beef, mutton, and few varieties of fish were available in the markets of the city. Fruits and vegetables cost less than the Camp markets. A rupee could buy 13 seers of potatoes in the city, while the same cost a rupee and 2 annas in Camp. On the other hand, tea and coffee were dearer in the city markets.Lady Constance E Gordon’s cookbook has long been forgotten, but the recipes, and the “bazaar lists” help us reconstruct the charms of Poona. And the brilliant observation skills, scientific aptitude, and penmanship of Gordon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-poona-bazaar-shopping-trip-with-an-anglo-indian-twist-101625136686471.html
01-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt allots 5,400 Covaxin doses for Ranchi, Covishield to arrive soon||A day after Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta blamed the Centre for not providing the state with adequate coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccines, vaccination drive was seen to be underway in the capital Ranchi after the state government allocated 5,400 Covaxin doses for the region, news agency ANI reported.According to the in-charge of the Ranchi vaccination centre, the Covaxin doses were allotted on Wednesday and another 200 doses of the Bharat Biotech manufactured vaccine are available for July 1 and 2, the ANI report added.The in-charge noted that there probably will not be shortage of Covid-19 vaccines because Covishield doses are also expected to arrive in Ranchi soon.According to official figures, Jharkhand has been administering more than a lakh beneficiaries for the past several days, but on Tuesday, only about 50,000 people were able to receive the jabs. In fact, the vaccination campaign was not conducted at several centres across districts on both Tuesday and Wednesday, thereby reducing vaccine inoculation numbers even more.The state health department stated that only 99,920 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin were available till Tuesday evening. Nodal officer of the health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing, Siddharth Tripathi said that another 58,950 Covaxin doses arrived in the state on Wednesday evening.Gupta, accusing the Centre for the shortage of vaccine doses, said that the state intends to “scale up vaccination” to combat a possible third wave. According to schedule, Jharkhand will receive six lakh vaccine doses on July 2 and a total of 9.5 lakh by July 15.Recently, Jharkhand’s additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh wrote to the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, seeking for at least 95 per cent of vaccine doses from the Centre. In the letter, Singh also cited that the central government decreased the share of vaccination in private hospitals from 25 per cent to 5 per cent to ensure “reasonable opportunity” for all citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-govt-allots-5-400-covaxin-doses-for-ranchi-covishield-to-arrive-soon-101625135615740.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: 36 things to do after the pandemic in Bengaluru||What will you do after Covid? A very specific Bengalurean take.1. Go into Cauvery Emporium at the corner of M.G. Road and Church Street to buy some sandalwood oil. Walk-in without a mask.2.Walk down Church Street without worrying about jostling around with the other million people that are there.3. Go to Koshys and sit for hours shooting the breeze with the folks who have been coming here for decades — including naturalist M.B. Krishna, publisher Ramjee Chandran, singer Radha Thomas, actress Kirtana Kumar, historian Ramachandra Guha and the owner, Prem Koshy.4. Walk down the road to Blossoms and Gangarams to browse through the latest books. Pick up a few.5. Accompany a friend to Empire at the end of Church Street at 2 am for their chicken. I, as a vegetarian, will only smell the stuff.6. Run through Cubbon Park at dawn and smile at the other runners.7. Go to the Ritz Carlton spa for their heavenly aroma massages.8. Have a North Indian meal at Royal Afghan in ITC Windsor. Have double servings of the Dal Bukhara and their Kulchas.9. Go to Vidyarthi Bhavan for breakfast. Have a rave-vade and a masala dosa.10. Have a benne dosai (butter dosa) along with a Mangalore bajji at CTR or Central Tiffin Room now called Sri Sagar.11. Visit Natya Institute of Kathak in Malleshwaram to smell the champaka flowers on the tree right outside their studio. Walk downstairs to the Craft Council shop, Kamalini and buy handmade bags, puppets and trays.12. Walk down Gandhi Bazaar and bargain freely with the street vendors for fresh vegetables.13. Taste the freshest fruits at the markets of Malleshwaram.14. Go to KR Market at 8am and smell the fragrant mallige or jasmine that arrives in bulk to be sold to Bengaluru’s flower vendors, who fan out all over the city with fragrant strings of jasmine, champaka, tulsi and davanam.15. Stand in line outside Food Kemp in Malleshwaram for their Sunday lunch.16. Spend a couple of hours at Angadi Silks and Angadi Heritage Centre in Jayanagar. Pick up a silk saree or two from their latest collection.17. Go with friends to Byg Brewski in Hennur and sample their offerings. If you live in the other end of Bangalore, go to Red Rhino or Bier Library or Windmills Craftworks.18. Catch a Kannada play at Rangashankara or Jagriti theatres.19. Go to Lalbagh on the weekends for specialised walks offered by Ecoedu. Look for the walk about the creepers of Lalbagh.20. Take an early morning motorcycle ride with the Harley Davidson riding club. Go to Nandi Hills with them for breakfast. Then work off the calories by climbing Nandi Hills.21. On the way back, stop at the Four Seasons hotel for a champagne lunch.22. Go to the Bangalore International Centre on any evening for scintillating panel discussions and company. Have a bite at their in-house restaurant after.23. Visit any of the hoary old places of worship and Bengaluru has many. Trinity Church or Infant Jesus Church. The Bull Temple or Someshwara temple. The Jain temple of Ulsoor. The big mosque at the end of Nandidurga road.24. Visit the Mythic Society in Chamarajpet for rare books and great atmosphere.25. Sit with the music lovers of Bengaluru, either at Gayana Samaj in Basavanagudi or Chowdiah Hall in Malleshwaram. Wait for the Rama Seva Mandali concerts and nod en masse to Carnatic music.26. Take a Vayu Vajra green bus to the airport. Have a tea at Chai Point before boarding the flight.27. Have breakfast at the Oberoi. Sit in its garden and savour its omelettes.28. Go to any of Bengaluru’s lakes for bird watching: Jakkur Lake, Saul Kere, Hebbal Lake or Hesarghatta Lake.29. Drive out to Sowkya for a consultation with Dr Issac Mathai followed by an ayurvedic customised treatment.30. Book a corner room at the Conrad hotel and enjoy the views of Ulsoor Lake.31. Go to the NGMA on a weekday to enjoy the art without the crowds.32. Walk down Lavelle Road and duck into any of the shops there. End your walk with a coffee or a swim at Bangalore Club.33. Visit the Museum of Art and Photography (MAP) and ask for a tour. Walk across the road to the museum or Venkatappa Art Gallery.34. Have a pizza at Brik Oven on Church Street or Sunny’s. While you are at Sunny’s, try their baked brie or any dessert.35. Go to Olive Beach or Toast and Tonic to experience Chef Manu Chandra’s take on healthy food.36. Hug someone and don’t let go.Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-36-things-to-do-after-the-pandemic-in-bengaluru-101625136206476.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal receives 400,000 Covid jab doses; not enough, say officials||The West Bengal government, reeling under an acute shortage of vaccines, received around 400,000 doses from the centre on Wednesday even as health officials said that it was not enough to sustain the pace. The state government had to cut down on first doses of Covid-19 vaccines because of the shortage. “We received around 405,000 doses on Wednesday. Another 400,000 doses are expected by this weekend. The quantity is not enough to meet our requirement of 300,000 doses per day,” said a senior official of the state health department. Officials said the state has the capacity to administer around 500,000-600,000 vaccines per day, which can be stretched up to 700,000-800,000 doses per day, subject to availability. Also Read | Coronavirus pandemic: Will one dose of a two-dose Covid-19 vaccine protect me?The district administrations, civic bodies and state-run hospitals were directed to keep aside at least 50% of the available doses to cope with the shortage and the growing number of persons whose second dose was due. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday lashed out at the Centre, alleging that the state was being deprived of vaccines after Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda attacked the Trinamool Congress-led government, alleging that Covid-19 vaccination numbers were the lowest in the state and fake inoculation camps were being organised in the state. “Uttar Pradesh received around 35,000,000 doses, Maharashtra received more than 30,000,000 doses. Even smaller states received more doses than West Bengal. I don’t have any problem with that. But why is Bengal being deprived? We had demanded around 30,000,000 vaccines from the Centre. They try to malign Bengal,” said Banerjee, while speaking to reporters. Data available with the state government revealed that as on June 29, at least 670,000 people are due for the second dose of Covishield vaccine while another 160,000 were due for the Covaxin vaccine. The total second dose due up to July 31 is around 3,790,000. The maximum overdue number of second doses was reported from Kolkata. While the overdue number of doses for Covishield in the city was 58,428 on Tuesday, for Covaxin it was 25,021. “Till June 29, Bengal had received around 19,900,000 doses from the Centre, of which 19,800,000 were used. There was no wastage and Bengal saved around 500,000 doses. Till Wednesday, around 21,800,000 doses were administered in the state,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-receives-400-000-covid-jab-doses-not-enough-say-officials-101625134106582.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays trial against Hooda, AJL in Panchkula plot case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday stayed the trial against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Associated Journal Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper, for alleged illegal allotment of a plot in Panchkula to AJL.The high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan acted on the plea from Hooda and AJL. The detailed order is awaited. “Two petitions, one from Hooda and the second from AJL, were taken up and the order was passed, staying trial,” said Arshdeeep Singh Cheema, who appeared for the former CM. On April 16, a special CBI court had framed charges against Hooda and AJL.The trial court had acted on a CBI chargesheet filed in December 2018. The FIR was registered in 2016 during the BJP regime for the alleged offences in 2005 when the Congress leader was the chief minister.The pleas demanded stay on trial proceedings and quashing of the order on framing of charges.It has been argued that the order passed by the trial court suffered from selective reading of the material on record and cherry-picking of evidence. The trial court erred in failing to draw a distinction between an error of judgment or drawing a wrongful legal inference and dishonest or corrupt intention, it has been argued.The pleas further say that the entire case is motivated by political considerations and is an exercise for political vendetta. “It is not clear even from a compressive and critical reading of the chargesheet as to on whose complaint and how the matter came to be enquired into or registered,” the plea from former CM says. HOODA ALLOWED RE-ALLOTMENT PLOT ON OLD RATESAccording to the CBI, a 3,360 square metre institutional plot (C-17) in Sector 6, Panchkula, was allotted by Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) to AJL in 1982, but because the construction was not carried out in 10 years, it was taken back in 1992.In 1995 and 1996, an appeal and revisions were filed by AJL against the resumption of the plot, but these were also dismissed by the HUDA administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner, town and country planning.However, when Hooda became the chief minister in 2005, he allowed the re-allotment of the plot to AJL on old rates. Charges were framed under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.ED PROBE IS ALSO UNDERWAYAt the time of the registration of the FIR, late Moti Lal Vora was the chairman of AJL and Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul were among the shareholders. The newspaper was launched in 1938 by Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister.The CBI had alleged that Hooda, who was also the HUDA chairman, “blatantly misused his official position and dishonestly allotted the plot afresh in the guise of re-allotment to AJL at original rates in violation of the HUDA policy vide an order on August 28, 2005. Thus, he caused wrongful loss to HUDA and wrongful gain to AJL.”An Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe is also underway in the case. Initially, on May 5, 2016, the FIR was registered by the Haryana vigilance bureau regarding allegations of cheating and corruption against Hooda and others. In December 2016, the Haryana government recommended the CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-trial-against-hooda-ajl-in-panchkula-plot-allotment-case-101625132306146.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Digital health card may be rolled out by March 2022: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that his government’s ambitious project of a cloud-based healthcare information management system (HIMS) for Delhi residents is likely to be rolled out by March next year.“Reviewed the progress of Health Information Management System (HIMS). We are creating the most modern health information system in Delhi. Due to Covid-19, there are some delays. Hopefully, it should start by March,” Kejriwal tweeted after a review meeting on Thursday which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and health minister Satyendar Jain.Later in the day, a statement issued by Kejriwal’s office said, “He directed the officials to ensure the implementation of the HIMS project within the stipulated deadline...Along with the HIMS project, Health Helpline will also be started and special surveys will be conducted for issuing of e-health cards.Also Read | National Doctors’ Day: Delhi doctors recount the horrors of second wave“Health cards will be issued in the names of all the residents of Delhi, for which special surveys will be conducted by the government. This will ensure the availability of the benefits of the government healthcare services to every resident of Delhi,” it said.The system is also supposed to include a 24x7 call centre, or Health Helpline which will provide two levels of help — first where an operator will receive people’s calls and messages and provide them with requisite information and second, where doctors and experts will provide appointments based on the problem or immediately provide solutions for emergency cases, the statement said.The HIMS project envisages digital health cards which will essentially be a QR code-based system that will keep a record of clinical details such as health checks, follow-ups, surgeries, medications and vaccinations for each patient. The system is also supposed to include a mobile phone application as well as a 24x7 call centre to help patients with health-related information, fix consultations and other assistance, senior government officials said.In its first phase, which was supposed to be rolled out by August this year, the project is likely to cover all Delhi government hospitals and dispensaries. Central government hospitals and private hospitals are likely to be included in subsequent phases, said senior government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/digital-health-card-may-be-rolled-out-by-march-2022-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101625129665756.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's new sand policy will benefit buyers, says state minister Murugesh Nirani||Gone are the days when truckloads of sand used to be dumped on roads. In what comes as a first in the country, the Karnataka government has now planned to pack sand in bags for delivery to construction sites. The policy was announced by officials of the mines and geology department at the Vidhana Soudha, according to the Prajavani e-paper, which reported that the state government has devised this unique plan to benefit the buyers in various ways.With this new policy, the government aims to ensure accurate weighing and affordability of the sand for the people planning to build their houses. Besides, the branding of sand will also be done. The sand packed in bags will eliminate profiteering, hoarding, and speculation in the market as sand will be available at the same cost throughout the year.“Sand will be packed in waterproof bags, so they can be stored even during the monsoons when sand mining is banned," said Karnataka mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani. "The packaging of sand will give 100% value to the buyers. Till now, the sand sold in truckloads contained impurities and caused a lot of wastage. Therefore, the buyer used to get the value of only 70-80 % of the purchased sand. But these quality-checked bags of sand will not have these issues,” he affirmed.The report said the draft proposal on the new sand policy is currently being examined by a committee of experts. The government will create a nodal agency under the department of mines and geology to coordinate with processes of procurement, pricing, packing, and delivery. The special nodal agency will function along the lines of the state-owned Beverages corporation limited.“In order to identify sand blocks on river courses and beds, the Karnataka state mineral development corporation limited will conduct a survey ordered by the state government. The state government will then chalk out a plan for extraction and setting up a bagging unit. All surveys will be done using drones”, Prajavani quoted Nirani as saying.Sandbags will be made available in packages of 25 kg, 50 kg, and 100 kg. “Five plants will come up, on an experimental basis in as many places. Sand will also be grouped into three categories A, B, and C, according to the usage,” Nirani explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-new-sand-policy-will-benefit-buyers-says-state-minister-murugesh-nirani-101625127477014.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi doctors teased, attacked over Covid spread on eve of National Doctors’ Day||Two Delhi-based doctors were attacked by locals in the national capital’s Gautam Nagar area, following a heated argument over the spread of the ongoing coronavirus in the city, Delhi police said on Wednesday, according to news agency ANI. The incident happened on the eve of National Doctor’s Day, which is being celebrated in the entire country on Thursday.In a statement, Delhi Police said that one of the doctors was from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), while the second one was from Safdarjung Hospital. According to the ANI report, both the doctors were admitted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre on Thursday after sustaining several head injuries.As per police officials, the incident occurred when on Wednesday, a few doctors went to the shop of one Bhagat Singh Verma in Gautam Nagar and allegedly consumed alcohol in the shop with the shopkeeper. An argument ensued between the doctors and Verma, and thereafter both the parties commenced to assault one another, police told ANI.The report further stated that the doctors were allegedly “teased” by saying that they “spread corona”, which in turn caused a war of words between the two parties. Police said that besides the two doctors, and the shopkeeper Bhagat Singh Verma, his son Abhishek sustained injuries during the fight.However, one of the doctors Dr Satish said that a parantha seller began abusing after which an argument ensued, and “he slapped” the former. “We got into a brawl and around 30 people came with iron rods. If police say we had consumed alcohol, ask them for evidence,” the doctor told ANI.“The statements of both the parties are being recorded and legal action will be taken accordingly,” police was quoted as saying by ANI.Incidents of assault on doctors over either the fear of coronavirus or after the death of a patient due to the virus have been abundant since the pandemic hit the country in March last year.In a recent case, Dr Seuj Kumar Senapati, who was posted at Udali CCC in Hojai district of Assam was assaulted by almost 20 relatives, including women, of a patient who succumbed to Covid-19 during treatment.The assault, recorded presumably on a mobile phone, showed Dr Senapati being hit with a broom, utensils and also kicked while laying on the ground. The video that went viral triggered sharp criticism, and Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma even tweeted that such “barbaric attack” won’t be tolerated. Later, special director general of police, GP Singh said three people were held.Meanwhile, in a recent data by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), it was revealed that as many as 798 doctors lost their lives in the second Covid-19 wave so far, up from 748 recorded during the first wave of the pandemic. With 128 doctors succumbing to the virus, Delhi recorded the highest number of deaths, followed by Bihar at 115 and Uttar Pradesh at 79.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-doctors-teased-attacked-over-covid-spread-on-eve-of-national-doctors-day-101625127369849.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab pulls plug on power for industrial consumers, imposes two-day shutdown||Unable to meet the rising demand for power despite imposing cuts in the domestic sector, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Thursday decided to impose two-day weekly offs for industrial consumers, barring those providing essential services, with immediate effect.The two-day weekly off for industrial consumers from 4pm on Thursday to Saturday is being imposed after nine years.Also read: HT Explainer: The monsoon is on a break. What does it mean?Switch off ACs, govt officers urged The PSPCL has appealed to government and public sector offices to restrict the use of air conditioners for the next three days to help the state tide over the shortage.Punjab, which is touted to be power-surplus, is banking on the arrival of the monsoon as the meteorological department has forecast rainfall from July 3.For the past 10 days, the PSPCL has been imposing long power cuts in the rural areas. The urban population has been reeling under power cuts for the past four days.Paddy sowing hit, farmers protest The agriculture sector is worst hit as it is not getting the eight-hour supply for sowing of paddy. Due to the prolonged dry spell, paddy transplantation in the state has been affected.Due to the delayed monsoon, the state is not able to meet the demand of 14,500 MW. Farmers continue to protest the short supply of agricultural feeders as Punjab has been maintaining a power supply between 11,791 MW to 12,842 MW after restricting the power supply to rural consumers, agriculture pump sets, and unannounced cuts in cities.Gap of 1,330 MW between demand and supply On Wednesday, the power demand in Punjab touched 14,142 MW, while the state supplied a maximum of 12,842 MW. There is a gap of about 1,330 MW between demand and supply, according to the report of the Northern Grid. The power shortage during evening peak hours is 2,100 MW with a supply of 12,380 MW.The PSPSL supplied 2,979 lakh units to the state on Wednesday and there was a shortage of at least 251 lakh units. On Tuesday, there was a shortage of 1,550 MW and 132 lakh units of power supply.State dependent on private thermal plants The thermal power generation in the state is 1,000 lakh units, comprising 325 lakh units by state sector thermal plants and 675 lakh units by the private sector. There is a breakdown in one of the units at the Ropar plant, while a 660-MW unit at the Talwandi Sabo plant has been out of operation since March 8.Hydel supply to the state is 223 lakh units of which the Bhakra dam project supplies about 75 lakh units.“Punjab can import a maximum of 7,300 MW from the northern grid. The state has its own generation of about 5,500 MW from all sources, including solar during the day. This implies under present circumstances, it can supply around 12,700 MW,” said a PSPCL management official. He said that overdependence on the private sector has dented the image of the PSPCL and drawn the wrath of consumers.We have our limitations, says PSPCL PSPCL director, distribution, DPS Grewal said the shortage is owing to the failure of a unit at Talwandi Sabo thermal plant in Bathinda district. “The PSPCL is finding it difficult to meet the demand of more than 14,500MW. The corporation is committed to providing uninterrupted power to all categories of consumers but we have our limitations. Thus, some restrictions have been imposed”, he said.“In view of the unprecedented situation, I appeal to all officials in government departments, boards and corporations to make judicious use of electricity in their offices and business centres by switching off lights, devices and appliances when not required and switching off high power consuming appliances such as air conditioners for the next three days,” Grewal said.PSEB Engineers Association president Jasvir Singh Dhiman has blamed the PSPCL management for the failure to make arrangements for the peak season. “Overdependence on the private sector and ignoring the advice of technocrats besides not having a regular chairperson and managing director (CMD) have led to this situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unable-to-meet-demand-pspcl-wants-punjab-to-switch-off-acs-101625127146803.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: At least 12 injured after bus crashes into Fort William wall||At least 12 people were left injured in a road accident at Kolkata's Fort William area on Thursday, HT Bangla reported. The incident occurred when a minibus en route from Metiabruz to Howrah crashed into a brick wall near Hastings, according to the report. Although no deaths have yet been confirmed in the accident, it was reported that a motorcyclist was recovered in a critical condition from under the bus.The twelve people who were left injured in the incident are receiving medical attention. Eyewitnesses present at the site told HT Bangla that the bus had lost control upon the Red Road, following which it first collided with the said motorcycle and later crashed into the railing adjoining the wall of the British era-fort along the bank of the river Ganges.As soon as news of the Fort William accident spread, police forces rushed to the site. As many as three cranes were brought to aid rescue efforts. The motorcyclist, who was recovered from under the bus, has been taken to the SSKM hospital in the city for treatment.More details to follow soon...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-at-least-12-injured-after-bus-crashes-into-fort-william-wall-101625125561856.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Gulshan Kumar murder: HC upholds life term to convict Abdul Rauf Daood Merchant||The Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed the appeal filed by fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s henchman Abdul Rauf Daood Merchant challenging his conviction and the life term handed down to him in connection with August 1997 murder of T-Series founder and Hindi film producer Gulshan Kumar. A division bench of justices Sadhana Jadhav and Amit Borkar also reversed the acquittal of Abdul Rashid Daood Merchant and sentenced him to life imprisonment in the same case on charges of conspiracy and murder. The bench directed Abdul Rashid to surrender either before the trial court or before the DN Nagar police station where FIR was registered in connection with the murder. He has also been directed to surrender his passport immediately to the police.The high court directed the trial court to issue a non-bailable warrant and secure Abdul Rashid’s presence for serving the life term.Also Read | CJI yet to approve new rules: Bar Council of India to Kerala HCThe court, however, upheld the acquittal of Kumar’s business rival, Ramesh Taurani, who too was prosecuted for being a part of the conspiracy.Kumar was killed on August 19, 1997, at Juhu. Three assailants pumped 16 bullets in him, killing him on the spot.In all, 19 persons were arrested in connection with the murder. On April 29, 2002, the Mumbai sessions court acquitted all but Abdul Rauf, and sentenced him to life imprisonment.Rauf was absconding for a long time after the murder and was arrested in 2001. In March 2009, he again jumped parole and went to Bangladesh. He was arrested in the neighbouring country at the behest of Indian authorities and was brought back in November 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gulshan-kumar-murder-hc-upholds-life-term-to-convict-abdul-rauf-daood-merchant-101625121565097.html
01-07-2021||Other||5-year-old girl allegedly raped, murdered in Dehradun||A neighbour allegedly raped and murdered a five-year-old girl in Dehradun on Wednesday night, police said. Ritesh Shah, a local police officer and one of the investigators, said the accused, Chunmun Mahato, 25, who is from Bihar and worked as a labourer in Dehradun, knew the girl.“Usually, the girl would go out in the morning to play. On Tuesday also, she went out to play but did not return home till evening...her mother and brother lodged a missing complaint... on Tuesday night. A case was registered, and police started searching her,” he said. He added they soon found the girl was last seen with Mahato. “Based on the input, we also examined the CCTV cameras of the areas in which he was seen with the girl. Police soon nabbed him and questioned him... he broke down and confessed to the crime.”Shah said Mahato later led them to an area full of bushes where he dumped her body. He added the accused was arrested on Wednesday and he was due to be presented before a court on Thursday.Shah said the girl’s mother works as a housemaid while her father, a labourer, was away in Chandigarh when the five-year-old went missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5yearold-girl-raped-and-murdered-in-dehradun-101625119285107.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||National Doctors’ Day: Delhi doctors recount the horrors of second wave||The second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic left even the most experienced doctors in tears as shortage of beds, medicines, and oxygen forced them to take a call on whom to save. On National Doctors’ Day, celebrated each year on July 1 to commemorate the birth and death anniversary of great physician Dr BC Roy, HT shares the experiences of doctors from city’s emergency and critical care teams who treated the most severe Covid-19 patients. So far, 798 doctors have died in the second wave of the pandemic, according to the registry by the Indian Medical Association, shooting past the toll of 748 recorded during the first wave. “Papa ghar ajayenge na?” Dr Ritesh Aggarwal, principal consultant of critical care at Max Hospital, SaketFor Dr Aggarwal, the most prominent story during the second wave of the pandemic is that of two young girls. He recounts a day in April when a woman in her early 30s with a six or seven-year-old girl walked up to him in the hospital. “We have been briefing the families of the patients on the phone so I did not know them; they saw my name and came to speak to me. I realised that they were the wife and daughter of one of my young patients – a 33-year-old engineer. Just as I was about to leave, the girl said ‘papa ghar aa jayenge na? Mere friend ke papa ghar nahi aye. (Will my father come home? My friend’s father did not.)’ I did not know what to say; why should young children have to deal with loss and death?” The other young girl was his six-year-old daughter who would usually complain about him not playing with her after work. “One day she came to me and said first you finish Covid and then we can play. My wife told me that she has been saying that papa should treat more Covid-19 patients after their class found out that their teacher died of Covid-19,” said Dr Aggarwal. He took his daughter’s advice seriously. When asked how he managed the emotional fallout of so many deaths and the sagging morale of team members, he said, “The best thing for me was to work hard. I knew there will be misses, I just tried to stay professional. As for my team, I led from the front. Whenever I saw the morale sagging, I would go into the ward and work with the team---put in a few extra hours, take some load off the team,” he said. However, working through the pandemic and having his phone buzz a few times every night during the second wave meant not much time for exercise in the morning. “It has definitely taken a toll on me. I have put on weight, my blood pressure has shot up, my lipid and renal parameters are haywire.” “We did not have time to cry, we kept working like zombies.” Dr Ritu Saxena, head of the emergency department at Lok Nayak Hospital For Dr Saxena, the city’s biggest Covid-19 treatment centre Lok Nayak Hospital, it was the death of a colleague’s wife that hit the hardest. “When one of our own doctors came to the hospital emergency department, we realised that his wife’s oxygen saturation was also low. But they had a nine-year-old son, so she decided to go home and wait for her family to come before getting admitted to the hospital. She was admitted a day later with just 84% saturation, she died the next day in front of her husband who was in the same ward,” said Dr Saxena. The second wave of the pandemic, she said, was like war. “The hospital was full; sometimes we had four patients sitting on one bed taking oxygen from a large cylinder because we had run out of oxygen ports. We had to triage; we had to take in patients whom we knew would have a better chance of survival. We were taking in younger patients,” she said. “When the oxygen crisis hit and we were asked not to take in any more patients, my doctors went outside the hospital gate without their coats and I took a round in my car to see whether there were sick patients we could help; we took patients in,” she added. Along with a gruelling day in the emergency department, she was also tasked with ensuring that all the bodies were disposed of on time. She recalled a day when there were nearly 100 bodies at the hospital and she kept dispatching ambulances throughout the day. “I had deputed 20 ambulances, yet I kept getting calls for more. That night, I dreamed of having to carry the dead in my car.” She said she had never faced a situation like the second wave of Covid-19 despite Lok Nayak being a high volume centre.And amid the entire crisis, there was no time to process grief. “We lost family members, we couldn’t even cry. We did not have the time. We just kept working like zombies,” she said. “We never thought there could be oxygen shortage.” Dr Rahul Kumar, associate consultant of the critical care department at Sir Ganga Ram hospital What he remembers about the second wave is the sheer number of patients. “The biggest problem – and I think this was true for all hospitals – was the huge number of patients and they were coming in when they were really sick. Patients who needed ICU care had to be admitted outside the ICU with non-invasive ventilators. We had to triage based on who was likely to survive and who wasn’t. There was staff crunch because people started testing positive. There was a shortage of beds, medicines, and even oxygen,” said Dr Kumar. He had never seen medicines or oxygen running out, he said. “Never in my life have I seen oxygen shortage; no one even thought such a shortage could arise. We had to plan for eventualities of oxygen running out, we had to have staff and oxygen cylinders on standby to take over if there is a dip in oxygen pressure,” he said. For him, the deaths of young doctors were the hardest. “There were young doctors admitted from other hospitals and seeing them die despite doing the best we could was hard. There were also these two pregnant Covid-19 patients under my care. One of the mothers survived after two months in the hospital; the other died. Both were young. The most difficult part is to tell their families, especially when a patient is young.” “After our shift, we were consulting patients over the phone or looking for medicines, oxygen for family members. It was traumatic.” Dr Abhijit Kumar, senior resident of anaesthesiology at Safdarjung Hospital Despite being a high volume centre, he said he had never seen such long queues outside Safdarjung Hospital. There were queues of ambulances waiting to bring in patients, he said. “The number of cases just shot up suddenly within a short duration. Preparations were made but none of us had expected the numbers that we received. The ICUs were full, there was a huge waiting list. There were patients in the wards who needed ICU care but we weren’t able to take them in. In a government hospital, we cannot really do triage at admission but we were trying to focus on younger, healthier patients who were more likely to survive,” said Dr Kumar. He remembers the four or five nights at the peak of cases in April when his phone kept buzzing incessantly. “It was friends, family, people I know asking for beds. But I knew the situation at our hospital and the others nearby. There just weren’t enough beds. It was traumatic emotionally for the doctors. Knowing that a patient needs care and having to refuse them. Knowing that if we left patients on their feet, they were likely to not survive,” he said. He said in a bid to help, he was working 24*7 even from home. “I would schedule consultations after work or try to find beds, oxygen for family members.” It was the hardest for him when despite putting in his best efforts when his friend’s father succumbed. “It was shattering for me to see him (school mate) deteriorate day by day despite my best efforts.” Dr Amit Kohli, intensive care specialist at Lok Nayak Hospital Dr Kohli, who was also dealing with the devastating second wave, had his school friend admitted in his ward and his father at another hospital at the same time. “One of my school mates – someone I grew up with, studied with for several years with, shared so many memories with – was admitted to my own ICU. I used to go up to him before my shift and talk a little. We would stay in touch on WhatsApp. It was shattering for me to see deteriorate day by day inspite of me doing my best. He died after 12 days,” said Dr Kohli. His father has recovered since and has come home. He still continues to need some oxygen from time to time. “Denying family members a bed or telling patients that some medicine or therapy would not work because it was too late was the hardest part,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/national-doctors-day-delhi-doctors-recount-the-horrors-of-second-wave-101625118625085.html
01-07-2021||Other||Weekend restrictions imposed in Pahalgam as tourist numbers surge||The Anantnag administration has imposed weekend restrictions in Pahalgam, a famous hill station of Jammu-Kashmir, amid reports of Covid-19 guideline violation by tourists.Deputy Commissioner Anantnag on Wednesday issued the order following complaints that a large number of people visits the tourist spot on weekends which could lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases.Also Read | India logs 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72%“To prevent Covid resurgence/damage to ecosystem of Pahalgam, certain restrictions put in place. No day picnicking allowed & confirmed hotel booking must, for weekends. No cooking/tent pitching at random places Violators of CAB to be fined,” tweeted deputy commissioner Dr Piyush Singla.The Union Territory on Wednesday recorded 364 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven deaths. The recovery rate has reached 97.17 % and the total tally is at 315,662 with the death toll at 4,323.Pahalgam that is part of Anantnag has 26 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weekend-restrictions-imposed-in-pahalgam-as-tourist-numbers-surge-101625118205056.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Gulshan Kumar murder case: Bombay HC upholds conviction of Dawood aide Abdul Rauf||The Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed an appeal filed by Abdul Rauf, an aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim, challenging his conviction and life term handed to him for the murder of T-Series founder Gulshan Kumar. The court upheld Rauf's conviction and life sentence handed to him, and also convicted him murder and conspiracy in the case.Taking due note of Abdul Rauf's criminal background and his continued criminal activities and the fact that he was absconding for a considerable period after the murder, the high court clarified that he will not be entitled to any remission in his prison term.The high court, meanwhile, upheld acquittal of Gulshan Kumar's business rival, Ramesh Taurani.Music mogul Gulshan Kumar, the owner of T-Series, was shot dead while coming out of a temple at Jeet Nagar in Juhu on August 12, 1997. Three assailants shot Kumar with 16 bullets, killing him on the spot. Underworld gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s aide, Abdul Rauf alias Dawood Merchant, was convicted in his murder and sentenced to life in prison in 2002.Mumbai police had filed a 400-page charge sheet containing the names of 26 accused. Music composer Nadeem Akhtar Saifee was declared a co-conspirator in the case a few days after Kumar’s death. Ramesh Taurani, owner of Tips cassettes, was arrested for abetting his murder. Saifee has however remained in the United Kingdom since the murder.Merchant while on parole in 2009, granted by the Bombay high court, fled India for Bangladesh. He was arrested in Bangladesh after he entered the country without any valid documents, and given a five-year prison term. After the completion of his first sentence he was arrested again in December 2014 over possible terror links. After this he was handed over to Indian authorities by the Bangladeshi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gulshan-kumar-murder-case-bombay-hc-upholds-conviction-of-dawood-aide-abdul-rauf-101625116929490.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive suspended at over 300 centres in Mumbai today||Vaccination drive will remain suspended across 281 civic-run centres and 20 government- run centres in Mumbai on Thursday due to shortage of stocks, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).However, it will continue as per the schedule at 98 private vaccination centres across the city.In a tweet, the BMC said, “Dear Mumbaikars, Please note that all BMC and government vaccination centres will remain closed tomorrow (July 1, 2021). We apologise for the inconvenience. Please watch this space for updates regarding vaccination centres and schedules.”This is the first time in over a month when the vaccination drive has been suspended owing to shortage of vaccine doses. Earlier, in the month of April and May, vaccination drive was frequently suspended due to the same. As the supply improved in June for both civic run centres and private hospitals, more than two million citizens were vaccinated against Covid-19 across Mumbai in June, a huge jump from May’s figure of 821,900, data revealed.Started on January 16, the drive has, as of June 30, seen 5,435,731 citizens vaccinated. According to the BMC, 2.8 million citizens have been vaccinated in civic hospitals, followed by 2.2 million in private hospitals and over 0.3 million got the jab in state and Central government-run vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-suspended-at-over-300-centres-in-mumbai-today-101625113825193.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||'No differences in their friendship': Congress backs Shiv Sena over Uddhav Thackeray’s solo meeting with PM Modi||Congress cabinet minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Aslam Shaikh, backed Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s comments on a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Shaikh insisted that in spite of not being in an alliance together, Thackeray and PM Modi continue to be good friends."I do not understand what is wrong with this comment. Why does the media always speak like this in all non-BJP states? If a chief minister has a good relationship with the Prime Minister, then there is nothing wrong with it,” news agency ANI reported, quoting Shaikh“The chief minister had 20 years of alliance with the BJP. They may be separate today but there are no differences in their friendship," Shaikh further said while interacting with the reporters on Wednesday.Also Read: Shiv Sena claims misuse of CBI, ED; questions why no probe in Ayodhya land dealRaut had defended Thackeray’s meeting with the Prime Minister, which took place on June 8 at the latter’s official residence, stating that they meet to discuss the "prevailing political situation"."Two big leaders of the alliance - the chief minister and the main guiding force behind the government - met," Raut had told reporters, adding that it is no way an indication of a thawing relationship between the Sena and its erstwhile coalition partner.Both Raut and Shaikh emphasised on the good relation the Prime Minister and chief minister has always shared, insisting it would lead to more development of the state."All would want that they should have good relations with the Prime Minister to have better coordination with the Centre for the development of the state. Our ideology could be different politically but it does not mean we cannot have good relations personally," added Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-differences-in-their-friendship-congress-backs-shiv-sena-over-uddhav-thackeray-s-solo-meeting-with-pm-modi-101625113494776.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||Seventh man arrested in fake vaccination racket in Kolkata||A man, who rented out his office space to the mastermind of the fake vaccination racket in Kolkata, was arrested by sleuths of the Special Investigation Team on Wednesday night. “The man Ashok Kumar Roy, in his 50s, not only rented out his office space in south Kolkata to Debanjan Deb, but also got at least 50 of his relatives and friends to get the fake vaccine,” said a senior police officer, adding that Roy knew about the racket. Last week, Kolkata Police had busted a racket allegedly run by Deb, 28, who was masquerading as a bureaucrat. Over 800 people, including Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mimi Chakraborty, were duped into taking the fake vaccines. Police suspect they were injected with Amikacin, an antibiotic. Police had earlier arrested six persons, including Deb. Also Read | BJP takes a jibe at West Bengal govt for planning to lease aircraftThe Centre has sought a report from the West Bengal government by Thursday on the fake vaccination racket even as the Calcutta high court directed the state government to file an affidavit by Friday. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have alleged Deb shared close links with TMC leaders, including ministers, after their pictures together surfaced. TMC leaders have rubbished the charges. “It was an isolated case. The state government was not associated with this. Strong actions have been taken the moment we received complaints. The health department is in touch with the victims. We will vaccinate all of them,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister, had said at the state secretariat on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/seventh-man-arrested-in-fake-vaccination-racket-in-kolkata-101625113405242.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: More relaxations in place from today in West Bengal||Public transport would be partially resuming in West Bengal from Thursday with the Mamata Banerjee administration further relaxing Covid-19 restrictions. The state government has extended the Covid-19 restrictions till July 15 while allowing buses to ply with 50% capacity and relaxing restrictions further for shops and offices. “The government has allowed government and private buses to run with 50% seating capacity along with other modes of public transport, such as auto-rickshaws, cabs, trams and inland waterways. Local trains and Kolkata Metro would, however, continue to remain suspended,” said an official. Gyms, beauty parlours and salons will also resume operations from Thursday. While salons and beauty parlours would remain open from 11am to 6pm with 50% capacity, gyms may remain open in two shifts from 6am to 10am and again from 4pm to 8pm. Also Read | BJP takes a jibe at West Bengal govt for planning to lease aircraftPrivate offices have also been allowed to operate with 50% workforce. Earlier, the state government had allowed them to operate with 20% workforce. Government offices are operating with 25% workforce. More relaxations have been given to local markets, allowing them to remain open from 6am to 12pm. All other shops may remain open from 11am to 8pm, said a government official. The state government had imposed several restrictions from May 16, when the daily count of Covid-19 cases had crossed the 20,000 mark. After around one-and-a-half months of restrictions, West Bengal reported less than 1,500 new cases on June 30. “When the assembly elections had started (on March 27), the positivity rate was around 3%. We had requested the Election Commission of India to club the last few phases. But our requests were not heard. When the polls came to an end on April 29, the positivity rate had shot up to more than 32%. We have been able to bring it down to around 3% now,” Mamata Banerjee, the chief minister, had said while speaking to the media earlier this week. The state government has already allowed restaurants and shopping malls to reopen with a cap on the number of customers. Banks have also been allowed to remain open from 10am to 2pm. Schools and colleges continue to remain shut. “The ban on night time activities from 9pm to 5am will continue. Relaxations have been allowed to see how things go. We would take a call depending on the situation,” said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-more-relaxations-in-place-from-today-in-west-bengal-101625111184834.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Doctors look back at the past for a better future||Since Covid-19 struck, the medical fraternity has been at the forefront of the battle, despite the challenges. From dealing with physical, mental and emotional pressures and fear of transmitting the virus to their families to never-ending shifts and adapting to digital consultations — all this while coping with personal losses, health care warriors went beyond the call of duty. On National Doctors’ Day, a few recall what the year taught them and what’s in store for 2021.Dr Rajeev K Sharma “In Covid-19 times, one thing we learnt was that we could forget that one is an orthopaedic surgeon or a cardiologist — all of us worked as doctors. We tried to advise our patients, friends and the community about how to protect themselves. The patients who had undergone operations, we checked in with them via calls and messages. The other challenge was delay in surgeries for those being admitted for elective surgeries like joint replacement as some of them had Covid-19 symptoms or were RT-PCR positive. And the chances of complications in such patients are plenty. I also feel that e-consultations should become a part of our life. And I think that, we need to stay prepared for the third wave. Social distancing and frequent hand washing should remain a part of our lives. Also, everybody should get vaccination,” shares Dr Rajeev K Sharma, chairman, Institute of Orthopaedics, Moolchand Medcity.Dr Anupam Sibal“The pandemic showed us how fragile our existence can be. It taught us to value our health. An annual health check is non-negotiable, and lifestyle changes need to be made. Another lesson was getting the work-life balance right. From the age of 18 till 24 (or 27 or 30 depending on training), doctors’ lives have been about studying and hospital duties. After that, it has been about patient care and updating knowledge. Finding time for other pursuits was never a priority. Nearly 1,500 doctors have sacrificed their lives fighting the pandemic. Their loved ones would have wanted them to spend time with their families, participating in what would be routine for most but is a luxury for doctors – anniversaries, birthdays, get-togethers. Another lesson was practising gratitude. One realised, more than ever before, the privilege we have of bringing back a smile and lending a shoulder. This pandemic also taught us humility and showed how little we have in our control. I learnt so much from not just medical staff but house keeping staff and technicians, who thought of new ideas to utilise resources, putting the goal of saving lives above all,” says Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director and senior paediatrician, Apollo Hospitals Group.Dr Manish Kulshrestha “Last year, everything was new and no one was ready. I’d say the country’s entire healthcare system crashed. Healthcare professionals were burnt out. We were scared for our families. Surgeries were exhausting — we could not breathe well, there was a lot of sweating in PPE kits and face shields would get fogged. Tele-consultation was a new thing for us. We were glad to get vaccinated and thought the pandemic would end but then the virus mutated. I got infected, too, but symptoms were mild due to the jab. We overcame this together... Hospitals also conducted mental health sessions. The vaccine now gives us some hope. But we must not be complacent,” says Dr Manish Kulshrestha, general and laparoscopic surgeon, Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.Dr Deepak Gupta“Fighting disease and death, this is what medical professionals go through, and SARS-CoV-2 was an onerous challenge. Late night online consultations , emergency treatment and wearing PPE suits for long hours was very challenging, but as doctors we have a duty to work regardless of the circumstances. When there was a shortage of beds and oxygen, I gave the patients the right medication and counselling to do their best at home. And I am happy to say that despite many cases in my area, there was no casualty. In our hospital, too, as I deal with tuberculosis patients, there were many patients who had Covid-19 themselves or a family member did. I counselled them with the right advice and there is no casualty amongst them, too. And I personally believe that with the right medications, precautions, care and trust, we can easily overcome Covid-19,” says Dr Deepak Gupta, who is a medical consultant at Safdarjung Hospital.Dr Rashmi Sharma“In the first wave, we lost a lot of doctors, para medical and medical staff. This time, too, there were challenges, but damage was a little less as many health professionals had been vaccinated. But the pandemic brought into notice the poor condition of health infrastructure. Even after putting in so much dedication, extended work hours, and putting own lives at risk, the blame comes on medical and para medical staff, who remain underpaid. Patients are losing faith in medical professionals, which is followed by violence against doctors in the form of assaults and threats. All of this leads to a defensive attitude. There needs to be stricter laws in place,” shares Dr Rashmi Sharma, director, Origyn Fertility and IVF, New Delhi, and joint editor, Indian Fertility Society.Young warrior on duty“The year gone by has been difficult and to start my internship during the peak of the pandemic was almost like trial by fire. Due to the immense number of cases, we did Covid-19 duties. We came face-to-face with human misery and also witnessed people give their all to come out of it and frantically arrange for resources amid the panic. So, at a very young stage of our careers, we were filled with sorrow, seeing first-hand many patients die in front of our eyes and breaking the news to the anxious relatives. The next few months also seem to be very challenging since it has been reported that the virus is mutating and is at times also able to evade the immunity provided by the Covid-19 vaccination. I hope our system is able to ramp up the facilities so that we don’t face similar problems of shortages like we did in the second wave. The healthcare workers have worked relentlessly to save the lives of patients, so we as young doctors will draw inspiration from the healthcare workers around us, and also work our hardest in any time of crisis or challenge,” says Dr Noor Dhaliwal, currently an intern at Lok Nayak Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doctors-look-back-at-the-past-for-a-better-future-101625111020475.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||First batch of UP’s special jamun exported to London||A special variety of the Indian blackberry (jamun) developed by the Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, (CISH), Lucknow, has been exported to London. “It’s a big breakthrough. Jamwant,a special variety of black plum, with more than 90% flesh, that was produced by farmers in Bithoor, Kanpur was exported to London. It’s perhaps its medicinal properties that made it popular in the European market where it is categorised as exotic,” said CISH director, Shailendra Rajan. Rajan said the first batch of the fruit was sent in the first week of June by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (​APEDA). According to Dr CB Singh, AGM of APEDA, UP jamun holds a lot of export potential, just like mango. CISH officials said jamun has anti-diabetic properties. It contains high level of vitamin C and antioxidants, as well as bioactive compounds beneficial for human health. The bioactive compounds help in the improvement of heart health, digestion and gum health. Due to its numerous health benefits, some enthusiasts enjoy the pulp and then grind the seeds to consume the powder as asupplement. At the start of the season, jamun is the most expensive indigenous fruit on the market and sells for as much as ₹300 per kilogramme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/first-batch-of-up-s-special-jamun-exported-to-london-101625109864529.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab allows bars, pubs to open from today: Check full list of guidelines here||The Punjab government has extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the state till July 10 but announced some relaxations in the state from Thursday. As per the latest unlock guidelines, the bars and pubs will remain open at 50 per cent capacity beginning from Thursday.“With the cases of Delta Plus variant coming to light, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered extension of Covid restrictions till July 10, with certain more relaxations, including opening of bars, pubs and ‘ahatas’ at 50% capacity, beginning July 1,” the Punjab CMO has said in a statement.With 262 fresh cases, Punjab's Covid-19 tally climbed to 5,95,609 on Wednesday, while 15 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 16,052 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases has dropped to 3,134, the bulletin said.Here are the fresh guidelines from the Punjab government:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-allows-bars-pubs-to-open-from-today-check-full-list-of-guidelines-here-101625107538805.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||BJP takes a jibe at West Bengal govt for planning to lease aircraft||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday took a jibe at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal for floating a tender to lease a 10-seater plane on lease. On June 11, the West Bengal Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd floated an e-tender for wet-leasing a fixed-wing, twin-engine aircraft for three years. The aircraft should be air-conditioned and capable of night operation, said the tender notice, adding that the plane would be used by VIPs. The tender said the plane should be able to operate in any part of the country and be a super mid-sized aircraft equivalent to the Falcon 2000 or similar models. The aircraft would fly for at least 45 hours a month, the notice said.Also Read | West Bengal Covid-19: More relaxations in place from todayMocking the TMC, Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, wrote a tweet saying the aircraft was being hired at public expense to campaign for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Without naming chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Adhikari said a Pushpak Rath (the mythological flying chariot) was being procured for a “self-proclaimed Prime Minister.” “Pushpak Rath for (self proclaimed) PM??? Dissatisfied with helicopter’s range, process of acquiring a 10 seater Airplane has been initiated. Convenient for whimsical criss-crossing of the entire country for upcoming Loksava poll campaigning? On Govt expenses?” tweeted Adhikari. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “The government already has a helicopter. Why does it need an aircraft when there are only three operational airports in the state? This is wastage of public money.” TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “Many states in India have more than one plane. Adhikari should be aware that before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls Narendra Modi used the Gujarat government’s plane to fly between different states for carrying out campaigns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-takes-a-jibe-at-west-bengal-govt-for-planning-to-lease-aircraft-101625108544467.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Heatwave to continue, says IMD||Delhi is likely to continue witnessing a heatwave on Thursday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. On Wednesday, the national capital recorded the highest temperature of this season at 43.5 degrees Celsius and witnessed a heatwave.According to IMD, in the plains, heatwave days are those when the maximum temperature crosses 40 degrees Celsius, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees Celsius. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5 degrees Celsius or above from normal temperatures. Also Read | Weather inversion in Delhi: Hot, dry wind in time of rainThe minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be at 29 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 41 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 28 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 265.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are high and West South-westerly and forecasted to stay high for the next 48 hours. Dust long-range transport from dry arid regions and local emissions are expected to increase in the coming days. Although high ventilation is favourable for dispersion, AQI is likely to deteriorate and touch the Poor category by tomorrow. Poor to the high end of the Moderate category is forecasted on July 2 and 3. Dust (PM10) will be the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-heatwave-to-continue-says-imd-101625107944439.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal Covid-19: More relaxations in place from today||The West Bengal government has extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the state till July 15 with effect from Thursday. However, certain relaxations have been allowed in the state.While addressing media, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Monday, "Covid-19 restrictions will remain in effect till July 15."West Bengal imposed the lockdown restrictions in the state due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic from May 16 this year. These restrictions were again extended till June 15 and then again till July 1. Now, the restrictions have been extended till July 15.Here are the latest guidelines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-covid-19-more-relaxations-in-place-from-today-101625105756008.html
01-07-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru's 'Namma Metro' resumes operation from today: Check guidelines||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) will start its metro services from Thursday. The 'Namma Metro', as it is known in Bengaluru, will be available from 7am to 6pm.The frequency of the metro trains will be five minutes in peak hours and 15 minutes in non-peak hours, according to BMRCL. The trains will run from Monday to Friday, and honour the weekend curfew, it further added.The BMRCL also said that the frequency of the train could be increased or decreased depending on the patronage.For the services starting today, the BMRCL has also decided to introduce smart tokens for undertaking single journeys in addition to smart cards. It will encourage the commuters to go for cashless transactions for top-ups and purchasing the smart tokens and cards. This will help check the spread of Covid-19, the BMRCL said.The Bengaluru metro was meant to start on June 21 in two time slots - from 7am to 11am and 3pm to 6pm. It is restarting from today after the Karnataka government relaxed Covid-19 restrictions in the state due to decline in coronavirus disease cases in the past few weeks.Here are the guidelines put in place for metro travel beginning today:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengalurus-namma-metro-resumes-operation-from-today-check-guidelines-101625101371856.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Four members of family die in LPG cylinder blast||A 45-year-old woman and her three grown children — two sons and a daughter — died of suffocation when an LPG (liquid petroleum gas) cylinder exploded inside their house in East Delhi’s Farsh Bazar on Wednesday morning.Atul Garg, director of the Delhi Fire Services, said nine fire tenders took about an hour to douse the fire caused by the explosion.“We rushed five people to the hospital. Of them, four were declared brought dead. They died of asphyxia. One of the family members suffered burn injuries.”Fire officials identified the four dead as Munni Devi, 45, her sons — Naresh, 22, Om Prakash, 20, and daughter, Suman, 18. Officials said the survivor, One of their relatives, Lal Chand (29) sustained 25% burn injuries.A portion of the roof had collapsed due to the explosion, the fire, officials said, adding that a gas stove repair shop was located in the front portion of the house. “All five members were rescued by fire service personnel with the help of police by breaking windows and doors of the house. They were then shifted to Dr Hedgewar Hospital by CATS ambulance. Four among them were declared brought dead by doctors,” said R Sathiyasundaram, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara).A crime team was called to the spot for an inspection, the officer said. He added that an electrical short-circuit is suspected to have sparked the blaze.A case has been registered under sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the owner of the gas stove repair shop and his niece, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-members-of-family-die-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-101625091173910.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Political activities pick pace in Himachal ahead of byelections||Though the election commission is yet to announce the poll schedule, political activities have picked pace in the state, with the two arch-rivals – the ruling BJP and the Opposition –eyeing the byelections to Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seats.Elections to the three seats were necessitated due to the death of sitting representatives. The Mandi Lok Sabha seat fell vacant due to the demise of MP Ramswaroop Sharma. Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Narinder Bragta had died of post-Covid complications, while Fatehpur legislator Sujan Singh Pathania passed away due to prolonged illness.The byelection will be a litmus test for the BJP, particularly chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, whose popularity has taken a beating of late due to different controversies. The Congress is hoping to snatch the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Jubbal-Kotkhai from the BJP. Fatehpur has remained a Congress stronghold, while the Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment has seen a change of guard in the last four elections.To strategise for the byelections, the BJP on Wednesday held a virtual meet of its state working committee, which was attended by all the senior leaders besides national vice-president Saudan Singh, state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, his deputy Sanjay Tondon and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.State BJP president Suresh Kashyap said the party has already deputed in-charges and co in-charges for the bypolls.“We have directed the workers to pull up their socks and start working at booth-level,” said Kashyap, adding that the party’s election committee will meet soon to finalise the candidates.“We will win all the three byelections,” claimed the BJP chief, adding that the BJP had also prepared a roadmap for the 2022 election.Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the Congress had played petty politics during the Covid pandemic. “The Opposition has no reason to criticise the government. Unemployment and inflation prevailed during Congress’ regime too,” he said.Meanwhile, the Congress has blown the bulge from its stronghold, the Fatehpur assembly segment, where the state party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore held a “Jan Aakrosh” rally.Though the rally was against rising inflation, unemployment and government failures on various fronts, the real purpose was to gauge the public mood in the politically significant Kangra district. Taking on the government during the rally, Rathore said, the Congress would win the byelections as the public is disappointed with the current regime.“The Opposition won most posts in the Panchayati Raj Elections but the BJP misused government machinery to obtain the support of winning candidates,” he said.He also took pot shots at the BJP over the rising fuel prices and inflation and said the public will not only ensure defeat of saffron regime in byelections but will also show it the door in the 2022 assembly polls. The mega event was joined by senior leaders, including Mukesh Agnihotri, Asha Kumari, GS Bali and Chander Kumar, among others. Popular regional singer Karnail Rana joined BJP on Wednesday at his native place Dehra. Rana, a former employee of the state information and public relation department was welcomed into the party by forest minister Rakesh Pathania during the virtual meeting of state working committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-activities-pick-pace-in-himachal-ahead-of-byelections-101625088023303.html
01-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A perspective in the city||This is a city walk that gives a sense of the land our city stands on. Let’s start with the mysterious wall crisscrossing through what looks like a jungle. It emerges from a bunch of trees, runs along a couple of 100 metres over the red sandy earth, and disappears again into more trees. This is the view from the cliff, as you look below at what used to be a stone quarry. The wall must have been built when the quarry was active to mark the Delhi-Haryana interstate border.The cliff is a few steps away from the busy Gurugram-Faridabad road, in the hilly Aravalli landscape, within the National Capital Region. The spot is situated a short drive away from the city centres of Delhi and Gurugram. The area used to be excavated for Badarpur sand and stone—for centuries.The mining in this piece of scenery began in the early 1990s and, following a court order, ended a decade later. The place looks abandoned.One carefully walks down the rocky slope on which trucks once carried stones from the mine. The ground is red with Badarpur sand. The sides of the slope are made of the same sand; their depressions and fissures suggest that the surface is being eroded by water. The slender leafless stems of tamarisk, a rare tree in Delhi, is beginning to bloom with little pink flowers. The blue flowers of shankhpushpi are growing not an inch above the ground. The soil here is porous and does not retain water, and so only a narrow band of plants survives. Siras, ullu and sheesham are other trees growing here, along with the thorny vilayati keekar. One wonders if many centuries ago, most of the Delhi region with its present-day colonies, sectors, malls and markets resembled this bleak terrain.Somewhere beyond this silence, a cicada is singing.The walk goes down to a flat, parched ground. At one corner stands a datura plant, with a solitary white flower. A little further, on a slope, is a sand cave that houses a small community of monkeys, along with birds and insects. There are also signs of porcupine and palm civet. The cave’s packed sand could easily disintegrate and wash away in heavy rain, destroying the little habitat it nurtures.On climbing back the slope towards the busy road, the wilderness feels like a mirage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-perspective-in-the-city-101625086571809.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Hurting religious sentiments’: HC grants anticipatory bail to BJP leader Sukhpal Sran||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted anticipatory bail to BJP’s Punjab secretary Sukhpal Singh Sran in an alleged case of hurting religious sentiments and promoting religious enmity.The FIR in the case was registered on May 20 at the Bathinda (Sadar) police station. The complainant, Harpal Singh Khara, a lawyer who had released a video over the alleged incident, said Sran visited a granthi on May 19 and 20 and made him do an ardas at the Bir Talaab gurdwara in Bathinda. The ardas allegedly praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for declaring that a Dalit would be chief minister of Punjab and also demanding release of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh from jail.Sran had told the court that he had been implicated in the FIR and four FIRs were registered against him by the state’s ruling party with political vendetta on mind.He had claimed that the Congress wanted to humiliate him by effecting his arrest and that he met the granthi who showed interest in joining the BJP. He also denied that he uploaded the video in question and assured that he was willing to join probe.The court while adjourning the case for July 28 directed Sran to join the investigation as and when called by the police. The authorities have also been directed that he be released on bail in the event of his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurting-religious-sentiments-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-bjp-leader-sukhpal-sran-101625084183016.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Gang of robbers, illegal weapon suppliers busted in Kapurthala, four held||Police claimed to have busted a gang of robbers and illegal weapon suppliers and arrested four of its members in Kapurthala with arms and ammunition allegedly smuggled from Madhya Pradesh. The accused were hatching a conspiracy to loot money from petrol pumps and farmers, the police said. These arrested are Yadwinder Singh, alias Yaad (21) of Lakh Varian village, Harsimranjeet Singh, alias Simar (26) of Chakpatti Bal Bahadur village, Gurjit Singh (29) of Chodriwal Mand village and Tajinder Singh, alias Romy (26) of Kaimpura village in the district. Two of their accomplices, identified as Lakhwinder Singh, alias Boss of Kapurthala’s Bahui village and Sweety Singh of Barwani in Madhya Pradesh, are absconding. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the gang was active in the district for some time. “Four of the gang members were arrested with 10 pistols, one .315 bore modified rifle, six magazines and 11 cartridges. The police got a tip-off that some criminals armed with weapons gathered on the banks of the Beas river in the Mand Begowal area with an intention of robbery. Police teams cordoned off the area and took them in custody,” Khakh said. During the preliminary investigation, the arrested accused revealed that the gang was headed by Harsimranjit and they had gathered to loot cash from a petrol pump and farmers carrying cash. The weapons were procured from Madhya Pradesh through Sweety Singh, the SSP added. A case under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act was registered against the accused at the Fattu Dhingan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-robbers-illegal-weapon-suppliers-busted-in-kapurthala-four-held-101625084125415.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Admission process for all 119 govt ITIs in Punjab goes fully online due to Covid-19||The Punjab department of technical education and industrial training has decided make the admission process for all 119 industrial training institutes (ITIs) in the state completely online keeping in mind the students’ safety amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said the counselling process, including document verification, will be done online for which they had tied up with the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB). Mark sheets will be directly availed from the board, eliminating any chance of human error while preparing the merit lists. Students of other boards have been asked to enter the marks manually, which will be verified by officials online only. Besides, the payment of registration and admission fees will be through online mode only. So far, 8,780 students have registered online and all the ITIs have set up free help desks to assist them. The students can register online till July 17 on itipunjab.nic.in. de. Principal secretary (technical education and industrial training) Anurag Verma said, “The admission process of all government ITIs will be held online from July 1. Last year, we had tied up with many industries to bridge the skill gap. This year too, we have strengthened the process to get the students trained with the latest machinery.” Government ITIs charge a nominal annual fee of ₹3,400. The department also provides bus free passes to students. 13,260 seats added To accommodate more students in government IIT’s, the department has added 13,260 more seats in different courses in government ITIs in the state. There will be a total of 37,716 seats in 119 ITIs against last year’s 24,456. As many as 722 seats were increased at government ITI, Moga, which earlier had 216 seats. Also, new courses such as mechanical agriculture, foundry mechanic, auto body repair and mechanic auto body paint with major industries have been added for better training of students in government ITIs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admission-process-for-all-119-govt-itis-in-punjab-goes-fully-online-due-to-covid19-101625084124235.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers gherao Punjab minister Dharamsot in Patiala over erratic power supply||Farmers protesting against erratic power supply for sowing of paddy and other issues gheraoed Punjab cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot at Chehel village of Patiala district’s Nabha sub-division on Wednesday. The minister was at the village for foundation stone laying ceremony of a road.The farmers were also protesting against the state government’s failure to waive their loans as promised in the 2017 assembly poll manifesto and its inability to resolve the issue pertaining to the three controversial farm acts. The protesters gathered around the minister as soon as he reached the spot and raised slogans against him. A heavy police force was deployed to keep situation under control. Baljit Singh, a farmer activist, said the farmers are facing a huge problem irrigating their fields due to erratic power supply. “We are not getting the 8-hour supply as promised. The same minister before 2017 sat on the same road with us demanding proper power supply against the then Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government. But after coming to power, the Congress is following in the footsteps of its predecessor,” he said.A video of the incident also surfaced in which a woman is seen confronting Dharamsot for visiting the area after five years.“What is the need of visiting people with such heavy police force now when you (Dharamsot) came alone while seeking votes in 2017? It took you five years to get worried about the construction of the road,” she said.Dharamsot could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.In a press release, Dharamsot said the state government will fulfill all the promises made in its 2017 poll manifesto before 2022 elections.Also, farmers blocked the Ludhiana- Ferozepur highway near Dagru village in Moga district over poor power supply. The protesters said they were getting only 4-hour supply since paddy sowing started.They blocked the highway for at least 4 hours, causing inconvenience to commuters.BKU to block national highway tomorrow The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) announced to block the Jalandhar-Ludhiana national highway on Friday over poor power supply during the paddy sowing season. Union’s Jalandhar district president Mandeep Singh Samra said the Punjab government is not providing 8-hour power supply to farmers as it is hand in glove with the Centre that wants to erode the ongoing protests in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-gherao-punjab-minister-dharamsot-in-patiala-over-erratic-power-supply-101625084123257.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL imposing 6-8 hour cuts in rural areas, up to 3 hours in cities||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is imposing cuts of 6-8 hours in rural areas of the state and up to 3 hours in all major cities as it is unable to meet the rising demand due to less electricity generation amid the ongoing paddy sowing season and soaring temperatures. Whereas the rural belts have been witnessing major outages for the last four days, unscheduled cuts were put in place in urban pockets on Tuesday. The situation will remain grim in the coming days as the power demand is rising by the day accompanied by a delay in monsoon. Even in urban industrial areas, cuts to tune of over 2 hours were imposed. The power supply to farmers was only 6 hours, against the promise of eight, and that too with frequent interruptions. On Monday, the power demand in Punjab reached 14,225 megawatt (MW) against the supply of 12,695 MW, leaving a gap of nearly 1,550 MW. While one unit of the private-run Talwandi Sabo power plant is completely shut since March 8, another has also developed snag and is operating at half of its capacity, generating only 960 MW against its total installed capacity of 1,980 MW. Also, a unit of the Ropar thermal plant went out of operation, causing a shortage of another 210 MW. Power generation at the hydel power plants is also less due to low water levels in the dams.“The gap in demand and supply was despite the fact that Punjab has purchased almost 500 lakh units from the grid. The failure of private plants to provide committed supply during the peak season has resulted in the shortage. Otherwise, there were no cuts in the last two years,” said a PSPCL official.BBMB requested to increase generation PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said they have requested the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to increase power generation.In a letter, Prasad asked the BBMB chairman to explore the modalities to generate more power from the Bhakra project and run all available units round the clock to provide relief to farmers.The CMD said the water level of the Bhakra reservoir is less, and therefore the BBMB is not generating power to full capacity. “The water level of Bhakra reservoir is 1524.60 feet against the last year’s 1581.50 feet. Also, the water level of Pong Dam is 1,281 feet against the last year’s 1,335 feet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-imposing-6-8-hour-cuts-in-rural-areas-up-to-3-hours-in-cities-101625084062916.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege, firing cases: Sikh outfits likely to start morcha at Bargari on Thursday, cops on alert||The members of Sikh outfits. including Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), is all set to launch a morcha at Bargari as the deadline given by the hardliners to the state government to arrest those responsible for the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents will end on Thursday. On June 1, marking the sixth anniversary of the sacrilege incident at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village, SAD (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann and Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) president Baljit Singh Daduwal had announced to start a morcha from July 1. As per information, Mann has reached Faridkot after holding a meeting at Bathinda to take a decision on the venue, where morcha will be started and the chalk out the line of action for the agitation. Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swarandeep Singh said the Sikh outfits had announced to start morcha at Faridkot following which police are on a high alert. In a letter to ADGP (law and order), Faridkot SSP stated that a ‘panthic morcha’ could be started by SAD (Amritsar) and other Sikh outfits on the intervening night of June 30 and July 1. “Sikh leaders have asked people to participate in the morcha at a large scale. We would require more manpower to maintain law and order,” SSP said, asking for 25 ARP teams and 5 commando companies. The police have also identified six sites --- Dana Mandi and sports stadium both at Bargari, on National Highway near Behbal Kalan village, Dana Mandi at Behbal Kalan, Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village and Kotkapura light chowk ----where morcha could be started. SAD (Amritsar) leader Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala said they are moving ahead with their plan. However, the Sikh outfit leaders did not disclose the venue of morcha as they suspect police would not let them start the agitation. In 2018, Sikh outfits had come together to hold Bargari Insaaf Morcha which ended in December 2018 after 193 days. Congress ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had approached the morcha and declared from the stage that the government had accepted all their demands. The lifting of morcha was widely criticised by Sikh outfits who blame parallel acting jathedar of the Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrilege-firing-cases-sikh-outfits-likely-to-start-morcha-at-bargari-on-thursday-cops-on-alert-101625083945878.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm in 6 Bathinda villages sets off alarm bells among cotton growers||Infestation of pink bollworm in at least six Bathinda villages has left the cotton growers and officials of the state agriculture department worried.The agriculture department is on its toes as it is for the second consecutive year that the pest attack has been reported in the major cash crop of southern Punjab.Experts and the agriculture department blame oil mills, cotton ginning units and a section of villagers for ignoring the laid-down protocol. They say Bollgard 2, or BG-2, Monsanto’s second-generation insecticidal technology for cotton, was considered to protect crops against the pink bollworm. But previous incidents from other states indicate that the variety may have developed resistance.Director, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) regional research station, Bathinda, Paramjit Singh said the pest larvae are reaching the state with cottonseed consignments from south-west states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka.“Oil mills and cotton ginning units across the state were asked to follow guidelines to ensure the pest do not entre fields from where it could harm the cotton crop. Farmers were also advised to remove cotton straw, which is used as firewood or consumed to energise brick kilns etc, completely from the fields,” he said.A cotton grower from Gurusar Sainewala, about 25km from the district headquarters, said half of his 15-acre land has been found infested with pink bollworm. A sizeable stock of cotton straw was lying adjacent to his field on Wednesday.“I had sown cotton seeds on April 16 and hoped of a good profit. But the pest attack at the flowering stage has dashed my hopes. A pheromone trap that uses chemicals secreted by insects to lure pests at my field is full of deadly pest. Use of sprays to contain the pest means additional cost and high vulnerability of crop yield loss,” he said.Bathinda chief agriculture officer Dr BS Sidhu said intensive field surveillance has been initiated in the district. He said it is a challenging task to detect pink bollworm in time and control it through pesticides as it stays inside a cotton boll.“In the last three days, our teams have spotted pink bollworm in six villages. All infected fields were sown early in mid-April and the pest is visible in the flowers. Advisory has been issued to farmers control the situation,” he said.Principal entomologist of the PAU Vijay Kumar: “Normally the pest appears in cotton after 65-70 days of sowing. Cotton bolls look normal from the outside. But each infected boll has a pink bollworm inside. The worm eats cotton seeds and prevents the development of cotton staple fibre around it well before the boll opens,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-in-6-bathinda-villages-sets-off-alarm-bells-among-cotton-growers-101625083823576.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bhola drug case: 2 revenue dept officials among three booked for selling attached properties||Kapurthala police on Tuesday booked Harmesh Kumar Gaba, accused in the Bhola drug case, Phagwara tehsildar Pardeep Kumar Chabbra and a patwari under the charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy for allegedly selling around 14 kanals of land attached under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Enforcement Directorate (ED) zonal office, Jalandhar, had filed a complaint with Kapurthala senior superintendent of police in October last year against Gaba, brother of Goraya businessman Chunni Lal Gabba, also facing money laundering charges in the Bhola drug case. The ED said the directorate of enforcement issued provisional attachment orders for properties of Harmesh Gaba in 2015. Subsequently, the confirmation of provisional attachment of properties was ordered by adjudicating authority (PMLA) in 2016. Following this, the ED served the eviction notice to the accused, including Harmesh Gaba, and concerned agencies, including Phagwara sub-registrar, in 2016. The ED said it came to light that Gaba sold properties, including 14 kanal land situated in Hadiabad area of Phagwara, attached by the adjudicating authority (PMLA). It was ordered that the provisionally attached property will not be removed, parted with or otherwise dealt with without prior permission of this directorate. Harmesh Gaba had filed an appeal in appellate tribunal against the order of adjudicating authority PMLA in 2020.“The sale of attached properties during pendency of appeal filed by accused himself shows utter abuse of process of law and degree of mens rea is evident from conduct,” the ED said.“Despite the issuance of provisional attachment order and eviction notice to sub registrar, Phagwara, the authorised officer in connivance with Harmesh Gaba, knowingly allowed the sale of properties, which is subject matter before the appellate tribunal and the special PMLA court and the Government of India,” the ED said. A probe conducted by police found that Harmesh sold around 14 kanals of land to eight persons on different dates. According to the Phagwara SDM report, negligence was found on tehsilder Parveen Chabbra and the area Patwari. The case was registered under Section 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at the Phagwara police station. The ED chargesheeted nine members of the Gaba family, associated with his 11 firms, in connection with the Bhola drug case for alleged violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Besides Gaba, his three sons — Gurjit, Gurmesh and Mahesh — father Suresh Kumar, brother Harmesh Gaba, 23-year-old grandson Khushwant Gaba, Gurjit’s wife Rekha and Harmesh’s wife Sudesh Rani were booked. The ED’s chargesheet had listed 11 firms, jointly owned by the Gaba family, and their properties at Phillaur, Goraya and Una (Himachal Pradesh). The ED had registered the money laundering case after former Punjab Police DSP and drug lord Jagdish Singh Bhola had in January 2014 accused Gaba of trading in synthetic drug pseudoephedrine in association with Delhi-based smuggler Varinder Raja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhola-drug-case-2-revenue-dept-officials-among-three-booked-for-selling-attached-properties-101625083582989.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir alleges illegal mining in Beas, dept trashes charges||AMRITSARHigh drama was witnessed at Wazir Bhullar village of Baba Bakala sub-division situated along the banks of Beas on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his supporters conducted a raid at a mining site.Sukhbir claimed that the mining site was illegal and was being operated for the last three months with heavy machinery installed in the river’s running water, while the district administration tried to justify that it was an approved mine of the government. Sukhbir waited for at least two hours at the site until the officials of the district administration visited the spot and assured him of taking “legal action if anyone found to be guilty in floating the rules”.The SAD chief also filed a complaint against Congress minister Sukhbinder Singh Sukh Sarkaria and MLAs Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Ramanjit Singh Sikki and Kulbir Singh Zira, besides others at the Beas police station for “illegal” mining.A complaint was also lodged by Friends and Company, which claimed to have the contract for the mining at the site against Sukhbir and some former Akali MLAs who accompanied him for threatening the employees and staff of the company and obstructing and interfering in the mining operation.During his visit to the site, Sukhbir said according to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), no mining activity could take place within 5km area of a bridge. But in this case, sand was being excavated within a distance of 1km of the bridge, claimed Sukhbir. Some truck drivers, who were being charged a “goonda tax” of ₹16,000 per truck, have also filed a separate complaint, it was learnt. Villagers also filed a complaint saying panchayat land was being mined by the mafia without their permission, claimed SAD leaders.Sukhbir also condemned the “mining mafia” for trying to divert attention from their crime by filing a false complaint against him and other Akali leaders. “Our only sin is to expose this corrupt and scam-ridden government as well as its mining mafia,” he added.According to the SAD, the visit found a few hundred trucks, fork cranes and even a pipeline on floaters on the spot. Sukhbir said it was shocking that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was allowing the sand mafia to indulge in daylight robbery of state resources within a kilometre from the national highway. Superintendent of police (SP-investigation) Gaurav Toora said: “The allegations made in the SAD complaint are being examined. We are writing to the mining department seeking a report. Once the report comes, legal action will be sought and action will be taken as per law.”About the company’s complaint, SSP-rural Gurleen Singh Khurana said: “It is being verified. According to the sub-divisional officer of the mining department, the site was approved for de-silting. Our investigation is on.”Site legal, says mining dept In a release, the state mining department said the site was approved by the government. A spokesperson of the department said from mining block number 5 that was allotted to the company, the government has been getting ₹34.5 crore revenue annually. He said during the SAD government, the revenue was only ₹30 to ₹40 crore from entire Punjab. He said the state government has been earning ₹300 crore revenue from the mining in the state. He also made it clear that there was no illegal mining site in Amritsar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-alleges-illegal-mining-in-beas-dept-trashes-charges-101625083342938.html
01-07-2021||Other||90 days into new session, textbooks yet to reach students||Even after 12 weeks since the beginning of the new academic session, government school students in the district are yet to receive textbooks of subjects such as science, social studies, and computer science.The board’s depot in the city, which caters to the whole district, hasn’t received all the textbooks till now.Science, social science, computer science textbooks of Class 6 (English medium), computer science, Hindi, ‘Welcome life’ (Hindi medium), of Class 7; English grammar and composition, Hindi, Welcome life, and computer science textbooks of Class 8; social studies, health, and physical education, Welcome life, computer science, (English medium) and math (Hindi medium) of Class 9; science, social studies, Welcome life (English medium) of Class 10 and computer science and vocational subjects such as knitting technology, commercial garments of Classes 11 and 12 are yet to reach schools.Students of Class 2 have not received their mathematics textbooks.As per sources, the board has been sending new sanitised textbooks to the depots for further distribution among schools at the block level. The school authorities then collect the textbooks and hand them over to the parents.Science and social studies teachers have stated that they have already covered 20% of the syllabus, but the students are yet to receive the books. Meanwhile, teachers have guided them to study from the Punjab educare app that comprises all books and lesson-wise information. Parminder Singh, who teaches Classes 8 and 9, said, “Many students do not have mobile phones and are therefore unable to study from the app. If they have books, they will read the chapters and contact their teachers for queries. In the absence of the same, they are struggling to study and prepare for the July evaluation exam.” Ministerial staff on strikeAs per the board’s depot authorities, it has received over 18.3 lakh textbooks out of a total of 19 lakh. Around 40,000 books are lying at the depot. They haven’t been sent to the block office due to an indefinite strike by the ministerial staff. The depot is yet to receive 30,000 textbooks from the board office.Tarlochan Singh, depot manager, Ludhiana, said, “We have disbursed the new textbooks, which we had received before June 24. But since last Thursday, we have not been able to send the textbooks to the block offices as the ministerial employees are on strike.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/90-days-into-new-session-textbooks-yet-to-reach-students-101625083167607.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Drive launched to ensure safe travel in auto-rickshaw||In a first-of-its-kind initiative to make people feel safe while travelling in auto-rickshaws, the Ludhiana police have launched a special drive to verify all three-wheelers by equipping them with a unique ID and linking it with PPSAANJH mobile application. The traffic police have come up with a plan to do away with unlicensed auto-rickshaws in the city. The move is aimed at curbing crime involving auto-rickshaw gangs.Conceptualised in 2012 during the tenure of Ishwar Singh, first commissioner of Ludhiana police, it took nearly 10 years for the auto-rickshaw registration to become a reality. The current police chief, Rakesh Agrawal, who launched the drive and an android mobile application by pasting reflective stickers bearing unique ID on auto-rickshaws here on Wednesday, said, “By using SafeAutoPb on PPSAANJH app, passengers can verify all details of an auto-rickshaw and credentials of its driver.” “As soon as a passenger will enter the unique ID number in the application, all the details, including the driver’s photo, auto’s exterior and interior photos besides its registration will appear on the mobile screen,” he said, adding that the move aims to provide sense of safety and security to passengers, especially women, who travel alone at odd hours.How auto-rickshaw drivers can get themselves registeredAgrawal said anyone willing to register their auto-rickshaws would have to visit the nearest saanjh kendra with all necessary documents, including driving licence, RC, permit and address proof among others.He said that saanjh kendra will use the ‘SafeAutoPB’ software’s official login to capture details of the owner, driver, auto-rickshaw and upload copies of all relevant documents, and generate a unique ID, of which four reflective stickers will be pasted inside and outside the verified auto. He added that whenever a new driver is added to an entry, it would be the responsibility of the owner to get his/her details updated in the software. The police chief said that once the database of auto-rickshaws is created, it will also help in preventing crimes. Apart from this, it would be easy to identify the accused in case anyone commits a crime using an unregistered auto-rickshaw. Agrawal added that joint police commissioner (traffic) will be the nodal officer for the smooth conduct of the drive and the police will be charging ₹150 for covering the cost of stickers and driver’s verification for which proper receipt will be issued from saanjh kendra.“It is mandatory for every auto-rickshaw owner to get their vehicles registered with the unique ID, otherwise strict action will be taken against the violators,” said joint police commissioner (traffic) Deepak Pareek. Agrawal also urged the residents of Ludhiana to prefer travelling in auto-rickshaws with unique ID pasted on them. In case of any suspicion, the passenger can immediately call the police control room at 112, he added. Lakhwinder Singh Dhillon, president of Auto-rickshaw Union, meanwhile, slammed the decision of registration. He said the move has been taken without discussion with the union representatives. He alleged that most of the auto-rickshaws are being operated by nexus involving politicians and cops, while those owning a three-wheeler are just wasting time in completing government formalities. He said while diesel and petrol auto-rickshaws have been asked to register themselves with the police, no such proposal has been initiated for battery operated auto-rickshaws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-drive-launched-to-ensure-safe-travel-in-autorickshaw-101625083165215.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Erratic power supply: XEN held hostage at Badal village for 8 hrs||Agitated over poor availability of power supply for paddy irrigation, farmers held hostage an executive engineer (XEN) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) at his office in Muktsar’s Badal village for over eight hours on Wednesday.A large number of farm union activists gathered outside the power grid to gherao it around 1 pm. Officials said XEN Sanjay Singla and a sub-divisional officer (SDO) were inside when the protestors announce to lock the office till their demands are met.Later, the SDO managed to come out, but the XEN was still inside till the filing the report.Bathinda senior superintendent of police BS Virk, who has the additional charge of Muktsar, said efforts are being made by the police and the PSPCL officials to resolve the matter.PSPCL officials said farmer union activists demand a written assurance of uninterrupted power supply for eight hours every day, appointment of field staff for better maintenance of supply lines were among other conditions to end the agitation.Muktsar superintendent engineer of PSPCL Paramjit Singh Brar said the district police and power management were apprised of the situation turning serious.Meanwhile, another group of farmers blocked Dabwali-Malout national highway in Muktsar district as a protest against poor power supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/erratic-power-supply-xen-held-hostage-at-badal-village-for-8-hrs-101625083164164.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC issues 72 challans, confiscates 63 kg of plastic carry bags in two days||Struggling to impose a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags in the city, the municipal corporation (MC) has commenced a drive against the same and issued 72 challans against shopkeepers in the last two days.The civic body issued 20 challans of ₹2,000 each on Tuesday and 50 on Wednesday. The MC teams collected 63 kg of banned carry bags, out of which 55 kg were confiscated on Wednesday. They conducted raids in different markets, including Field Ganj under Zone A, Jeewan Nagar under Zone B, Janta Nagar market under Zone C, and Dugri and Jawahar Nagar market under Zone D. As per the officials, the drive has been initiated on the directions of mayor Balkar Sandhu, as plastic carry bags dumped on the roads choke drain/sewer lines during monsoon season.Ashwani Sahota nodal office, health branch, said the drive will continue in the coming days, and MC will take strict action against the violators.The state government had imposed a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags in April 2016, but the civic body has been struggling to implement the same in the city. The drives initiated in the past got derailed either due to political pressure or resentment shown by the traders.One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said the civic body conducts such drives only when the higher authorities or local bodies department issue directions regarding the same. To impose a complete ban, MC and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) need to take coordinated action against the manufacturing and trading of carry bags, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-issues-72-challans-confiscates-63-kg-of-plastic-carry-bags-in-two-days-101625083162995.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC decides to increase tipping fee to continue garbage lifting ops||In a tight situation over solid waste management in the city after the existing contractor gave an ultimatum to stop the garbage lifting from Thursday if the tipping fee is not increased, the Ludhiana MC succumbed to the pressure and decided to accept the contractor’s demand.But the rate of tipping fee (rate per tonne for lifting garbage) has not yet been decided and the final decision will be taken by mayor Balkar Sandhu, officials said.Over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in the city on a daily basis and MC has been paying ₹324 per tonne as tipping fee to the company. Citing hike in diesel price and maintenance expenses, the company has now demanded that the civic body should at least pay ₹435 per tonne, otherwise it will stop the lifting process from July 1. Mayor Sandhu had on Tuesday formed a committee of councillors and MC officials to look into the matter. The panel was asked to explore the viability of garbage lifting by MC on its own and look into the demand of the contractor. Panel head senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said they have decided that MC should continue with the contractor, otherwise the civic body will have to make huge investments and gather resources to deal with 1,100 MT garbage, which will take some time.“The lifting of garbage will not be stopped and the same contractor will continue the work. The final decision regarding the rate (amount) of tipping fee to be paid to the contractor will be taken by mayor and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal,” said Malhotra. A2Z company had terminated its contract with the MC on February 4 and the latter made stopgap arrangements by roping in the third party to whom A2Z company had sublet the work of lifting garbage from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-decides-to-increase-tipping-fee-to-continue-garbage-lifting-ops-101625083105261.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mega vaccination drive in Ludhiana on July 3, 4||With 60,000 doses of Covid vaccine arriving in Ludhiana on Friday, the administration will carry out a mega vaccination drive on Saturday and Sunday across the district. Addressing residents in his weekly Facebook Live session on the official page of DPRO, Ludhiana, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said that 60,000 doses of the life-saving jab would arrive in Ludhiana on July 2, which would be utilised in the two-day mega vaccination drive on July 3 and July 4. He said that directions have been issued to all the officials to organise inoculation camps in almost every area of the district for maximum coverage of the beneficiaries. He said that special camps would also be held for the international students where they can get the jab by showing visa, passport, college admission, and other requisite documents. District logs just 17 Covid casesThe district recorded lowest cases of Covid in the last six months with 17 infections getting reported in the last 24 hours, while a woman from Mohie died during treatment.The total number of cases in the district has now reached 86,964, out of which 2,086 patients have succumbed to the disease. While 84,552 patients have recovered, there were 326 active cases in the district on Wednesday.One fresh case of black fungus reportedOne fresh case of mucormycosis (black fungus) was reported in the district while no casualty took place in the last 24 hours, as per the district health department officials.The number of confirmed cases in the district has reached 144, out of which 19 patients have succumbed to the disease till now. There were 35 active cases in the district on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mega-vaccination-drive-in-ludhiana-on-july-3-4-101625083104034.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Doctors’ Day: Those on the frontline recount horror of war they waged against Covid||As the nation celebrates Doctor’s Day, medical professionals who turned out to be guardian angels in the time of Covid pandemic share their experiences of how they fought the invisible enemy. It has been nearly 16 months since the medical professionals are waging a continuous war with Covid. Many of them feel that the virus has taught them some of the important lessons of their lives. Dr Rajesh Mahajan, professor of medicine, Emergency in-charge and nodal officer for Covid at DMCH, who had attended and treated the first case of coronavirus in Ludhiana on March 20, 2020, said, “The worst time was when I and principal of the institute Dr Sandeep Puri got ourselves isolated after coming in contact with the first patient at DMCH. Everyone was scared of interacting with us. And till then, little headway was made in the field of treatment of the disease. Those were anxious times but as the time progressed, we learned more about the virus and managed to save many precious lives.” Senior cardiologist at DMC Heart Institute Dr Bishav Mohan, who is also a member of the Covid task force of Punjab, said, “Initially we took Covid as a challenge as patients were increasing and treatment was limited. But with time, we took it as a mission to serve people. It was difficult. When people were scared to come near a Covid patient, we were up against an invisible enemy. It was agonising to see some of our known and loved ones losing the battle.”Dr Amanpreet Kaur Brar, MD (medicine) at the civil hospital is among the first batch of doctors to treated Covid patients. She did not let her average salary and the hospital’s acute staff crunch become a deterrent. She said, “It was a real challenge to serve in the government sector during a pandemic. I can easily relate our work, our fears, and our courage to win the fight against Covid with a fireman dousing flames or a soldier in the battlefield. With the support of family and excellent teamwork shown by paramedics, we came out as winners by treating about 3,000 moderate to severe patients in Ludhiana civil hospital.”Dr Baldeep Singh, MD, of Deep Hospital in Ludhiana, said, “The pandemic has been a challenging phase for the entire medical fraternity. Initially, there was not enough data on treatment protocols and it was a continuously evolving process. Drug shortage was consistent throughout.” Dr Rajiv Kundra, medical superintendent at SPS Hospital, said, “I have been working in the healthcare sector for around 20 years, but had never witnessed such enormous pressure. From keeping distance from my near and dear ones to spending countless nights alone in my room, I saw and managed it all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doctors-day-those-on-the-frontline-recount-horror-of-war-they-waged-against-covid-101625083102824.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 262 fresh cases, 15 fatalities||Punjab on Wednesday reported 262 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 5,95,609, while 15 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,052, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases has dropped to 3,134, the bulletin said.Kapurthala and Tarn Taran registered two deaths each followed by one each in Amritsar, Bathinda, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Rupnagar and Sangrur.Amritsar reported 34 cases, highest in the state, followed by Bathinda 28 and Jalandhar 23. The Covid-19 positivity rate in the state stood at 0.54%, the bulletin said. With 452 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons in the state has reached 5,76,423, according to the bulletin.There are 103 critical patients on ventilator support, 339 other critical patients and 1,501 on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,08,96,152 samples have so far been collected for testing in the state, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-262-fresh-cases-15-fatalities-101625082923040.html
01-07-2021||Other||Moga improvement trust, MC not on same page; development hit||Moga In a turf war between the local municipal corporation (MC) and the Moga Improvement Trust, the development of the city has taken a back-seat. The state’s local government department has revoked its approval for at least six development projects that the improvement trust had started, on the recommendation of the MC. The projects halted include beautification of flyovers, maintenance of parks, which also include installation of swings, LED lights and open gyms etc. The government departments have been at loggerheads due to a rift within the Congress party’s district unit Mayor Nitika Bhalla has also written a letter to the local government department, stating that the MC will carry out development of the city with its own funds. HT has copies of these letters. Before she assumed the charge of mayor, however, she had written to the trust to maintain parks in her ward.Sources claimed that trust chairman Vinod Bansal is an aspirant for a Congress ticket from Moga and wants to replace the present MLA, Dr Harjot Kamal. Sensing this, Kamal has started calling the shots in the MC to ensure Bansal does not gain prominence in the public eye. Bansal said, “I started with these development works after locals approached us. We have already developed five parks in the city. Act 69 of the Improvement Trust rules allows us to carry out development works anywhere in the city. We passed resolutions and then got approval from the local government department. Now, the permission has been cancelled.”Mayor Nitika said, “We are planning to carry out these works as these fall in jurisdiction of the Moga MC. There is no need for the trust to get involved.” MLA Kamal said, “The trust’s work is to develop colonies. Maintenance and development of parks is the duty of the MC. We will do these works on our own and installing open gyms in parks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-improvement-trust-mc-not-on-same-page-development-hit-101625082804749.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lawmakers pay tributes to two eminent Punjab-origin personalities in US House||Influential Congressmen paid tributes to two eminent Indian-Americans --- Charanjit Singh from California and Pritam Singh Grewal from New Jersey --- in the House of Representatives this week.Charanjit Singh, who passed away on May 12, was a successful family and businessman, and a member of the Central Valley, said Congressman Jim Costa.Singh was born in India in 1950 and came to the US in 1988 from Ludhiana. He and his family settled in Los Angeles, California managing multiple convenience stores. In 2003, he moved his family to Fresno, California.“Living in the Central Valley, Singh flourished his businesses. He was a business owner of purchased and newly built stores. Singh had over 30 gas stations and liquor stores,” Costa said on the House floor on Monday.“He could prioritise his time, manage multiple stores, and have time for his family. Singh would attend many events in the Central Valley, including many of my own, and he would often share his wisdom about the Sikh community to me,” he said as he urged his Congressional colleagues to join him in celebrating the great life of Singh.Describing Grewal as one the North Jersey’s most compassionate community leaders, Congressman Josh Gottheimer said on the House floor that the Indian-American Sikh was truly an unselfish and deeply caring man who made an impact on everyone who crossed his path.“As a founding member of Glen Rock’s Gurdwara, Pritam helped build a safe space for North Jersey’s Sikh community to come together and worship. Having personally visited several times, I can attest to the special atmosphere he instilled in this important Glen Rock establishment,” he said.“Pritam always felt a calling to promote quality education throughout his community. He taught mechanical engineering at Fairleigh Dickinson University, and later partnered with his brother, Amarjit, to establish the Grewal, Harchand Singh and Jagir Kaur Memorial Scholarship of Ramapo College, in memory of his late parents,” Gottheimer said.He said Pritam was also widely known throughout Hackensack University Medical Centre, where the trauma team took care of him after an accident in 2012.“While Pritam is no longer with us, his spirit, legacy, and impact on North Jersey will live on forever,” the Congressman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawmakers-pay-tributes-to-two-eminent-punjab-origin-personalities-in-us-house-101625082803265.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||First Sikh-American attorney general Gurbir Grewal resigning to join SEC||New YorkGurbir S Grewal, a prominent Indian-American and the longest-serving Sikh attorney-general of the US state of New Jersey, is stepping down to take up a key position with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).Grewal, 48, will become SEC’s director of the enforcement division, which regulates financial markets, from July 26 after serving since January 2018 as the state’s top law enforcement officer, the SEC said in a statement on Tuesday.“I’m honoured and delighted to welcome attorney general Grewal to the SEC,” said Gary Gensler, the SEC chairman. “He has had a distinguished career as New Jersey’s chief law enforcement officer and as a prosecutor at both the local and federal levels. He has the ideal combination of experience, values, and leadership ability to helm the enforcement division at this critical time. I look forward to working closely with him to protect investors and root out wrongdoing in our markets,” Gensler said.Grewal is the second pick for the post since President Joe Biden took office in January.The commission had tapped attorney Alex Oh to lead the enforcement division in April, but she stepped down only days later for unstated “personal reasons,” the NJ.com reported.“The enforcement division has a critical role to play in finding and punishing violations of the law,” said Grewal.“I’m excited to get to work with the talented team of public servants to uncover and prosecute misconduct and protect investors. I thank Governor (Phil) Murphy for the opportunity to serve the people of New Jersey and all of the colleagues with whom I’ve had the pleasure to work during my career in the state,” he said. Grewal has been the state’s top law enforcement leader for more than three years, the first to hit that mark since the early 1990s, the report added.As the nation’s first Sikh state attorney general, Grewal and his office have overhauled the rules governing police use of force in New Jersey for the first time in a generation and joined other states to sue the federal government more in three years than the Garden State had in the previous four decades, while simultaneously investigating and prosecuting a range of crimes.The attorney general in New Jersey has more direct authority over local police than in any other state, the NJ.com noted.Grewal graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service from the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in 1995. He obtained his law degree from the College of William & Mary, Marshall-Wythe School of Law in 1999.New Jersey Governor Murphy, a Democrat who appointed Grewal, in a statement said that he will miss Grewal’s leadership.“Though we’ll miss his leadership, I know he’s the right person to protect investors all across the nation.” “Through his efforts standing up to the Trump administration’s attacks on New Jersey and our diverse communities, instituting historic reforms in policing, and leading the fight against gun violence, attorney general Grewal has been an invaluable member of our administration,” Murphy said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-sikh-american-attorney-general-gurbir-grewal-resigning-to-join-sec-101625082622880.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin fraudster ordered to pay compensation from assets in UK||An Indian-origin investment fraudster found guilty of scamming people across the UK has been ordered to pay British pound sterling 391,680 (more than ₹4 crore) or face four years extra in prison.Charanjit Sandhu, 31, pleaded guilty to running a number of scams in different parts of the UK, conning people out of GBP 1,704,564, the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said.Through its comprehensive proceeds of crime work, in conjunction with Thames Valley Police and City of London Police, the CPS secured a confiscation order from court for the defendant to pay back all of his available assets.“Sandhu was pernicious, cruel and callous criminal who was the ringleader in an operation in which often vulnerable and elderly victims were targeted mercilessly, through relentless cold calling and high-pressure sales tactics. There was evidence that some vulnerable victims were targeted more than once,” said Claire Bennett, a specialist prosecutor for the CPS proceeds of crime division.“Where we can take money from people who have profited from crime, we will not hesitate to do so. In 2019-20 the CPS recovered over GBP 100 million, stopping hundreds of criminals benefitting from their ill-gotten gains,” she said.On December 20, 2017, Sandhu pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy to defraud in respect of the sale of carbon credits through Harman Royce Ltd and Kendrick Zale Ltd in a City of London Police investigation. He was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment for each of those offences, to be served concurrently.Sandhu’s available asset figures were determined by a court to be GBP 391,680. Notable known available assets include a rose gold Patek Phillipe watch valued at GBP 72,000, Audemars Piguet watch valued at GBP 22,000, and a Rolex watch valued at GBP 4,000.The defendant attempted to stash some of his assets away, but the CPS said its investigation teams uncovered hidden assets of GBP 200,000 which he now has to pay back as part of the available assets figures.Much of the money obtained through the frauds in question was spent on his lavish lifestyle. There is evidence of spending on luxury holiday villa rental, watches and jewellery, designer clothing and over GBP 9,000 (over ₹9 lakh) of dental work.In relation to a further separate Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) case, Sandhu was convicted of a number of counts of conspiracy to defraud and three counts of communicating an invitation to engage in an investment activity, which involved a fraudulent share sale scheme, on December 11, 2017. In all, he was found guilty of conspiracy to defraud, fraud, and money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-fraudster-ordered-to-pay-compensation-from-assets-in-uk-101625082503207.html
01-07-2021||Other||Owners of buildings rented to Reliance seek CM’s help||Chandigarh Building owners, who have rented out their premises to Reliance Industries across Punjab, submitted a memorandum to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday, through his Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Sandeep Singh Brar, requesting his intervention to ensure the stores can open. Reliance has around 275 stores in Punjab, all of which are closed for the past eight months, with farmers laying seize to the properties. “We are in a deep financial crisis and moving towards bankruptcy, as there has been no rental income from our properties for the past 7-8 months, because all Reliance Retail outlets have been forcibly closed by agitating farmers. Farmers have even set up tents outside our stores,” the memorandum says. It adds, “We are all Punjabis and fully support farmers, but such forced closure of Reliance stores is only harming Punjab as Reliance procures a lot of products locally, provides huge direct and indirect employment to Punjabis and pays huge taxes. No corporation would be interested to invest in the state if they are not allowed to operate peacefully,” said Dharampal Singh Nain from Jagraon.OSD Brar assured the building owners that all possible support would be extended and the matter would be taken up with the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/owners-of-buildings-rented-to-reliance-seek-cm-s-help-101625081662946.html
01-07-2021||Kolkata||‘For self-proclaimed PM’: Suvendu Adhikari’s dig at Mamata over tender for plane||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has been on an offensive against the ruling Trinamool Congress’ Mamata Banerjee, threw darts at the West Bengal chief minister on Wednesday over the state government’s move to get a 10-seater plane on lease.Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the assembly who defeated Banerjee in a close contest in Nandigram, wondered whether the stipulation that the plane should be able to fly to any part of the country was designed with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.“Pushpak Rath for (self proclaimed) PM??? Dissatisfied with helicopter’s range, process of acquiring a 10 seater Airplane has been initiated. Convenient for whimsical criss-crossing of the entire country for upcoming Loksava (Lok Sabha) poll campaigning? On Govt expenses?” tweeted Adhikari, a reference to Banerjee’s prime ministerial ambitions.On June 11, the West Bengal Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd floated an e-tender for hiring a fixed-wing, twin-engine aircraft on wet lease for three years. The aircraft should be air-conditioned and capable of night operation, said the tender notice which said the plane was proposed to be leased for the state’s dignitaries.The tender said the plane should be able to operate in any part of the country and be a super mid-sized aircraft equivalent to the Falcon 2000 or similar models. The aircraft would fly for at least 45 hours a month, the notice said.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh wondered why the state government needed to go for a plane. “The government already has a helicopter. Why does it need an aircraft when there are only three operational airports in the state?” he said, a reference to airports in state capital Kolkata, Siliguri’s Bagdogra and the Kazi Nazrul Islam Airport in Paschim Bardhaman district.“This is a wastage of public money,” Ghosh said. Trinamool Congress hit back at the BJP, pointing that there were states which had more than one aircraft. “Many states in India have more than one plane. Adhikari should be aware that before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls Narendra Modi used the Gujarat government’s plane to fly between different states for campaigning,” TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/for-self-proclaimed-pm-suvendu-adhikari-s-dig-at-mamata-over-tender-for-plane-101625081188789.html
01-07-2021||Other||State level committee set up to monitor sexual offence cases||Chandigarh The Punjab Government has set up a state-level committee to track, monitor and ensure speedy investigation in all sexual offence cases against women and children, with clearly-defined Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to guide the investigation process. The decision was taken on Wednesday at a high-level review meeting that chief secretary Vini Mahajan chaired. She announced that a six-member committee, headed by additional chief secretary, home, will review the progress of sexual assault cases on a monthly basis.She also ordered immediate training of 500 medical officers to ensure there is no delay in the conduct of medical examination and documentation in sexual assault cases. The meeting also reviewed the status of Punjab State Victim Compensation Scheme and Nirbhaya Fund proposals submitted to the Centre.“The SOPs that the government has finalised will help officers concerned to fast-track investigation and improve conviction rate in sexual assault cases, said Vini,” after the meeting, convened to discuss fast-tracking of investigating and prosecution of such cases. The police has been directed to depute Women Police Officers, to be designated as Women Safety Officer, as Person-of-Contact (PoC) with every school and college of the state to check and coordinate on such cases.The chief secretary has also asked deputy commissioners (DCs) to issue dependence certificates in all cases that the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) refers to them under Punjab State Victim Compensation Scheme by July 15.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the department had fast-tracked investigation in sexual assault cases, and trial of at least 150 cases, registered between January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020, has started. “Of 1,526 cases related to sexual assault registered over the past four years, 1,505 (98.5%) have been charge-sheeted. Investigation in cases registered from January 1, 2021, to date is being regularly monitored,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-level-committee-set-up-to-monitor-sexual-offence-cases-101625080463079.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Building a bond of trust between doctor, patient||It was a winter evening in 1969 when I was posted at the Civil Hospital, Fazilka. I got a call from the senior medical officer to attend to a delivery case near the Pakistan border. Being the only lady doctor in town, I headed for the village with a staff nurse and a male help. We took along a delivery kit and a few medicines, but there were no backups for oxygen or blood. It was dark by the time we reached the isolated hut where the frail woman was crying in pain. The only source of light was a lantern. I requested the men of her family to shift the patient to hospital, but they refused. There was no way out but to conduct the delivery. I listened for the baby’s heart, luckily it was beating. I thanked God as the baby arrived, yelling loud and clear. The woman’s family had assured me that whatever the consequences, I would be sent back with my staff safely. Still, I could breathe easy only when we reached the hospital. A doctor’s duty and the outcome This happened more than five decades ago. When I look back, I wonder how we were so naïve to take such risk. I ask myself and my colleagues if such a situation were to arise today, how many of us would go to a remote village to conduct a delivery in the dark. I’m sure hardly anyone would risk it. The reasons are clear; first being personal security. Nowadays, no doctor likes to visit an unknown patient. Who knows if someone is taking you for a ransom in the garb of a patient! Back then, such incidents were rare. Second, if something drastic were to happen to the patient today, I may not have returned. About 50 years ago, we were made to understand that if we were putting in a sincere effort, no harm would come to us, even if the patient died. Today, many patients believe a doctor is only making money and have become potential litigants. Every doctor wants that his patient should go back satisfied and fully recover as the goodwill brings in more people in need of treatment. So, why would a doctor spoil a case knowingly? Does anyone think about the condition of a doctor if something goes wrong with the patient? The doctor’s blood pressure falls along with that of the patient’s and he/she undergoes just as much stress. Why put docs in the dock? We doctors deal with a complicated machine, the human body, which responds in the most unexpected manner under stress. Which professional can claim he/she is always right? We should not forget that a doctor is dealing with sick people who come to him of their own free will, especially in elective cases, and they have time to choose and decide on their doctor after consulting others. Why does he have to face the wrath of the same people if something adverse happens? In many cases, the doctor is manhandled, his clinic vandalised and he is even handcuffed! In emergencies, it’s worse. If a doctor says he is not equipped for a case and advises the attendants to shift the patient to an institute, imagine his plight if God forbid the patient dies on the way. On the other hand, if he feels the patient might not survive the trip and wants to give him a last chance, he faces a backlash. This is in spite of the fact that everything is explained to the family and consent is obtained. The doctor is blamed both ways. Why? Did he intentionally kill the patient or spoil the case? Why does the media splash the news without verifying facts from the doctor concerned? Does anyone think what will happen to his practice, which he has struggled to build for years? Nurturing the bond with respect In case of negligence and complications, there should be an inquiry by a senior medical faculty and strict action should be taken against the erring doctor. Even consumer courts should consult a board of doctors before admitting a case. The doctor-patient relationship is one of trust. The doctor expects his patient not to conceal facts, follow the prescription and report to him in case of any problem. The patient also expects a sympathetic hearing and a frank opinion. If both parties are honest, there is no reason why there should be any problem. The sacred bond should be nurtured with respect. The writer is a Chandigarh-based gynaecologist. Views expressed are personal . She can be contacted at queenkochhar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-building-a-bond-of-trust-between-doctor-patient-101625080163103.html
01-07-2021||Other||Tarn Taran zila parishad member, sarpanch booked for assaulting woman||Tarn Taran Police have booked a locally influential Congress leader and sarpanch Awan Kumar, alias Sonu Cheema, and his brother Munish Kumar, alias Monu Cheema, for assaulting a woman at their farm house in Cheema Kalan village. Monu is a zila parishad member. The victim, of the same village, has also accused Sonu of raping her in the Chheharta area of Amritsar on June 19. Police, however, said the rape charges were being investigated On Wednesday, the woman lodged a complaint on the Punjab Police’s helpline number. She said, “On Wednesday, about 8:30 am, I got a call from Malkiat Singh, the former sarpanch of our village. He told me to go to the farm house so that a compromise can be reached in our land dispute with the Cheemas. I, along with my mother Sukhraj Kaur, visited the farm house where the brothers and Malkiat were present.”She added, “As soon as we arrived, Sonu started thrashing me while my mother managed to flee. She sent a village panchayat member Jaspal Singh to bring me back from Cheema brothers’ custody. I was allowed to go, but Sonu threatened me if I disclosed the rape.”DSP, City, Sucha Singh Bal said on the woman’s complaint, a case has been registered under Sections 354 (using assault or criminal force on woman), 323 (hurting a woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against Cheema brothers and Malkiat. He added, “We have formed a team under Sara-E-Amanat-Khan SHO Deepak Kumar to investigate the rape charges. The CCTV footage of Chheharta area will also be investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-zila-parishad-member-sarpanch-booked-for-assaulting-woman-101625080042704.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Heatwave sweeps Chandigarh, power cuts add to woes||Amid a subdued monsoon, heatwave swept Chandigarh on Wednesday, for the first time this summer. The maximum temperature was recorded at 40.6°C, up from Tuesday’s 39.8°C and five notches above normal.According to the Indian meteorological department (IMD), in the plains, heatwave is declared if maximum temperature is more than 40°C and at least 4.5°C above normal, or if it crosses 45°C.Similar conditions are likely to continue in the city on Thursday, though some respite is expected thereon, with a forecast for light to moderate rain up to 30 mm on Friday and Saturday.“Due to hot northwesterly winds, the temperature has increased beyond normal. It is expected to remain like this on Thursday as well. Easterly winds that are needed for the monsoon system to become stronger are unlikely to start yet,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh.Even as the monsoon arrived in Chandigarh early on June 13 this year, there have been only two spells of rains since then. While 15.4 mm was recorded on June 16, localised conditions created by high temperatures had led to 4mm rain accompanied by high-speed winds on June 26. According to the IMD, the monsoon is on a “break spell” and is not likely to cover the region in the next six to seven days. Meanwhile, maximum temperature is expected to remain around 37-40°C while minimum will be around 29°C in the next three days in Chandigarh.Power demand peaks in cityWith the mercury soaring, Wednesday also recorded the highest peak power demand in Chandigarh this year.It led to power outages in southern parts of the city, as the supply remained erratic. Even residents in the neighbouring Mohali district had to bear with long power cuts during the day.The peak power demand in Chandigarh on Wednesday was 383 MW, equal to the peak demand registered last year.In 2019, the city had broken all previous records of power consumption with peak demand touching 431 MW. On June 30 that year, it had stood at 415 MW.“Last year, the demand didn’t go very high even during the summer because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown restrictions. However, with subdued monsoon and consistently high temperatures, we are expecting the power demand to increase further, though it may not break the 2019 record,” said an electricity department official. Sectors 40 and 47 were majorly affected as the electricity department undertook repair works and replaced major transmission line equipment, said the official. Even Sector 49 reported erratic power supply throughout the night.“In some areas, there were temporary outages because of the high power demand, but the supply was restored after short intervals,” said the official.In Mohali, an emergency unscheduled cut at the Patiala grid led to disruption in power supply at 2pm. Though deputy chief engineer Mohit Sood said power was restored by 5:15pm, some areas remained without electricity till 7pm.A PSPCL official said that against an average demand for 420 MW per day, Mohali has 560 MW power available. “Sometimes, faults develop due to overload, which snap the grids causing major power failures. Otherwise, we have surplus power and there are no scheduled cuts in Mohali,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heatwave-sweeps-chandigarh-power-cuts-add-to-woes-101625079922743.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi wants action plan to help women who don’t have means to sustain themselves||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked for an extensive action plan to help women who have lost their husbands to Covid-19 and have no other means to sustain themselves. He gave these directives at the meeting with Team-9 on Wednesday. He said the women and child development department should work out the action plan for such women on the pattern of the Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana. He also said the state government was committed to the uplift of such women and there was a need to make arrangements for their livelihood. Special camps should be organised at block/ nyay panchayat level for women eligible for pension under schemes for destitute women, he said. The chief minister also said the revenue department should ensure that benefits of family succession were provided to such women on priority basis. He said a note should be taken of problems being faced by elders living in old age homes. Family disputes of such persons should be resolved, and better care should be taken of their health, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-wants-action-plan-to-help-women-who-don-t-have-means-to-sustain-themselves-101625079863144.html
01-07-2021||Other||Amid growing tension, Karnal DC meets representatives of Sikh, Ror communities||Amid reports of growing tension between members of the Sikh and Ror communities over the arrest of Kurukshetra youth Vishal Jood in Australia, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and SP Ganga Ram Punia held a meeting with members of both communities.As per information, the DC and the SP had apprised them that some youths are trying to create tension between both communities over Jood’s issue.The DC reportedly told them that strict action will be taken if anybody is found spreading hate. He asked representatives of the communities to speak to the youths of their respective communities over the matter.The SP said there were reports from police officials that messages related to the communities are being circulated on the social media and police are working on the issue.Some people had also attacked a police party in Nissing recently when the team reached their following reports of the possibility of clash between two communities.Members of Ror community are holding protests in Kurukshetra and Karnal for release of Jood who went to Australia to study and was arrested on April 16 in Sydney for his alleged involvement in three suspected hate crimes and alleged attack on Sikhs in Sydney in March and April.Following protests, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and BJP MPs from Kurukshetra and Karnal have already taken up the issue with Union minister of external affairs S Jaishankar, seeking his intervention for Jood’s release.According to a statement issued by the CM’s office recently, the Union minister had assured Khattar that he will take steps to ensure immediate release of Jood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-growing-tension-karnal-dc-meets-representatives-of-sikh-ror-communities-101625079802877.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||CTU buses to ply again on Himachal Pradesh routes||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume its bus service on all routes in Himachal Pradesh from Thursday. Apart from this, it will also start plying buses on all routes in Punjab and Haryana. The service to Himachal Pradesh has remained suspended since May 10, while it had already resumed on most of the routes in Punjab and Haryana. The buses will only ply during the day.The service is yet to start on routes in Uttarakhand, as the state government has not given the nod yet. “With Covid-19 cases declining sharply and all states introducing major relaxations in the lockdown restrictions, the department has decided to restart the interstate service on long-routes. On Thursday, 11 buses will leave for Himachal Pradesh,” said a UT official. He said the decision on resuming the night service will be taken later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ctu-buses-to-ply-again-on-himachal-pradesh-routes-101625079742735.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘1 lakh ACs will be made available to rural, urban consumers in Haryana’||Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh on Wednesday launched a scheme under which 1 lakh Air Conditioners (ACs) will be made available to the rural and urban consumers by giving up to 59% discount on the minimum retail price (MRP).The power department has set August 24 deadline for interested people to apply under ‘Demand Side Management-AC Scheme’.The minister said the power department has tied up with Deccan, Blue Star and Voltas, which will provide electricity cost-saving split ACs of 1.5 tonne capacity at low cost on demand of people. The domestic consumers can also exchange their old ACs.He said the companies will give discount on buying new ACs and replacing old ones. The Haryana government will also provide subsidy to buy the ACs.To take advantage of the scheme, interested people can apply by visiting the electricity department’s web portal https://acreplacementscheme.uhbvn.org.in.A subsidy of ₹2,000 will be given on buying a new AC in urban areas and ₹4,000 on replacement of an old AC. In rural areas, ₹4,000 subsidy will be given for buying a new AC and ₹8,000 on replacement of old ACs.By installing these energy-saving ACs, 657 power units will be saved in comparison to the old 3-star ACs and there will be an annual savings of up to ₹5,000, he said.The compressor will get a warranty of up to 10 years and all other equipment up to one year.Under the scheme, the responsibility of fitting ACs free of cost in homes of the consumer will be of the authorised dealer.Additional chief secretary (power department) PK Das said the objective of this AC scheme is to reduce the domestic energy consumption and maximum load, which is the first of its kind in country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1-lakh-acs-will-be-made-available-to-rural-urban-consumers-in-haryana-101625079625372.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn approves amendments in water bylaws||Residents within the lal dora in villages and in rehabilitation colonies and Manimajra will now be able to take commercial water connection solely for the shops being run from their houses, instead of the whole premises.Now, such consumers will not get commercial bill for their entire residential premises, but only for the area being run as a shop. They will also have to take a commercial power connection for the shops. The rest of the house will be charged as per domestic rate. The UT administration has approved a municipal corporation draft notification, that proposed amendments in the Chandigarh Water Supply Bylaws.Residents of these localities have been for long demanding that commercial rates not be imposed on the entire house, if a shop was being run from part of it.“It will also help the MC in improving compliance as more people are expected to come forward to avail commercial connection,” said an MC official.In another amendment, the water bill now not be allowed to be used as a proof of ownership. The notification states, “The water connection (regular, temporary and provisional) in the erstwhile villages, colonies and Manimajra is basic amenity of the general public. However, water bill cannot be used as a proof of ownership of house in any litigation or in court case related that premises.” In some cases, it has come to light that residents were using the water connection as ownership proof, even if they legally didn’t own the land or property wherein the house/shop was constructed on.In March, the MC had notified draft amendments after giving 15 days to general public and stakeholders to make any objections or suggestions to the draft amendments. After the 15 days, the MC had sent the draft amendments to the administration for its approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhadmn-approves-amendments-in-water-bylaws-101625079624351.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Now, V-C to take final call on academic, research matters||Panjab University (PU) has come up with an interim arrangement to deal with pending academic and research related matters amid absence of faculty deans and various boards of studies (BoS).Matters like approval of synopsis, approval of title for PhD thesis, framing of new regulations and introduction of new courses, that require permission from faculty deans, boards of studies, research degree committees etc, will be taken up by the joint meeting of administrative and academic committees (JAAC) of the department concerned for consideration.According to a communication issued recently by the varsity to the heads of departments and regional centres, the recommendations of the JAAC will be sent to the office of registrar and then be forwarded to the vice-chancellor for final approval under regulation 14 of PU calendar volume-I.However, the office of the registrar will make a detailed note explaining factual positions, before forwarding the matter to V-C.The one-year term of the deans of faculties had ended on January 31 without the selection of their successors, since the elections of the senate and the syndicate were not held. Senate polls have been pending since August last year amid the pandemic.This interim arrangement comes as a relief to hundreds of research scholars, who had been awaiting approvals. The regulation 14 of PU calendar volume-I states that whenever there is urgency, the vice-chancellor may take such action as he deems necessary, and report the matter at the next meeting of the syndicate for approval.However, an ex-senator said that as per regulations, these powers lie only with deans, and even the syndicate cannot use them.Meanwhile, PUTA president, Mritunjay Kumar said, “It is strange that PUTA was not informed about such an important decision. While we understand that it will provide much needed respite to research scholars whose files have been pending for long, we hope that it is only an interim measure, since all academic and research bodies/offices are being bypassed.” “We request the V-C to hold the elections of various bodies including senate and syndicate, amid declining Covid cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-now-v-c-to-take-final-call-on-academic-research-matters-101625079623146.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC panel wants relief for staff marked absent by GPS watches||Intervening on behalf of more than 250 employees of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), who were marked absent and their salaries withheld for May, the MC sanitation committee on Wednesday asked the MC officials to release their pending dues.The employees, which include regular, contractual and outsourced staff, were marked absent as they couldn’t be tracked through the GPS-enabled wrist watches, which are mandatory for MC employees to wear. Nearly 80 of those marked absent are members of the sanitation staff.The employee salaries were withheld earlier too, on account of not wearing the watches, but the dues were released with a warning for the future. The sanitation committee, however, has asked the MC officials to give them another chance, adding that if there were any technical problems with the watches, these should be fixed. In case the employees are unable to use the watches properly, they should be taught the best ways to do so, they have added.Employees have complained of glitches in the watches, particularly in showing the correct location. Failure to recharge the watches is another issue raised by the employees.The linking of attendance with the live location of staffers, as shown on the GPS-enabled watches, has been a controversial issue for the civic body. While the councillors have favoured a more lenient stance, the MC officials, including MC commissioner KK Yadav, have insisted on mandatory use of the watches to improve employee efficiency.After nearly a year of disuse, the MC in April this year had finally decided that the attendance marked through the watches will be linked with staff salaries from May onwards. But now with the sanitation committee again pushing for release of salaries to employees who couldn’t be traced through the watches, the old dispute is likely to be raised again.The MC spends more than ₹2 crore annually as rent for the watches, which are used to track more than 4,000 employees to deal with complaints of non-present staff. “We will ensure that the salaries are disbursed on the basis of the live locations of the wrist watches. This was the decision of the MC General House and we will implement it in toto unless suggested otherwise by the House,” said an MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-panel-wants-relief-for-staff-marked-absent-by-gps-watches-101625079562756.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar launches one-stop app for citizen-centric services||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday launched a mobile app to provide delivery of government to citizen (G2C) and business to citizen (B2C) services through one access point.The app ‘Jan Sahayak’ will have information about various government services and emergency helplines. Information about jobs, tenders, bill payments, travel, sports infrastructure, skill development can also be obtained easily through this app.The app has been set up in Hindi and English and will be available on Android and iOS (Apple) platforms.Khattar, while addressing a press conference, said that since social distancing has become the new norm, every wing of the state government needs to digitally provide citizen-centric services. The mobile app will also empower citizens to share suggestions, he said.“In the era of smartphones, a need was felt for delivery of services to every individual at their doorstep by setting up a mobile service delivery gateway,” Khattar said.The state government is already providing over 551 government services and schemes of 42 departments to citizens through ‘Saral’ portal.Khattar said through this mobile app, anyone can get detailed and authentic information about multiple services including new jobs, upcoming events, payment of bills, press releases, calendar and Haryana phone directory, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-launches-one-stop-app-for-citizen-centric-services-101625079503350.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh records 91% dip in cases in June||As the second wave of Covid-19 is tapering off in Chandigarh, the monthly cases have dropped significantly by 91% while the casualties have dipped by 80% in the month of June.As per the official data of the UT health department, cases had started increasing after mid April, but it was in the month of May that Chandigarh witnessed a peak of the second wave with 17,399 cases and 275 casualties, the worst figures so far.In June, however, only 1,502 fresh infections were reported and the number of deaths came down to 55. In the last seven days of June, ending on Wednesday, Chandigarh recorded a single casualty after no deaths were reported for six days in a row. Meanwhile, most of the ICU and ventilator beds in the city’s government hospitals are lying vacant.Besides, active cases in UT have also recorded a dip from 1,767 on June 1 to 154 cases on June 30. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 10.87%. Meanwhile, with 0.5% people testing positive out of total samples tested on June 28, 29 and 30, UT recorded the lowest positivity rate in the past one year.Till Wednesday, UT recorded a total of 61,670 cases, of which 808 succumbed to the virus while 60,708 recovered.As for testing, the UT health department performed poorly: over 1 lakh tests were performed in the month of May while testing dropped by 44% in June. Only 58,703 were tested in June, of which 1,502 tested positive, a positivity rate of 2.5%.Focus now on more testing, vaccinationDr Amandeep Kang, director health services, said, “Testing plays a key role in controlling spread of infection and our aim is to test around 2,000 people daily to avert a possible third wave. We have asked the authorities of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research to ensure testing of people visiting OPDs.”“Even though cases are dropping, people must adhere to Covid-19 safety protocols. If people will not wear masks and maintain social distance, cases may start to spike again. Also, people should get themselves vaccinated,” said PGIMER director, Dr Jagat Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-chandigarh-records-91-dip-in-cases-in-june-101625079444259.html
01-07-2021||Other||In a first, SGPC to observe anniversary of 1955 police entry in Golden Temple||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday announced that it will mark the first entry of police force inside the Golden Temple, on July 4, 1955, since the Mughal rule ended in 1857, with an Akhand Paath. This is the first time since the incident that the gurdwara management body has decided to observe its anniversary. On July 4, 1955, police had entered the shrine to deal with the supporters of the Punjabi Suba Morcha, injuring a number of Sikhs.“It was the first raid on the shrine since the Mughals. We are organising a Sri Akhand Paath Sahib (non-stop recitation of the Guru Granth Sahib) at the Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on July 2 to recount its history. The Bhog will be on July 4,” SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur told a press conference. The SGPC will also display relics of the entry, including four tear-gas bombs that the police had used. Kaur added, “During the intervening night of July 3 and 4, about 3am, the then Amritsar Range DIG Ashwani Kumar, under instruction from the then chief minister Bhim Sen Sachar, entered the shrine to crush the movement. Bullets hit the Golden Temple and the Akal Takht.”She alleged that the Congress has always been unjust with the Sikhs, who sacrificed the most for the freedom of the country. “The central Sikh shrine, Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib, was attacked just seven years after independence. The intention of the Congress, which committed the genocide of Sikhs in 1984, were anti-Sikh from the very beginning,” she claimed. In 2020, Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) chief Gurpatwant Singh Pannu had raised the issue of marking the anniversary. He had written a letter to Akal Takh acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to seek encouragement before opening a voter registration process in the state for a referendum on Punjab’s independence on July 4. His request, however, was never considered. Pannu was designated as a terrorist after he launched a ‘Voter Registration’ bid via a number of websites in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-first-sgpc-to-observe-anniversary-of-1955-police-entry-in-golden-temple-101625079382847.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula MC to let go of staffers aged above 62||The Panchkula municipal corporation will discontinue with the services of employees aged above 62 years with immediate effect. This is one of the 19 resolutions passed unanimously in the General House meeting of the corporation held under the chairmanship of mayor Kulbhushan Goyal on Wednesday.“In future, too, no employee aged above 62 years will be recruited in the corporation. Currently, there are 11 such employees on contract,” said the mayor.Community centres: Booking rates slashedThe House also decided to reduce the rates for booking community centres. For the two big community centres, the rate has been revised from ₹50,000 to ₹21,000, and for the small ones, it has been slashed from ₹19,000 to ₹11,000. Meanwhile, the rate for community centres in villages has been fixed at ₹5,000.The MC will also charge a membership fee of ₹500 per person per month for sports activities and using the library at the community centres.Funds for maintenance of parks increased The MC has also increased funds that will be disbursed to the 241 park development societies.There are 50 parks that are smaller than one acre, which will now receive ₹5 per square metre instead of ₹3. For the 191 bigger parks, it has been revised from ₹3 to ₹4 per square metre.The agreement with the Park Development Societies has been extended for another three months. Also, the agreement with new societies will now be made for two years instead of one.The MC has also decided to provide financial assistance of ₹3 lakh per month to the gaushala in Sukhdarshanpur village. For the treatment of sick and injured cows, the dog care centre run by the MC will serve as a temporary hospital for cows.Panel to evaluate property tax owed by Shalimar MallIt has been decided that a committee will be formed for fresh revaluation of property tax owed by Shalimar Mall. As per officials it owes over ₹4.5 crore.It was also decided that stern action will be taken against property tax defaulters. Properties of those with more than ₹1 lakh outstanding will be sealed after servicing notices.The House also resolved to erect gates at all eight entry points to the city, construct a multilevel parking in Sector 11 and take over maintenance of public toilets from Sulabh International, whose work was not found satisfactory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-mc-to-let-go-of-staffers-aged-above-62-101625079322748.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Cricketer Rohit Sharma sells Lonavala villa for ₹5.25 crore||In one of the major transactions in realty sector, cricketer Rohit Sharma has sold his Lonavla villa for ₹5.25 crore. The property, spread around 6,329sqft, has been purchased by Mumbai-based buyer Sushma Ashok Saraf.According to zapkey.com which accessed the registration documents, Sharma has paid ₹26.25 lakh as the stamp duty for this deal. The deal was registered on June 1, 2021.Lonavla is one of the popular weekend destinations and many Mumbai and Pune residents have purchased their second home there.Anuj Gangwar, business development manager, Safal Group, which deals with real estate and hospitality in Lonavla, said the hill station is popular for a variety of reasons. “It has excellent connectivity as Mumbai citizens can arrive within two hours, offers variety of cuisine right from local dishes to continental, boasts of various scenic places to visit and has excellent infrastructure,” said Gangwar.Safal is selling villas starting from ₹1.50 crore to ₹10crore.Apart from Lonavla, other places in the close vicinity of Mumbai such as Karjat, Shahpur, Alibaug and Khopoli have also emerged as favourite destinations for second home.Environmentalists rue that unfettered construction has played havoc with the environment in these gateways. “These scenic natural beauties especially Lonavla have turned into concrete jungles. The entire area is devastated by uncontrolled construction and rules are tweaked to favour the construction lobby,” said noted environmentalist Debi Goenka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cricketer-rohit-sharma-sells-lonavala-villa-for-5-25-crore-101625078722749.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Maha BJP writes to Amit Shah for CBI probe against Ajit Pawar and Anil Parab||Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit has written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and transport minister Anil Parab for extortion and corruption allegations levelled by former police officer Sachin Vaze. The letter written by state unit chief Chandrakant Patil has stated that the law and order in the state has collapsed because of the “obvious reason of political revenge and blatant misuse of the political power”. The letter, written a week after the BJP’s state unit passed a resolution in its executive committee meeting with the demand to the Centre for action against the two ministers, has urged to initiate necessary legal action to protect the interest of law abiding citizens. “In a handwritten letter submitted to designated NIA court, Sachin Vaze on April 3rd has alleged that Ajit Pawar through one Darshan Ghodawat asked him to collect ₹100 crore from illegal gutkha sellers and manufacturers. Vaze has also said that Ghodawat induced him to collect ₹100 cror illegally. He has also said that Parab asked him to collect a sum from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation contractors by threatening them against anonymous complaints. Parab also asked Vaze to collect ₹2 crore from about 50 sub-contractors. He also asked Vaze to initiate an inquiry against Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust and collect ₹50 crore from it,” the letter has stated. Vaze, who is a prime accused in Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran death case, was arrested by National Investigation Agency in March this year. He was later terminated from the Mumbai police force where he served as assistant police inspector. The letter states that the Bombay High Court has directed CBI to conduct a probe against former home minister Anil Deshmukh for similar allegations by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. “In the light of the specific allegations by Vaze against Pawar and Parab, a detailed inquiry must be conducted by CBI against the ministers and Ghodawat. The allegations are made before a judicial officer and as such it is just and necessary to conduct a detailed inquiry by the CBI and statements of the persons concerned be recorded. If the disclosure Vaze is not dealt with in accordance with the law, the law abiding people will lose faith in the legal system,” it further reads. The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party that are part of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi ruling state government have reacted sharply to the demand. “The BJP demands for the probe, it decides over it, its ruling government arrests people and even punishment is proclaimed by them…this is the mockery of democracy. BJP should understand that the West Bengal model would not work in Maharashtra. All the three ruling parties are together and would not bow before such tactics,” said minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “Generally, the CBI inquiry is initiated by state governments or high courts. However, the BJP has now exhibited the fact as under whose guidance and orders CBI acts. We are thankful to the BJP for it. This is the reason why Maharashtra and few other states have withdrawn the standing permission for the CBI probe in state matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-bjp-writes-to-amit-shah-for-cbi-probe-against-ajit-pawar-and-anil-parab-101625078663145.html
01-07-2021||Other||Hooda’s PSO booked on rape charges||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s personal security officer (PSO) Jitender Kumar was booked on rape charges at women’s police station here.In her complaint to the police, the woman, who is working as a nurse in the state health department, said that she came in contact with the accused when his father was admitted in the hospital after contracting Covid-19.“The accused used to come to my home to enquire about the health status of his father. He raped me and warned me of dire consequences if I lodge a police complaint. He threatened me at gunpoint,” the complainant added.Rohtak women’s police station DSP Sushila said police have booked the PSO on rape charges. The complainant is pregnant and her statement was recorded before a magistrate, she said.“The accused is out of Rohtak. We will interrogate him,” she added. Jitender has been Hooda’s PSO since he became the Haryana CM in 2005 and is still deployed in his security.Jitender could not be reached for a comment as his phone was switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hoodas-pso-booked-on-rape-charges-101625078662650.html
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Process to give ownership rights for tenants in urban areas of Haryana begins||People having rented houses or shops in municipal areas of Haryana for the past 20 years will get proprietary rights. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday kick-started the process of inviting applications from eligible beneficiaries by launching a web portal - www.ulb.shops.ulbharyana.gov.in.As per the Mukhyamantri Shehri Nikay Svamitva Yojana, the tenant will have to pay less than the present collector rate to get the ownership rights. A 20% rebate on the current collector rate will be given to tenants who have been residing in the house or are running a shop for the past 20 years. Similarly, those who have an occupancy period of 50 years will get a rebate of up to 50%.During a press briefing, the CM said while the urban local bodies department has data of 16,000 possible beneficiaries, the number is likely to increase. “Hence a weekly plan for staggering the applications has been made with maximum 1,000 applicants allowed to enrol every week on the portal,” Khattar said.Once the applications are in, the department will invite objections within a month. And once all objections are resolved, the applicants will be asked to submit papers.“The applicants will be able to see details of their applications on the individual dashboard designed for them. This will eradicate the manual registration process,” Khattar said.As per this scheme, if someone has constructed more than the floor or area of the allotted building, then he will have to deposit an additional amount that is ₹1,000 as per the additional constructed area.If the applicant is not allottee as per rules of the municipality but fulfils all eligibility criteria of the policy, then he will have to pay a lump sum regular fee of ₹30,000 in addition to the amount and tax to be paid as mentioned in the policy.As per this policy, if anyone has taken shop or house on the municipal land either on rent, lease basis or by paying a license fee for 20 years or more, then all such occupiers will be given ownership right under this policy.As per the policy, the occupier should have completed 20 years as of December 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/process-to-give-ownership-rights-for-tenants-in-urban-areas-of-haryana-begins-101625078604205.html
01-07-2021||Other||Thane teacher gets call from civic body to collect his own death certificate||Thane
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Assembly elections on July 6||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi has finally decided to hold the elections for the post of Speaker of the state Assembly, which is lying vacant following resignation of Nana Patole as he was appointed the state Congress chief, on July 6, the second day of monsoon session. The decision was taken by the MVA following a meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and a meeting of coordination committee of leaders from three parties on Tuesday. Congress MLAs Sangram Thopate, Suresh Warpudkar and Amin Patel are the frontrunners. Patole had resigned as the speaker of the lower house in the first week of February, a day ahead of his appointment as the Maharashtra Congress president. The election to the post could not take place during the two-week budget session as many ruling party MLAs were infected with Covid-19 and also because two ruling parties, barring Congress, were not very keen on it. The Congress was pushing for the election, but allies Shiv Sena and NCP were not keen because they did not want show of strength in the Assembly at a time when the situation was satisfactory and the government is occupied with the pandemic, according to MVA insiders. However, following a closed-door meeting between Thackeray and Pawar, the ruling coalition seems to have made up its mind. The state is writing to Koshyari for approval to hold the election. The Congress and Sena have issued whips to their MLAs to remain present on both the days of the session.Thackeray held a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar over various issues including the speaker’s election on Wednesday. The leaders reportedly discussed the reply to be sent to Governor’s letter in which he had reminded the government about holding the election. Congress leader and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said the letter will soon be sent to the Raj Bhavan. According to the NCP and Shiv Sena leaders, the issue was discussed during Thackeray-Pawar meeting. Both the parties are reportedly annoyed over the way the Congress appointed Patole without fairly discussing it with them. The top leaders felt the election to the post could put the MVA government in an embarrassing position if its numbers dwindled on the floor of the house. Pawar had expressed his unhappiness over Patole’s resignation in February. Thackeray, too, did not want election at this juncture as the state is grappling with Covid epidemic. “Thackeray wanted to drag the issue for some more time, but agreed after the NCP chief intervened and convinced him for the polls,” said a NCP leader. “The two leaders also felt that a show of strength could be used to political advantage to show the government is stable and all its MLAs are with it,” he added. The decision on holding the election has to be taken by the state government with the approval from the Governor. “The government informs the governor about its resolve of holding the election for the speaker’s post after which the deputy speaker announces the programme for the election once the government informs him,” said Narhari Zirwal, deputy speaker of the Assembly. Koshyari wrote to Thackeray last week asking him to take a call on election to the post of speaker, extending the monsoon session and postponement of the local body election in the wake of pending decision over OBC reservation. “The three issues are of utmost importance and have been brought to my notice by leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis who led a delegation of party leaders to Raj Bhavan on June 23. Take the decision on these issues and inform me accordingly,” he said in the letter dated June 24. The BJP delegation had also demanded extension of the monsoon session which is scheduled to be held for just two days. It also demanded that the polls to the local bodies be postponed in the light of the scrapping of the OBC reservation. This is not the first time the governor insisted on the elections. Ahead of the budget session of the state legislature in March, Koshyari had directed the legislature secretariat to conduct elections in the first week of the budget session. Nawab Malik said, “Whips are issued by the ruling parties every time there are finance bills are supposed to be tabled. We want to hold the election for the post of speaker, but a review of the attendance of the ruling MLAs will be taken on the first day of the session. Amid the pandemic many ruling MLAs are expected to remain absent if they are infected of the virus. The decision over the election will be taken keeping this factor in the mind.” Malik also said the governor should also take a call on the proposal of the appointment of 12 members to the legislative Council from governor’s quota. “Our leadership conveyed to Thackeray that we are very serious about holding the election in monsoon session. A detailed discussion was held during review meetings by All India Congress Committee incharge for state HK Patil recently,” said a senior Congress leader. Malik said the NCP has no objection to hold the elections this session and they will win the election, if it happens, with more numbers than polled during confidence vote in November 2019. Meanwhile, Congress has finalised the name of Sangram Thopate for the post. “We have only two MLAs in Pune district which has 21 seats. Pune has been our stronghold once upon a time and with both the municipal corporations in the district going to polls early next year, we need to give it a fair representation. His name has already been cleared by the party high command. Official announcement will be done on first day of the session,” said the leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-assembly-elections-on-july-6-101625078482109.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Stop political rallies during Covid-19 pandemic: Bombay HC to State||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday asked the state government to immediately stop political rallies being taken out during the Covid-19 pandemic and warned of strict action if political rallies continued to be held in the state in defiance of Covid protocols. The court took note of news reports of the recently organised rallies over naming of Navi Mumbai airport and Maratha and Other Backward Castes (OBC) reservations, and observed that it was not the time to hold rallies. The court said the state should activate its machinery to curb such rallies and added that it would not allow such rallies to be held during the pandemic. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by social activist Nilesh Navlakha seeking directions pertaining to shortage of anti-Covid drugs and alleged black-marketing and profiteering taking place during procurement and distribution of the drugs. During the course of hearing the PIL, petitioners counsel advocate Rajesh Inamdar informed the bench about rallies being held in complete defiance of Covid protocols. Inamdar referred to news reports which highlighted the recent political rallies and protests organised in the state pertaining to OBC quota in civic bodies and said that it was an open invitation for the spread of Covid. In view of this, he urged the court to intervene to stop it.After hearing the submission, the bench addressed advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for state and said, “You will have to start activating machinery to stop political rallies defying Covid protocols. We will not allow this to happen. We are shutting down courts for physical hearings and these political leaders are organising rallies with thousands of persons. The last rally was on the issue of naming of airport with over 25,000 people present. Can it not wait for Covid-19 to get over?” The protest rally demanding for naming of Navi Mumbai Airport after late socialist leader DB Patil was held two days ago, even before the completion of the first phase of the airport. While referring to the protest for Maratha reservation, the bench questioned as to why political leaders were not informing the electorate that the state government was not the authority to decide on the issue and that a review petition was filed in the Supreme Court. The bench then noted, “Everyone is trying to take mileage. Why? Let it wait for some time. Are vaccination camps less important? We should all take lessons from the second wave and be prepared for the third wave. We all invited it and saw what happened. We should avoid it.” Earlier last month, a division bench headed by justice Ravindra Ghuge at Aurangabad had also made similar observations and restrained politicians and ministers from conducting physical ceremonies and functions, including inaugurating projects and religious, social, cultural or political functions of any kind, until lockdown restrictions were eased by the state. The bench had suggested that such events and functions could be organised virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stop-political-rallies-during-covid-19-pandemic-bombay-hc-to-state-101625078424340.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Want of vax doses forces shut Maharashtra centres, again||Many vaccination centres in Maharashtra were shut down on Wednesday owing to the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, pulling down the improving inoculation rate. The shortage has forced the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to suspend its drive today. After inoculating a whopping 3,222,031 people between June 21 and 26, the first six days of the national vaccination drive, the inoculation rate in the state dropped significantly in the past four days, owing to the short supply of the vaccine. A total of 1,381,907 citizens were inoculated in the state from June 27 to 30. Many centres in Kalyan-Dombivli, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Ratangiri were shut for want of doses. The shortfall is expected to continue even on Thursday as the state has about 400,000 doses left for inoculation. A total of 253,772 people were inoculated on Wednesday.The BMC on Wednesday announced that it will not conduct vaccination on Thursday i.e. July 1, 2021. Although the supply has been better in June compared to May, there is not sufficient stock to continue vaccination, said BMC in a statement. The BMC in the statement added that citizens will be updated about the vaccination drive from time to time.The state government is expecting an additional stock of 900,000 doses from the Centre on Thursday. “We have received 200,000 doses today, and with earlier doses remaining after today’s inoculation, we expect the vaccination of about 400,000 people tomorrow. The fresh stock expected to be received tomorrow will take a day for distribution and will be available for inoculation from Friday,” said Dr Archana Patil, director health services.Dr Patil said some of the vaccination centres could not be operated owing to shortage of doses. “We distribute the available stock of vaccine to the districts to last for three days. If some of them use more on the first day itself, they may fall short of stock on the third day. In such cases, the centres do not operate. Our capacity is of inoculation of more than 1 million doses per day through over 15,000 centres, but actual vaccination depends on availability,” she said.Another officer from the health department said that although the Centre has given the allocation plan for the next few weeks, the schedule is not maintained, leading to shortage of doses. “This has resulted in drastic drop in inoculation rate after vaccinating more than 600,000 people a day over the past few days. The daily average dropped significantly this week. The irregular supply of vaccines by the Centre makes it difficult for us to plan the inoculation at steady rate,” the officer said.Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday that the state government wants to inoculate its 70% population at the earliest to lessen the impact of a probable third wave. He said that the state has the capacity of inoculation of 1 million people daily. Till Wednesday evening, Maharashtra had administered 32,436,460 doses to 26,065,108 people.After the central government rolled out a new phase of the national vaccination programme on June 21, Maharashtra inoculated a record 738,704 people on June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/want-of-vax-doses-forces-shut-maharashtra-centres-again-101625078423737.html
01-07-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Covid vaccination figures dip, 4,956 beneficiaries get the jab||Covid vaccination dipped in the state capital on Wednesday amid a focus on routine immunisation.In all, 4,956 beneficiaries got the Covid vaccine doses in Lucknow on Wednesday, the least in the past two months. The day’s numbers included 32% (1616) at private hospitals.In the state, 67,603 beneficiaries got the vaccine doses at 2,976 vaccination sites, according to the data available.On Thursday, too, the number may not rise much, owing to the vaccine availability situation.“We shall be vaccinating over 16,000 beneficiaries (in Lucknow) on Thursday. The number might go up if more vaccine is made available,” said Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, the chief medical officer of Lucknow.Lucknow has a target of 23,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses per day. Till now, the maximum beneficiaries vaccinated in a single day here is 28,131 earlier in June.The health department had decided to focus on routine immunisation on Wednesday.Booking of slots for the Covid vaccination in Lucknow for Thursday opened at 74 vaccination sites till late on Wednesday night, most of which were for people above 45 years of age. On an average, one booth can vaccinate 100 beneficiaries.The state health department had aimed to administer 10 lakh (1 million) doses statewide every day in July.“In the state, over 5,00,000 additional Covid vaccine doses have been distributed apart from the stock already available with the districts, ” said a senior health official who did not wish to be named.“The central government is supplying vaccine doses to all the states, including UP. Once we receive the vaccine stock from the Centre, the vaccination drive will be increased accordingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-covid-vaccination-figures-dip-4-956-beneficiaries-get-the-jab-101625078422586.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||New species of snail in Western Ghats belongs to entirely new genus: Researchers||Researchers have identified a new genus and species of land mollusc in the northern Western Ghats, from Amboli village in Sindhudurg district. The new genus, Varadia, has been named after herpetologist Dr Varad Giri, while the species has been christened as Varadia amboliensis, in reference to the location where it was first discovered in 2017. The findings were published on Tuesday in the European Journal of Taxonomy after five years of research. “Though we had initially misidentified the species, we undertook studies to compare its morphology, phylogenetic analysis and reproductive systems with other closely related specimens. DNA studies strongly suggested that Varadia amboliensis has not been previously described and that it belongs to an entirely new genus. The new genus is named after Dr Giri, whose contribution towards the study of Indian herpetofauna involves describing 56 new species and four new genera,” said first author Amrut Bhosale.The newly described species is a semi slug belonging to the eupulmonate molluscan group Stylommatophora. Semislugs are so-called because their shells are relatively small in comparison to the body, with the shell often partly or almost entirely covered by extensions of the snail’s ‘skin’, or mantle. Varadia ambolienesis, in particular, is a large semislug and adults can measure up to 7cm in length. It can be told apart from other Indian semislugs largely based on external appearance, the morphology of its shell, and its unique reproductive system.The newly described species is endemic to the Northern and Central Western Ghats, where it is primarily found in natural forests. It has so far been seen only in a handful of localities in Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, and can be found on the forest floor, among leaf litter, or on trees. “The discovery of this large and striking snail emphasizes the urgent need for detailed and geographically wide-ranging surveys of the snails and slugs of the Western Ghats. This group, which has long been neglected, is at a high risk of extinction due to habitat loss and degradation,” the researchers said in a statement on Wednesday.The Varadia amboliensis is among 21 new species that have been discovered in Amboli since 2005, including snakes, amphibians, crabs, spiders and scorpions. Amboli village is home to Shistura Hiranyakeshi biodiversity heritage site and falls under the Amboli-Dodamarg Conservation Reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-species-of-snail-in-western-ghats-belongs-to-entirely-new-genus-researchers-101625078302867.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Over 2 million vaccinated across Mumbai in June||More than two million citizens were vaccinated against Covid-19 across Mumbai in June, a huge jump from May’s figure of 821,900, data revealed. The increased supply of vaccine dose saw a major jump in jabs at private hospitals, followed by civic vaccination centres. At 281 civic vaccination centres in the city, 740,742 citizens were vaccinated in June as the supply to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) increased by over 23% from May. At 98 private vaccination centres, a total of 1,312,530 citizens were inoculated in June. According to BMC’s data, it received a stock of 688,470 vaccine doses, up from the 523,440 vaccine doses in May. Accordingly, between May 1 and May 31, 493,732 citizens were vaccinated in civic vaccination centres. The civic body received 947,950 doses (the highest) in April, 810,950 doses in March, 571,000 in February and 265,000 in January. The vaccination drive started on January 16, which has, as of June 29, seen 5,435,731 citizens vaccinated. According to BMC, 2.8 million citizens have been vaccinated in civic hospitals, followed by 2.2 million in private hospitals and over 0.3 million got the jab in state and central government-run vaccination centres.The BMC in its budget for 2021-22 had mentioned that its ultimate aim was to vaccinate 10 million citizens in the ongoing fiscal. For this, the BMC had plans to procure over 10 million vaccine doses from the international market. But as the Central government has announced to give vaccinations to all above 18 years of age for free, the BMC scrapped the plan. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “We are vaccinating citizens based on the supply we are getting from the government. As of now, our plan to procure vaccines from the international market is not on the cards. It is all being administered on the free supply we are getting.”On Wednesday alone, 63,579 citizens were vaccinated, taking the total to 5,435,731. In the city, there are 281 vaccination centres run by BMC, 20 run by state or central government and 98 are private vaccination centres.Meanwhile, out of the total number of citizens vaccinated, as of June 30, 1,727,319 are in the age group of 18 to 44, 1,583,689 are in the age group of 45 to 59, 1,424,396 are senior citizens and 3,300 are lactating mothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-2-million-vaccinated-across-mumbai-in-june-101625078242692.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body panel stays fire service fee on builders, societies||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Wednesday put on hold the implementation of levying fire service fees and annual fees on builders and housing societies. Committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav said that considering the Covid-19 pandemic, no fee or tax that imposes an additional burden on Mumbaiites should be implemented at present. While corporators across party lines opposed the administration’s proposal, Leader of the House, Vishakha Raut moved an adjournment motion opposing the circular issued by Mumbai Fire Brigade under which they have planned to recover fire service fee and annual fee from March 2014 in a retrospective manner.The BMC general body in 2014 passed the proposal to charge a fire service fee. Recently, the fire brigade issued a circular to implement levying of the fee retrospectively. Leader of the Opposition, Ravi Raja questioned, “Why did the fire brigade fail to implement levying the fee since 2014? Why has the proposal been brought now?”Among other proposals tabled before the standing committee on Wednesday, the administration also proposed to deduct 10% from the pension of a retired officer for a period of five years. The officer was found guilty in an internal enquiry regarding the Jogeshwari plot scam in 2018. Since the committee meeting was adjourned, no decision was taken in this regard, leader of the opposition Ravi Raja said. At the time of the internal enquiry, the officer was deputy chief engineer of the development plan (DP) department.“With allegations made against Bhaskar Choudhary, deputy chief engineer, DP during a departmental inquiry having proved to be true the standing committee’s permission has been sought for deducting 10% from his pension for five years,” the proposal said.The Jogeshwari plot, reserved for recreation space and hospital, was pegged at a market value of ₹500 crore. On the file regarding the acquisition of the plot, the then municipal commissioner Ajoy’s Mehta’s remarks were tampered with, leading the BMC to not challenge the acquisition of the plot in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-panel-stays-fire-service-fee-on-builders-societies-101625078242086.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,771 new Covid-19 cases, 141 deaths||With the state logging 9,771 new cases on Wednesday, the number of new Covid-19 cases continue to hover around 10,000 levels from the past 18 days. The state’s case tally now stands at 6,061,404.Though the state has witnessed a significant decline in the number of cases in June compared to last month, districts like Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune continue to record a high number of cases daily, thus pushing the overall tally upwards.Kolhapur recorded 1,945 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, while Sangli and Satara recorded 964 and 770 new cases respectively. Pune, which includes rural, as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad, recorded 1,474 new cases.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 706 new cases and 25 deaths.There are currently 1,16,364 active patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 17,407 patients followed by Thane with 16,115 active patients.The state’s recorded 141 deaths on Wednesday. The overall death toll has now reached 121,945, with Pune leading with 16,693 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,451 deaths.There were 139,449 tests done on Monday, while the number of recoveries stands at 10,353.“The daily cases may have declined compared to last month but we need the numbers to come down further,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management. “We are still seeing a surge in places like Kolhapur and it needs to be controlled. Since there is a movement of people from one part of the state to another, there is a danger of spreading the virus, if it is not controlled,” warned Salunkhe.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild said people are not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “People are now fatigued due to lockdown, hence we are seeing more socialising among the people. In addition, people are being casual about Covid,” said Gilada. However, he doubted the possibility of a new strain in this belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-771-new-covid-19-cases-141-deaths-101625078184975.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rat-bite case: BMC trying to shield agency, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Mumbai unit has alleged that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) tried to shield a private agency that was in charge of running the intensive care unit (ICU) at civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, where an incident of a rat biting a 24-year-old patient was reported 10 days ago.AAP’s Mumbai unit has alleged that the agency responsible for operating the ICU is owned by the daughter of a former BMC officer who is also a civic employee as of date.AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon said, “We demanded action against the agency, but were surprised when both the dean and mayor, quickly absolved them of all blame and laid it on “administration”. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and dean of Rajawadi Hospital Dr Vidya Thakur are deliberately trying to shield the agency.”The AAP alleged that in the case of Rajawadi Hospital, the agency that provides intensivists for the 21 ICU beds, belongs to the daughter of a retired medical superintendent. The AAP further alleged that the daughter is also an employee of the BMC. However, the BMC has not commented on the issue.Menon added, “During the pandemic, another 10 beds were added, and the same agency was given the contract, without a new tender and at a new inflated rate of ₹3,800 per bed, per day. Healthcare is one of the BMC’s primary responsibilities, and the civic administration cannot abdicate it by any means whatsoever.”However, the BMC in a statement has denied all allegations and said that none of the BMC employees have been given the contract. The BMC in a statement said, “Due process of tendering has been followed in awarding the contract for operations of ICU beds. The BMC administration has taken serious note of this matter and immediately constituted a three-member committee and the proceedings in this regard are now in the final stage. Action will be taken against the concerned as per the recommendations made by this committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rat-bite-case-bmc-trying-to-shield-agency-alleges-aap-101625078122136.html
01-07-2021||Mumbai||JNPT expansion: NGT forms panel to study plaints of CRZ violation||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted a four-member committee to examine complaints of Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) violations during the expansion of the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust’s (JNPT) Container Terminal-4 in Uran. The committee has been tasked with submitting “an independent factual report” within three months of the NGT order, dated June 23. NGT was hearing a complaint filed by Uran fisherman Dilip Pandurang Koli and others, against the Union government, challenging the manner in which environmental clearance was granted (in October 2019) to JNPT for the expansion works. The four-member committee comprises representatives from the environment ministry, Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board, Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA), and the Raigad district magistrate.The appellants have argued that the fragile ecology of the area has been subject to an onslaught of environmentally destructive activities by JNPT over the past several years. They have also challenged the joint CRZ, and environmental clearance granted to JNPT by MoEFCC, on grounds that it was done based on a factually incorrect claim that the CRZ area comprised of the project site is CRZ-4, though it falls within CRZ-IA, where no fresh construction activities are permitted as per the CRZ Notification, 2011.The appellant said the mandatory stage of public consultation under the EIA Notification, 2006 has been foregone without any valid basis and that JNPT has violated the conditions of previous environmental clearances, which mandate the protection of mangroves and mudflats. The compliance report submitted to the state government by JNPT in the matter was found to be at odds with the terms of past ECs granted to the project. These discrepancies were not discussed at the MCZMA meeting before issuing the CRZ clearance in July 2019.As part of legal proceedings, NGT has observed that the expansion area identified is ecologically sensitive and does indeed fall under CRZ-1A as per the coastal zone map. No construction is permitted in CRZ–1A notified areas. “The reclamation that is proposed to be carried out for the balance work of the fourth container terminal will seriously impact fishing activities being carried out by traditional fisherfolk that have a large presence in the area,” said Koli.“The expansion of the Jawaharlal Nehru Port over the years has seen wetlands destroyed, mangroves razed, and rich fishing grounds destroyed. Deepening and widening of the navigational channel, dredging, blocking the tidal flow of water in the course of the expansion of the Port has caused considerable damage to the natural ecosystem,” Koli added.“Given the contention that the area where expansion activities are to be undertaken is in CRZ-1A, where constructions are prohibited and that violations of EC conditions have been found... there is a substantial question of the environment relating to the enforcement of CRZ Regulations. Response of the concerned statutory authorities and ascertainment of ground factual situation is required,” NGT observed in its order. The matter is set to be heard next on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jnpt-expansion-ngt-forms-panel-to-study-plaints-of-crz-violation-101625078062701.html
01-07-2021||Other||Couple dies by suicide after recovering from Covid-19||A couple, who had recovered from Covid-19, allegedly died of suicide in their Tulinj flat in Nallasopara.The 60-year-old man and 55-year-old woman allegedly hanged themselves from the ceiling of their flat on Monday late evening. “The neighbours alerted us of the foul smell emanating from the flat,” said inspector Rajendra Kamble of Tulinj police station. The couple had been treated for Covid-19 in April and did not move out of the house due to fear of a relapse, the neighbours told the police. “They would order all essentials like groceries and vegetables online and sometimes the society members would get milk, bread and butter for them,” said Kamble. The couple led a retired life and sustained on their savings and monthly pension said police.“We suspect that the couple may have been depressed due to isolation. We have registered a case of accidental death and sent the bodies for postmortem. No suicide note was found from the spot. We are probing further,” said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-dies-by-suicide-after-recovering-from-covid19-101625078062068.html
01-07-2021||World||Florida condo collapse: Female voice was heard during initial rescue efforts, says official||While the chance of finding any survivor in the Florida condominium collapse is getting slimmer with every passing day, the fire rescue chief of Miami-Dade County said that rescuers did hear signs of life during their initial efforts. The search and rescue operation has stretched into the eighth day after the 12-storey Champlain Towers South in Surfside, Florida, partially collapsed last week.During a news conference on Thursday, Miami-Dade County Fire Chief Alan Cominsky was asked about a female voice that was heard in the initial hours of the search and rescue operation. Cominsky said that the rescuers heard a woman’s voice for several hours from underneath the rubble until she could no longer be heard."They were searching for a female voice, which we heard for several hours...eventually, we didn't hear her voice anymore," said Cominsky.“Eventually we didn't hear her voice anymore, we continued to search,” he said. “Again… that's emphasizing the magnitude of what we're going through,” he added.US President Joe Biden on Thursday arrived in Florida to offer comfort to the families of those who died in the collapse or remain missing after the condominium collapse. At least 18 deaths have been confirmed after six more bodies were found in the rubble, including two children, aged 4 and 10. Another 145 people remain missing.“This is life and death,” Biden said during a briefing. “We can do it, just the simple act of everyone doing what needs to be done, makes a difference.”“There’s gonna be a lot of pain and anxiety and suffering and even the need for psychological help in the days and months that follow," he said. "And so, we’re not going anywhere.”The rescue efforts were halted on Thursday after crews noticed widening cracks and up to a foot of movement in a large column, raising concern about the stability of the remaining structure, said Cominsky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-condo-collapse-female-voice-was-heard-during-initial-rescue-efforts-says-official-101625160429915.html
01-07-2021||World||130 countries back deal on global minimum tax plan pushed at G7 Summit||Some 130 countries have backed a global minimum tax as part of a worldwide effort to keep multinational firms from dodging taxes by shifting their profits to countries with low rates.The agreement announced by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Thursday also provides for taxing the largest global companies in countries where they earn profits through online businesses but may have no physical presence.The agreement followed a proposal from US President Joe Biden for at least a 15% rate, an initiative that propelled the talks toward meeting a deadline for a deal by the middle of this year. The deal now will be discussed by the Group of 20 countries at meetings later this year in hopes of finishing the details in October and implementing the agreement in 2023.Under the deal, countries could tax their companies' foreign earnings if they go untaxed through subsidiaries in other countries. That would remove the incentive to use accounting and legal schemes to shift profits to low-rate countries since the profits would be taxed at home anyway.Not all of the 139 countries that joined the talks signed on to the deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/130-countries-back-deal-on-global-minimum-tax-plan-pushed-at-g7-summit-101625157472313.html
01-07-2021||World||Pelosi names Republican Liz Cheney, a Trump critic, to panel probing Jan 6 riot||US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Thursday named Republican Liz Cheney along with seven democrats on a panel to investigate the violent January 6 insurrection at the Capitol. Cheney was among the three House Republicans who voted for the impeachment of Donald Trump on the charge of inciting the riots that left five dead including a Capitol Police officer.Announcing the names for the select committee, Pelosi said that the January 6 attack was not simply an attack on a building, but an attack on the peaceful transfer of power. Apart from Cheney, the other members on the panel are Bennie Thompson, Zoe Lofgren, Adam Schiff, Pete Aguilar, Stephanie Murphy, Jamie Raskin, and Elaine Luria.After Pelosi’s announcement, Wyoming Congresswoman Liz Cheney said in a statement that she was honoured to have been named to serve on the select committee to investigate the attack on the US Capitol. Recalling the insurrection, Cheney said that the day “saw the most sacred space in our Republic overrun by an angry and violent mob attempting to stop the counting of electoral votes and threatening the peaceful transfer of power. ““What happened on January 6th can never happen again. Those who are responsible for the attack need to be held accountable and this select committee will fulfill that responsibility in a professional, expeditious, and non-partisan manner,” she added.Liz Cheney was removed from GOP leadership earlier this year over her criticism of Donald Trump, whose allies have been railing against the Republicans who voted in favour of impeachment against the party line. The former President has even started a so-called revenge rally to endorse the primary challengers contesting against those who voted for the impeachment.“We’re giving tremendous endorsements,” Trump last week said in a telephonic interview with the conservative Newsmax channel. “Fake Republicans, anybody that voted for the impeachment doesn’t get it. But there weren’t too many of them. And I think most of them are being … primaried right now, so that’s good. I’ll be helping their opponent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pelosi-names-trump-s-republican-critic-liz-cheney-to-panel-investigating-jan-6-riot-101625153214657.html
01-07-2021||World||How Donald Rumsfeld, who died aged 88, helped India-Pakistan keep peace after Parliament attack||Former US secretary of defence Donald Rumsfeld, who died Tuesday at the age of 88, played an active role in averting a probable war between India and Pakistan following the December 2001 Parliament attack carried out by the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).Rumsfeld visited India in June 2002 when Indian and Pakistani armed forces were in a stand-off at the Line of Control (LoC) due to Operation Parakram, sanctioned by then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the aftermath of the Parliament attack.But before visiting India, Rumsfeld, the two-time defence secretary and one-time presidential candidate, met his Indian counterpart, George Fernandes, in Washington in January 2002 when India and Pakistan were on the brink of another war. Rumsfeld told a joint news conference that they discussed the “crisis and the tension in the region between India and Pakistan.”Citing Pakistan's then-president Parvez Musharraf’s speech, Rumsfeld said that Islamabad was taking certain actions and the United States was “certainly hopeful [it] will go a long way towards lowering tensions and promoting a constructive dialogue between India and Pakistan.”When asked whether Musharraf’s oral assurance was a reason enough for India to dismantle its military build-up, the defence secretary said, “India and Pakistan have to make these decisions. It's not the United States that makes these decisions. It's not any other country.”Also Read | US pushed for military cooperation with India after 9/11 attacks, says documentDuring Fernandes’ visit to Washington, reports had emerged that the United States had pressured Israel to not transfer the Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) and other weapons to India. “Well, I do not think that the United States had put any pressure on Israel as far as I am aware,” Fernandes had told the press conference, saying there was no substance as far as he was concerned.Amid efforts from the international community to avert a crisis in the region, the situation seemed to have gone out of control after the Kaluchak terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir in May 2002. Ahead of Rumsfeld visit, however, Indian warships had started moving away from waters close to Pakistan, signalling a greater restraint.Rumsfeld visited New Delhi in June where he met Vajpayee, Fernandes, external affairs minister Jaswant Singh, and national security advisor Brajesh Mishra. "We feel that there are steps being taken which are constructive, and we must say that the leadership here in India has demonstrated their concern and their interest in seeing that things are resolved in an appropriate way," Rumsfeld said after meeting Singh and Mishra.The stand-off finally ended in October 2002 after months of diplomatic efforts from the international community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-donald-rumsfeld-who-died-aged-88-helped-india-pakistan-keep-peace-after-parliament-attack-101625152248026.html
01-07-2021||India||'Court verdict hope for others jailed under fake charges': Akhil Gogoi||Hours after his release, Raijor Dal president and MLA from Assam’s Sibsagar Akhil Gogoi spoke to Hindustan Times on the court’s verdict and his determination to resume the agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act.What is your reaction to the court verdict? This is a historic verdict not just for me but for the Indian judiciary. For the past few years, it appeared that the executive was trying to influence the judiciary and control it. Today’s verdict shows that the judiciary is still independent and can take decisions judiciously without getting influenced by the government in power. The verdict also showed that agencies like the NIA and laws like UAPA are used by government to target those who are against the policies of those in power. The verdict, I hope, will pave the way for release of other activists who have been jailed under trumped up charges.Also Read: Akhil Gogoi released from detention in connection with anti-CAA protestsIt’s been one-and-half years since your arrest, were you expecting the verdict or to get released soon? There is a big conspiracy against me. Even today, the government tried to connect me to a 2013 case but the court rejected it as the verdict was already decided. Since I’ve been able to walk out of detention after so many months, I feel encouraged and happy. During this period of my detention, the government dismantled the anti-CAA protests, won the assembly elections this year and also implemented projects like toll gates on highways, which I was opposing. My detention also broke everyone in my family, including my son, my wife and my ailing mother.You got infected with Covid-19 during your detention and also had several other health issues. Did you feel disheartened or scared during the period under arrest? I spent several months in jail and the rest of the time in Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) where I was under treatment. Getting infected with Covid-19 in jail was a very painful episode in my life as I lost touch with others. While in hospital, I found that there were several cracks in my bones and I suffered from terrible chest pain. I was kept inside one room all the time and not allowed to come out. It was an unbearable mental torture for me. I am happy to have overcome those difficult days and be released.Will the anti-CAA protests in Assam resume after your release? The protests will definitely start and this time, the agitation will not just be on the streets, it will also reverberate inside the state assembly.Your victory from Sibsagar during the assembly polls while still being under detention is the first such instance in Assam. Did you expect to win? My win was a historic event in Assam’s political landscape. I never expected that voters would support a person who is behind bars and make him victorious. I am overwhelmed at the confidence expressed by the people on me from my constituency. Therefore, to express my gratitude, I will visit them on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-verdict-hope-for-others-jailed-under-fake-charges-akhil-gogoi-101625162799484.html
01-07-2021||India||SC rejects Centre’s plea to review backward class list ruling||The Supreme Court has dismissed the Union government’s petition for a reconsideration of its May 5 judgment, ruling that state governments have no power to draw up their own lists of backward classes after a constitutional amendment in 2018.A five-judge bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, held that there were not sufficient grounds to entertain the review petition filed by the Centre in May.“The grounds taken in the review petition do not fall within the limited ground on which review petition can be considered. The various grounds taken in the review petition have already been dealt with in the main judgment,” said the bench while also rejecting a plea to stay the judgment and an application for an open court hearing.The other members of the bench included justices L Nageswara Rao, SA Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat. The review petition was considered by the judges in chambers on June 28. The order of dismissal was released on Thursday evening.The only option left before the union government is a curative plea, which is entertained by the top court in extremely rare cases.In its review petition, the government contended that the judgment required a re-look because there were errors apparent on the face of the record. It questioned the interpretation given to the 102nd constitutional amendment by the majority of the judges on the bench.By a 3-2 majority, the May 5 verdict of the apex court-- which also unanimously struck down a state law granting reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education in Maharashtra -- held that state governments must rely on the Union government to include or exclude any community for granting reservation to socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs).The five-judge bench interpreted the 102nd constitutional amendment, whereby provisions were inserted to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (Article 338B) and for empowering the President to notify the list of socially and educationally backward classes of state or Union territory (Article 342A).While justices Ashok Bhushan and SA Nazeer maintained that the amendment was confined to the list to be issued for central government jobs, justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said that the scheme of the amendments took away the power of the state to identify backward classes.The majority view dismissed the Centre’s understanding of the amendments even as attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal insisted that the 102nd amendment was not meant to deprive state legislatures from enacting laws determining the SEBCs and conferring benefits on them, something that has become a hot political issue.According to the top law officer, Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution were untouched by the insertion of Article 342 , which meant that the states continued to exercise their power to identify SEBCs and provide for reservation.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, also asserted their right under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) to make special provisions for SEBCs and give them benefits of quota.Both the Centre and states further urged the court to lend credence to the parliamentary select committee report of 2017 and a statement of Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on the floor of Parliament in August 2017 that the amendments did not affect the rights of the state governments to notify backward classes for reservation.But the majority judgment rejected this plea, holding: “There is no reason to depart from the text which is in clear terms and rely upon the legislative history to construe Article 342 A contrary to the language...”Stating that the states could only make suggestions to the President who had the exclusive authority to notify the list of SEBCs, justice Bhat added that once the list was notified, states could only exercise their power under Article 15(4) and 16(4) to decide on extent of reservations, the kind of benefits, the quantum of scholarships, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-centre-s-plea-to-review-backward-class-list-ruling-101625162798258.html
01-07-2021||India||Tussle threatens to cast shadow on the constitutional norms||New Delhi: The tussle between West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is threatening another showdown in the upcoming assembly session that starts from Friday . In a press meet on June 28, the governor hinted that he is not bound to read the text of the speech approved by the state cabinet — an age-old norm practised in India. Article 175 of the Indian Constitution says, “The Governor may address the Legislative Assembly or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council, either House of the Legislature of the State, or both Houses assembled together, and may for that purpose require the attendance of members.” The subsequent Article, 176 (1), says, “At the commencement of the first session after each general election to the Legislative Assembly and at the commencement of the first session of each year, the Governor shall address the Legislative Assembly or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council, both Houses assembled together and inform the Legislature of the causes of its summons.” Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi, a constitutional expert, maintained that there is no doubt that the governor is bound by the text approved by the state cabinet. “Sad to see such a deliberate escalation. This is a far cry from Ambedkar’s conception avoiding two swords in one scabbard or two CMs in one state. There is isn’t an iota of doubt in my mind that a governor is bound by the text of the speech furnished to him by the state cabinet,” he said. To be sure, in the past, governors have expressed reluctance to read out the cabinet-approved speech that usually hails the government and showcases its various initiatives. In Kerala, governor Arif Mohammad Khan initially refused to read two paragraphs of his speech in 2020 that related to the Citizenship (Amendment) Aact. Finally he read the paragraphs but told the assembly that he has “reservations” but he will read the CM wants him to read it. A tussle between the governor and the state government hampered usual proceedings in Bengal earlier as well. In 2019, a session of the Bengal assembly ran for almost a year and Dhankhar alleged it was done to deny him the chance to address the assembly. “Never earlier in parliamentary history of this country an assembly has been in session for over a year without being prorogued. In the process wholesome practices including governor address in first session could not take place thereby depriving vital discussion,” he tweeted. For this session, too, the government informed the governor’s office that live media coverage of his speech would not be possible due to Covid restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tussle-threatens-to-cast-shadow-on-the-constitutional-norms-101625162797642.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Early’ monsoon may now be ‘most delayed’||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday announced, in its latest forecast, that the monsoon is unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of north-west India, including Delhi, till at least July 7, which will make the 2021 monsoon’s arrival in the national capital as delayed as in 2012 and the most delayed since 2006, according to the weather office’s records.If the prediction holds, that is.What make the circumstances particularly odd is that the monsoon was racing through the country in early June, and the Met predicted last month it may hit Delhi by June 15, the earliest in the period for which data is available, before it suddenly slowed down and appeared to hit a “break” phase.Also Read | Monsoon in Delhi to be delayed by 7-10 days: IMDIn 2012, the southwest monsoon arrived in the Capital on July 7, a full 10 days after its usual arrival date of June 27. The latest it has arrived in the past 17 years for which IMD has data is on July 9 in 2006. In 2019, 2010, 2005 and 2004, it made an official entry into Delhi on July 5.Meanwhile, Delhi, which has broken a weather record every month starting last August, broke one on the very first day of July, with the Safdarjung observatory recording a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, the highest July temperature since 2012 (July 2 that year recorded a maximum temperature of 43.5°C).Both 2006 and 2012 saw the same kind of heatwaves the Capital is currently experiencing.On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 43.1°C, six degrees above normal, marking the third straight heatwave day. In 2006, there were nine such days and in 2012, seven. By IMD’s definition, it is a heatwave in the plains when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5°C. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5°C or above from normal temperatures.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology), at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster, said that what Delhi is experiencing now is a phenomenon called “break monsoon”, which often causes monsoons to be delayed in a region by a week to 10 days.“Since June 18, strong westerly winds blowing from central Pakistan are blocking the humid, easterly monsoon winds, which bring moisture from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. On the surface, high-velocity winds are blowing, causing the ground temperature to rise and creating unfavourable conditions for monsoon winds to proceed,” Palawat explained.Aditya Kumar, an independent weather forecaster, said that the westerly winds that are also passing through the Thar Desert in Rajasthan are carrying dust along with them to Delhi, creating a layer over the city. This layer of dust led to heat getting trapped close to the surface on Wednesday night. This did not allow the ground to cool off and resulted in high minimum temperatures.“As of June 30, the rainfall deficiency in Delhi stands at 52%, which makes it the third-highest deficient state after Ladakh and Manipur. We can expect a good rain spell between July 8 and July 15. Till then, temperatures are expected to remain high, with the possibility of some patchy rain on Friday,” Kumar added.Meanwhile, IMD said that even though Delhi has recorded a rainfall deficiency in excess of 50% this season, this can easily be covered by a few heavy spells. That’s been another characteristic of the monsoon in recent years -- a few heavy-rain days accounts for much of the overall rainfall.“Delhi will get normal rainfall this monsoon. There is no chance of a deficit. A few spells of rain after July 7 will cover the deficit,” said a senior Met official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-monsoon-may-now-be-most-delayed-101625162514392.html
01-07-2021||India||Drones a clear, present threat, says army chief||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that the easy availability of drones allowed both state and non-state actors to use them, increasing the complexity of challenges faced by the security forces, days after an unprecedented unmanned attack on an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu. Highlighting the easy availability of devices such as the ones used in Jammu on June 27 -- and several other drones seen and repelled in the region’s Kaluchak area over the past week -- he said that building drones was akin to a “DIY project that could be tackled at home”. The attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility. “Drones will increasingly be used in all sorts of combat in future by state and non-state actors. We will have to factor it in our future planning,” the army chief said at a seminar organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council, a think tank. Steps are being taken to counter the drone threat, he added. “We are developing the capability to deal with this threat in both kinetic and non-kinetic realms. Troops have also been sensitised to the evolving threat...we are focusing on offensive use of drones as well as adopting counter-drone technology to prevent any attacks on our critical facilities either by state or non-state actors,” he said. The technology used in the aerial attack in Jammu indicated “state support and the possible involvement of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba terror groups,” Lieutenant General DP Pandey, who heads the Srinagar-based 15 Corps, said on Wednesday. The army and IAF have tightened security and activated countermeasures at their forward bases to pre-empt such aerial attacks. Pandey said there appeared to be an “element of guidance from state actors” to modify the drones for aerial attacks. The Jammu attack is a wake-up call, but it must be appreciated that the threat has been long in existence, and the antidote to terror drones is a whole-of-government approach since it’s not only military installations that are threatened but civilian infrastructure of importance too, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “Thus, the IB, RAW and other intelligence agencies have to work hand-in-hand to pre-empt attacks and terminal anti-drone defences have to be provided to key installations. In these Covid crunch times, finances would have to be provisioned from somewhere by the government,” Bahadur said on Wednesday. The drone attack is a watershed in asymmetric warfare and underlines the need for the armed forces to build capabilities to deter, detect and neutralise such aerial threats. He said, “The seesaw battle between drone warfare and counter-drone technologies will keep evolving. We will have to keep adapting,” he said. The army chief also talked about achieving self-reliance in niche areas to tackle new threats. “In order to harness niche technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), exploit our depth in IT and realise the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat, we need to shed old mindsets and make our procedures more flexible and adaptive,” Naravane said. The imaginative and offensive use of drones, riding on AI algorithms, first in Idlib and then in the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict, have challenged the traditional military hardware such as tanks, artillery and infantry, Naravane said. In Syria’s Idlib, Turkish forces successfully used drones to carry out attacks against Syrian tanks, air defence systems and other assets. Also, Azerbaijan made extensive use of Kamikaze drones to target and inflict losses on Armenian forces in a conflict last year. “More recently, the Israel Defence Forces have hailed the just-concluded 11-day conflict with Hamas, as the first Artificial Intelligence War. Whether it was the famed Iron Dome neutralising incoming rockets to great effect or the air targeting of Hamas locations in the Gaza strip, Israel has credited its success to the accomplishments in the field of AI,” he said. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday said that India has to start preparing for future generation warfare. He said the three services, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest. The drone threat has surfaced at a time the armed forces are undergoing a major restructuring drive. Theaterisation plans are being refined to integrate the capabilities of the three services and optimally utilise their resources for future wars and operations. The plans cover the setting up of an Air Defence Command to protect key assets and installation from airborne attacks by standalone weapons such as armed drones, rockets and missiles. DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy said that the counter-drone technology developed by his organisation could provide the armed forces with the capability to swiftly detect, intercept and destroy small drones that pose a security threat. He said DRDO’s anti-drone system would give the military both “soft kill” and “hard kill” options to tackle the aerial threat. The first refers to jamming the hostile drone, while the second involves a laser-based kill system. The DRDO’s counter-drone technology uses a variety of methods to neutralise the danger from such aerial attacks. DRDO officials previously explained how the system works. The solution consists of a radar system that offers 360-degree coverage with detection of micro drones when they are 4km away, electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) sensors for detection of micro drones up to 2 km and a radio frequency (RF) detector to detect RF communication up to 3 km. “The radar detects micro drones and hands over the track for soft kill and hard kill after due verification by a sensor. Once confirmed by RF detection and verified by EO/IR sensor, the system is ready to jam RF/GNSS signals or use laser weapon as per standard operating procedures,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-a-clear-present-threat-says-army-chief-101625162737716.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Early’ monsoon maynow be ‘most delayed’||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday announced, in its latest forecast, that the monsoon is unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of north-west India, including Delhi, till at least July 7, which will make the 2021 monsoon’s arrival in the national capital as delayed as in 2012 and the most delayed since 2006, according to the weather office’s records. If the prediction holds, that is. What make the circumstances particularly odd is that the monsoon was racing through the country in early June, and the Met predicted last month it may hit Delhi by June 15, the earliest in the period for which data is available, before it suddenly slowed down and appeared to hit a “break” phase.In 2012, the southwest monsoon arrived in the Capital on July 7, a full 10 days after its usual arrival date of June 27. The latest it has arrived in the past 17 years for which IMD has data is on July 9 in 2006. In 2019, 2010, 2005 and 2004, it made an official entry into Delhi on July 5.Meanwhile, Delhi, which has broken a weather record every month starting last August, broke one on the very first day of July, with the Safdarjung observatory recording a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, the highest July temperature since 2012 (July 2 that year recorded a maximum temperature of 43.5 degrees). Both 2006 and 2012 saw the same kind of heatwaves the Capital is currently experiencing. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 43.1 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal, marking the third straight heatwave day. In 2006, there were nine such days and in 2012, seven. By IMD’s definition, it is a heatwave in the plains when the maximum temperature crosses 40 degrees Celsius, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees Celsius. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5 degrees Celsius or above from normal temperatures. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology), at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster, said that what Delhi is experiencing now is a phenomenon called “break monsoon”, which often causes monsoons to be delayed in a region by a week to 10 days. “Since June 18, strong westerly winds blowing from central Pakistan are blocking the humid, easterly monsoon winds, which bring moisture from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. On the surface, high-velocity winds are blowing, causing the ground temperature to rise and creating unfavourable conditions for monsoon winds to proceed,” Palawat explained. Aditya Kumar, an independent weather forecaster, said that the westerly winds that are also passing through the Thar Desert in Rajasthan are carrying dust along with them to Delhi, creating a layer over the city. This layer of dust led to heat getting trapped close to the surface on Wednesday night. This did not allow the ground to cool off and resulted in high minimum temperatures. “As of June 30, the rainfall deficiency in Delhi stands at 52%, which makes it the third-highest deficient state after Ladakh and Manipur. We can expect a good rain spell between July 8 and July 15. Till then, temperatures are expected to remain high, with the possibility of some patchy rain on Friday,” Kumar added.Meanwhile, IMD said that even though Delhi has recorded a rainfall deficiency in excess of 50% this season, this can easily be covered by a few heavy spells. That’s been another characteristic of the monsoon in recent years -- a few heavy-rain days accounts for much of the overall rainfall. “Delhi will get normal rainfall this monsoon. There is no chance of a deficit. A few spells of rain after July 7 will cover the deficit,” said a senior Met official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-monsoon-maynow-be-most-delayed-101625162437673.html
01-07-2021||India||Next year's winter session to be held in new Parliament building: Hardeep Puri||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has expressed confidence that the first winter session of parliament after the country completes 75 years of Independence next year, will be held in the new building of Parliament."I am confident that when we celebrate the 75th anniversary of our independence, the winter session will be in the new Parliament," Puri said.He was speaking at the inauguration of the newly refurbished Janpath Hotel which will be a temporary home for the activities of IGNCA.The minister said the old parliament building could not meet requirements in terms of space.He said the old building, whose construction started in 1921, could meet the requirements at the time of independence and years later."Today, it is not sufficient. There are problems," he said, adding that the decision for the new building was taken after members of the two Houses made a request.The minister said work for the new building was being done "in a clockwork fashion with an entire government approach".Puri said that the Republic Day parade in 2022 will be held at refurbished Rajpath, a project under the Central Vista redevelopment plan."Another component, which we have undertaken is the expansion, upgradation and modernization of the Central Vista Avenue. The January 26 parade in 2022, will be at the new venue of Central Vista Avenue," he said.The minister noted that none of the iconic buildings of the national capital will be demolished."Whenever you undertake a project on such an ambitious scale as the Prime Minister decided there will be voices, which is perhaps because they do not know the full facts, (they) will say that this is a project which is designed to demolish our heritage or iconic buildings. I think that not a single of those cultural iconic heritage buildings will be demolished. We are proud of our culture," he said.The Central Vista Development project intends to revamp 86 acres of land in central Delhi which has structures such as Parliament House, North Block, South Block, Shastri Bhavan and Udyog Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-after-75th-anniversary-of-independence-to-be-held-in-new-parliame-101625161387791.html
01-07-2021||India||BJD lawmaker stings Naveen Patnaik govt with surprise pitch on Covid deaths||Bhubaneswar: Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, a lawmaker of Naveen Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD), on Thursday sparked a political firestorm in Odisha, with a front-page signed editorial in the state’s leading daily Sambad that accused the government of under-reporting deaths due to Covid and demanding the government issue a white paper on the Covid deaths. Patnaik, the Odia language newspaper’s founder-editor, said the attempt to hide the real figures “had ruined the image of administrative machinery”.The editor-politician said the data of Covid deaths was manipulated due to a desperate race to be on the top and an attempt to cling onto past glory, remarks that are seen to refer to a tug-of-war in the corridors of power in Bhubaneswar.“In the present scenario, what the left hand is doing is not known to the right hand of the administration. Whether chief minister Naveen Patnaik is aware of it or not, we do not know for sure,” said Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, who is also the BJD vice-president.He argued for a white paper on the deaths, adding: “People of the State will love him (Naveen Patnaik) more, if he displays courage by releasing the white paper”.The opposition promptly latched on, citing the harshly-worded article by the BJD legislator and the newspaper’s founder-editor as evidence to back up its charge that the state government under-reported death figures.BJD leader and government chief whip Pramila Mallick rubbished the charge that the government had concealed Covid-related deaths. “I want to ask those who are pointing fingers at the government to reveal how we are fudging the data,” she said, challenging the government’s critics.According to data released by Thursday, 4.063 people have lost their lives due to Covid since April last year. Soumya Ranjan Patnaik cited the Supreme Court’s verdict on Wednesday that asked all deaths of Covid-19 patients within two-three months of testing positive as Covid deaths, widening the definition of what would be considered as Covid deaths.“A PIL is pending in Orissa High Court in this regard. During this time a controversy has erupted in Odisha about the actual number of Covid deaths due to administrative mistakes. The Naveen Patnaik government is facing embarrassment due to such things,” Patnaik wrote.A response to a right to information request by activist Pradip Pradhan which said 3,480 bodies were cremated with Covid protocol at one crematorium in Bhubaneswar by the end of December last year is frequently cited by the government’s critics since official data only counts 1,873 Covid deaths across the state till end of December.Congress leader Suresh Routray said it was courageous of Soumya Ranjan Patnaik to write the piece. “While the truth of Covid deaths is too well known, no BJD leader could muster courage to question the government statistics. Naveen Patnaik should come clean with the figures,” said Routray.Odisha BJP general secretary Prithviraj Harichandan said around 250 bodies were being cremated everyday at the peak of the Covid second wave in May and June, but the state government stuck to its daily mortality count of 30 to 40.“By concealing the death numbers, the Odisha government is depriving the families of the victims of the central assistance, and also from the assistance the State had announced for them,” said Harichandan.The Orissa High Court last week told the state government to submit district wise Covid death figures by July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-lawmaker-stings-naveen-patnaik-govt-with-surprise-pitch-on-covid-deaths-101625161058325.html
01-07-2021||India||'Scent of our ties...': PM Modi-Afghan envoy engage in Twitter exchange||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded tweets in Hindi by Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay about an Indian doctor refusing to accept money from him, saying they reflected the special relations between the two countries.Mamundzay, who speaks fluent Hindi and Urdu and often tweets in Hindi, recounted his experience with the doctor he visited recently.“A few days ago, I went to a doctor for treatment. Upon learning that I am the Afghan ambassador to India, the doctor refused to accept any payment for my treatment,” the envoy tweeted in Hindi.Also read: On Doctors’ Day, PM Modi thanks Covid warriors for their service during pandemic“When I asked the reason for this, he told me that I can do very little for Afghanistan and that is why I won’t charge a brother. There were no words to express my gratitude. This is India – love, respect, values and compassion. Because of you my friend, Afghans cry a little less, smile a little more and feel great,” he added.अच्छे दोस्त सितारों की तरह होते हैं, आप उन्हें हमेशा नहीं देखते, लेकिन आप जानते हैं कि वे हमेशा मौजूद रहते हैं। भारतीयों और अफगानों के संबंधों की कहानी।समय देने के लिए माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी का धन्यवाद। @narendramodi यह इस पुरानी और गहरी दोस्ती का एक और उदाहरण है। https://t.co/rQpiJjlkKdOn seeing Mamundzay’s tweet, a resident of Haripura village in Rajasthan asked him to visit the area. Mamundzay asked whether this was Haripura village in Gujarat.Modi then quoted the Afghan ambassador’s tweet and said Mamundzay’s remarks reflected the special status of India-Afghanistan relations. While asking the envoy to visit Haripura in Rajasthan and Haripura in Gujarat, Modi added in Hindi, “What you have shared about your experience with a doctor from India gives the scent of the fragrance of India-Afghanistan relations.”Mamundzay later tweeted to the resident of Haripura that he would someday visit the village in Rajasthan. He said, “Rajasthan has a long history with Afghanistan. I will definitely go to Haripura one day and expect a Rajasthani turban from my friends.”The exchange on Twitter occurred as India was observing National Doctor’s Day on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scent-of-fragrance-of-our-ties-pm-modi-afghan-envoy-engage-in-twitter-exchange-101625160998740.html
01-07-2021||India||‘My release will pave way for other activists behind bars.. Akhil Gogoi tells HT||After being discharged by a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday in the second and final case against him in connection with the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests, Raijor Dal president and MLA from Assam’s Sibsagar, Akhil Gogoi, who was under arrest since December 2019, vowed to resume agitation against the legislation. In an interview with Hindustan Times’ Utpal Parashar, he talked about the verdict, life in detention and more. Q: What’s your reaction to the NIA court’s verdict? A: This is a historic verdict not just for me but for the Indian judiciary. For the past few years, it appeared that the executive was trying to influence the judiciary and control it. Today’s verdict shows that the judiciary is still independent and can take decisions judiciously without getting influenced by the government in power. The verdict also showed that agencies like the NIA and UA(P) Act are used by the government to target those who are against the policies of those in power. The verdict, I hope, will pave way for the release of other activists who have been jailed under trumped-up charges. Q: It’s been one-and-half years since your arrest, were you expecting the verdict or to get released soon? A: There’s a big conspiracy against me. Even today, the government tried to connect me to a 2013 case but the court rejected it as the verdict was already decided. Since I’ve been able to walk out of detention after so many months, I am very encouraged and happy. During this period of my detention, the government dismantled the anti-CAA protests, won the assembly elections this year and also implemented projects like toll gates on highways, which I was opposing. My detention also broke everyone in my family including my son, my wife and my ailing mother. Also read: ‘Blockades unaccompanied by incitement to violence won’t constitute terrorist act’ - NIA courtQ: You got infected with Covid-19 during your detention and also had several other health issues. Did you feel disheartened or scared during the period under arrest? A: I spent several months in jail and the rest of the time in Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) where I was under treatment. Getting infected with Covid-19 in jail was a very painful episode in my life as I lost touch with others. While in hospital, I found that there were several cracks in my bones and I suffered from terrible chest pain. I was kept inside one room all the time and was not allowed to come out. It was unbearable mental torture for me. I am happy to have overcome those difficult days and get released. Q: Will the anti-CAA protests in Assam resume after your release? A: The protests will definitely start and this time the agitation will not just be on the streets, it will also reverberate inside the state assembly. Q: Your victory from Sibsagar during the assembly polls while still being under detention is the first such instance in Assam. Did you expect to win? A: My win was a historic event in Assam’s political landscape. I never expected that voters would support a person who is behind bars and make him victorious. I am overwhelmed at the confidence in me expressed by the people from my constituency. Therefore, to express my gratitude I will visit them on Friday and pay respect to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-release-will-pave-way-for-other-activists-behind-bars-akhil-gogoi-tells-ht-101625160278141.html
01-07-2021||India||DCGI tells Dr Reddy’s to submit Russian efficacy data on Sputnik Light vaccine, says no need to conduct separate trial||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) told Dr Reddy’s to submit efficacy data from the Phase III clinical trial of Sputnik V in Russia to the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) for marketing authorisation, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company said in a statement.“Dr Reddy’s should submit safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data from the phase III clinical trial of Sputnik V in Russia to the SEC for its consideration of Marketing Authorisation of Sputnik Light in India,” the statement said.Earlier the DCGI refused to grant emergency-use authorisation to single-dose Covid vaccine Sputnik Light. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) after holding a meeting on July 30 observed that Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V. It said that the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data in the Indian population is already generated in a trial here.Dr Reddy's Laboratories submitted a proposal to the drugs regulator seeking market authorisation of Sputnik-Light, along with the interim safety and efficacy data generated from the phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in Russia, according to the recommendations made by the SEC which were uploaded on the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) website on Thursday. The pharma company also presented the protocol for conducting the phase-3 clinical trial of the vaccine in India before the committee.The SEC pointed out that Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V and said the firm has already generated the safety and immunogenicity data of component 1 in India. It said that the Phase III trials which are ongoing in Russia and efficacy data is yet to be generated.“The SEC also observed that in view of the safety and immunogenicity data already generated by Dr. Reddy’s in India on the first dose component of Sputnik V (in other words, Sputnik Light), there was no need for a separate Phase III trial of Sputnik Light in India,” the statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-tells-dr-reddy-s-to-submit-russian-efficacy-data-on-sputnik-light-vaccine-says-no-need-to-conduct-separate-trial-101625155551370.html
01-07-2021||India||‘No doubt kids addicted to phones but…’: Court declines plea to ban video games||The Madras high court on Thursday declined to entertain a plea that wanted a ban on all online and offline video games, observing that elected governments were the appropriate authority to take a policy decision on concerns around the addiction of children and young adults to these games.A bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the courts would intervene if there is some illegal action or if something is detrimental to the larger public interest. But given the present situation, they didn’t want to issue a diktat but would leave a decision to the wisdom of the people’s elected representatives.The court clarified that this order will not prevent any similar complaints in the future if executive action isn’t forthcoming.“There is no doubt that children and young adults these days are addicted to their phones and their worlds appear to revolve around their mobile phones,” the court said.Also Read: Why teens should not use Internet for recreation for more than an hour“Oftentimes, a family could be together and sitting at a table but each member using the phone, even if to describe the dish that he may be having or the quality of food at the moment.”The court asked E Martin Jayakumar, who petitioned the high court, to approach the Union and state government within four weeks and told the authorities to indicate the government’s stance on the issue within eight weeks of receiving his representation.The bench said even constitutional courts should be slow in entering into such areas and dealing with such matters on the personal sense of morality of the individual complainant or of the judge or judges concerned.Also Read: Facebook helps Zara sell clothes using video games“It is only upon the failure of the executive to act and, thereupon, the court perceiving the matter to be a danger to society, that the court ought to step in. At least at the initial stage, the duty of the court is to direct the complainants to the executive for a more wholesome and studied policy decision to be taken by the executive than what may be possible before any court,” the bench led by chief justice Banerjee said.The petition wanted the court to ban all video games, online or offline, and to bring appropriate mechanisms to track computers, laptops, mobile phones and other devices used for playing games.The petitioner said children were being lured by unscrupulous business enterprises particularly during the lockdown since educational institutions are closed and described the addiction to video games as devastating and life-threatening since it destroys the career-building phase of a young adult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approach-the-govt-madras-high-court-to-petitioner-who-wants-video-games-banned-101625153257606.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nirav Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta remits over ₹17 crore to govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nirav Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta remits ₹17.25 crore to Indian govtPurvi Modi, sister of Nirav Modi who is wanted in the PNB scam, remitted over ₹17 crore from a bank in the United Kingdom to the Indian government on Thursday. Read more‘We gave our best shot but it didn’t happen’: Ashwin says he was ‘numb’ after losing WTC Final to NZRavichandran Ashwin has opened up on the heartbreaking experience of losing the inaugural ICC World Test Championship final to New Zealand in Southampton. Read morePriyanka Chopra lands 27th spot on Instagram Richlist, makes ₹3 crore per post: reportWith 64 million followers on Instagram, Priyanka is reportedly getting $403,000 ( ₹3 crore) for every promotional post she makes on the app. Read moreHero MotoCorp sells 1 million units in Q1 of FY22, 4.6 lakh units in June aloneHero MotoCorp on Thursday announced it had sold 4.6 lakh units of motorcycles and scooters in the month of June, taking the figures for the first quarter of FY 2022 to past one million. Read moreTop smartphones under ₹10,000 launched in India this year; from Realme C20 to Samsung Galaxy F02s, check them out hereWe’re already in the middle of the year and we’ve witnessed a huge number of smartphone launches in India. There have been multiple smartphone launches in different price segments from budget, mid-range, premium affordable, flagship to ultra premium as well. Read more'Heads bashed...': Jinping on China's foes amid Communist Party's centenary festOn July 1, China celebrated the centenary of its ruling Communist Party, with President Xi Jinping presiding over the festivities at Beijing's Tiananmen Square. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nirav-modi-s-sister-purvi-mehta-remits-over-rs-17-crore-from-uk-bank-account-to-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101625152672749.html
01-07-2021||India||Nirav Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta remits ₹17.25 crore to Indian govt||Purvi Modi, sister of Nirav Modi who is wanted in the PNB scam, remitted over ₹17 crore from a bank in the United Kingdom to the Indian government on Thursday after she was pardoned from criminal proceedings in return for extending help over the ₹13,000 crore PNB loan fraud case.A Mumbai court in January granted ‘tender of pardon’ in the case to Purvi Modi alias Purvi Mehta (47) and her husband Maiank Mehta as both were made approvers on the condition that they make full and true disclosure. Both Purvi and Maiank are British citizens and they never joined the probe.“On June 24, Purvi Modi informed the Enforcement Directorate that she had received the knowledge of one bank account in London, United Kingdom in her name, which was opened at the behest of her brother Nirav Modi and that the funds did not belong to her.""As Purvi Modi was allowed tender of pardon on conditions of making full and true disclosure, she remitted an amount of $23,16,889.03 from her UK bank account to the bank account of the government of India, Directorate of Enforcement,” Enforcement Directorate (ED) said in a statement. The ED also said that it recovered about ₹17.25 crore from the proceeds of the crime with the cooperation of Purvi Modi.The ED said that Purvi assured the agency that she would help it in confiscating assets worth ₹579 crore which included flats in New York, London and deposits in bank accounts in Switzerland. The ED earlier got an arrest warrant issued by the Interpol against her in 2018 and also filed two charge sheets under the criminal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) where Purvi and Maiank were arraigned as accused in the alleged bank loan fraud case.Purvi in her application to the court said that she was not a prime accused and was attributed a limited role by the investigating agency. She also said that she gave full cooperation to the agencies and provided all requisite information and documents.In her plea, Purvi said that on account of being Nirav Modi’s sister, she could provide “substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings” because of her unique position.The ED said that a ₹19.5 crore worth flat near Breach Candy on Bhulabhai Desai Road in Mumbai, two flats in Central Park south area of New York (in the name of a trust) wroth ₹36.52 crore and ₹182.82 crore respectively, two Swiss bank account deposits worth ₹168.08 crore and ₹108.23 crore, a ₹62.1 crore flat at Marylebone Road in London and bank deposits worth ₹1.96 crore kept in a Syndicate Bank branch at Nariman Point in Mumbai are the assets in the names of Purvi Modi which are expected to be repatriated with her assistance. The ED last month said that 40% of the money lost by the banks due to the frauds committed by fugitive businessmen Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya has been recovered so far.Nirav Modi is currently held at Wandsworth prison in South London and has been there since his arrest in London in March 2019 with connection to the PNB scam.Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi both of whom are prime accused in the case along with others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges. The duo have perpetrated bank fraud of more than ₹13,000 crore with assistance from bank officials and by issuing fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-sister-purvi-mehta-remits-rs-17-25-crore-to-indian-govt-101625151600021.html
01-07-2021||India||Gauhati high court stays order to send teenage rape survivor to live with accused’s kin||Guwahati: The Gauhati high court has put on hold a controversial order by a sessions court in Arunachal Pradesh that ordered a child care home to hand over custody of a minor rape survivor to a relative of the rape accused.On Wednesday, Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia stepped in and after a virtual hearing issued orders to stay the June 4 direction of the sessions court in Tezu in Arunachal Pradesh’s Lohit district to place the rape survivor with the accused’s sister-in-law who was listed as her ‘local guardian’.Apart from Assam, the Gauhati high court also has jurisdiction over Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.The case relates to a girl from Nepal brought to Arunachal Pradesh many years ago. She was working as a domestic help at the residence of an Arunachal Pradesh government official for a monthly salary of ₹1,500. It turned out that he also raped her.She escaped in March this year and shared her ordeal with a family who sheltered her, who in turn, informed the district child welfare committee. The committee sent the rape survivor to a child care home, Nani Maria Children Home (NMCH).A First Information Report was also filed against the accused who was arrested on April 20. He was later released on bail.The June 4 order of the sessions court was widely criticised in the state by rights child activists. “The child is already traumatized by her ordeal and handing her over to a relative of the accused, who is out on bail, could hurt her further,” Desai Linggi, chairperson of the NMCH that declined to comply with the controversial court order, said earlier.The childcare home instead asked the court to appoint another person who isn’t related to the accused.In its order, the high court directed that the minor should continue to stay at the childcare home till the next hearing in the case. It also restrained the accused, his relatives and the father of the victim from visiting the girl at the child care home.The court also asked the director of health services in Arunachal Pradesh to ascertain the correct age of the child through a bone ossification test. A medical examination of the child done earlier had stated that she was between 12-15 years of age and had been raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-stays-order-to-send-teenage-rape-survivor-to-live-with-accused-s-kin-101625150977924.html
01-07-2021||India||A year after Kerala gold smuggling, many feel probe lost speed and steam||The infamous gold smuggling case of Kerala which raised enough heat and dust has completed one year but many opposition parties and observers feel that the inquiry lost its initial speed and steam. The case came to light after the seizure of 30 kilograms of gold hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital last July. Though four central agencies are probing the case other than initial arrests, the investigation fails to make much headway, officials of the central agencies said. The main beneficiaries and dispatchers are still at large. Some of the politicians whose names came up in the course of the investigation also remain unaffected. The high-profile seizure even led to the CM’s office with his principal secretary M Sivasankar in jail and later made an accused. Many thought it will put a full stop to thriving gold smuggling into the country. Another case that claims enough political connotations unfolded in north Kerala last week after an accident in Kozhikode which claimed five lives. The Union government and state locked horns several times over the smuggling case and the latter even constituted a judicial commission against the Enforcement Directorate (ED), a first of its sort, alleging a bid to implicate many senior leaders including CM Pinarayi Vijayan in the case. The ED later moved the high court against the judicial commission. The smuggling case was one of the main issues of the recently-concluded assembly elections and the ruling CPI(M) flaunted the victim card well for sympathy and succeeded to an extent, agree political observers. The National Investigation Agency’s move to link smuggling with terror activities also failed to click so far. The NIA court in Kochi granted bail to 10 accused in the case last October saying there was no prima facie material evidence to show that some of the accused in smuggling had terror links. During the probe, differences between different central agencies also came to light. “It is wrong to say that the investigation is slow. We have managed to detain the main accused under COFEPOSA and brought some of the elusive accused from Gulf countries. We have served notices to the former acting consular general through UAE embassy last week,” said a senior customs officer, adding that some of the politicians whose names cropped up during the investigation, including former minister KT Jaleel and ex-Speaker Sreeramakrishnan, were not given clean chits. After gold was seized, three senior officials of the UAE consulate left the country in a hurry and the probe agency had served notice to them through the UAE embassy. As the case drags on, the opposition Congress has alleged a secret understanding between the Union and state governments. “We seriously feel there is a give and take between the two. The case was slowed down after the ED summoned the CM’s additional private secretary C M Raveendran, the CM’s right-hand man. Now all agencies are mum on the role of leaders,” said state Congress chief K Sudhakaran. But the ruling CPI(M) chided Congress saying it was coming out with new theories after its earlier charges fell flat. “The party made many grave charges against us but all fell flat with the poll. It is busy searching for new ones,” said party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. The BJP said the investigation in all cases is progressing well. “The central agencies are doing their work silently,” said party president K Surendran. Amid tall claims and counter-claims, many independent observers also agree with the popular feeling that the probe has lost its steam. “It seems after the election, nobody is interested in it. The initial speed and publicity are lacking now,” agreed political analyst Sunnykutty Abraham. How the case unfoldedJuly 5: The customs seized 30 kg gold from an air cargo consignment which came in the name of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Gold was concealed in bathroom fittings and door handles. A person who came to receive it PS Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate, detained. He later took the names of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. July 7: Kerala CM’s powerful principal secretary M Sivasankar removed. Embarrassed CM says ready for any probe and sends a letter to PM for central agency probe. July 9: NIA takes over the case. Many other central agencies also roped in. July 11: Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Nair arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru. July 14: Kerala CM’s former secretary M M Sivasankar quizzed by customs. Later he was grilled by the ED and NIA on several occasions. July 16: UAE consulate in-charge leaves the country in a hurry Later, probe agencies arrest 30 persons from different parts of south India. The ED also questions minister K T Jaleel regarding the import of holy books and dray dates. Oct 14: Smuggling accused have links with D Company, NIA tell a court Oct 28: Senior IAS officer M Sivasankar arrested Feb 3: Sivasankar gets bail after 98 days in judicial custody March 21: CM knew about smuggling, says customs in an affidavit but the CPI(M) dubs it an election stunt March 26: Kerala govt announces judicial commission against ED||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-after-kerala-gold-smuggling-many-feel-probe-lost-speed-and-steam-101625150678723.html
01-07-2021||India||Goa govt promises to talk to BSNL day after students demand better connectivity||A day after students from remote villages in Goa marched to the BSNL office demanding improved connectivity, the state government has promised to talk to BSNL. “I have taken up the issue pertaining to mobile network connectivity with the GM of BSNL and have requested them to take prompt action on the same. We shall be having a meeting with all the panch members in this regard along with representatives of BSNL. Connectivity issues persist in different parts of Goa,” health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents the Valpoi constituency where some of these instances have been reported, said. Rane said the Goa government had also approached private telecom service providers to install towers to help the students access their online classes. Also Read | Indian student in Dubai wins Diana AwardFor a second year in a row, the classes are being held in online mode for students of all ages, including for those in primary school. There is no clarity on when physical classes will resume or whether they will resume this academic year. Besides the Valpoi area, students from villages in Sanguem, Dharbandora and Canacona talukas have to trek many miles or climb trees to access a network that is quick enough to allow them to seamlessly buffer videos. Rane also said he would reach out to Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to help resolve the issue. “I will be reaching out to Union Minister Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad for his kind intervention in this matter. I assure the people of Surla that we will resolve this on top priority. Since the onset of the pandemic, students have rapidly adapted to online education and to ensure they continue doing so without any hardships, I will resolve this issue on a war footing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-promises-to-talk-to-bsnl-day-after-students-demand-better-connectivity-101625150317455.html
01-07-2021||India||‘All states will be taken care of': Sitharaman as vaccination centres face acute shortage||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday assured that everybody in the country will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) even as states reported a shortage of the jabs. Speaking in Bengaluru, Sitharaman said, "Every state gets allocation as per the density of the population/number of the vulnerable population. Centre supplies vaccines well in advance to the states," news agency ANI quoted her as saying, while adding, "All states will be taken care of.”Her comments come as the Odisha government halted the vaccination drive in 16 districts due to a "shortage" of Covishield doses. Meanwhile, Assam on Thursday said it could vaccinate only 16.63 lakh people in the last 10 days, almost 45% less than the target set by state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, due to a massive shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. As per state officials, the figure is way below the ambitious 30-lakh target set during Sarma's meeting with all the stakeholders of the districts on June 19.In Maharashtra, the administration suspended the vaccination drive across 281 civic-run centres and 20 government-run centres in Mumbai due to shortage of stocks.Several other states like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, etc have also said that they are facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines.Meanwhile, India has administered around 33.57 crore vaccine doses so far under the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive.In a daily bulletin, the Union health ministry also said, more than 1.24 crore vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories. It also said that over 94,66,400 doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days.It also informed that more than 32.92 crore vaccine doses were provided to states and UTs so far through the government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 31,67,50,891 doses, the ministry also informed.In the release, the Centre also said it is committed to accelerating the pace and working to expand the scope of vaccination drive throughout the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-states-will-be-taken-care-of-sitharaman-as-vaccination-centres-face-acute-shortage-101625147865564.html
01-07-2021||India||Goa: 3 members of family found hanging after alleged police torture||Three members of a family were found hanging at their home in Goa on Tuesday after they were allegedly tortured in police custody over theft charges that one of them faced.Police said the three, including a couple aged between 35 and 28, died by suicide. The three were repeatedly called to a police station and allegedly tortured in the case of theft filed by the owner of a house where one of them worked as a help.Their post-mortem report suggested “suicidal hanging” and prompted police superintendent (South Goa) Pankaj Kumar Singh to order an inquiry.Also Read | Goan man accused of killing Irish girl Danielle denied bailThe police have, however, denied that the suicides are related to any pending investigation they were conducting and pointed to a suicide note they said they recovered from the home of the victims which has revealed some names and included names of family members.“We had recovered a note written in Kannada which we have got translated. They have named some people responsible for their suicide including some family members. Our investigation is on,” Singh said.“The family members have now collected the body and taken it for cremation,” he added.The family members had initially refused to receive the body after the postmortem and had demanded that a case be registered against the police officers whom they accused of torturing the family.National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations and Council for Social Justice and Peace, an NGO, has demanded the constitution of an independent time-bound commission of inquiry to look into the matter.In a statement, they said the in-charge of the concerned police station and other officers, who were handling the case be suspended pending the inquiry. It added Kumar’s announcement for a probe “smacks of wilful conspiracy to protect the police in uniform”.No case has been registered against the police officers accused of torturing the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-3-members-of-family-found-hanging-after-alleged-police-torture-101625146536980.html
01-07-2021||India||Indian student in Dubai wins Diana Award||Paloma Viegas, a 17-year-old Indian student from Goa in Dubai, has been awarded the Diana Award for her work on mental health in schools. She runs a website to promote awareness about mental well-being.The award instituted in memory of the late Princess of Wales is meant for young people involved in social action or humanitarian efforts. It recognised Viegas, who aspires to become a lawyer, as an innovation leader for the support she has shown to fellow students to express their ideas.Tessy Ojo, the CEO of The Diana Award said, they congratulate all award recipients from the UK and around the globe, who are changemakers for their generation. “We know by receiving this honour they will inspire more young people to get involved in their communities and begin their own journey as active citizens. For over twenty years The Diana Award has valued and invested in young people encouraging them to continue to make positive change in their communities and lives of others.”Also Read | Goan man accused of killing Irish girl Danielle denied bailPrince Harry, Diana’s son, addressed the winners via a video. “I am truly honoured to be celebrating your work, your commitment to change-making, and the vital role that you have taken on representing a new generation of humanitarianism,” he said. “Our mum believed that young people have the power to change the world. She believed in your strength because she saw it day in and day out and in the faces of young people exactly like you, she witnessed a boundless enthusiasm and passion.”The Diana Award is given to people aged nine to 25 in honour of their social action or humanitarian work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-student-in-dubai-wins-diana-award-101625145756953.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Blockades unaccompanied by incitement to violence won’t constitute terrorist act’: NIA court||Blockades unaccompanied by incitement to violence would not constitute terrorist act, said a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Guwahati on Thursday while discharging Akhil Gogoi, Raijor Dal president and MLA from Sibsagar, Assam, in connection with a case related to anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests. “Ordinary bandhs, blockades, shutdowns as part of some protests, unaccompanied by incitement to violence would not come under the ambit of the expression ‘threatening the economic security of India’ under section 15(1) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,” the court order read.“Protests in a democracy are sometimes seen to take the form of blockades also, even causing inconvenience to citizens. However, it is doubtful whether such blockades for temporary periods, if unaccompanied by any incitement to violence, would constitute a terrorist act within the meaning of section 15 of UA(P) Act,” it added. Gogoi, who was arrested in December 2019 and was admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) last year for various ailments, walked out of the hospital hours after the court order. He had been discharged in the other case filed against him by NIA last week.The present case against Gogoi and three others, Dhajya Konwar, Manas Konwar and Bitu Sonowal, was registered in December 2019 in Chandmari police station in Guwahati and was later transferred to the NIA. Apart from Gogoi, all three other accused were on bail. The NIA had filed two cases against Gogoi under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The cases pertained to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organizations, etc. It was alleged that Gogoi merged his organization, Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), a farmers’ rights body, secretly with the Revolutionary Communist Centre, which in turn was later merged with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). It was also alleged that Gogoi, and the other accused, conspired to incite hatred and disaffection towards the government established by law, using the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) as a pretext and also promote enmity between different groups of people. The case was at the framing of charges stage. “On the basis of materials before this court and in view of the narration and discussion in preceding paragraphs and findings thereon, all the four accused persons are hereby discharged,” the court order stated. “There are no prima facie materials to frame charges against the accused person. There is no case of framing charge and all the four accused persons are liable to be discharged,” it added.The court observed that the conduct and approach of the NIA and the prosecution in the presented case was “discouraging” to say the least. “Considering the nature of UA(P) Act, while enforcing this law on the ground, the law enforcing agencies have to take care to see that the enforcement remains within the strict parameters of the law and doesn’t get stretched beyond permissible limits imposed by the statute itself,” the order said. The court observed if precaution is not taken by the enforcement agencies, people who are not guilty of terrorism or might be guilty of other penal offences might get unnecessarily roped within the ambit of the stringent anti-terrorism law. “It was unimaginable that the court would deliver such a free and fair verdict under such pressure from the government. It shows that the judiciary is still independent and the public can have faith in it,” Gogoi said after his release. Last week, the NIA court had granted two days’ permission to Gogoi to meet his son, who was suffering from Covid19, and his 84-year-old ailing mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blockades-unaccompanied-by-incitement-to-violence-won-t-constitute-terrorist-act-nia-court-101625143298913.html
01-07-2021||India||These are the 10 hottest places in India right now||Heatwave conditions have been predicted over northwest India including Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, north Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh for the next two days under the influence of the dry westerly and southwesterly winds from Pakistan. The weather department has said that the present atmospheric features in these regions are not favourable for the advancement of the southwest monsoon. On the other side of the country, however, widespread rainfall has been predicted under the influence of strong moist southwesterly winds from the Bay of Bengal. Heavy rainfall is likely over Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and other northeastern states during the next 5 days.Here are the 10 hottest places in India on Thursday, according to Skymet weather. And the Capital with its soaring mercury is one of them.Ganganagar (Rajasthan): 45.8Churu (Rajasthan): 45.4Pilani (Rajasthan): 44.7Bikaner (Rajasthan): 44.4Narnaul (Haryana/NCR): 44.0Hissar (Haryana): 43.5New Delhi: 43.5Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh): 43.4Rohtak (Haryana): 43.4Aligarh (Uttar Pradesh): 43.2A severe heatwave swept the national capital on Wednesday with the mercury settling at 43.5 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this year, the India Meteorological Department said. On Thursday morning, Delhi's temperature was 31.7 degree celsius, four notches normal. The relative humidity at 8.30am was recorded at 43 per cent.A heatwave, for the plains, is declared when the maximum temperature is over 40 degrees Celsius and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A severe heatwave is declared if the departure from the normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD."Usually, the capital witnesses heatwaves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this time can be attributed to the delay in the arrival of the monsoon," Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, told PTI.Monsoon has not yet set in Delhi which is not normal as generally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. In 2012, the monsoon in Delhi was late and arrived on July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-are-the-10-hottest-places-in-india-right-now-101625139665288.html
01-07-2021||India||Number of domestic passengers triples at Delhi airport between May-June||The number of domestic passengers at the Delhi international airport has increased by more than three times between mid-May and June-end, its operator DIAL said on Thursday.In June this year, most of those who flew were in 'visiting family and friends' category (48 per cent), which was followed by 'vacation' (25 per cent) and 'business travellers' (19 per cent), it said in a statement.However, in June 2019, around 44 per cent flyers were vacationers, while 41 per cent were of 'visiting family and friends' category, the DIAL added."Delhi airport has witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid of May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021," said the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). Similarly, the number of international travellers grew from around 4,500 per day in mid of May to nearly 7,500 per day in June-end, it noted.India and its aviation sector have been badly hit due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which is receding currently but was in full force in April and May.Currently, the airlines are permitted to operate not more than 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-domestic-passengers-triples-at-delhi-airport-between-mayjune-101625136078516.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Normal’ monsoon likely in July but rains will revive only during second week||Monsoon rain in July is likely to be ‘normal’ between 94 to 106% of long period average (LPA).During July when most of monsoon rain is recorded normally, ‘below normal’ to ‘normal’ rainfall is likely over many areas of northwest India; parts of south peninsula, central, east and northeast India, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its forecast for July on Thursday.‘Normal’ to ‘above normal’ rainfall is likely over parts of central India and adjacent areas of peninsular India and Gangetic plains in July.The latest global model forecasts indicate that the prevailing neutral El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) conditions are likely to continue over the equatorial Pacific Ocean and that there is an enhanced possibility of development of negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions over the Indian Ocean during July to September period.Also Read | HT Explainer: The monsoon is on a break. What does it mean?“While neutral ENSO conditions don’t affect the monsoon, negative IOD conditions are not favourable to Indian monsoon. There is still a high probability of normal monsoon over the country during July,” said M Mohapatra, direct general, IMD.As sea surface temperature (SST) conditions over the Pacific and the Indian Ocean are known to have strong influence on Indian monsoon, IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over these ocean basins, it said in its statement.Mohapatra said monsoon covered most parts of the country except parts of northwest India, including Haryana, Delhi, Punjab etc by June 19 but monsoon flow started weakening from June 26 onwards. Spatially monsoon coverage reduced significantly in the past two days and monsoon is unlikely to revive in the next 7 to 10 days, he added. “There is a chance that a low-pressure area will form over Bay of Bengal around July 11 or 12. There is no chance of monsoon picking up very much before that,” added Mohapatra.IMD warned that subdued monsoon conditions will impact agricultural operations especially sowing and transplantation of crops in many parts of the country.Scientists are expecting south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea are likely to affect the northwest region including Delhi in the next couple of days which is likely to abate heat wave conditions, but humidity will increase. This may lead to very uncomfortable conditions as the impact of heat will be accentuated with high humidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-monsoon-likely-in-july-but-rains-will-revive-only-during-second-week-101625140896675.html
01-07-2021||India||National Doctors’ Day: PM Modi hails medics for their work in Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday addressed the medical fraternity on the occasion of the National Doctors’ Day. He delivered his address at a programme organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to honour and commemorate the work of healthcare workers, especially over the past one year since the Covid-19 pandemic struck the country.During the address, PM Modi hailed the work of the doctors in saving the lives of people and said, "Our doctors, their knowledge and experience is helping us battle this Covid-19 virus." He also thanked all doctors on behalf of 130 crore citizens of the country.In the virtual address, PM Modi also highlighted the government's effort towards strengthening the medical infrastructure in the country. "Our government has put maximum thrust on the health care sector, and the budget for it more than doubled to over ₹2 lakh crore this year," PM Modi said. He also announced a credit guarantee scheme of ₹50,000 crore "to strengthen the health infrastructure in such areas, where there is a lack of health facilities."Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1.Here are the key highlights of the address:> Limitations were created due to the kind of medical infrastructure that was created in the country over several decades... medical infrastructure was neglected in earlier times.> Despite all problems, India’s condition was somewhere stable than other developed countries.> India's per lakh population rate of infection and death rate has still been manageable compared with more developed countries.> Till 2014, where there were only six AIIMS in the country, work on 15 new AIIMS has already started in the last seven years, he pointed out. The number of medical colleges has also increased by about one and a half times.> Our government is committed to safeguarding our doctors. Last year, we brought in several provisions against crimes against doctors. We are also providing free insurance cover to our Covid warriors, Modi added.> On behalf of 130 crore Indians, I want to thank all the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-doctors-day-pm-modi-hails-medics-for-their-work-in-covid-19-pandemic-101625139493748.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Motorist dies, 19 injured as bus hits Fort William wall in Kolkata and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Motorcyclist killed, 19 injured after bus hits Fort William wall in KolkataThe accident took place around 12noon when a minibus heading towards Howrah hit the motorcycle. The rider sustained severe injuries and was rushed the state-run SSKM hospital where he was declared brought dead. Read more here.Devendra Jhajharia rewrites world record for Tokyo Paralympic berthThe 40-year-old, who has won two gold medals in the men's F-46 category at the Paralympics, sent the spear to a distance of 65.71m during the trial here on Wednesday. Read more here. Anand Mahindra reacts to Twitter user’s funny interpretation of video he postedIt all started when the business tycoon posted a video of a little bird confusing a mighty tiger over and over again. Mahindra shared the video with an engaging caption relating the clip to business. Read more here. Family Man's Priyamani on Suchi being 'one of the most hated characters' after new season of Amazon showThe Family Man actor Priyamani has expressed her disbelief at the hate messages that have been directed at her after the release of season two of the Amazon Prime Video show. Read more here. BMW M5 Competition performance sedan launched in India at ₹1.62 croreBMW M5 Competition is powered by a thunderous V8 engine with M TwinPower Turbo Technology. There's 625 hp for the taking and mammoth 750 Nm of torque at the ready. Read more here. 'If we do drone attack in England...': Imran Khan on USA, Pak, & 'war on terror'﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-motorist-dies-19-injured-as-bus-hits-fort-william-wall-in-kolkata-and-all-the-latest-news-101625137899624.html
01-07-2021||India||Delhi airport sees increase in passengers but rising fuel costs may impact fares||Rise in global oil prices have led to a hike in prices of Air Turbine Fuel (ATF), also known as jet fuel in Delhi on Thursday. Prices of jet fuel soared to ₹68,262 per kilolitre in Delhi marking a rise of 30% compared to ₹50,979 in January 2021.The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) which is the largest supplier of ATF in the country reported a hike in prices by 3.6% in the Capital, according to a report by ANI.“Prices of ATF have been hiked in Delhi by 3.6% and stood at ₹68,262.35 per kilolitre. In Kolkata it increased by 3.27% and is currently priced at ₹72,295.24 per kilolitre. It went up by 3.77% and stood at ₹66,482.90 in Mumbai and in Chennai it is at ₹66,482.90 per kilolitre,” the IOCL said. The IOCL also said that jet fuel increased about 30% within six months.The ATF prices are crucial to the aviation industry of the country and ticket prices also depend on the ATF and other charges which are unavoidable. An aviation expert told news agency ANI that air ticket prices may rise if the ATF prices are hiked.The aviation industry across the globe as well as India were adversely affected due to the pandemic. India has suspended international flights till July 31. However, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Thursday shared data which showed that the number of domestic passengers at the Delhi airport increased by more than three times between mid-May and June-end.The DIAL in a statement said that the Delhi airport started witnessing growth in the number of passengers in a slow and steady fashion following the relaxation of lockdown and travel norms across states and highlighted 19% of those travellers were travelling for business purposes and 25% were vacationing. It said that the highest category of passengers were people who were visiting family and friends. It said that it saw a drop compared to 2019, when 44% of the passengers were vacationers.The DIAL also highlighted that Delhi Airport witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid-May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-sees-increase-in-passengers-but-rising-fuel-costs-may-impact-fares-101625136143097.html
01-07-2021||India||'Not a long-drawn process': Bharat Biotech expecting WHO approval soon||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is expecting approval from the World Health Organization soon as the entire process is not likely to take much time since other vaccines of the company in the past have already been approved by the world body, Bharat Biotech co-founder Suchitra Ella has said."We are working closely with the World Health Organization for the inclusion of Covaxin in its Emergency Use Listing. Approval from WHO is not expected to be a long-drawn process as the cell line and majority of our facilities have already been audited and approved by WHO for our other vaccines in the past," Suchitra Ella tweeted.According to the WHO site, the rolling data for Covishield is slated to begin in July as the pre-submission meeting has been held in June. As WHO will go through Covaxin's data, it will publish an anticipated date when the approval is likely to come.Why WHO nod will be a landmark for CovaxinCovaxin is the first Covid-19 vaccine that has been entirely developed in India, as Covishield in Astrazeneca and Oxford University's invention. Covaxin has been given emergency use authorisation in 16 countries. Once Covaxin gets WHO approval, more countries will open for Indian travellers and most countries will be allowing people inoculated by WHO-listed vaccines.Covaxin booster doseMeanwhile, Bharat Biotech is also conducting trials of a third booster dose of Covaxin, the results of which are expected to come by November this year, news agency ANI has reported. The booster dose of the indigenously manufactured vaccine was first launched in May, after which the trials began at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and Patna. As many as 12 centres across the country are conducting trials for Covaxin's booster shot. The results of the first trial, conducted in May, will come in August. For the second trial, final results are expected by November 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-long-drawn-process-bharat-biotech-expecting-who-approval-soon-101625136128739.html
01-07-2021||India||When VP Singh worked to make Sonia Gandhi the PM in 2004||To block the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader LK Advani’s possible rise as Prime Minister (PM), VP Singh, a former PM himself and the elder statesman of non-BJP, non-Congress political spectrum, had mobilised regional parties and lobbied with the Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (DMK)’s M Karunanidhi to support a Sonia Gandhi-led government after the 2004 elections in which the Congress emerged as the single largest party.Singh foresaw Advani pitching for the top slot as the BJP was just seven short of the Congress’s tally of 145 in the new Lok Sabha. The risk seemed real to him because in 1998, Gandhi toppled AB Vajpayee but failed to touch the magic 272 to give an alternative regime in the 545-member House.In his recent book, in Hindi, VP Singh, Chandrashekhar, Sonia Gandhi Aur Mein, former MP Santosh Bhartiya, known for his proximity to the two former PMs named in the title, gives a graphic account of how Singh played a key role in the run-up to the formation of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, where he was mobilising support for Sonia Gandhi as PM before she decided she did not want the post.Also Read | The possibilities, and limits, of a third frontThe political ground workFunctioning through the interface of Bhartiya and the Congress’s Ahmed Patel, Singh mobilised support for Gandhi from other non-BJP heavyweights, including former PMs Chandrashekhar and HD Deve Gowda, the Left Front’s towering leader Jyoti Basu, and veteran Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan.Singh told Bhartiya that he wouldn’t have had second thoughts if Vajpayee were to be PM again, but his assessment that this could pave the way for Advani to take over appears to have got Singh back in the political ring.“Given that the BJP’s on the road to spreading communalism, Sonia Gandhi should be supported for the PM office...”Singh first met Gandhi on May 10, 2004, a day after Patel prepared the ground for it. The Congress president’s political secretary was briefed by Bhartiya on Singh’s stand in the emerging scenario. Many such meetings and phone conversations between Gandhi and Gowda and the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s Basu and HS Surjeet happened before the May 13 poll results.The early-mover advantage helped the non-BJP formations. Singh reached out to Chandrashekhar who met Gandhi with him after initial reluctance. Leaving for her residence from a meeting at which the Left parties conveyed their decision to back the Congress, the book quotes Chandrashekhar as saying: “Now we’ve to go meet the future PM of India....”Persuading the DMKBut Singh’s real skill and the respect he commanded was apparent in how he won Karunanidhi over. When the DMK leader told him that he was on his way to meet Vajpayee, to whom he was committed, Singh asked for a sheet of paper. He wrote on it a letter of support for Gandhi and signed it on Karunanidhi’s behalf.“I’ve written the letter. You can deny it if you want and file an FIR against me for forgery,” Bhartiya quotes Singh as telling Karunanidhi at the meeting in his presence. The former PM’s antics melted the DMK chief who leaned ahead to clasp his hands, saying: “If you’re willing to go to that extent, then go tell Sonia Gandhi that I’m with her.”The two leaders had a history. In 1996, the DMK helmsman was among the three sitting CMs, including Karnataka’s Deve Gowda and Bengal’s Jyoti Basu, who had gone knocking at Singh’s residence to persuade him to become the PM of the United Front government with the Congress’s outside support. Singh refused, but his decision earned him tremendous moral standing. Singh had then suggested Basu’s name to which the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPM) wasn’t agreeable. The gainer eventually was Gowda. DMK had been a part of the UF governments, both under Gowda and his successor, IK Gujral.And that is why ensuring Karunanidhi’s support for Gandhi was nothing short of a political coup, given the Congress’s 1998 withdrawal of support to Gujral for his refusal to break ties with the DMK. The dispute then arose over the Jain Commission’s “needle of suspicion” at the Dravidian party in the “conspiracy aspect” of Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination.While the DMK’s support for the Congress stayed, Singh’s hopes of a Sonia Gandhi prime ministership didn’t materialise. On May 17, her emissaries ML Fotedar and Natwar Singh turned up with a slip for Singh. He read it and laconically remarked: “Kya kar sakte hain jab unhone faisala le he liya hai, what can we do when she has decided?”, according to Bhartiya’s book.It was Gandhi’s way of conveying that Manmohan Singh was her PM candidate. An (unnamed) person later met Singh to explain that Sonia’s children were against her being the PM. This version is confirmed by Natwar Singh in his memoirs.The final break with Rajiv Bhartiya’s book is an anecdotal account of a tumultuous two-decade long period in Indian politics, from 1984 to 2004, and traces, among other issues, the falling out of VP Singh with the Gandhi family to his initiative to support Sonia Gandhi as PM.What decisively drew Rajiv and Singh apart was a meeting on May 22, 1987. By then, differences had already emerged between them. They were face-to-face after the PM spoke of fifth columnists such as Mir Jafar and Jaichand at a public meeting where Singh was in the audience. His mention of Jaichand with the affix “Raja” was seen as a frontal attack on Singh who, by then, had resigned as defence minister. Singh was often referred to as the Raja of Manda, in a nod to his land-owning roots in Allahabad.“Aajkal tumhari bahut jai jaikaar ho rahi hai, kya karne ka irada hai. There is a lot of applause for you these days. What do you intend to do?” the book quotes Rajiv Gandhi as asking Singh. In response, Singh said that he remained a Congressman, and if the PM so wanted, he could leave politics for a retired life in Allahabad.According to the book, this met with a sharp retort from Gandhi: “The accolades won’t last, you’d return the way Pranab Mukherjee has. You won’t be able to sustain for three months.” The reference was to Mukherjee who had left and returned to the Congress on being dropped as a minister in 1984. The taunt had Singh take the gauntlet: “I won’t stop if I sustain for three months Rajivji. I accept your challenge.”Two-and-a-half decades later, Singh returned to support Sonia Gandhi. And he brought along with him Chandrashekhar. Both men had fought each other, Chandrashekhar had rebelled against Sonia Gandhi’s mother in law, Indira, in the 1970s, and Singh had challenged her husband. Politics had come a full circle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-vp-singh-worked-to-make-sonia-gandhi-the-pm-in-2004-101625135546385.html
01-07-2021||India||The importance of Amitabh Kant||When Amitabh Kant was a student in Modern School in the heart of the national Capital, little did he imagine that his bureaucratic career will scale heights in a government office barely 3km away.Kant got a rare third extension as the CEO of Niti Aayog, the government’s prime think tank that replaced Planning Commission in August 2014, underlining a career graph that saw him in posts as diverse as the tourism secretary in Kerala to chairman and chief executive officer, Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Corporation. It is widely believed that this rare extension has come as Kant had been able to successfully launch Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s key projects and translate his political vision into programmes. During his stint in DPIIT, Kant had been a driving force for many of Modi’s pet schemes. Make in India, Start Up India and the Ease of Doing Business initiatives have Kant’s contributions. He started removing rules and regulations to improve ease of doing business and make India an attractive investment destination. In 2018, India stood 77th, improving by 23 places. The next year, it climbed further up to 66th position.Also Read | Hopefully ‘soon’: Niti Aayog’s VK Paul on WHO emergency approval for CovaxinThe programme which sealed Kant’s reputation as a bureaucrat was the Modi government’s Aspirational Districts Programme that aims to transform 112 most backward districts into economic and socially progressive habitats. A recent UNDP report described the programme as a “catalyst for expediting development” that brought about “major changes” in sectors such as healthcare, nutrition and education. Kant also spearheads a Covid-related panel tasked with coordination with private organisations and NGOs and other social organisations. It handles the distribution of foreign aid. Niti Aayog developed a mechanism for quick dispatch of aid material to recipients and according to the latest official data, more than 99% of the 30.3 million aid items have reached the destination. Posted as tourism secretary in his cadre state of Kerala -- considered a lousy posting -- the bureaucrat saw an opportunity to showcase the potentials of God’s own country as a tourist hot spot.His work didn’t go unnoticed as years later, he would be the joint secretary of the tourism ministry of the United Progressive Alliance government or head the government’s ailing tourism arm India Tourism Development Corporation.But these jobs didn’t give Kant, who started his professional life as sub collector of Thalassery, the impetus to evolve as a key bureaucrat in the current regime. Especially, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had started his innings in Delhi with an unwritten principle of no extension to retired bureaucrats in a bid to pump in fresh blood in the system.One of his contemporary officers added, “When Modi came to power, he started interacting a lot with bureaucrats. In some of those meetings, Kant would suggest ideas that caught the attention of the Prime Minister.It also helped that Modi’s style of management involved more dependence on bureaucrats over political representatives in key policy matters. When Covid-19 pandemic hit India, the government formed 12 empowered committees of bureaucrats to assist in Covid management. In recent times, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, launched to help migrant workers and the poor cope with the situation, was a brainchild of a select group of bureaucrats.“In a council of ministers’ meeting, the PM once asked a secretary in a social sector to stand up and then for almost 3 minutes, praised the bureaucrat for completing the annual targets and spending the entire budget. He is now a key part of the PMO,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-importance-of-amitabh-kant-101625134286809.html
01-07-2021||India||'Can you take yoga to the world?' PM Modi to doctors amid IMA-Ramdev tussle||At a time when the Indian Medical Association is at loggerheads with yoga guru Ramdev over his comments on allopathy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged doctors to take yoga to the global platform through evidence-based studies. Addressing the doctors community in a virtual programme organised by the IMA, PM Modi thanked doctors for their relentless service during the Covid-19 pandemic. Touching upon the issue of medical science and yoga, PM Modi said, "It is praiseworthy that many people from the medical fraternity are coming forward to spread awareness about yoga.""What should have been done after Independence to spread awareness about yoga is being done now. In this time of the pandemic, people are now understanding how yoga and pranayama help in recovery after the Covid-19 infection. Many institutions associated with modern science are doing evidence-based studies on the positive impact of yoga in Covid-19 recovery. Many of you are devoting time to this. You are experts and specialists in medical science and as Indians, you can understand yoga easily. If you study yoga, the world will take it more seriously. Can the IMA take it forward on a mission mode? Can IMA take evidence-based studies on Yoga forward in a scientific way?" PM Modi said.Another attempt can be to get studies on yoga published in international papers, PM Modi said. PM Modi's appeal comes at a time when multiple FIRs have been filed by different units of the IMA against yoga guru Ramdev over his disparaging comments against modern science. The national association of doctors have also approached PM Modi, health minister Harsh Vardhan against Ramdev's comment which he withdrew but raised several questions over the effectiveness of allopathy. Both Ramdev and the Indian Medical Association have maintained that they have nothing against each other but while IMA said that Ramdev and Patanjali made wrong claims about Coronil, Ramdev said he is not against doctors, but against 'drug mafia'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-you-take-yoga-to-the-world-pm-modi-to-doctors-amid-ima-ramdev-tussle-101625133545813.html
01-07-2021||India||Heatwave warning for NW India, including Delhi, for next two days||Heatwave conditions are likely to prevail over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh during the next two days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). This is mainly due to likely dry westerly/southwesterly winds blowing from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels. “Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during the next 5-6 days. Hence, subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over northwest, central and western parts of peninsular India during the next 5-6 days,” IMD said. Also Read | HT Explainer: The monsoon is on a break. What does it mean?Maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius (°C) were recorded at most places over west Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi; at many places over Punjab; at a few places over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh and at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday, the highest maximum temperature of 45.8°C was reported at Ganganagar in Rajasthan. IMD’s heatwave bulletin states that heatwave conditions are likely some pockets with severe heatwave conditions very likely in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan; heatwave to severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi; heatwave conditions in some pockets over Punjab and in isolated pockets over Jammu, West Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh on July 1. Under the influence of strong, moist southwesterly winds at lower tropospheric levels from Bay of Bengal to northeast and adjoining east India; widespread and heavy rainfall is very likely over Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and northeastern states during the next five days. For regions where the normal maximum temperatures are 40°C or lower, a heatwave is declared when the actual maximum temperature is 5°C to 6°C higher. A heatwave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C for the plains and at least 30°C in the hills. heatwaves can also be declared when the actual maximum temperature remains above 45°C or more for a day irrespective of normal maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-warning-for-nw-india-including-delhi-for-next-two-days-101625133746206.html
01-07-2021||India||'No native versus migrant divide in Karnataka Congress': Siddaramaiah||Leader of opposition in Karnataka and senior leaders of the Congress party, Siddaramaiah on Thursday ruled out any natives versus migrants divide in the party's state unit. He also said that currently, there are no talks within the party regarding the chief ministerial candidate for the state assembly elections slated to be held in 2023. "There has been no discussion at all (on the next CM candidate), no such discussions have taken place on this in the Congress. The election is still one year-ten month away. The election has to happen, new legislators will come, based on their opinion, high command will decide, why discuss now," news agency PTI quoted Siddaramaiah as saying.Speaking on the natives and migrants divide, Siddaramaiah said, "I came to Congress from outside, didn't I become the Chief Minister, then where is the talk of natives or migrants. There is no such thing," it also reported.Former leader of JD(S), Siddaramaih joined Congress with several of his followers in 2006. He became the Karnataka chief minister in 2013.The comments by the party's senior leader come as the issue of the chief ministerial face during the 2023 assembly polls has widened inner conflicts within the party. It has also triggered a game of one-upmanship between state Congress President DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, who is the legislature party leader.Recently, several MLAs openly favoured Siddaramaiah as the chief minister face, despite diktat from the party leadership, which had irked Shivakumar, who is also nursing chief ministerial ambitions.However, Siddaramaiah has denied any issues with Shivakumar.Hitting out at the state government led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, Siddaramaiah said an assembly session should be called immediately, news agency PTI also reported. "They (BJP) don't have belief in democracy...they should have called the assembly amid the crisis thrown by the second wave and taken the opposition into confidence...why is the assembly for? It looks like they don't want to face the opposition fearing their true colours will come out," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-native-versus-migrant-divide-in-karnataka-congress-siddaramaiah-101625133011498.html
01-07-2021||India||National Doctors’ Day: Political leaders thank doctors on Twitter||As India celebrates National Doctors’ Day today to honour the birth and death anniversary of Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, renowned physician and second chief minister of West Bengal, various political leaders paid tribute to doctors for their relentless service during the pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India’s strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier.”PM Modi also shared a part of his radio address, Mann Ki Baat saying, “We are thankful for the contribution of the doctors during Corona times. Without worrying about their own life, our doctors have taken care of us.”He also spoke of Greek physician Hippocrates who revolutionised ancient Greek medicine and said, “Wherever the art of medicine is loved, there is also a love for humanity.”Also Read | National Doctors’ Day: Delhi doctors recount the horrors of second waveCongress leader Rahul Gandhi also thanked doctors, tweeting that the nation is “indebted” to doctors “for every single moment” they spend saving lives.Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted that he salutes the doctors for their “heroic efforts” and for leaving “no stone unturned to serve humanity irrespective of the odds.”“Time and again, we have witnessed their selfless efforts towards society,” he said.BJP leader and Union minister Smriti Irani also tweeted that doctors are “frontline of defence not only during a global pandemic but through every ailment which afflicts” Indians. She added, “… to all Doctors this #DoctorsDay, you give life, you give hope, we are grateful for your services.”Remembering Dr Roy, Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal, also extended “heartfelt gratitude to the entire medical fraternity” for “tirelessly serving in these trying times.”“Their contribution in combating #COVID19 is unparalleled,” she said on Twitter.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor shared a video on Twitter thanking doctors. Tharoor, who himself had been a Covid-19 patient, said despite turning to doctors for help in times of crisis, they are “very often treated ungratefully and even as objects of trepidation and violence” by people. He added that India needs concrete measures not just to “shower petals” on health care workers but to “protect” them from such assaults.He also pressed for giving doctors “adequate insurance” to protect their families “in event of calamities for themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-doctors-day-political-leaders-thank-doctors-for-their-service-on-twitter-101625133086151.html
01-07-2021||India||Akhil Gogoi released from detention in connection with anti-CAA protests||President of Raijor Dal and MLA from Sibsagar in Assam, Akhil Gogoi, got released on Thursday after spending one and a half years in detention for his alleged role in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests. The peasant activist, who was admitted in the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) since last year for various ailments, walked out of the premises a free man, hours after a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here discharged him in the second case lodged against him by the agency. He had been discharged in the other case filed against him by NIA last week. “I will first go to visit the parents of Sam Stafford, the first martyr of the anti-CAA protests in Assam. From there, I will go to the office of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti and then to Raijor Dal office. Early tomorrow morning, I will leave for my constituency,” Gogoi told journalists minutes after his release. “It was unimaginable that the court would deliver such a free and fair verdict under such pressure from the government. It shows that the judiciary is still independent and the public can have faith in it,” he added. Gogoi was under arrest since December 2019 for his alleged role in the anti-CAA protests that rocked Assam and claimed five lives in police firing. “The NIA court discharged him in the case lodged at Chandmari in Guwahati. The court had earlier discharged him in the other case lodged at Chabua in Dibrugarh district by NIA,” said Gogoi’s lawyer Shantanu Borthakur. The NIA had filed the two cases under several sections of IPC and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA). The cases pertained to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organisation etc. “The court’s ruling on Thursday is a blow to NIA and its attempts to target Gogoi. We are overwhelmed by the verdict,” said Bhasco De Saikia, working president, Raijor Dal. Gogoi was granted bail in connection with the Chabua case by the NIA court in October last year. But the investigation agency had approached the Gauhati high court challenging the bail order. In April this year, the Gauhati HC held that the NIA court was right in granting bail to Gogoi and dismissed the appeal by the investigating agency. Last week, the NIA court granted two days’ permission to Gogoi to meet his son, who was suffering from Covid19, as well as his ailing 84-year-old mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhil-gogoi-released-from-detention-in-connection-with-anti-caa-protests-101625132966256.html
01-07-2021||India||Covid-19 Heroes: Meet the youngsters who set up 200+ voluntary taskforce||In The Divine Comedy, Dante Allegri had quipped that the deepest rungs in hell were reserved for those who remained neutral in times of moral turpitude. By extension, perhaps the brightest rooms of heaven are reserved for those who put their best foot forward at the same time.Even as the second wave of COVID-19 landed a devastating blow on our healthcare services, citizen movements sprung up across the country to help those in need. Among them was a group of youngsters that came together to set up a 200+ volunteer task force called ‘Volunteers.Covihelp’. And as India clocked upward of four lakh COVID-19 cases a day during the second wave, they worked day and night to help people find resources. Instead of playing the guitar, editing Wikipedia entries, or preparing for boards or entrance exams, these youngsters – many of whom were high school or college students – spent their time helping thousands of patients find hospital beds, oxygen and other resources.How it startedA few students were helping Covid-19 patients on their own when they realised the need to scale up. Arnav Praneet and the initial set of admins created a document with medical guidelines and a form that they spread in their social media circles. They broke down the day into multiple 2-hour shifts and by 27th April 2021, they were fully operational.The original team of 'Volunteers.Covihelp' consisted of Arnav Praneet, Sudipto Ghosh, Mudit Aggarwal, Debodhwani Mishra, Debaditya Halder, Ayaan Khan, Jaiditya Jha, Aditya Agarwal, Ipsita Choudhury, Aditya Gandhi, Vishwam Srivastava, Shivam Solanki, Prakhar Bhargava, Avi Sehgal and Harbhajansingh Pujari.As the days passed, their team gradually grew to include several hundred volunteers.Social media for a causeThe initiative began on Instagram where the team reached 15,000 accounts in two days during the peak. At that time, they were handling over 20 critical cases per day. However, realising that not everyone was on Instagram or Facebook, the team branched out by setting up a WhatsApp-based helpline, a website (which was initially a volunteers-only interface) and a database of resources which they verified in real-time.The challengesRunning any initiative takes effort and it was initially a challenge to handle more than 200 individuals and set up a streamlined workflow. The team divided their pool of volunteers into triads with each shift having at least one responder, researcher and a verifier.“Responders talked to the attendants through our social media channels (Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Twitter) and asked for important details regarding the patients. This information was filled into a form by the responders, who sent the details to our patient database, where the researchers and verifiers could access it,” the team explained.Researchers would then find leads, using reliable websites and resources, before sending the details to the resource database. The leads were then taken up by the verifiers and categorised based on availability. “It took a while to get used to the workflow, and for the first two weeks, admins would have to supervise shifts and chip in when the volunteers needed help,” they said.As with every operation, the team also had to contend with technical challenges. To coordinate and run things smoothly, they used a Discord server and a database system on Airtable. Another problem they faced was from fraudsters – people who wanted to sell fake items or take an advanced payment before disappearing. In order to deal with the latter, the team integrated a tool into their database that would scour the internet to figure out if a lead was legitimate.Dealing with griefThe team also worked on raising funds, conducting a fundraiser MUN and successfully raising ₹24,000. Of this, ₹10,000 was donated to a 5-year-old cancer patient in an expedited manner and test to the Utishtha Foundation, an organisation working on-ground in rural villages in India.The volunteers are also looking to conduct another round of funding which will include workshops and merchandise to raise funds. “We are planning to conduct another Covihelp MUN, some workshops and sell merchandise which can help us raise funds for many important causes,” they said.The case that stood outEvery endeavour has a particular challenge that defines them. For the team, it was a critical patient at Akshardham Covid Care Centre (in Delhi’s Commonwealth Games Village) who had been denied admission. When they realised that the patient wasn’t being admitted they used their ingenuity to find a lead on the go and redirect the patient’s ambulance towards GTB Hospital. These complex cases, the team noted, came in now and then and put pressure on the whole team.“A lost summer” Lenin once said that there are decades when nothing happens and weeks where decades happen. At the peak of the pandemic, with no beds available in any metropolitan city and a massive resource crunch, the young members of Volunteers.Covihelp found themselves working frantically to accommodate those in need of aid. Needless to say, the summer of 2021 will always live on in their memories.As Jaiditya Jha puts it: “On the surface of it, this felt like a lost summer. Some of us had our boards cancelled and nobody really had a fun season. Not to say that we didn't make some great friends and contribute to an important cause. Personally, I wouldn't remember this time as fun or exciting by any means, but it helped me mature and deal with compromises. The compromises we made in the last two months were nothing compared to what our country was going through and working with Covihelp was a rather fulfilling journey. Doing this gave us a sense of purpose. We were finally able to do something meaningful for India."While nobody would call this a fun experience, Jha dubs it a necessary one, given the situation. Most people in the team, he opined, would simply be glad that they were able to help out one way or the other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-heroes-meet-the-youngsters-who-set-up-200-voluntary-taskforce-101625129052636.html
01-07-2021||India||UK’s new graduate immigration route to benefit Indian students||The United Kingdom (UK) on Thursday opened a new graduate immigration route that will benefit Indian students, allowing them to stay longer in Britain after they have finished their studies to look for jobs. The graduate route, launched by UK home secretary Priti Patel, provides an opportunity to talented international students who have received their degree to stay in the UK and work, or look for work, at any skill level for at least two years. For the first time, a majority of applicants to the graduate route will be able to apply in a fully digital way, using the “UK Immigration: ID Check” smartphone app. Successful applicants will be issued an eVisa and be able to access this status whenever needed to prove their rights in the UK. The change in regulations stands to benefit tens of thousands of Indian students, the British high commission said. In the past year, more than 56,000 Indian nationals were granted a UK student visa, a 13% increase over the previous year, and Indians accounted for almost a quarter of all student visas issued by Britain. Also Read | Experts want countries to closely watch UK strategy of combating Delta variantThe graduate route builds on India-UK cooperation on migration issues. On May 4, the two countries signed a new migration partnership, including the creation of a young professionals’ scheme. The graduate route will also help the UK government achieve the target set in its international education strategy to increase the number of foreign students in Britain’s higher education sector to 600,000 by 2030. The UK high commission said the new application process is more convenient as applicants won’t have to visit a UK Visa and Citizenship Application Service or re-submit their biometrics. Those who cannot use the app can still apply online but will need to visit a UK Visa and Citizenship Application Service. Patel said: “Under the UK government’s points-based immigration system, talented students from India and across the globe now have the opportunity to kick start their careers in the UK at the highest levels of business, science, technology and the arts. “Once they’ve received their world-leading qualification from one of our fantastic education institutions, this new visa will give them the freedom to fulfil their aspirations and advance their careers.” Jan Thompson, the acting British high commissioner in New Delhi, said the number of Indian students enrolling at British universities show they are a popular destination for Indians, who “contribute immensely to the unique living bridge that exists between the UK and India”. She added, “The graduate route will further help students who wish to stay and work in the UK, strengthening this bond between our two countries even more. Cooperation in higher education is one of the crucial commitments in the UK and India’s 2030 Roadmap, and this is another positive step in that direction.” Barbara Wickham, director India for the British Council, said the UK is committed to enabling Indian students to realise their dreams through the graduate route. “The British Council is engaging with Indian students who plan to pursue a UK education this autumn by organising webinars and Facebook lives to provide all the information prospective students need,” she said. The launch of the graduate route is an important step in the UK-India 2030 Roadmap, which was launched by Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson in May. The roadmap is aimed at deepening institutional relationships between the two sides, including between governments, the private sector, higher education and civil society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uks-new-graduate-immigration-route-to-benefit-indian-students-101625130865772.html
01-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila seeks emergency approval for its three-dose vaccine. All you need to know||Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila announced on Thursday that it has applied for the emergency use approval for its Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D. If approved, this will become the second indigenously developed vaccine after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and the fifth vaccine to be approved in India, after Moderna, Covaxin (Bharat Biotech), Covishield (Serum Institute), and the Russian Sputnik V.Here’s all you need to know about the vaccine that its maker claims can be administered to children:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-seeks-emergency-approval-for-its-three-dose-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know-101625130405798.html
01-07-2021||India||Jal Jeevan Mission’s progress in 117 poorest districts outpaces national average||There has been a four-fold increase in the rate at which functional piped water is being provided to households in India’s 117 so-called aspirational districts, home to some of the poorest Indians -- overtaking the pace at which piped water is bring provided nationally under the marquee Jal Jeevan Mission, official figures show. Nearly 8.4 million households now have assured piped water supply in these 117 districts, an increase from 7% to 31% in 22 months since the Jal Jeevan Mission was launched in 2019, the data shows. Latest official figures show 31% households in these districts have assured tap water supply. The coverage in these districts since the launch of the programme saw a 24% jump, a rate higher than the 22.7% increase in tap water connections provided countrywide under the scheme. Also Read | 2.8 million households got tap water this year under Jal Jeevan MissionUnder the Jal Jeevan Mission-Har Ghar Jal scheme, every rural household is to be provided with a functional tap water connection by 2024. Over 120 million households in India lack access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to a UN Water report of 2014. India has 189 million rural households, according to Census data. As on June 30, nearly 76.3 million households had a functioning tapped water supply source. This is 40.27% of the total rural households. In 2018, just 18.2% of rural households had piped water supply. By 2019, this figure increased by nine percentage points. The country has had several public programmes to bring clean water to rural residences, such as the National Drinking Water Mission launched in 1986, but the goal of providing piped drinking water to every household entered a ‘mission mode’ with the Har Ghar Jal programme (water for every home) under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Poor-quality water causes diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in India, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy, who work at Puducherry’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College, respectively. The Gajendra Shekhawat-led Jal Shakti ministry oversees the implementation of the rural household water mission. “As per the very design of the scheme, aspirational districts have a priority when comes to laying water infrastructure. Similarly, priority is also accorded to areas with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes population. This has led to a faster rate of implementation in priority areas,” an official with said, requesting anonymity.The scheme also prioritises 61 districts in five states which are Japanese encephalitis-endemic. The aspirational districts identified by the state-run Niti Aayog have low human-development indicators. Drought-prone and desert areas are also high-priority zones. The Union budget had allotted ₹10,001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, ₹11,500 crore were provided. The Union budget 2021-22 allotted ₹50,000 crore for the mission. Experts say a key challenge is to maintain sustainability of water supply sources. In previous attempts to provide drinking water supply, villages connected with water sources fell back to “no-water” status after a few years due to non-availability of water. Maintaining sustainability will require work on different aspects altogether. These include groundwater recharge, water conservation and, critically, cutting down the overuse of water in agriculture, which hogs 90% of available supply, mainly because farming isn’t efficient. “Agriculture’s demand for water is disproportionately huge. One of the reasons is free electricity and lot of incentives for crops such as paddy. India has to bring down its farm-water use to optimal levels for greater sustainability of groundwater,” says Alok Nath, a former water specialist at the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-s-progress-in-117-poorest-districts-outpaces-national-average-101625130026146.html
01-07-2021||India||India to Pak: Speed up release of civilian prisoners, missing defence personnel||India on Thursday called on Pakistan to speedily release and repatriate civilian prisoners and missing defence personnel as the two countries completed the biannual formality of exchanging lists of prisoners in each other’s jails. New Delhi handed over a list of 271 Pakistani civilian prisoners and 74 fishermen who are in India’s custody. At the same time, Pakistan shared a list of 51 civilian prisoners and 558 fishermen in its custody, who are “Indians or are believed-to-be Indians”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The Indian side called for the “early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen along with their boats from Pakistan’s custody”. Though the statement didn’t specify the number of missing defence personnel, the Indian side has said in the past that 54 Indian prisoners of war are believed to be in Pakistani jails. Also Read | ‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top army officerPakistan was asked to expedite the release and repatriation of one civilian prisoner and 295 fishermen whose Indian nationality has been confirmed and conveyed to the Pakistani side, the statement said. Besides, Pakistan was also asked to provide immediate consular access to 194 fishermen and 17 civilian prisoners who are in Pakistan’s custody and are believed to be Indian. The Indian side requested Pakistan to expedite the grant of visas to members of a medical experts’ team and to facilitate their visit to Pakistan to assess the “mental condition of believed-to-be Indian prisoners of unsound mind” who are being held in different jails. India further proposed that an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee should be organised to Pakistan. The Indian side said it is committed to addressing all humanitarian matters on priority, including those related to prisoners and fishermen in each other’s jails. “In this context, India has also urged Pakistan to expedite necessary action at its end to confirm the nationality status of 78 Pakistan prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of nationality confirmation by Pakistan,” the statement said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan was requested to ensure the safety, security and welfare of all Indian and believed-to-be Indian civilian prisoners and fishermen. The lists of prisoners were exchanged through diplomatic channels simultaneously in New Delhi and Islamabad. This is in keeping with provisions of a 2008 agreement whereby such lists are exchanged on January 1 and July 1 every year. A majority of the prisoners held on both sides are fishermen who are detained for violating the maritime boundary. Though the two sides had made progress in addressing humanitarian issues related to civilian prisoners, the process was hit by the strain in bilateral ties that followed the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Visits by the Joint Judicial Committee, which helps to identify prisoners and problems being faced by them, have also been affected by the strained bilateral relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-pak-speed-up-release-of-civilian-prisoners-missing-defence-personnel-101625129785822.html
01-07-2021||India||‘DIY drones’ can be easily used by state, non-state actors: Army chief||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that the easy availability of drones allowed both state and non-state actors to use them, increasing the complexity of challenges faced by the security forces, days after an unprecedented unmanned attack on an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu.Highlighting the easy availability of devices such as the ones used in Jammu on June 27 -- and several other drones seen and repelled in the region’s Kaluchak area over the past week -- he said that building drones was akin to a “DIY project that could be tackled at home”. The attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility.Also Read | ‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top army officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diy-drones-can-be-easily-used-by-state-non-state-actors-army-chief-101625129365933.html
01-07-2021||India||States' fault if there is vaccine supply issue now, says Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said several state politicians are making irresponsible statements regarding the vaccination against Covid-19, which is now centralised. Dismissing such criticism that despite the Centre now managing vaccination, there is a crunch, the health minister said that if there is any issue in any particular state, they need to better plan their drives. The minister also said that vaccination speed has picked up after the Centre started providing 75 per cent of vaccines free to states and in June 11.50 crore doses have been administered."If there are issues in states, it shows that they need to better plan their #vaccination drives. Intra-state planning & logistics are the responsibility of the states. I request these leaders to desist from their shameless urge to play politics even in the midst of a pandemic," the health minister tweeted.State political leaders need to focus on governance, the minister said, adding, "Will again request state leaders to spend more energies in planning and not in creating panic."I'm seeing irresponsible statements from various leaders regarding #LargestVaccineDriveStating facts below so people can judge intentions of these leaders👉After GoI provided 75% of vaccines available for free, vaccination speed picked up & 11.50 cr doses were given in JuneThe West Bengal government has complained of scarcity of Covid-19 vaccines and has now decided to utilise 50 per cent of the future supply for the second dose. Other states that have flagged vaccine shortage issues include Delhi, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. In Chennai, there have been flash protests on Wednesday over vaccine shortage. Odisha too shut vaccination centres citing depletion of the stock.The health minister said under the new centralised vaccine policy, the states were informed in advance of their future supply.A total of 12 crore doses will be made available in July excluding that of private hospitals. "This information was shared with states 15 days prior, along with details about day-wise supply," Harsh Vardhan wrote.The Centre's supply to states and UTs depend on population, Covid-19 situation and vaccine wastage. Though West Bengal's vaccine wastage is negative, it is not getting fewer shots than many smaller states, it has been alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-fault-if-there-is-vaccine-supply-issue-now-says-harsh-vardhan-101625128513606.html
01-07-2021||India||Tripura’s banned militant outfit is active in Bangladesh: Report||The National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT), a banned militants’ group, is operating from neighbouring Bangladesh and has been making attempts to spread their movement in Tripura again, according to a confidential report prepared by state and central security agencies, which HT has seen. The northeastern state shares a 856km-long international border with Bangladesh, of which nearly 67km are yet to be fenced. The report said that a small faction of NLFT, headed by its self-styled commander Dilip Debbarma, is making attempts to restart their operation in Khowai district of Tripura, nearly 50km from Agartala. Another self-styled advisor of NLFT, Biswa Mohan Debbarma, is likely to be in Mizoram, self-styled secretary general of NLFT Utpal Debbarma and self-styled secretary of youth affairs, culture, agriculture Sachin Debbarma are in Bangladesh, while another self-styled commander Jacob Hrangkhawl is in Myanmar. Also Read | Tripura CM asks BJP workers to strengthen, expand partyThe movement of a small group headed by Dilip Debbarma has been observed in Ganganagar, Raishyabari, Gandachera and Chawmanu in Dhalai district and possibly parts of Khowai district, the report stated. The report was made based on discussions held at the 52nd meeting of Directional Level Lead Intelligence Agency ( LIA) on June 15. According to the report, two hideouts of the outfit are active at Silchari and Ujjanchari in Bangladesh’s Rangamati district, besides two safe houses in Dhaka and Chittagong. In the meeting that was held after a brief gap due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the BSF, Tripura Special Branch of Police, Special Bureau, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Customs etc., discussed transborder crimes, seizures of contraband items, different smuggling routes in the northeast region, border security along the international border with Bangladesh, insurgency issues etc. As per the report, though the NLFT activities have become insignificant in past seven months, a camp located at Segunbagan in Bangladesh, barely five kilometres from the international border has been active since last October. The outfit, reportedly has 40 cadres at present. The NLFT was floated on March 12 in 1989 with the agenda of a sovereign Tripura. It was banned in 1997 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and then under the Prevention of Terrorism Act ( POTA). As per Union Ministry of Home Affairs, the outfit has been responsible for many violent activities that included 317 insurgency incidents in which 28 security forces and 62 civilians lost their lives between 2005-2015 .After peace talks with them in 2015, no violence has taken place, except a few abductions in last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripuras-banned-militant-outfit-is-active-in-bangladesh-report-101625128225773.html
01-07-2021||India||Get married now, or wait for eternity!||As the dreaded second wave of Covid-19 subsides, giving the country some respite, it also seems to have given a kick-start to the shaadi season, right in the middle of sultry. The news of a maximum of 50 guests being allowed in a wedding hall has made the to-be weds across the country rejoice, and rush to book the dates and venues for weddings. In fact, the couples who had their weddings planned for a later date this year are trying to get married in July itself, in anticipation of a third wave, lest they have to wait forever!Celebrity wedding designer Swati Pandya informs that she’s suddenly flooded with requests for an early date for the wedding. “Our clients are going ahead with 50 guests wedding, thereby respecting the government’s guidelines for Covid-19, as they do absolutely realise that this is the ‘best in hand’ situation, but don’t want to delay any further. The times to come are uncertain so they feel it’s better to host the weddings as early as possible, and in July itself as compared to the time when the cap had dipped to 10 or 25 guests, or choose a better weather at a later date,” shares Pandya. Mumbai-based wedding planner Chinmai Jain, says the desire to hold ceremonies on auspicious dates is also something that is driving people to finalise a date in July itself. “It’s a rush-rush affair now,” says Jain, adding, “There were a lot of auspicious dates in the last three months, but because of the lockdown nothing was possible. Now people are fearing another lockdown in Mumbai in the month of September. They are scared that they might end up waiting another year and, thus want to get married in July, even if it means holding a ceremony in a smaller capacity.” Ishaan Kapoor, owner of a Delhi-based wedding catering company, who was to get married on July 31, is planning to prepone the wedding. “I’m planning to have it earlier in the month. The third wave can come anytime looking at the way people are behaving in Delhi. We will have 40 guests at my wedding, and we have requested everyone including our house staff to get their RT-PCR tests done two days before the functions commence. The hotel we’ve booked hasn’t asked for these reports but we want to be sure we are ready with them just in case they do,” says Kapoor. The sudden increase in number of people wanting to get married soonest possible has also made the time quite a challenging one for the wedding planners. “The cost of flowers has also gone up by three times. We used to have 20-25 people in our team earlier, but now there is hardly any labour with us. We are hiring from outside right now to fulfil the demand, and they most people have increased the cost of their services by three times. There are rules and regulations as well that they have to be vaccinated, which makes it tougher to source the right people for the job,” says Sumathy Bachchan, a Delhi-based wedding planner, and Reema Singh, another wedding planner, adds that while people aren’t cutting down on the number of functions, they are, for sure, cutting down on some frills: “So like if they had planned to have singers for all their functions, they would just have for one. Even in a baraat, usually there are 11-50 people in the band with the dhol and lights and stuff, but now there very few and they are not using a baggi or even a band in some cases. Usually people used to spend a close to ₹2.5 lakh on the baraat, but this has reduced to ₹12,000 to ₹15,000.”  Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-married-now-or-wait-for-eternity-101625127397963.html
01-07-2021||India||India needs anti-drone systems now as border infra are targets of Pak groups||The drone attack by Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terror group on Jammu air base last Sunday has red-flagged the need for India to acquire latest anti-drone technologies as terrorists and Maoists have started using stand-off weapons at the behest of their handlers across the borders.The attack has also brought home the stark truth to not only the national security planners but as well as the air warriors who thought that the armed drones will not be able to survive the hostile environment of the Line of Control (LoC) between India and Pakistan with both countries deploying air defence radars along the active line. The Sunday attack showed that how a mere system costing around six lakh of rupees can cause damage to the Indian Air Force's (IAF) key installations.Fact is that since 2020, the Border Security Force (BSF) has recorded no less than 99 drone sightings on the western borders - from Jammu and Kashmir to Gujarat. To add to the discomfiture is that the BSF has even sighted drones in Maoist infested areas of eastern India. The Indian intelligence agencies and the J&K police know that both Lashkar and Jaish-e-Mohammed have better capability that the drone used in the June 27 attack with majority of drones being used to drop weapons in the Jammu sector.The national security council secretariat is aware of the threat posed by terror drones to Indian security for the past few years but the Indian acquisition processes are so tedious that to date only a request for information (RFI) has been floated for acquisition of anti-drone systems. The Defence Research and Development Organization has also developed a demonstrator anti-drone system but that is still to be tested either on the LoC or the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The DRDO system was tested in NSG facility in Manesar in January 2021 but the users have to still to take a final call.While China has moved far ahead in armed and swarm drone technologies with Pakistan being a collateral beneficiary, the Indian drone and anti-drone capability is still work in progress. This is perhaps also to do with the fact that the Indian military and security forces take time to assimilate new technologies despite the fact that US has used the drones to good effect in Afghanistan and Balochistan to take out high value terror targets. There are many within the security establishment who believe that drones cannot stand a chance in a contested air space and will be detected and brought down. This was proved wrong on June 27 as the two drones not only intruded across the border without detection (which is very difficult in mountainous terrain) but also dropped the payload using GPS coordinates. Had it not been windy in the wee hours of last Sunday morning, the LeT would have embarrassed the IAF.The truth is that even if the two drones had been detected and shot down by the BSF, are the Indian security forces prepared for swarm drones attacks on Indian vital installations all along the border. An armed drone is a cheap option for targeting by anti India terror groups as the controller sits across the border and achieves the objective without crossing the LoC by tunneling under the border fence. India has no options but to rapidly acquire anti-drone systems by involving the private sector while the public sector can continue developing its own. A perfect drone strike by Pakistan based terror groups will destroy the much earned LoC ceasefire but also bring the two arch rivals to each other’s throats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-anti-drone-systems-now-as-border-infra-are-targets-of-pak-groups-101625125370929.html
01-07-2021||India||'5 CMs in 5 years in UP': Om Prakash Rajbhar shares his power-sharing plan||Months before the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar has suggested a new strange formula to govern the state. Rajbhar said if his 10-party alliance wins the state elections in UP, there will be a new chief minister every year."If we form the government in 2022, we are clear that there will be five chief ministers in five years. One will be Muslim, one Rajbhar, one Chauhan, one Kushwaha and one Patel. We will also have four deputy CMs in a year and 20 in five years. We are clear that everyone will be treated equally in the coalition," said Rajhbhar.Rajbhar's party is part of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a coalition of 10 parties. He said that the coalition will contest the election from all 403 seats in the state and "win more than 300 seats to form the government".Rajbhar was earlier part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Uttar Pradesh. He said today that caste is the reality of the society and all parties contest the elections based on the caste system."Not like getting backward class votes in the names on Keshav Prasad Maurya and when it's time to appoint chief minister, bring one from Uttarakhand. People of backward castes are waiting for their turn to get the post of chief minister. If becoming CM depends on votes, I said why not form a coalition and become chief minister turn by turn," he said.Rajbhar resigned from the Yogi Adityanath government in 2019.In the last assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP had won 312 out of 403 seats, and the SBSP four seats. Another ally of the coalition, Apna Dal (Sonelal), had won nine seats.Backward classes account for about 44 per cent of the electorate in caste-riddled Uttar Pradesh and play a crucial role in making or marring political prospects of any party. The Rajbhar community constitutes about 20 per cent of the population and are concentrated in eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-cms-in-5-years-in-up-om-prakash-rajbhar-shares-his-power-sharing-plan-101625125044652.html
01-07-2021||India||Can Indians now travel to European countries? Here is all you need to know about vaccine, Green Pass||Several European countries and member-nations of the European Union are on their way to approve the Serum Institute of India's Covishield for Green Pass, though travel restrictions for Indians have not been lifted. The European Union is rolling out an EU digital covid certificate also known as Green Pass from today which includes only four vaccines — Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen. Only those inoculated with these vaccines will get this pass and will be allowed to travel with EU nationals during the pandemic.India on Wednesday requested the member nations of the European Union to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin. The government also mentioned that once Covishield and Covaxin are included in the EU Digital Covid certificate and India's Co-Win vaccine certificate is recognised, India will also accept EU Digital Covid Certificate and will provide an exemption from mandatory quarantine.'No controversy': Adar Poonawalla on Covishield being excluded from EU Green PassGermany Embassy in India spokesperson Walter J Lindner clarified that Germany already considers Covishield as a valid proof of anti-Covid vaccination as Covishield is just another version of the same vaccine (Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford) approved by the European Union.Switzerland, not an EU nation, has earlier announced that it would accept fully vaccinated third-country nationals (CHE, EU and WHO) from June 26. "The Embassy of Switzerland in New Delhi is currently accepting all visa categories for persons coming from third countries such as India...who can prove that they have been fully vaccinated," the embassy said.Can Indians now travel to Europe?This depends on country-specific guidelines as Switzerland is now allowing Indians fully vaccinated by Covishield. But several other European countries, including Germany, have not lifted the restrictions from India. And the restriction may remain there for some timeWhy is Covishield not approved in Europe?It is a misnomer to say that Covishield is not approved in Europe. In many European countries, Covishield is recognised as a valid vaccine against Covid-19. EU has not included it in its Green Pass as Covishield manufacturer Serum Institute of India did not submit an application to the European Medicines Agency. The EU also clarified that the Green Pass is for travelling withing the EU countries and not from outside. EU member nations have the provision to individually approve Covishield, as it is WHO-approved.Will Covishield be included in the EU's Green Pass?Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has said it has now applied for EMA approval and it is only a matter of time now. Poonawalla expects that the approval will come in a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-indians-now-travel-to-european-countries-here-is-all-you-need-to-know-about-vaccine-green-pass-101625123546289.html
01-07-2021||India||HT Explainer: The monsoon is on a break. What does it mean?||The Indian monsoon is taking a break even before it has covered the entire country. With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) saying it doesn’t know when the monsoon will revive, both farmers and policymakers are apprehensive. The slowing down of monsoon could lead to a dip in agriculture production at a time when economic indicators are weak and the pandemic is yet to be controlled. This will clearly have livelihood implications.Here’s an explainer on this unusual monsoon break and its ramifications:What is the nature of the Indian monsoon?The Indian monsoon primarily affects India and its surrounding countries. It blows from the northeast during cooler months, and reverses direction to blow from the southwest during the warmest months of the year. So, in essence, strong easterly winds push the dominant westerly winds upwards, thereby taking over the dominant weather system for close to four months. The strong moisture laden winds being Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea bring large amounts of rainfall to the region between June and September. The monsoon brings 50 to 70% of the total annual rainfall to the Indian sub-continent.What are its common rainfall patterns?Monsoon rains are not constant during the period. There are two rainfall-related phenomenon associated with monsoon — monsoon burst and monsoon break. In monsoon burst, heavy rainfall takes place over a long period, may be up to a week, in a region or regions of the country, primarily causing floods. Flooding in Kerala in 2018, or in Bihar and Assam in 2020 can be termed as instances of monsoon burst. The increase in intensity of both break and burst has been attributed to warming of earth surface because of the climate crisis.What is monsoon break?Monsoon break is a period when it goes into recession of one or more weeks. When tropical disturbances advance along the monsoon trough, at times, the sea level low pressure area weakens. As the high-level low pressure area moves north, precipitation decreases in the northern plains and it creates high pressure area over North Bay of Bengal, a rich source of monsoon rains.This makes the monsoon trough along the west coast to weaken and monsoon winds from Bay of Bengal branch alone feed the monsoon trough, which runs along the foothill of Himalayas and Northeast India.This, in turn, results in less or no rainfall across west coast, Deccan plateau and Northern plains. But a low pressure trough forms over the Tamil Nadu coast increasing the rainfall. As the monsoon trough runs close to the foothills of Himalayas, monsoon winds ascend the slopes of Himalayas resulting in orthographic rainfall. This is how a normal monsoon break works.Why has monsoon receded now?This monsoon break is slightly different. According to Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, the monsoon break normally takes places once the entire country has had a spell of rainfall and monsoon coverage is complete. The break is mostly noticed at the end of July or in August. Monsoon again picks when it starts receding from September.However, this monsoon break is unusual as it happening since monsoon has not covered all of India yet. Since June 18, very strong westerly winds are blocking the easterly monsoon wind, which brings moisture from Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea. On the surface level, high velocity winds are blowing, causing ground temperature to rise and creating unfavourable conditions for monsoon winds to proceed.The westerlies are strong because of the heating of equator near India and are blocking the easterlies, thereby pushing the monsoon down after it crossed Madhya Pradesh and covered half of Uttar Pradesh. So, only some parts of Konkan and Goa, the southern tip and northeast India is receiving good rainfall.Is monsoon break common?Yes, the monsoon break is common but not before the weather phenomenon covers entire country. Palawat said that it is rare for monsoon to experience a break before it covers the entire country.“The break was because of very localised factors and failure of formation of westerly disturbance which could have pushed the monsoon upwards,” he said. The monsoon work on push and pull method, in which the low pressure in Bay of Bengal or Arabian Sea pushes the monsoon into Central India and weak westerly pulls the monsoon towards the western coast and northern India. This time, there was a push till June 18 when a low pressure had formed in Bay of Bengal but there was no pull. Emergence of strong and hot westerly winds has pushed the monsoon down.When will the break end?According to IMD, it is highly unlikely that the monsoon will resume till July 7. Palawat said there was no indication for monsoon trough to resume till July 8-10. “It is wait and watch till then,” he said.Former director general of IMD KJ Ramesh, however, expressed confidence that there would be a vigorous monsoon by the second week of July and would cover the rain deficiency of the past 12 days. Till June 30, India received 13% more rainfall than normal but the showers are reducing since June 19, IMD rainfall data showed. The deficiency for last 11 days of June was 32% and for last day of June, it was 70%.How is the heat wave related to monsoon break?Dry and strong westerly winds from Pakistan and West Asia have brought heat wave across northern and central India, though late. Temperatures in several places in central and western India crossed 45 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. In normal weather conditions, this region sees heat wave conditions in late April, May or early June. Ramesh said this year, due to winds not been able to bring moisture from the seas, there is extreme dry weather creating heat wave-like conditions.Is there any possibility of below normal monsoon?Weather experts said it is too early to say. June is set to receive 106% of the Long Period Average (LPA) even though Monday and Tuesday saw 60% rain deficiency. The July prediction is 91% of LPA.Skymet’s Palawat said there will be rain deficiency in the first 8-10 days of July and after that, the monsoon is expected to re-start and the gap can be covered. IMD said it doesn’t have a model to make precise prediction of monsoon rainfall for more than a week. So, they don’t know whether monsoon will revive after July 8, the day the monsoon is expected to cover entire India, almost 38 days after it hit the coast of Kerala. However, several places in western India, especially northern Gujarat and western Rajasthan, are witnessing drought-like conditions with negligible monsoon rainfall till now.What could be the possible impact of this monsoon break?Till now, experts say, there is not much impact of the break as there was good rainfall in May and first 17 days of June. Till June 30, India received 13% more rainfall than normal but the showers, as noted above, are reducing since June 19.However, a long monsoon recession (beyond July 10) can delay sowing of crops, especially in the rain-fed areas, which is 40% of country’s agriculture land. It will also impact horticulture crops in Uttarakhand, Himachal and Jammu and Kashmir, especially apples. If it doesn’t rain in the next fortnight, the quality of the produce can be impacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-explainer-the-monsoon-is-on-a-break-what-does-it-mean-101625124205654.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nirmala Sitharaman dubs enhanced tax collection 'new normal' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On GST day, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman says enhanced tax collection is 'new normal'India is marking 'GST Day' on Thursday, i.e. July 1 to mark the completion of four years since the rollout of the historic tax reform. Read More'Not much data to suggest Delta Plus can cause more deaths': AIIMS directorThe Delta Plus variant of coronavirus (Covid-19), which has been tagged as a “variant of concern” by the central government, has spread fear among the citizens of the country due to its higher transmissibility and resistance to some vaccines. Read MoreA year since the TikTok ban, India set to stay the course on Chinese appsOn June 29, 2020, just over a year ago, Union minister for electronics and information technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, launched what he termed “India’s digital strike” against China. Read MoreDropping Rishabh Pant's catch was like dropping WTC title, it was 'horrible,' reveals New Zealand's Tim SoutheeNew Zealand pacer Tim Southee revealed that he thought he had dropped the World Test Championship after slipping an easy catch of India wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant on the Reserve Day of the WTC final in Southampton. Read MoreTaapsee Pannu recalls dad's awkwardness at watching films with 'explicit scenes' with teenage daughters aroundTaapsee Pannu, Vikrant Massey, and Harshvardhan Rane's new film, Haseen Dillruba, pays homage to Hindi pulp thrillers. Read MoreTVS iQube electric scooter launched in Chetak Electric's home turf of PuneUntil now, the iQube electric scooter was only limited to select cities such as Delhi, Bengaluru, and Chennai, and now TVS Motor Company has introduced the battery-powered scooter in Pune as well, at a price tag of ₹1,10,898 (on-road). Read MoreWoman’s wedding pic prompts online game of tic-tac-toe. Know whyA picture shared by woman has turned into a source of Twitter chatter. In fact, it prompted people to start an online game of tic-tac-toe. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nirmala-sitharaman-dubs-enhanced-tax-collection-new-normal-and-all-the-latest-news-101625122356344.html
01-07-2021||India||One nation, one ration card possible because of Digital India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the government’s flagship Digital India mission had enabled implementation of the one nation, one ration card scheme and helped ease access to services for millions of people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Interacting with beneficiaries on the completion of six years of the Digital India mission, the PM said direct benefit transfer had helped send money to crores of people. “Using UPI, people do transactions worth nearly ₹5 lakh every day,” he said. “The one nation, one ration card scheme which was made possible under the mission has especially helped migrant workers.” The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed all states and Union territories to implement the scheme by July 31. The top court has also issued a slew of directions, asking the Central government to distribute dry ration among migrant workers free of charge until the pandemic situation subsides.Also Read | ‘Chartered accountants have a vital role in India’s progress’: PM ModiThe PM added that the mission had helped farmers sell their produce directly, and even allowed the government to provide them money directly into their accounts. “Digital India scheme has empowered common people,” he said. “This is a great example of minimum government, maximum governance.” Modi also highlighted the success of schemes introduced under Digital India mission, such as Digilocker, the government’s app to store documents, and Aarogya Setu, the Covid-19 tracing app.“India’s digital solutions are of interest across the world, there are many countries that want to emulate the country’s vaccination platform, CoWIN,” he said. Referring to the recently released rankings in UN’s ITU global cyber security agenda, the prime minister said that India’s commitment to data privacy security had increased by leaps and bounds. “In the recently released ranking, India is now number 10 in terms of cybersecurity across the world,” he said.  “Without access to cheap data plans, what would have happened to millennials,” he said, adding, “Crores of people have benefitted from online education to medicine, and last mile delivery of medical services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-ration-card-possible-because-of-digital-india-pm-modi-101625123725727.html
01-07-2021||India||Nagaland MLA Toshi Wungtung dies from Covid-19-related complications||Nagaland’s MLA and advisor to the government for information and public relations Toshi Wungtung passed away on Thursday in New Delhi, where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19-related health complications, official sources said.He was 57.Known for his outspoken advocacy on environment conservation, promotion of Naga cultural identity and traditions, and the Naga political issue, Wungtung made his debut in state electoral politics in 2018. He was elected to the 13th Nagaland Legislative Assembly from Shamator-Chessore constituency in Tuensang district on a Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) ticket. Also Read | Nagaland declared ‘disturbed area’ for 6 more months under AFSPAWungtung was appointed advisor for IPR, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), and Village Guards, a position he held till his demise.The MLA was stated to have tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Nagaland earlier in June. However, with the development of several underlying health complications, he was airlifted to Delhi later and had been under medical treatment since then. Official sources informed that preparations are being made to fly the mortal remains of the late MLA home to Nagaland on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-mla-toshi-wungtung-dies-from-covid-19-related-complications-101625123666054.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Disappointed’ SC stays NGT order on Baghjan fire||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed disappointment over the National Green Tribunal (NGT) including an Oil India Ltd (OIL) official in a 10-member committee to assess damage caused to the biodiversity due to the fire at Assam’s Baghjan oil well despite holding the corporation responsible for the losses.The SC stayed the NGT order constituting the committee.The panel was asked to come up with a remedial restoration plan including for Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri-Motapung Wetland, which suffered damage due to the 172-day fire at the oil well in the Tinsukia district. The Well No-5 at Baghjan caught fire on June 9 last year, and left two of OIL’s firefighters dead.“We are surprised that NGT first holds that Oil India is responsible for the damages to the environment and for destroying the wetlands and then an officer of Oil India is made a member of the committee to go into these issues,” said a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah while hearing an appeal against the February 19 tribunal order.According to the NGT order, the committee was to be headed by Assam’s chief secretary and would include the OIL managing director. The Supreme Court said the inclusion of the OIL official was “completely surprising”.Senior advocate Siddharth Mitra, appearing for petitioner Bonani Kakkar, called it a breach of the principle of justice, where somebody with a direct conflict of interest was being asked to adjudicate a matter.Mitra pointed out that another committee led by former high court judge BP Katakey has submitted a comprehensive report on the matter. He said it was followed by a progress report, and hence constitution of a new committee will only delay the process.The bench agreed with Mitra’s submissions and stayed the NGT order. It said it will hear the matter immediately after two weeks so that the issue is not left pending any further. The SC said it will form a new panel that could go into all the issues and submit a report expeditiously.“We may monitor this ourselves. We are disappointed by the manner in which the NGT has simply pushed this off its hands. It is the National Green Tribunal. It must have some alacrity and concerns for the environment,” the court said.In June 2020, the NGT slapped an interim ₹25 crore penalty on OIL over its failure to stop the fire. It also set up the first Katakey-led panel. After this panel indicted OIL, the NGT bench headed by its chairperson justice AK Goel said in the February order that the tribunal prima facie agrees there was a failure on part of OIL.The tribunal called for a need to ensure that such incidents do not recur while constituting the 10-member panel to assess the damages and for the remedial restoration plan.“The onus of forming the committee was entirely with NGT and OIL had no role to play in it. We would not be able to comment on the SC ruling as we are yet to see it,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disappointed-with-ngt-order-says-sc-as-it-stays-order-on-baghjan-oil-well-fire-101625123485650.html
01-07-2021||India||'Not much data to suggest Delta Plus can cause more deaths': AIIMS director||The Delta Plus variant of coronavirus (Covid-19), which has been tagged as a “variant of concern” by the central government, has spread fear among the citizens of the country due to its higer transmissibility and resistance to some vaccines. However, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said that if Covid appropriate behaviour is followed, “we’ll be safe against any of the emerging variants,” news agency ANI reported.“There isn’t much data on the Delta Plus variant to suggest it’s more infectious, causing more deaths, or has developed a significant immune escape mechanism,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Guleria further stated that more data is required on “mixing of doses” as studies show that it may be effective. However, the AIIMS director clarified that more data is needed before saying that mixing of Covid-19 vaccine doses is a policy that should be tried.His remarks come after a recent study led by the Oxford University revealed that alternating doses of the AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines produce robust immune responses against the SARs-CoV-2 causing Covid-19. The researchers in the study, who are working to know the feasibility of using a different vaccine dose for the prime vaccination than the one used for the booster vaccination, discovered that mixing the doses of two different vaccines can generate stronger immunity.The Delta Plus variant, which was first identified on June 11, and is a mutated form of the Delta variant, has so far been detected in 12 countries. In India, as many as 12 states and Union territories, including Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Odisha, among others, have reported cases of Delta Plus variant. As of now, a total of 51 cases of the variant has been found in the country from 45,000 samples that were tested. Notably, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of cases of Delta Plus of Covid-19, followed by Madhtya Pradesh and Kerala. Owing to the upward trend of cases related to the variant, Maharashtra has brought back restrictions and imposed three-level curbs instead of a five-level unlock, which was announced earlier.Recently, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) head Dr NK Arora said that the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 has a greater affinity towards lung problems though it does not mean that it can cause major disease or has higher transmissibility, news agency PTI reported.“Delta Plus is having greater affinity to mucosal lining in the lungs, higher compared to other variants, but if it causes damage or not is not clear yet,” he told PTI.The World Health Organization (WHO) said that the more a virus circulates in a population causing infection, the chance of the virus mutating rises. The public health agency added that the more a virus spreads, the more it replicates, and has greater windows to undergo changes – also known as mutation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-much-data-to-suggest-delta-plus-can-cause-more-deaths-aiims-director-101625121742506.html
01-07-2021||India||A year since the TikTok ban, India set to stay the course on Chinese apps||On June 29, 2020, just over a year ago, Union minister for electronics and information technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, launched what he termed “India’s digital strike” against China, as the government banned 59 mobile applications, mostly of Chinese origin, in the wake of the Galwan border clash.The decision sent ripples through the community of online users as TikTok, a fast-growing short-video streaming application, was on the list. TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India last year.India would go on to ban over 200 mobile applications, including the hugely popular videogame PUBG, over concerns of national security and data privacy. India’s push against China’s presence in the telecom market has also seen an increased focus in the last year, with the government introducing criteria for trusted source vendors that can supply equipment and keeping China-based companies, Huawei and ZTE, out of the 5G trials.Also Read | Delhi Police seeks details of handles that shared porn content on TwitterThe strategic subtext behind the ban The ban on TikTok, WeChat and ShareIt was executed under Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act, 2000, on the grounds that they “posed a threat to sovereignty and integrity of India”. The first tranche of app bans was followed by two more — 44 apps that functioned like ones banned in the first, including lite versions of the applications, followed by a decision to ban 117 mobile applications on September 2, including PUBG, for “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner.”But while data privacy and security were cited as the reasons, there is little doubt that the trigger for the ban was the Galwan clash of 2020. The bloodiest encounter between India and China at the border in over 40 years took the lives of 20 Indian armed forces personnel, and with the incident and Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control, the framework to maintain peace at the border was severely strained.Former Indian ambassador to China, Pakistan and Bhutan, Gautam Bambawale, said that the decision to ban the apps was a message to China. “India has stated that if there is no peace on the border, then the rest of the India-China relationship will be adversely impacted,” He added that the ban on Chinese apps was a “first step” in indicating to Beijing that there are costs involved of their actions in eastern Ladakh. “The message has gone loud and clear.”Vivan Sharan, partner with research-driven advisory firm, Koan Advisory Group, said that the app ban represented “an inflection point” which signified “India’s willingness to link geopolitics with tech policy”.At the same time, he added, “There is no guarantee that blacklisting will mitigate dangers in the digital environment, where threats cannot always be geolocated. Moreover, a transparent and judiciable standard for app and content takedowns is the need of the hour, and what will differentiate digital democracies from the rest.”The impact on the companiesA year after the ban, TikTok hasn’t given up on its India plans yet.ByteDance, TikTok’s parent company, remains hopeful of a lift of the ban after it received and submitted a questionnaire sent by the IT ministry enquiring about the company, its practices and content.A company executive familiar with the matter said that the company was working with the government to have the ban lifted, but this may well be more hope than reality. Ministry officials said that no such rethink was on the cards.The executive also said that while data was a principal concern, the company had worked to create even more safeguards. “Our data centres are in Singapore and the United States (US). India remains the only country that has banned TikTok.” In the US, the ban on the company was halted after US district judge Carl Nichols said former President Donald Trump “overstepped” when it comes to exercising his power while announcing the ban. However, President Joe Biden did extend a Donald Trump-era ban on Chinese surveillance companies. The total number of blocked Chinese firms increased from 48 to 59.PUBG adopted a different route.In September, explaining its rationale for a set of additional prohibitions, the government asserted that since these applications were routing data through China or had data centres within the country, the safety of the data of the citizens was compromised. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) said.The move was viewed as targeting some of China’s technology giants such as Tencent Holdings Ltd, the country’s search engine leader Baidu Inc, Xiaomi’s ShareSave and online payments giant Ant Group Co.’s platform Alipay.After it was banned, PUBG (which is a South Korean company) pulled its franchise from China-based company Tencent, and said, “In light of recent developments, PUBG Corporation has decided to no longer authorise the PUBG MOBILE franchise to Tencent Games in India. Moving forward, PUBG Corporation will take on all publishing responsibilities within the country.”In June 2021, PUBG’s parent company, Krafton, announced a new version specially tailored for India named Battlegrounds Mobile India. This launch has created a renewed furore among those who believe that it is simply a rebranding of PUBG.Gaurav Tyagi, an assistant professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, filed a Right To Information (RTI) report regarding this new release. Meity and the ministry of home affairs (MHA) explained that they have no role in granting permission for the launch of any mobile application but clarified that they can, however, ban the game after its release as per provisions under the IT Act. This has not happened.Independent researcher Srinivas Kodali said that the applications always have the option of challenging the ban. “They can always litigate. There is a government order banning them, they can challenge it in the court,” he said. “From a nation-State perspective, you don’t want information from India going to another country.”He added, “The decision did make some impact but the larger questions of data security remain. There have numerous data breaches since, whether it is in the case of Dominos or Big Basket or Mobikwik, all this data available on the darknet for anyone who is looking for it.”The impact on the larger ecosystem Did the “digital strike” propel the rise of an alternative ecosystem? Initial reports suggested that the move prompted Indian entrepreneurs to present a local alternative to various popular apps in the market. And, indeed, from file sharing and scanning to video streaming, indigenous apps were developed rapidly to fill the gap that came with the ban and to create a new ecosystem within the country.At the same time, experts point to a more nuanced landscape.“A majority of the banned apps were essentially fly-by-the-night operations, less than a dozen had offices in the country. And only a subset of the latter, apps such as TikTok, UC Browser and PUBG, had a significant market share in their respective segments. Therefore, an alternative ecosystem already existed for most apps. In some segments such as video content sharing, local counterparts have improved valuations but are yet to achieve monetisation at scale,” Sharan stated.Since many of the banned apps had no or limited stakes in the country, re-entry is unlikely. Sharan added, “Most (banned) apps seem disinterested in re-entry. Those that hope to return would likely need to restructure like PUBG has, or to localise in India in the widest possible sense short of forced tech transfer. This will include auditable information security assurances, and responsiveness to local enforcement concerns.”India’s cybersecurity is still a work in progressWhile the 2020 move was guided by a strategic decision to let China know that undermining peace at the border will have economic implications and business won’t carry on as usual, an equally important concern is a mounting threat to India’s data privacy and cybersecurity.A recent report by the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS), Cyber Capabilities and National Power: A Net Assessment, ranked India poorly in its cyber-power. “Despite the geostrategic instability of its region and a keen awareness of the cyber threat it faces, India has made only modest progress in developing its policy and doctrine for cyberspace security,” the report read. It added, “Its approach towards institutional reform of cyber governance has been slow and incremental, with the key coordinating authorities for cyber security in the civil and military domains only established in 2018 and 2019 respectively.”According to information from the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), India saw a sharp rise in cybersecurity incidents during the Covid-19 pandemic. Cybersecurity incidents increased from 3,94,499 in 2019 to 11,58,208 in 2020.In 2020, however, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU)’s Global Cybersecurity Index, which is a specialised organisation under the United Nations, ranked India at 10th position, while China was ranked 33rd. The report, released on June 29, may represent a shift in India’s cybersecurity standing globally.A year after the ban, it is this mix of geopolitics and national security concerns vis a vis China, cybersecurity and data privacy vulnerabilities, the Indian State’s own evolving regulatory frameworks, the Indian tech ecosystem’s ability to identify needs, tap markets, compete effectively and scale up, and the varied responses of those who had to exit the Indian market that have shaped the policy environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-since-the-tiktok-ban-india-set-to-stay-the-course-on-chinese-apps-101625121866084.html
01-07-2021||India||'Farmers' trust on e-NAM has increased': PM Modi at digital India event||On the sixth anniversary of Digital India on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with beneficiaries of various schemes. From students to farmers, various beneficiaries shared their experiences about how adopting digital methods made their lives easier.The interaction started with Suhani Sahu, a beneficiary of DIKSHA scheme from Uttar Pradesh.Sahu, a Class 5 student, talked about how DIKSHA has made her studies more interactive and enjoyable. "We receive a link on WhatsApp where we get to learn a lot of things. There are many cartoons also on the platform," she said.DIKSHA serves as national digital infrastructure for teachers. All teachers across nation have been equipped with advanced digital technology as part of the platform.The Prime Minister then spoke to Prahlad Borghad, a farmer in Maharashtra. He told PM Modi how the e-NAM (National Agriculture Market) platform has opened the doors for small farmers like him."We have been using the platform since 2018. We are getting more value for our produce and able to sell it conveniently," said Borghad. The digital initiative has reduced the burden on transport since farmers like him didn't have to go anywhere.PM Modi said that such things should be told to other farmers also, which will help increase their trust on e-NAM.Shubham, a beneficiary of national teleconsultation service programme eSanjeevani also interacted with the Prime Minister where he talked about how easy it has become to consult the doctors due to the digital revolution, especially during Covid-19 time. Congratulating the young man for successfully using the digital platform, PM Modi also spoke to the doctor who gave medical consultation to Shubham's grandmother."With the improvement in technology, I hope more people will be able to use telemedicine," the Prime Minister said.The digital India programme was launched on July 1, 2015, by the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-trust-on-e-nam-has-increased-pm-modi-at-digital-india-event-101625121080853.html
01-07-2021||India||2.8 million households got tap water this year under Jal Jeevan Mission||Jal Jeevan Mission, the government’s flagship scheme to make piped water available to all, has provided about 2.8 million households with tap water connections in the first quarter of the year.Additional secretary and mission director of National Jal Jeevan Mission Bharat Lal said on Wednesday, “We have to build on this momentum. We have to ensure that various works planned for 2021-22 are implemented with a sense of urgency.”Jal Jeevan reports show an increase of 43.9 million in functional household tap connections since August 2019, when the mission was announced. The chief objective of the mission is to provide piped water supply (Har Ghar Jal) to all rural households by 2024.Also Read | ‘5 states, UTs to get tap water by 2022, ahead of deadline’In its periodic review published in the ninth edition of its monthly bulletin, National Jal Jeevan Mission (NJJM) lists 13 activities that the state and Union Territory governments need to expedite to achieve the mission objective. These activities include providing 100% piped water to schools, anganwadis etc, voluntary ownership of water supply by local communities, and creating awareness on various aspects and significance of potable drinking water.A Muralidharan, deputy advisor at Public Health Engineering (PHE) department in the ministry, said rainwater during monsoon could be utilised as drinking water. “Rains replenish groundwater, the major source for drinking water in most parts of the country. It fills up ponds, farm ponds, dams, reservoirs, wetlands and every depression on earth and gets stored as a surface water source, making itself available for drinking water service delivery,” he said.Water conservation becomes essential as the frequency of natural disasters increases. Depleting groundwater levels, overexploitation and deteriorating water quality, climate change, etc., are major challenges to providing potable drinking water. The Jal Jeevan Mission focuses on integrated demand and supply management of water at the local level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-million-households-got-tap-water-this-year-under-jal-jeevan-mission-101625120785197.html
01-07-2021||India||NIA court discharges Akhil Gogoi in second case related to anti-CAA protests||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here on Thursday discharged president of Raijor Dal and Sibsagar MLA Akhil Gogoi in the second case lodged against him in relation with anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) by the agency. He had already been discharged in the other case filed against him by NIA. Gogoi, a prominent farmer activist, has been under arrest since December 2019 for his alleged role in the anti-CAA protests in Assam. He is at present admitted to the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) as he has been unwell for a few months. “The NIA court discharged him in the case lodged at Chandmari in Guwahati. The court had earlier discharged him in the other case lodged at Chabua in Dibrugarh district by NIA,” said Gogoi’s lawyer Shantanu Borthakur. The NIA had filed two cases against Gogoi under several sections of Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment (UAPA) Act. He was discharged in the Chabua case last week. Also Read | 2-child policy only way to remove illiteracy, poverty in Muslims: Assam CMThe cases pertain to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organisation, etc. Gogoi had been granted bail in connection with the Chabua case by the NIA court in October last year. But the investigation agency had approached the Gauhati high court challenging the bail order. Three other accused in the same case, Dharjya Konwar, Manash Konwar and Bitu Sonowal, were also discharged by the NIA court on Thursday.. All three accused are already out on bail.In April this year, the Gauhati high court held the NIA court was right in granting bail to Gogoi and dismissed the appeal by the investigating agency. “The court’s ruling on Thursday is a blow to NIA and its attempts to target Gogoi. We are overwhelmed by the verdict and hope to see our party president out of arrest soon,” said Bhasco De Saikia, working president, Raijor Dal. Last week, the NIA court had granted two days’ permission to Gogoi to meet his son, who is suffering from Covid-19, as well as meet his 84-year-old mother who is ailing. On Tuesday, NIA had filed an additional charge sheet against Gogoi in connection with the Chandmari case. “The additional charge sheet doesn’t hold much water as there is no new section filed against Gogoi. We are hopeful of his release soon,” Borthakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-discharges-akhil-gogoi-in-second-case-related-to-anti-caa-protests-101625120485118.html
01-07-2021||India||'No controversy': Adar Poonawalla on Covishield being excluded from EU Green Pass||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla is expecting to receive approval from the European Medicines Agency for Covishield in a month, following which Indians vaccinated with the two doses of Covishield will not face any travel bar in European Union countries. There is no controversy, the CEO of the world's biggest vaccine maker said adding that the issue has been just blown out of proportion. He also said that the issue of vaccine passports is different and it should be on the basis of reciprocity between the countries.EMA and Green PassThe European Union is rolling out a Green Pass to determine who can freely travel to the member countries and Covishield and Covaxin — India's two primary vaccines — are not there.Covishield's exclusion has raised a few eyebrows as it is the same Astrazeneca-Oxford vaccine but developed in India. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) clarified that it did not receive any application from Serum Institute and Covishield does not have a marketing authorisation in the EU. However, it said that the member countries of the union are free to include Covishield in their Green Pass, as Covishield is approved by the World Health Organization.The Green Pass is being implemented from Thursday.Not really going to hinder anything: Adar PoonawallaAs reported by agencies, Adar Poonawalla said Serum has applied for EMA approval through Astrazeneca a month ago and there is no controversy. As of now, Indians are not allowed to travel to EU countries, but once the ban is lifted, they should not be barred because they have taken Covishield, Poonawalla said."The EMA is absolutely correct in asking us to apply, which we have through AstraZeneca, our partners, a month ago, and that process has to take its time. Even the UK MHRA, WHO took its time and we have applied to the EMA," SII CEO said."We are quite confident that in a month EMA will approve Covishield. There is no reason why not to because it is based on AstraZeneca data and our product is identical to AstraZeneca more or less and it has been approved by WHO, UK MHRA. So it's just a matter of time. It is not really going to hinder anything," Poonawalla added.'Vaccine passport is about two countries'Commenting on the issue of vaccine passports, Adar said it is between two countries. "The issue with vaccine passports is slightly different. What I am trying to say is that let us take a manufacturer outside of India. Let's say they have been approved by WHO and everyone in that country gets vaccinated taking that product and now when those citizens need to travel, what good is their vaccine certificate if it is not acknowledged and reciprocity is not there between the countries," Poonawalla said.Govt push for Covishield and Covaxin in EUIndia has asked the members of the European Union to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, as that option is open. If these two vaccines are approved by 27 EU nations, then India too will exempt EU people holding Green Pass from mandatory quarantine in India, it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-controversy-adar-poonawalla-on-covishield-being-excluded-from-eu-green-pass-101625117279054.html
01-07-2021||India||'On Doctors' Day, I salute members of medical fraternity': Venkaiah Naidu||Doctors have emerged as the first line of defence in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. From diagnosing the infection to administering the vaccine, they have played a life-saving role at the time of crisis.Honoring the profession, India celebrates July 1 every year as 'National Doctors' Day'. The tradition was started by the Indian Medical Association (IMA).The Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy. He was born on July 1, 1882 in Patna city, Bihar.“On this Doctors' Day, I salute all members of the medical fraternity for rendering selfless service and working round-the-clock to save others' lives by risking their own,” Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said in a post on Twitter.The Vice President further appealed to people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and ease the pressure on the medical fraternity as the pandemic has put tremendous stress on doctors and their families.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, many other ministers and politicians also wished the doctors on this day.The Covid-19 pandemic has been hard on doctors and paramedical staff, who braved the raging infection to render service to those in need. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data made available by IMA in mid-June.Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 such deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed.According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.This year is once again dedicated to all those doctors and healthcare professionals who are serving in these trying times by risking their lives either in primary or secondary care setups and in dedicated Covid care facilities. Doctors have to show empathy towards patients and their relatives while also detaching themselves emotionally to work in a professional manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/health/on-doctors-day-i-salute-members-of-medical-fraternity-venkaiah-naidu-101625116264052.html
01-07-2021||India||Kerala launches in-car dining to boost tourism affected by Covid-19||Ever since the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic hit India, dining out has been affected due to a majority of the country’s population preferring to not take the risk of getting exposed. Aimed to meet this challenge and also boost tourism in the state, Kerala has launched in-car dining, news agency ANI reported. Under this initiative, the restaurants operated by the Kerala Tourism Department Corporation (KTDC) across the state will offer tourists local cuisine while they are sitting inside their vehicles.The state tourism minister PA Mohammed Riyas told ANI that amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, “instead of dining inside a restaurant and mingling with the crowd, the in-car dining initiative will ensure safety to the tourists coming to Kerala".During the launch of the project, Kayamkulam MLA U Pratibha was also present alongside Riyas.Notably, the in-car dining initiative has been launched at a time when tourism in Kerala, which accounts for 11 per cent of the state domestic product (SDP), incurred loss due to Covid-19.The Kerala government announced of starting the in-car dining project earlier in June. At that time, Riyas had said that customers can place their orders at KTDC’s Aahaar restaurants, and that the in-car dining will cover all meals throughout the day – breakfast, lunch and dinner apart from snacks.Riyas stated that only KTDC restaurants will be responsible for carrying out the scheme. "We plan to reach out to the people with safe and tasty food. KTDC hotel chains will be renovated under the project 'Mission Facelift' after classifying them on a priority basis," he added.The tourism minister also suggested the idea of completely vaccinated tourism and even finding new tourism destinations in the state. According to the ANI report, he informed that Kerala government has initiated a project in which a new such tourism destination will be recognised in every panchayat. Furthermore, Riyas told ANI, several projects to develop new heritage and pilgrim tourism destinations to attract maximum domestic tourists, are also in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-launches-in-car-dining-for-to-boost-tourism-affected-by-covid19-101625117244837.html
01-07-2021||India||Dr Reddy's Labs denied nod to conduct Phase-3 trials of Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine||Dr. Reddy's Laboratories has been denied permission by India's top regulatory body to conduct the Phase-3 trials for the Russian-made Sputnik Light coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine in India, reported news agency ANI on Thursday, citing people familiar with the development. According to reports, the expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) refused to allow the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company to conduct the third phase trials for the one-shot Sputnik Light vaccine because it did not find the "scientific rationale" behind the same.Also Read | High demand for Sputnik V vaccine at MedantaDr. Reddy's Laboratories had partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) last year in September to conduct the Phase-3 trials of the Russian-made Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine in India, and distribute up to 100 million doses of it in India. The vaccine was approved for emergency use in the country in April this year.Sputnik Light is a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine. It is a slimmed-down, one-shot version of Sputnik V that the government was earlier looking at for a speedy launch in India, news agency PTI reported in late May. An application seeking regulatory approval for it was filed in June and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories was expecting it to be approved by the drug regulatory body. If approved, it would have been the first and only single-dose vaccine in the country.Also Read | Efficacy against Covid-19, safe for kids? All you need to know about Moderna vaccineSputnik Light demonstrated 79.4% efficacy, according to an analysis of data gathered 28 days after the shot was administered as part of Russia’s mass vaccination programme between December 2020 and April 2021, the vaccine’s developers said in a statement. Gamaleya Center also demonstrated during laboratory tests that Sputnik Light had proven effective against all new strains of the coronavirus, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-labs-denied-nod-to-conduct-phase-3-trials-of-sputnik-light-covid-19-vaccine-101625117145896.html
01-07-2021||India||Manipur extends Covid curfew till July 10||The Manipur government has extended the ongoing curfew which was imposed in the state’s seven districts for ten more days till July 10 even as it allowed certain relaxations.“A careful approach along with mass vaccination is required to ensure that the pandemic is controlled,” said chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar who is also the chairman of the state executive committee of the state disaster management authority in an order on Wednesday night.As per the order,agriculture and horticulture activities,shops and establishments dealing with fertilisers, seeds, pesticides, and mechanical tools will be allowed during the curfew.Also Read | India logs 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72%Government offices of agriculture and horticulture departments, NREGA activities, stationery shops and opticians outside Thangal Bazaar and Paona Bazaar can open from 10am to 2pm on the days grocery shops are closed.Vegetable vendors and grocery shops will open as per earlier arrangement on July 1,4,7 and 10 from 7am to 10am.On Wednesday, the state government said that it will be relaxing the curfew in a calibrated manner by assessing the infection scenario.A notice by special secretary H Gyan Prakash of the home department on Wednesday said institutions, organisations, factories, shops, markets, private offices etc where employees and workers are vaccinated would be allowed to reopen on priority.“Therefore, a notice is hereby given to all persons to get vaccinated at the earliest. There are several fixed vaccine centres where anyone above 18 years can walk in and be vaccinated,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-covid-curfew-till-july-10-101625116705079.html
01-07-2021||India||'Chartered accountants have a vital role in India's progress': PM Modi||On the occasion of Chartered Accountants' Day on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the community and said it has a vital role in India's progress."Greetings to all Chartered Accountants on CA Day. This community has a vital role in India’s progress. I call upon all CAs to keep the focus on excellence so that Indian firms emerge as one of the best globally," PM Modi said in a tweet.The day is observed to mark the foundation day of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), a statutory body established in 1949 under an act of Parliament.This is the only licensing and regulatory body for the financial audit and accounting profession in India and it will celebrate the 73rd Chartered Accountants day this year.In his radio address 'Mann Ki Baat' on Sunday, PM Modi mentioned that Chartered Accountants Day is celebrated on July 1 and reminded them about a gift he sought from them. “A few years back, I had asked chartered accountants of the country for a gift of Indian audit firms of global level. Today, I want to remind them of this. Chartered accountants can play a very good and positive role in bringing transparency to the economy. I extend my best wishes to all chartered accountants and their family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chartered-accountants-have-a-vital-role-in-india-s-progress-pm-modi-101625115237617.html
01-07-2021||India||On Doctor's Day, India salutes health workers: PM Modi, president extend wishes||India is observing National Doctor's Day on July 1 i.e. Thursday. On this occasion, politicos and dignitaries across the country saluted the doctors and frontline health workers who are working tirelessly amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, and several others hailed the heroic efforts of the doctors to serve humanity irrespective of the odds.Also Read | National Doctors' Day on July 1: History and significancePrime Minister Narendra Modi, taking to his official account on Thursday, greeted all doctors and said that India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable. He also shared a clip, recording an extract of his Mann Ki Baat radio address last weekend, where he highlighted the efforts of frontline health workers in tackling the Covid-19 wave in the country. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to address the medical fraternity on Thursday."On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier. Here is what I said during #MannKiBaat a few days ago," tweeted PM Modi, sharing the clip.On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier. Here is what I said during #MannKiBaat a few days ago. pic.twitter.com/KWw3WTrVAAOn National Doctor's Day, President of India Ram Nath Kovind said that the service of doctors has gone beyond the call of duty. "We are deeply indebted to these selfless angels who have risked their lives to save ours," he said.Let’s celebrate #NationalDoctorsDay as a tribute to dedication of doctors to treat the ill to the best of their ability. In Covid-19 times, their service has gone beyond the call of duty. We are deeply indebted to these selfless angels who have risked their lives to save ours.Union home minister Amit Shah also extended his greetings on Doctor's Day. "Being a doctor is a pledge to serve mankind. On National Doctor's Day, we salute the heroic efforts of our courageous doctors who left no stone unturned to serve humanity irrespective of the odds. Time and again, we have witnessed their selfless efforts towards society," he tweeted.Being a doctor is a pledge to serve mankind.On National Doctor’s Day, we salute the heroic efforts of our courageous doctors who left no stone unturned to serve humanity irrespective of the odds. Time and again, we have witnessed their selfless efforts towards society.India's vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu and Union health minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan were among the several who also greeted doctors on this day. Politicos across party lines, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, and Maharashtra's Ajit Pawar, also wished doctors on the occasion.Also Read | Doctors’ Day: Those on the frontline recount horror of war they waged against CovidThe pandemic has put tremendous stress on our doctors and their families. Let us all follow Covid appropriate behaviour & ease the pressure on the medical fraternity. #DoctorsDay#COVID19 has only reaffirmed God-like selflessness of doctors!On #NationalDoctorsDay I join the country to pay tribute to saviours of humankind for their tireless service & express deepest condolences for those who lost their lives while answering call of duty.@MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/6wlHgr2P4wTribute to an eminent Indian physician & former CM of West Bengal Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy on his birth anniversary,also commemorated as #NationalDoctorsDay. Gratitude to all the doctors for their selfless service to humanity, especially at the time of this global health challenge. pic.twitter.com/l5IQAMA6fzToday, on '#NationalDoctorsDay2021, express my gratitude to all the doctors, nurses, paramedical & support staff for their exceptional service in the corona pandemic since past one & a half years where they have been risking their lives to serve humanity through patient care.#ThankYouDoctors for every single moment you spend in saving lives. We are indebted. हर उस पल के लिए जो आप किसी का जीवन बचाने में लगाते हैं- #ThankYouDoctors हम आपके आभारी हैं।India celebrates the day on July 1 as 'National Doctor's Day' and it's organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) annually.This year is once again dedicated to all those doctors and healthcare professionals who are serving in these trying times by risking their lives either in primary as well as secondary care setups or in dedicated Covid-19 care facilities. The day commemorates the iconic and internationally renowned medical practitioner, Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy who served as a physician, a freedom fighter, an educationist and a politician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-doctor-s-day-india-salutes-health-workers-pm-modi-president-extend-wishes-101625113133574.html
01-07-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh relaxes curfew hours in 8 districts from today||The Andhra Pradesh government has extended the curfew relaxation from Thursday for 3 more hours in eight of the 13 districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate has come down below 5 per cent. The extended curfew relaxation would be in force till July 7.The curfew relaxation will be from 6am to 9pm in the 8 districts while in the other 5 districts of East and West Godavari, Prakasam, Krishna and Chittoor districts, the curfew relaxation would be from 6am to 6pm only.Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday reported 3,797 fresh cases of Covid-19. While 5,498 patients recovered from the infection, another 35 succumbed in 24 hours, the state health bulletin said.Let's have a look at the latest guidelinesLiquor shops, restaurants, and other shops will be closed from 9pm, according to the Andhra Pradesh government's statement.In East Godavari, West Godavari, Chittoor, Krishna and Prakasam districts the Covid-19 curfew will continue to be in force from 6pm to 6am due to a higher load of cases, as per the official statement.Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister's Office (CMO) in a statement said curfew relaxation will not be in East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Chittoor and Prakasam districts. There Curfew relaxation will be from 6am to 6pm only.Further decision on relaxing curfew hours in these five districts would be taken after reviewing the infection positivity rate later, the Andhra Pradesh CMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-relaxes-curfew-hours-in-8-districts-from-today-101625110348443.html
01-07-2021||India||Domestic LPG cylinder price hiked by ₹25 from July 1. Check rates in your city||The price of non-subsidised LPG cylinders has been hiked by ₹25 effective from July 1. A domestic cylinder weighing 14.2 kg will now cost ₹834.50 in Delhi. The price of a 19-kg cylinder has also been increased by ₹76 and will cost ₹1,550 in Delhi, ANI said. In Mumbai and Kolkata too, the price will be ₹834.50 per cylinder while in Chennai, one non-subsidised LPG cylinder will cost ₹850.50. LPG prices are revised at the beginning of every month and with the latest hike from July 1, LPG price now has increased by ₹140 per cylinder in the last six months. The price remained unchanged in June. The price hike comes along with the steep hike in petrol price which is inching towards a three-digit figure in several metro cities.Unlike petrol, LPG is available only at the market price across the country, though the government provides subsidies to a select group of consumers.In February, LPG prices were revised thrice — ₹25 hike per cylinder on February 4, a ₹50 per cylinder hike on February 15 and another hike of ₹25 on February 25. In March, the price was again hiked by ₹25 while in April, there was a ₹125 rise in LPG price. Then a price cut of ₹10 was announced as international oil prices saw a dip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-lpg-cylinder-price-hiked-by-rs-25-from-july-1-check-rates-in-your-city-101625113436238.html
01-07-2021||India||India reports 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72% of total number, tweets health ministry||India reported 48,786 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 30,411,634, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard, updated at 8am on Thursday, showed. Due to the viral disease, 1,005 people died, taking the fatalities count to 399,459.Thursday's data also showed a further 61,588 recoveries from Covid-19, taking the total number of such cases to 29,488, 918 comprising 96.97 per cent of the national caseload. Active cases also fell further declining by 1.77 per cent, taking tally to 5,23,257.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the two million mark on August 7, three million on August 23, four million on September 5 and five million on September 16. It went past six million on September 28, seven million on October 11, crossed eight million on October 29, nine million on November 20 and surpassed the 10 million mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 20 million on May 4 and thirty million on June 23.The Union health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.With daily Covid-19 cases gradually declining, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has directed states and Union territories to focus on a "five-fold" strategy for effective Covid-19 management.India on Monday achieved a milestone in the vaccination drive against Covid-19 as it overtook the United States in terms of the total number of vaccine doses administered to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-48-786-new-covid-19-infections-active-cases-fall-to-1-72-of-total-number-tweets-health-ministry-101625102467713.html
01-07-2021||India||J&K Police identify militants killed in Kulgam as locals||Police have identified the militants killed in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Wednesday as locals of the area.Police, Army and the Central Reserve Police Force launched a joint operation in Chimmer village after receiving specific input about militant presence in the area.Police said they tracked three militants to a house and asked them to surrender; however, the militants fired at the forces and injured two Army soldiers. In the crossfire, all three militants were killed.Also Read | ‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top Army officerThe militants were identified as Waseem Ahmad Bangroo of Redwani Kulgam, Shahnawaz of Kilbal Shopian and Zakir Bashir of Chimmer Kulgam.“All the killed terrorists were affiliated with proscribed Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit (self-claimed The Resistance Front),” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said, adding that Zakir Bashir had recently joined the proscribed outfit. “They were part of a group involved in various terror crimes.”Five militants were killed in two operations in last three days including Lashkar commander Abrar Nadeem Bhat, who was arrested on the city outskirts on Monday and killed a day later in an encounter in which one Pakistani militant was also killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-identify-militants-killed-in-kulgam-as-locals-101625111365032.html
01-07-2021||India||Kerala Covid-19 lockdown extended from today: Here are the fresh rules||Kerala, which has been under lockdown due to Covid-19 for the past 53 days, has extended the curbs for another week. These restrictions will come into effect from Thursday, but with certain relaxations.Kerala government will now categorise local bodies on the basis of the average test positivity rate (TPR). While 165 local bodies across the state have been put under the A category (TPR less than 6 per cent), 473 have been included in the B category (6 -12 per cent TPR), 316 in the C category (12-18 per cent TPR) and 80 in the D category (TPR more than 18 per cent).Kerala on Wednesday logged 13,658 fresh Covid-19 cases and 142 deaths, pushing the tally to 29,24,165 and 13,235 respectively Among the new cases, 67 were health workers.Check out the latest guidelines here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-lockdown-extended-from-today-here-are-the-fresh-rules-101625108739054.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD says monsoon revival unlikely before July 7 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon revival unlikely before July 7, says IMDMonsoon is unlikely to progress over the rest of northwest India till July 7, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Read MoreJolt to Serum Institute as govt panel says no to Covovax trial on childrenAn expert panel of the country's central drug authority on Wednesday recommended against granting permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to conduct the phase 2/3 trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax on children aged two to 17 years. Read MoreWest Bengal Covid-19: More relaxations in place from todayThe West Bengal government has extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the state till July 15 with effect from Thursday. Read MoreIt pains me to see a player getting tired after bowling just 4 overs': Kapil Dev on lack of all-rounders in IndiaOne of the many debates to have emerged following India's loss to New Zealand in the final of the World Test Championship final is a potential dearth of fast-bowling all-rounders in India. Read MoreGauri Khan, Maheep Kapoor, Seema Khan enjoy a 'fun night' with Manish Malhotra. See inside picsGauri Khan, along with her close friends Maheep Kapoor and Seema Khan enjoyed a "fun night" with fashion designer Manish Malhotra. Read MoreTiger Shroff on Viaan Raj Kundra’s exercise video: ‘Champ in the making’A self-confessed Tiger Shroff fan, Shilpa Shetty and Raj Kundra’s son - Viaan Raj Kundra was perhaps over the moon after his “idol” took to Instagram to praise his fitness training session for gymnastics. Read MoreImran Khan's China message for Joe Biden: What it means for IndiaGiving a clear indication of the emerging order in the Indo-Pacific region, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said that despite pressure from the West, his country would continue to foster close ties with China. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-says-monsoon-revival-unlikely-before-july-7-and-all-the-latest-news-101625107907183.html
01-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila seeks DCGI nod for emergency use of its DNA vaccine for 12+ age||Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), India's top drug regulator, seeking emergency use approval of ZyCoV-D, its DNA vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for those aged 12 years and above, news agencies reported on Thursday. The company presented interim results from Phase-III clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers, Reuters said, adding that the study demonstrates safety and efficacy in the interim data.Also Read | Third Covid wave likely to be delayed, may hit by Dec: Govt body chiefThe Phase-III clinical trial data from Zydus Cadila shows that ZyCoV-D is safe for children in the age group of 12 to 18 years. The company has planned to manufacture 100-120 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines annually. The second indigenous vaccine after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, ZyCoV-D is a three-dose vaccine. According to Zydus Cadila, the three doses of Zycov-D are to be administered on day 0, day 28, and day 56. However, the company is also working on a two-dose vaccine.The DCGI had granted Cadila Healthcare Limited permission to conduct human trials for ZyCoV-D back in July last year, when the company had said that its vaccine will hit the markets by June 2021. The study was carried out "during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 (in India), reaffirming the vaccine's efficacy against the new mutant strains especially the Delta variant," Zydus said in a statement.Also Read | Covaxin 'effectively neutralises' Alpha, Delta Covid-19 variants, says US National Institute of HealthEarlier, the pharmaceutical company was in the news for being one of the several Indian firms which received licensing agreements from Gilead Sciences to produce the anti-viral drug remdesivir.An approval for Zydus' vaccine, ZyCoV-D, would make it the fifth Covid-19 vaccine authorised for use in India, after Moderna, AstraZeneca, and partner Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, and Sputnik V developed by Russia's Gamaleya Institute.Coronavirus cases in India dropped from a devastating peak in April and May, however, experts have warned of a third wave and reiterated that widespread vaccination remains one of the best defenses against the pandemic.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-seeks-dcgi-nod-for-emergency-use-of-its-dna-vaccine-for-12-age-101625108621407.html
01-07-2021||India||Maharashtra daily Covid tally hovers around 10k as state logs 9,771 cases||Maharashtra’s daily Covid tally continues to hover around 10,000 with the state logging 9,771 new cases on Wednesday. This trend has been seen in the past 18 days and the state’s case tally now stands at 6,061,404.Though the state has witnessed a significant decline in the number of cases in June compared to May, districts such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune continue to record a high number of Covid cases daily, pushing the overall tally upwards.Also Read | West Bengal Covid-19: More relaxations in place from todayKolhapur recorded 1,945 new Covid cases on Wednesday, while Sangli and Satara recorded 964 and 770 cases, respectively. Pune, which includes rural as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad, recorded 1,474 new cases.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 706 new Covid cases and 25 deaths.There are currently 116,364 active cases across the state. Pune tops with 17,407 active cases followed by Thane with 16,115.The state recorded 141 deaths on Wednesday. The overall death toll has now reached 121,945, with Pune leading with 16,693 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,451. The number of recoveries stands at 10,353.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-daily-covid-tally-hovers-around-10k-as-state-logs-9-771-cases-101625108545847.html
01-07-2021||India||Monsoon revival unlikely before July 7, says IMD||Monsoon is unlikely to progress over the rest of northwest India till July 7, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Monsoon rain over the country will also remain extremely subdued till then.The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. Since June 19, there is no progress of the NLM. Monsoon is yet to cover Delhi, Haryana, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab In a statement on Wednesday, IMD said the monsoon had weakened due to impact mid-latitude westerly winds that didn’t allow easterly winds to progress; unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) and absence of formation of low pressure system over North Bay of Bengal which helps monsoon progress and brings rain in its path.The MJO currently lies in Phase 1 (equatorial eastern Africa) with amplitude more than 1. It is likely to propagate eastwards into Phase 2 (Western Equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining Arabian Sea) with amplitude close to 1 by July 2 and further into Phase 3 (Eastern Equatorial Indian Ocean Bay of Bengal) from July 7. MJO is likely to gradually favour enhancement of convection and cross equatorial flow over the North Indian Ocean (NIO) during Week 2 after July 7. MJO location and amplitude strongly modulates the intensity of tropical convection and features like low pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean.Also Read | Weather inversion in Delhi: Hot, dry wind in time of rain“Model forecasts show that easterly winds from Bay of Bengal in lower tropospheric levels are not likely to be established over north-western plains of India before July 7. Accordingly, further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab is not likely till July 7,” the statement said.As on June 30, the country had recorded 10% excess rains with 14% excess over northwest India; 17% excess over central India; 4% excess over south Peninsula; 3% excess over east and northeast India.IMD also warned that due to likely dry westerly or southwesterly winds from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels, heat wave conditions are likely over some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh during next 2 days and over and West Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours.Meanwhile, under the influence of strong moist southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast and adjoining east India; fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Bihar, West Bengal, Sikkim and northeastern states during next 6-7 days which can trigger flooding.“As predicted, monsoon enters into the break phase with little rains over the country and no signs of revival till July 7. Heavy rains could trigger floods over N-E and states like Bihar. Due to dry weather, temps go up over NW India including Delhi with temps >40 C,” tweeted M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-revival-unlikely-before-july-7-says-imd-101625107704376.html
01-07-2021||India||Netizens say 'Twitter down' as threads fail to load, outage reported worldwide||Twitter seemed to be facing a peculiar issue on Thursday morning as several threads and profiles failed to load up, even though timelines remained accessible, according to reports. Several netizens took to their personal handles to complain of Twitter being 'down'; however, a few key features could still be used, they said. While Twitter remained inaccessible for many on their personal computers, some users said that the social media platform was "mostly functional" on mobile devices.Taking note of the issues, Twitter said that some of the profiles might not be loading on the web as the website is working on a 'fix'. "Profiles’ Tweets may not be loading for some of you on web and we’re currently working on a fix. Thanks for sticking with us!" wrote Twitter.Profiles’ Tweets may not be loading for some of you on web and we’re currently working on a fix. Thanks for sticking with us!Most users complained that they were unable to check their timelines and could not load replies or Twitter threads when focusing on a particular post, as the website repeatedly flashed an error message saying, "Something went wrong, try reloading."The snag with Twitter on this day was reported worldwide. According to outage monitoring website Downdetector, users have been facing problems since 9:33pm Eastern Time Zone (EDT) (around 7:03am IST) on Thursday, while the number of reports regarding the platform went up dramatically in the last 24 hours.User reports indicate Twitter is having problems since 9:33 PM EDT. https://t.co/qqqwagygy9 RT if you're also having problems #TwitterdownMore than 6,000 user reports also indicated issues with Twitter since late last night, according to the website. About 93% of those are related to the Twitter website, according to Downdetector. Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment by news agency Reuters after business hours on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netizens-say-twitter-down-as-threads-fail-to-load-outage-reported-worldwide-101625106386581.html
01-07-2021||India||Jolt to Serum Institute as govt panel says no to Covovax trial on children||An expert panel of the country's central drug authority on Wednesday recommended against granting permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to conduct the phase 2/3 trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax on children aged two to 17 years, News agency PTI reported.The SII had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Monday seeking permission for conducting a trial of Covovax on 920 children, 460 each in the 12-17 and 2-11 age groups, at 10 sites.But the the Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation denied the permission saying Covovax has not been approved in any country, according to PTI. The SII has been asked to submit the safety and immunogenicity data (of Covovax) from the ongoing clinical trial in adults before proceeding with the trials on children, PTI reported.Novavax had announced last month that NVX-CoV2373 demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and 90.4% overall efficacy, in its Phase 3 trial.If approved, Covovax would have been the third vaccine to be tested on children in the country after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadilla’s ZyCov-D.The Pune-based company has tied up with US biotechnology company Novavax to locally manufacture NVX-CoV2373 under the brand name Covovax.The clinical trials of Covovax began in India in March and SII chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla had earlier said the vaccine could be launched in India by September for adults.“Excited to witness the first batch of Covovax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia!” he later said in a post on Twitter.So far, four vaccines - Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the SII’s Covishield, Russia’s Sputnik V and the one manufactured by Moderna (sold unde the brand name 'Spikevax' int he US) - have been cleared by the Indian government.The SII had rolled out Covishield vaccine in the country in January. It had entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jolt-to-serum-institute-as-govt-panel-says-no-to-covovax-trial-on-children-report-101625102683977.html
01-07-2021||India||Kochi metro back on track after 53 days, to run from 8am to 8pm||Kochi metro rail services will resume from July 1, i.e. Thursday, with a strict adherence to coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) informed on Wednesday. The metro rail services in Kochi will be resuming after an interval of 53 days due to the Covid-19 necessitated lockdown restrictions imposed earlier, the KMRL said in a tweet, adding that the metro rail services will run from 8am to 8pm."Dear Kochi people, here is the good news you have all been waiting for! Metro services will resume tomorrow with the appropriate Covid-19-related safety measures. Adhering to pandemic restrictions, the metro will run from 8am to 8 pm on an initial basis. Welcome, and safe travels!" the KMRL wrote in a tweet in Malayalam.പ്രിയപ്പെട്ട കൊച്ചിക്കാരേ, ഇതാ നിങ്ങൾ കാത്തിരുന്ന സന്തോഷ വാർത്ത! സുരക്ഷിത യാത്രകളുമായി മെട്രോ സർവീസ് നാളെ മുതൽ പുനരാരംഭിക്കുന്നു.കോവിഡ് മാനദണ്ഡങ്ങൾ പാലിച്ച്, രാവിലെ 8 മണി മുതൽ രാത്രി 8 മണി വരെയായിരിക്കുംമെട്രോയുടെ പ്രവർത്തനം. അതിവേഗ - സുരക്ഷിത യാത്രകളിലേക് സ്വാഗതം. #KMRL pic.twitter.com/XyG9ZxJIA6Kochi metro is taking all Covid-19 related sanitary measures ahead of resuming services, officials told news agency PTI. The metro premises have been cleaned and sanitised, while all passengers will have to mandatorily undergo thermal scanning and temperature check before they are allowed to enter the metro station. The KMRL is taking every other possible step to check the spread of coronavirus, officials told the news agency.The Kochi metro rail will resume from Thursday and run from 8am to 8pm initially, reports said. The interval between each train will remain 15 minutes during non-peak hours, and 10 minutes during peak hours. Gradually, the train frequency might be tweaked depending on passenger requirements and rush hours, officials said.Kerala has recorded as many as 2,924,165 Covid-19 cases till now, an updated PTI tally of coronavirus cases showed on Wednesday. On the other hand, 2,809,587 people have already recovered from Covid-19 in the state, while 13,235 patients have succumbed to the disease.In related news, Bengaluru's 'Namma Metro' services will also be resuming from Thursday, and will be available from 7am to 6pm, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kochi-metro-back-on-track-after-53-days-to-run-from-8am-to-8pm-101625101407264.html
01-07-2021||India||Delimitation Commission to visit J&K, meet parties||The Delimitation Commission, tasked to carve out new constituencies in Jammu & Kashmir, will be on a four-day visit to the Union territory from July 6 to 9 to hold talks with political parties, district officials and other stakeholders and gather “first hand information” on the ongoing process of redrawing the boundaries there.“During this period, the commission will interact with political parties, public representatives and Union Territory administration officials, including district election officers/deputy commissioners of the 20 districts of the Union territory to gather first-hand information and inputs concerning the ongoing process of delimitation as mandated under the (Jammu &) Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019,” the commission said in a statement.The commission, which was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of J&K, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland, is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai.Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioners of J&K and the three states are ex-officio members of the commission.On June 26, HT reported that the commission was planning to hold interactions with the stakeholders in Jammu & Kashmir. The commission, which has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise, will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in J&K.The constituencies will be created on the basis of “physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience”.“There are considerations of a geographical nature, such as access in hilly districts. The commission will have to ensure that the most basic administrative block, whether it is the tehsil or the district, is not broken down in the process. This way there can be seamless elections and effective implementation of government schemes,” a person familiar with the matter said on June 26.The issue of delimitation was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from J&K last week. Modi had stressed that the delimitation exercise was required to happen quickly so that polls can be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-commission-to-visit-j-k-meet-parties-101625102393032.html
01-07-2021||India||'Serum Institute produces 90 million Covishield doses a month': CEO Adar Poonawalla amid reports of vaccine shortage||Serum Institute of India was able to produce 70 million doses of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Covishield in the month of March, while production was ramped up to 90 million doses a month in June, the company's CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Wednesday, amid reports of a nationwide vaccine shortage. The vaccine manufacturer is looking to add an additional 10% to its output by August, he informed, adding that the company is also confident of receiving European Medicines Agency (EMA)'s approval for its Covid-19 vaccine.This comes after several states and Union territories -- including Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Delhi -- flagged a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines earlier this week amid the inoculation drive. The reported shortage of vaccines has also led to flash protests being held across Tamil Nadu, while the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has called off its vaccine drive on Thursday over a supply shortage.Also Read | Vaccine shortage hits Covid-19 inoculation in Jharkhand; health minister blames CentreAddressing at India Global Forum 2021, Poonawalla said that the central government exported around six crore Covid-19 vaccine doses between January to February, probably the highest in the world. It was then that the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic struck and the focus of the inoculation drive shifted on the population back home, he said, adding that things have not yet gone so wrong that there would be no way forward.Serum Institute is also confident of receiving EMA approval for its Covishield vaccine within a month, Poonawalla said. "There is no reason why not to because it is based on AstraZeneca data and our product is identical to AstraZeneca more or less and it has been approved by WHO, UK MHRA. So it's just a matter of time. It is not really going to hinder anything," the SII chief added.Also Read | India's vaccination not fast enough to foil Covid-19 3rd wave: ReportThis comes after reports that travellers vaccinated with Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured in India by the SII, may not be eligible for the European Union's 'Green Pass'. Covishield is one of the three Covid-19 vaccines approved for use in India.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-shortage-serum-institute-of-india-produces-90-million-doses-a-month-says-ceo-adar-poonawalla-101625098882359.html
01-07-2021||India||Jharkhand relaxes Covid-19 lockdown curbs from today: Check fresh guidelines||The Jharkhand government has extended the overall Covid-19 restrictions till further orders, but relaxed some of the curbs which include allowing bus service within the state. The decision was taken on Wednesday and the fresh guidelines will be effective from Thursday.This is the eighth time that the Covid-19-related restrictive measures, first imposed in the state on April 22 for a week, have been extended. The ongoing curbs were scheduled to be lifted on Thursday.Jharkhand on Wednesday reported 85 new cases of Covid-19 and 120 recoveries in the last 24 hours. According to the state Covid-19 bulletin, the new cases pushed the case tally in Jharkhand to 3,45,610.Here's the latest guidelines of the Jharkhand government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-relaxes-covid-19-lockdown-curbs-from-today-check-fresh-guidelines-101625098660236.html
01-07-2021||India||SC refrains from directing Centre to include Covid cover under insurance scheme||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refrained from issuing any directive to the Centre to include Covid-19 in the national insurance scheme.Even as it directed the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to frame a scheme to pay ex-gratia for families of those who died due to Covid-19, the top court did not opine on whether the Centre should consider including the coronavirus pandemic for risk insurance coverage against natural disasters in the country.On Wednesday, the bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah delivered its judgment on the PILs, filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, while taking note of the recommendations made by the XV Finance Commission regarding a national insurance scheme for disaster-related deaths.The judgment, however, did not specify if the national insurance scheme, which can form part of the ‘minimum standards of relief’ under the NDMA, should consider including Covid-19 as well since the infection was notified as a disaster by the Centre under the disaster management law in March 2020 itself. The bench has not made any comment on inclusion of Covid-19 under the national insurance scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refrains-from-directing-centre-to-include-covid-cover-under-insurance-scheme-101625098768662.html
01-07-2021||India||10-day sale of 17th tranche of electoral bonds begins today||The sale of the 17th tranche of electoral bonds will open on July 1. The issuance of the bonds for the sale was approved by the government earlier this week. The sale will go on till July 10."State Bank of India (SBI), in the XVII phase of sale, has been authorised to issue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 authorised branches with effect from July 1 to July 10, 2021," the finance ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.It also listed the 29 branches of India's largest public lender: Kolkata, Guwahati, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Patna, New Delhi, Chandigarh, Shimla, Srinagar, Dehradun, Gandhinagar, Bhopal, Raipur, Mumbai and Lucknow.The government has only authorised SBI to issue electoral bonds.What are electoral bonds?Electoral bonds have been pitched as an alternative to cash donations made to political parties as part of efforts to bring transparency in political funding.The electoral bonds can be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India, according to the finance ministry.According to government rules, only the political parties registered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and which secured not less than one per cent of the votes polled in the last general election to the House of the People or the Legislative Assembly of a state, will be eligible to receive the electoral bonds.The previous sales of electoral bondsThe sale of the first batch of electoral bonds took place from March 1-10, 2018. The 16th tranche of bond sale took place from April 1-10, 2021.These bonds can be encashed by an eligible political party only through a bank account with the authorised bank.Supreme Court nodIn March this year, the Supreme Court had cleared the sale of the electoral bonds ahead of elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry.The court told petitioner, NGO Association for Democratic Reforms, that the sale of these bonds have continued “without any impediment” in 2018, 2019 and 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-sale-of-17th-tranche-of-electoral-bonds-begins-today-101625098580295.html
01-07-2021||India||These states have extended Covid-19 lockdown from today: Check list here||With emerging cases of the delta and delta plus variants of the coronavirus, many state governments have extended the ongoing lockdown, though with some relaxations.India on Wednesday reported 45,951 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 30,362,848, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed.Here’s a list of states that have extended the Covid-19 lockdown1. West Bengal: The West Bengal government has extended the Covid-induced restrictions all across the state till July 15. However, additional relaxations have been given.2. Punjab: The Punjab government has further eased Covid-19 restrictions, allowing reopening of bars, pubs and taverns with 50 per cent capacity from July 1.3. Kerala: The Kerala government has decided to extend the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown restrictions for one more week. The new restrictions would come into effect from Thursday.4. Odisha: The Odisha government has extended the partial lockdown in the state for 15 more days till 5am on July 16. The existing restrictions will end at 5am on Thursday.5. Andhra Pradesh: The Andhra Pradesh government has extended the curfew relaxation from July 1 for 3 more hours in eight of the 13 districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate has come down below 5 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-have-extended-covid-19-lockdown-from-today-check-list-here-101625098346482.html
01-07-2021||India||Doctors' Day: PM Modi to address medical fraternity today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the medical fraternity on the occasion of the National Doctors' Day on Thursday. The event is being organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA).The Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1.In a tweet, PM Modi had earlier said, "India is proud of the efforts of all doctors in fighting COVID-19. 1st July is marked as National Doctors Day. At 3 PM tomorrow, will address the doctors community at a programme organised by @IMAIndiaOrg."With the medical community playing a lead role in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the prime minister has been in praise for doctors and other medical professionals.PM Modi in his Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, remembered Dr BC Roy. Speaking about doctors in the backdrop of Doctors' Day, PM Modi said, "On July 1, we will celebrate National Doctors' Day. We must pay tribute to our doctors who ensured that India did not succumb to the challenges posed by Covid-19."The Government of India had established Doctors' Day in 1991 to recognize the contributions of BC Roy. He played an important role in the establishment of Medical Council of India and Indian Medical Association. This day is celebrated to acknowledge the role of doctors in the progress of this nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-day-pm-modi-to-address-medical-fraternity-today-101625097607274.html
01-07-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with digital India beneficiaries today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday interact with the beneficiaries of Digital India programme. The interaction will happen as the government's flagship initiative completes six years.Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will also be present. He will make opening remarks at the programme."The program will then see a presentation of a video on key achievements of the Digital India, which will lead to an interactive session of Prime Minister with the beneficiaries of various schemes of Digital India," the Ministry of Electronics and IT said in the statement on Wednesday.PM Modi is expected to highlight various achievements of the digital India initiative and share success stories during the interactive session. The programme will be moderated by Ajay Sawhney, secretary at the ministry of electronics and IT (MeitY).The digital India initiativeThe programme was launched on July 1, 2015, by PM Modi. It works towards ensuring that the services of the government are made available electronically to all citizens.Under the initiative, the government has started many plans, including the one to connect rural areas with high-speed internet networks and improve digital literacy.The vision of the digital IndiaAccording to MeiTY, the vision of digital India programme is to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy.The ministry has announced three key focus areas to help the programme achieve this vision. These are: Digital infrastructure as a core utility, governance and service on demand and digital empowerment of citizens.Under the first vision area, the government is ensuring high-speed internet speed internet as a core utility for delivery of services, including banking transactions, and safe and secure cyber-space. The second focus area seeks to seamlessly integrate services across departments or jurisdictions and the third one is working towards providing universal digital literacy.Key investments under digital IndiaTech giants like Google and Microsoft have announced high-value investments in India as part of the programme to increase digital penetration and make the people digitally aware.In January, Microsoft launched a new India Development Centre (IDC) facility in Noida. The new facility will serve as a premier hub for driving cutting-edge engineering and innovation, according to Microsoft.In July last year, Google CEO Sundar Pichai announced that the company would be investing nearly $10 billion into developing infrastructure and funding digital innovation in India over the next five to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-digital-india-beneficiaries-today-101625097521217.html
01-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: Delhi police questions Red Fort violence accused Lakha Sidhana||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Delhi police questions Red Fort violence accused Lakha SidhanaRed Fort violence accused Lakha Sidhana today questioned by Delhi Police Crime Branch in connection with Samaipur Badli case. Two FIRs were registered against Sidhana in connection with violence cases. He was granted interim protection from arrest in both of the cases till July 3 and July 19.NIA arrests key conspirator of 2020 Bengaluru riotsThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested an alleged key conspirator of the 2020 Bengaluru riots that left four persons dead. Read MoreDCGI tells Dr Reddy’s to submit Russian safety data on Sputnik Light vaccineDCGI tells Dr Reddy’s to submit Russian efficacy data on Sputnik Light vaccine, says no need to conduct separate trialAfter lockdown, Delhi govt’s employment portal sees surge in job-seekersThe Delhi government’s online job portal established a record 75,000 connections between job seekers and employers in June, signifying a surge in people looking for employment as the national Capital opened economic activities after a strict seven-week long lockdown meant to curb the brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreUS weekly jobless claims fall; layoffs hit 21-year low in JuneThe number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week, while layoffs plunged to a 21-year low in June as companies held on to their workers amid labor shortages.Double Covid jab seems to protect against Delta variant: ReportDouble Covid jab seems to protect against Delta variant, news agency AFP reported European Medicines Agency (EMA).Delhi's Covid-19 tally rises by 93; death toll reaches 24,981Delhi on Thursday reported 93 new Covid-19 cases, 111 recoveries and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours. The total number of recoveries now stands at 14,07,943, while the overall tally has climbed to 14,34,281. The death toll is at 24,981.Zydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine shows efficacy of 66.6%: MDZydus Cadila’s make in India Covid-19 vaccine shows primary efficacy of 66.6% in the interim analysis, says managing director of Zydus group, Sharvil Patel.Zoo worker dies of king cobra biteIn Kerla, a zoo worker died after he was bitten by king cobra. The man identified as P Harshad, was reportedly cleaning the enclosure when the cobra bit him, zoo officials said. Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari took charge as Vice Chief of Air StaffDelhi | Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, took charge as Vice Chief of the Air Staff today pic.twitter.com/PXOsSvBvp5PM Modi announces Credit Guarantee SchemeThe Prime Minister announced a Credit Guarantee Scheme of ₹50,000 crores to strengthen the health infrastructure in such areas, where there is a lack of health facilities on National Doctor's day.‘Doctors tackled every obstacle Covid-19 placed before them’: PM Modi Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked doctors for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic on behalf of all citizens of this country on National Doctor's day.BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari arrives at Amit Shah's residenceDelhi: West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari arrives at the residence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. pic.twitter.com/d3xi61A2YuTax base has doubled from 66.25 lakhs to 1.28 crores in 4 yrsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday that in the last 4 years tax base has almost doubled from 66.25 lakhs to 1.28 crores. Adding that for 8 months in a row, GST revenues crossed ₹1 lakh crore-mark.Dr Reddy’s denied permission to conduct Sputnik Phase-3 trialsIndian drug regulatory body has denied permission to Dr Reddy’s to conduct phase 3 trials for Sputnik light in India: Sources#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/7O5vgiHL8DBombay HC to pronounce verdict today in Gulshan Kumar murder caseBombay high court will be pronouncing the verdict in Gulshan Kumar's murder case today. Kumar, the founder of T-Series, who was killed in Mumbai on August 12, 1997.India reports 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72% of total numberIndia reported 48,786 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 30,411,634, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's dashboard showed at 8am.Earthquake of magnitude 3.6 on Richter scale hits PalgharAn earthquake of magnitude 3.6 on the Richter scale hit Palghar, Maharashtra at 7.07 am today: National Centre for SeismologyZydus Cadila applies for DCGI's Emergency Use AuthorisationZydus Cadila has applied for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the launch of their DNA vaccine for those aged12 years and above. The vaccine has completed its third phase trial, reported news agency ANI.Capt Amarinder Singh to meet Congress leaders from urban areas of Punjab todayAmid the ongoing crisis in Punjab Congress, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh will meet party leaders from urban areas of the state, followed by lunch in Chandigarh on Thursday.Bhubaneswar-based Care hospital starts administering Sputnik V dosesWe are first in Odisha to procure it. As per our MoU, we've to first vaccinate employees of Dr Reddy's. We opened 20 slots for people on June 29&June 30&response is good," a hospital official said.Indonesia "emergency" Covid-19 curbs to be effective from July 2-20Indonesia will launch on Friday emergency measures aimed at controlling its worst coronavirus epidemic since the start of the pandemic, with the curbs due to run until July 20, a minister said.China celebrates centenary of Communist Party at Tiananmen SquareCelebrations in Beijing to mark the 100th anniversary of the founding of China's ruling Communist Party kicked off on Thursday morning with a flyby of fighter jets and helicopters at Tiananmen Square in the centre of the capital.Members of European Parliament write to EU leaders, highlight growing 'repression' in Hong KongOn the occasion of the first anniversary of Hong Kong's national security law, members of the European Parliament wrote a joint letter to top EU leaders, demanding action against the Chinese authorities for the imposition of a legislation law that "destroyed" the 'One country, two systems'.US science agency expected to open probe of Florida building collapseThe US National Institute of Standards and Technology is expected to announce soon that it will open an investigation into the collapse last week of a building in Surfside, Florida, a source familiar with the situation said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-1-2021-101625097187163.html
01-07-2021||India||BJP workers, farmers clash near Ghazipur||Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the farmers protesting against the three farm laws at UP Gate, near Ghazipur, clashed on Wednesday afternoon, triggering a blame game between the two sides.Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (City 2), said police received counter complaints and were investigating the matter.While the BJP workers alleged that the farmers attacked them, farmer leaders said the partymen was trying to malign them and their ongoing protest.“There were about 300-400 workers including 20-25 women...We were on the other side of the expressway (Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway), near the starting point of the Hindon elevated road. The farmers were on the other side in their camps. Suddenly, hundreds of them attacked us,” said Sanjeev Sharma, president of the BJP’s Ghaziabad unit.Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP-Gate site spokesperson of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said the BJP was conspiring to malign them.“It is a new conspiracy by the BJP to malign the farmers’ movement. They came on the pretext of welcoming their leader and damaged their own cars. We have given our complaint to the police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-workers-farmers-clash-near-ghazipur-101625091139273.html
01-07-2021||India||Former Kerala home minister gets death threat||Former home minister of Kerala Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, a legislator from Kottayam, on Monday received an anonymous letter threatening to eliminate him and his family members if they failed to leave the country in 10 days. Talking to newsmen in the state capital the senior leader said the letter came in his MLA hostel address was written in Malayalam. He said the letter seems to be sent from north Kerala going by the language and he later handed it over to the police. “It said I will be targeted for including more names in criminal list. It seems it could be a move from some of the accused in T P Chandrasekharan murder case,” he said. He was the home minister when Chandrasekharan, a rebel Communist leader, was hacked to death by a group of party workers owing allegiance to the CPI(M) in 2012. Many accused in the case were later convicted and undergoing jail term now. “I have no other enemies. I heard some of the accused in TP murder case are on parole now. Let the police investigate it,” he said. Opposition leader V D Satheesan, state Congress chief K Sudhakaran and former CM Oommen Chandy sought detailed investigation into the threat. The government is yet to comment about this. T P Chandrasekharan’s widow K K Rema is a legislator in the new assembly elected with the support of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-home-minister-gets-death-threat-101625081122240.html
01-07-2021||India||Kerala tries to placate Kitex Group as it looks to back out of project||: Hectic efforts are on to placate Kitex Group of companies, one of the largest apparel-making units of the country, after it announced its decision to back out from the ₹35000 crore project in Kerala, alleging witch-hunt by agencies of the state government.State industry minister P Rajeev, who also hails from Kochi, said the government would look into the complaints and requested its chairman Sabu M Jacob not to take any hasty decision, which, he said, will tarnish the state’s image.Ranked eighth in the country in ease of doing business, the announcement has rattled the government, which is having an uneasy relationship with the firm after it ventured into politics in 2015 by floating a political party called ‘Twenty20.’“The government is ready to talk about the problems faced by the firm. Nobody from the industry department raided the firm. Its chairman should have taken up these issues with the government rather than airing them on social media,” said the minister. He said soon after assuming power last month, he called a meeting of all businessmen and industrialists, and Kitex officials also participated. “I am sure all issues will be ironed out. I have asked the industry secretary to look into issues raised by the firm,” he said.Initially, Sabu M Jacob took to social media to vent his anger and later talked to media in the port city. “Almost every day, officials of the government department descend on the premises of the company and makes inquiries as if we committed a big fraud. I am fed up with continuous harassment. The government treats us like bourgeoises, exploiter capitalists and land encroachers. Enough is enough,” he said. Besides calling off the project, which was signed in the 2020 investment meet, Jacob said he would also be shifting some of the existing units to other states if the situation continued like this. He said the plan was to open three apparel parks in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad, as part of the industrial corridor intended to give jobs to at least 35,000 people.“If the situation continues like this, the state will turn a graveyard of industries. While neighbouring states roll out red carpets for industries, we are hounding them out. No doubt, the existing climate will drive entrepreneurs to suicide,” he said, adding that the latest to inspect his premises were officials from the pollution control board. He said his firm was established three decades ago and employed 15,000 people now.Asked whether the latest harassment was anything to do with the party he floated, he said it multiplied after Twenty20 came into existence.Twenty20 is a party floated by the Kitex Group that swept power in a tiny village Kizakambalam for the first time in the 2015 local body poll.For a politically vibrant state, the party’s winning streak was hard to digest, and many dubbed it as a major irritant. Though villagers were happy, politicians were not amused. There were many attempts to split the party, but it withstood pulls and pressures, and in recent assembly elections its candidates gave a strong fight in three assembly seats in Ernakulam district. Now, the party is ruling three local bodies in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-tries-to-placate-kitex-group-as-it-looks-to-back-out-of-project-101625081002199.html
01-07-2021||India||Gold smuggling case: CPI(M) in damage control mode after arrests of former leaders||Thiruvananthapuram: In the early hours of June 21, five men were killed near Kozhikode international airport after their vehicle rammed into a cement-laden truck. Police initially dismissed it as another road mishap, but that notion changed after the recovery of weapons and liquor bottles from the crammed vehicle. Soon, another sensational gold smuggling case unfolded, inviting embarrassment for the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the state. The arrest of a former CPI(M) office-bearer from Kannur (north Kerala) Arjun Ayanki, who was the face of the Communist movement on social media with 40,000 followers, in connection with 2.23 kg gold smuggled from Dubai, and summons to two other leaders have left the party red-faced. The smuggling incident surfaced after five men from Palakkad, allegedly hired by a smugglers’ gang, died in the accident after an aborted bid to loot smuggled gold on June 21. Police said there was a hot chase by rival gangs just before the accident. They clashed outside the airport and chased each other unaware of the fact that the carrier who was hiding the yellow metal in a coffee vending machine was arrested by customs authorities, police said. Later, Ayanki, who reportedly came to the airport to collect smuggled gold, was summoned by the customs department and arrested on Tuesday. The car he drove to the airport to collect smuggled gold was allegedly owned by another CPI(M) youth wing leader C Sajesh, who was expelled from the party after the incident came to light. A senior customs official said Ayanki was the kingpin of one of the gangs and involved in at least 20 smuggling cases in both Kannur and Kozhikode airports. After the aborted looting bid, shocking audio tapes and phone conversations surfaced in social and electronic media, which purportedly showed that some of the youth leaders were allegedly involved in smuggling and counter-smuggling (looting of smuggled goods) activities in party citadel Kannur and they thrived using the party platform. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of leaked audio tapes and phone conversations. One of the audio tapes even claimed that “one-third profit from the looted gold goes to the party as protection money”. Later, the CPI(M) admitted that some of its cadre deviated from the Communist path and a vigorous drive was on to weed them out. Now, party leaders are in hurry to disown these elements, a party functionary told HT on condition of anonymity. “It is a fact some criminal gangs thrived using the party influence and clamour. We have started a campaign to weed out such elements and purge the party. We will not leave anyone who maintains links with such anti-social elements,” said party’s Kannur district secretary MV Jayarajan. Most of these expelled party workers were close to P Jayarajan, another CPI(M) leader from the district. Later, Jayarajan, also disowned them but many leaders blamed him discreetly for cultivating them, a senior functionary cited above said. Party leaders from the district admitted that some of these workers became rich overnight and started leading ostentatious life, the functionary said, adding that normally, the party keeps a strict tab on such workers, but it failed to control their activities, as these incidents show. Due to their connections some of them enjoyed a Robinhood status in their areas and nobody dared to touch them, police officials said. A Vijayaraghavan, state acting secretary of the ruling party, said though the party took strong action against the erring workers, a section of the media started portraying the party in bad light. “No other party takes such swift actions like CPI(M). We never need the certificates of the Left-bashing media,” he said, adding some of them were churning out juicy and spicy stories to portray the party in a bad light. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said such elements will be dealt with sternly. Despite action and strict warning, the party is finding it difficult to face opposition salvos. For CPI(M), Kannur is what Nagpur is to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Kannur has had a history of bloody clashes between the two for political supremacy. The district is home to many prominent Communist leaders, including former Opposition leader in Parliament AK Gopalan, former CM EK Naynar and CM Vijayan. “Many self-made warriors are appearing frequently on social media. The party is nothing to do with them. They are doing more damage to the ideology than helping it. We will weed out such forces,” said party MLA AN Shamseer. Ground reports suggest that some of the activists were experts in looting the smuggled good and some of the convicted workers coordinated such activities from the jail. Since both (smuggling and counter-smuggling) are illegal, nobody used to file cases in such incidents and party leaders admit that many gangs thrived misusing their party connections. “The party always protects criminal gangs and nurtures them. Besides smuggling, they are into many other anti-social activities as well. The party realised the danger when these gangs outgrew the party,” said Revolutionary Marxist Party MLA KK Rema, widow of renegade communist leader TP Chandrasekharan, who was murdered by a gang supported by the CPI(M). There are allegations that some of those convicted in the TP murder case, like Kodi Suni, were controlling such gangs. His name was repeated quite often in one of the audio tapes mentioned above. But opposition parties say the CPI(M) was aware of their activities and disowned them only when they became a big liability. “It is nothing new. It is only tip of the iceberg. For many of these wayward cadres, their heroes are CM Vijayan and senior leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. It is almost like cult worship in north Kerala and the party finds much heroism in violence. It is natural workers turn to such activities,” said state Congress president K Sudhakaran. A senior police officer of the district said, “In Kannur political parties usually hire criminal gangs for violent political activities and groom them. Since peace is prevailing in the district, these gangs turn into liability to parties. Now many are into contract criminal activities and smuggling.” After workers’ alleged liaison with the gold smuggling gangs came to light, the ruling CPI(M) has tightened its grip on cadres. The party youth wing, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), will start a weeklong march in the district from July 5 to uphold Communist values and check a possible deviation from ideology, said DYFI Kannur district president Manu Thomas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-case-cpi-m-in-damage-control-mode-after-arrests-of-former-leaders-101625080942207.html
01-07-2021||India||Andhra complains to Centre against T’gana irrigation projects||Hyderabad The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to lodge a complaint with the Centre against the proposed construction of lift irrigation schemes on Krishna river and generation of hydel power in violation of the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT) award. A resolution to this effect was adopted at the state cabinet meeting held at the secretariat under the leadership of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in the afternoon. “We shall write letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Jal Sakthi minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat against the high handed attitude of the Telangana government,” state irrigation minister P Anil Kumar said at a press conference after the cabinet meeting. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been at loggerheads for the last few days over the construction of projects on the backwaters of Srisailam reservoir on Krishna river. Telangana had even complained to Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against construction of Rayalaseema lift irrigation project in Kurnool district. State ministers, particularly roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashant Reddy and V Srinivas Goud, accused Jagan of looting the Telangana waters on the lines of his father – former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh Y S Rajasekhar Reddy, who expanded Pothireddypadu regulator on Krishna river to draw more water. Goud even described Reddy as a “demon” for the people of Telangana. On the other hand, the Andhra government also lodged a counter-complaint last week against the proposed construction of several projects like Jogulamba Barrage at Alampur, Pulichintala Left Canal, another reservoir at Sunkesula, a flood flow canal at Kusumarthi village in Narayanpet district etc. The Andhra cabinet, which discussed at length the ongoing dispute with Telangana over Krishna projects, adopted a resolution to fight for the legitimate riparian rights of the state. “The cabinet felt that Andhra Pradesh will not be utilising even a single drop extra other than what has been allocated to us by the tribunal and the courts. The Rayalaseema lift scheme is well within the rights of the state,” Anil Kumar said. The cabinet also described as ‘atrocious’ the move of the Telangana government to go ahead with hydel power generation at Srisailam Left Bank Power Station and Pulichintala, despite objections from the KRMB. “Despite knowing that the hydel power generation will deplete water level at Srisailam thereby affecting the irrigation interests of Andhra Pradesh, the Telangana government is adamant. We are lodging a complaint with the Centre in this regard,” the irrigation minister said. He said the state government would strongly retaliate against the aggressive statements of the Telangana ministers. “We are maintaining restraint because water issue is very sensitive. We want to resolve the issue amicably and through apex council of the Union Jal Sakthi ministry,” he said. Interestingly, Jagan’s sister Y S Sharmila, who is all set to launch a regional party in Telangana on July 8, also took up the issue. She said she would strongly oppose the construction of projects by Andhra Pradesh on Krishna river that affects the interests of Telangana. “There is no question of losing a single drop what is Telangana’s rightful share. As the daughter of YSR who is known to give a word and stick to it come what may, I will oppose any project that does damage to Telangana and its interests especially to the farmers. I shall go to any extent to fight for Telangana,” she said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-complains-to-centre-against-t-gana-irrigation-projects-101625080882198.html
01-07-2021||India||Judiciary can’t be compromised, or else rule of law will become illusory: CJI||Judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the ‘rule of law’ would become illusory, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Wednesday.Ramana, who was delivering the 17th Justice PD Desai Memorial Lecture on the title ‘Rule of Law’, said the concept of law is defined by four principles, mainly strong and independent judiciary, clear and accessible law, equality before law, and people’s right to participate in the creation and refinement of laws.“For the judiciary to apply checks on governmental power and action, it has to have complete freedom. The judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the rule of law would become illusory,” he said.“At the same time, judges should not be swayed by the emotional pitch of public opinion either, which is getting amplified through social media platforms,” the CJI added.Taking note of recent trends wherein social media platforms raise an emotional pitch to influence judges, he said: “The new media tools that have enormous amplifying ability are incapable of distinguishing between the right and wrong, good and bad and the real and fake. Therefore, media trials cannot be a guiding factor in deciding cases.”“It is therefore extremely vital to function independently and withstand all external aids and pressures,” the CJI said.“While there is a lot of discussion about the pressure from the executive, it is also imperative to start a discourse as to how social media trends can affect the institutions,” he added.However, he added, judges should not dissociate completely from what is going around them. “Judges cannot stay in ‘ivory castles’ and decide questions which pertain to social issues,” he added.He also stressed on the equal role of other organs of the state – executive and judiciary – and urged lawyers to play a constructive role in removing economy, caste, class, or gender barriers in ensuring justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-can-t-be-compromised-or-else-rule-of-law-will-become-illusory-cji-101625080822205.html
01-07-2021||India||CJI yet to approve new rules: Bar Council of India to Kerala HC||The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Wednesday told the Kerala high court that Chief Justice of India NV Ramana is yet to approve the latest amendments introduced to the BCI rules relating to the conduct of advocates. The BCI on Wednesday also constituted a committee to review its recently amended rules.The BCI said the committee is constituted to address concerns expressed by some members of the Bar. In a press statement, the BCI stated, “The Committee shall consist of some senior Advocates, representatives of State Bar Councils and High Court and other Bar Associations, besides five Members of Bar Council of India.”The amendments whipped up a major controversy within the legal fraternity. According to one of the amendments, if an advocate makes a statement that is indecent or derogatory or mischievous against any court or judge, state bar council or the BCI, it can be a ground for suspension or cancellation of their licence to practice law.A member of the Kerala Bar Council moved the HC, challenging the amendments. In his plea, petitioner Rajesh Vijayan said these amendments infringe upon freedom of speech and expression. The petitioner contended that the new rules are unconstitutional since they violated Articles 14, 19 (1A) and 19 of the Constitution. They are also against the decision laid down by the apex court related to the freedom of speech and expression.Replying to these contentions, the counsel for the BCI said these rules are still pending for the approval of the Chief Justice of India.Meanwhile, the BCI said that the review committee will take into consideration the representations received from some of the associations and it will frame the rules after noticing the issues raised by all concerned.“...Till the report of the Review Committee is received, considered and acted upon by the Council, the operation/implementation of the amended rules published in Gazette Notification dated 26.06.2021 in Extraordinary Part-III-Section-4 with respect to Amendment in Part-VI, Chapter-II of Bar Council of India Rules relating to the conduct of Advocates shall be kept in abeyance...,” stated BCI’s press statementThe BCI has on June 26 amended its rules making ‘derogatory’, ‘defamatory’ criticism of judges, courts or Bar Council by practising advocates in media ground for disqualification or suspension.In a notification, the BCI said that practising advocates “shall not make any statement in the print, electronic or social media, which is indecent or derogatory, defamatory or motivated, malicious or mischievous against any court or judge or any member of judiciary or against State Bar Council or Bar Council of India, nor shall any advocate engage in any willful violation, disregard or defiance of any resolution or order of the State Bar Council or Bar Council of India and any such act/conduct shall amount to misconduct and result in suspension or removal of membership of such member from the Bar Council.”“An advocate shall conduct himself/herself as a gentleman gentle lady in his/her day to day life and he/she shall not do any unlawful act,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjiyet-to-approve-new-rules-bci-to-kerala-hc-101625080582690.html
01-07-2021||India||Gyanvapi mosque case: Waqf board challenges court’s survey decision||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) on Wednesday challenged a Varanasi court’s decision to conduct an archaeological survey of the centuries-old Gyanvapi Masjid abutting the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple.On April 8, Varanasi civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari had ordered an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi complex, saying the exercise was required to decide on pleas that allege the mosque was built by Mughal emperors after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine.The decision had come on a clutch of petitions that claimed that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb demolished a portion of the Kashi Vishwanath temple to build the Gyanvapi Masjid in the 17th century, and demanded that the land on which the mosque stands be restored to Hindu partiesBut on Wednesday, the UPSCWB filed a revision petition in the court of Varanasi district judge Omprakash Tripathi. The court fixed July 9 as the next date of hearing on the point of admission. “On July 9, we will argue and appeal to the court to admit the revision petition,” said Abhay Yadav, who represented the board.The religious dispute – similar to the one in Ayodhya – is decades old and first reached the courts in 1991, when local Hindu priests sought permission to worship in the mosque area. The hearing was later suspended by the Allahabad high court.But the case gained steam in December 2019 when Vijay Shankar Rastogi filed an application in the civil court as the next friend of the presiding deity of the temple, Swayambhu Jyotirling Bhagwan Vishweshwar. Rastogi demanded that the mosque area be surveyed to prove that the Muslims had occupied parts of the temple complex and built a mosque there.On April 8, the civil court ordered the constitution of a five-member committee, comprising two Hindu and two Muslim members and an archaeological expert, to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey”. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will conduct the exercise at its expense without any media briefings, the judge had ordered.The Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, which runs the Gyanvapi Masjid, opposed the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gyanvapi-mosque-case-waqf-board-challenges-court-s-survey-decision-101625080582184.html
01-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: 7 held as bodies of 5 missing since May 13 recovered||The bodies of five persons, who went missing on May 13, were exhumed from an agricultural field in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas on Tuesday, police said.At least seven persons have been arrested and all of them have confessed to the murder, they added.The deceased were identified as Rupali Kaste (21), her mother Mamta Kaste (45), Rupali’s sister Divya (14) and cousins, Pooja Oswal (15)and Pawan Oswal (14).According to additional superintendent of police Suryakant Sharma, the main accused, Surendra Singh Chauhan (25), who is a resident of Nemawar, was reportedly in a relationship with Rupali.“A few weeks ago, Chauhan’s marriage was fixed with another woman. They (Chauhan and Rupali) had a fight over this issue. Rupali then made some objectionable posts against Chauhan and his fiancee on Instagram. Upset over this, Surendra decided to kill her,” Sharma said.“On May 13, Surendra called Rupali to his agricultural field for marriage and killed her. Rupali’s mother Mamta later called Surendra to ask about the marriage. To hide his crime, Surendra asked his younger brother Virendra to call all her family members to the field. Mamta, Divya, Pooja and Pawan reached the village at night where all the seven accused beat them up with rods and strangulated them,” he added.During the course of the probe, police found that the accused dug a 10-12 feet deep pit with the help of JCB and buried the bodies with urea and salt for quick decomposition.While Surendra’s friend Vivek Tiwari used Rupali’s phone to upload photographs from her social media account to mislead police, Pooja and Pawan’s mother filed a complaint against Rupali for abducting her kids on May 27, Sharma said.Five police teams were sent to search for the missing persons and based on a tip-off, the two (Surendra and Virendra) were arrested from a village on Tuesday.The remaining accused were identified as Vivek Tiwari, Rajkumar Korku, Manoj Korku, Karan Korku and Rakesh Nimor.Police said the bodies have been sent for forensic examination and the reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-held-as-bodies-of-5-missing-since-may-13-recovered-101625080463583.html
01-07-2021||India||HC allows Mamata Banerjee to file affidavit in Narada case||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday allowed the West Bengal government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Moloy Ghatak to file affidavits in the Narada sting operation case but fined the applicants ₹5,000 each for not filing the applications for affidavits on time.A five-judge HC bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal is hearing a petition by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) seeking transfer of the case out of the state, citing law and order problems. The CBI was given 10 days to reply to the affidavits.On June 25, the Supreme Court had set aside the high court’s June 9 order refusing to accept the affidavits , filed over the role of the politicians on May 17, when four prominent leaders were arrested by the CBI in teh case.The CBI approached the high court on May 24 to transfer the case out of the state, claiming that on May 17. violent protests orchestrated by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.Also Read| Mamata, Ghatak file new request in Calcutta high court ahead of Narada hearingBanerjee and Ghatak missed their deadlines to respond to the CBI plea. On June 9, the high court declined to take the affidavits on record. Banerjee and Ghatak approached the Supreme Court on this point.The CBI alleged that Banerjee, Ghatak and other TMC leaders played a key role in stopping CBI officials from performing their duty after the four leaders were arrested. It claimed that Banerjee sat on a six-hour-long agitation at the CBI office after the arrests while Ghatak went to the court premises during the virtual hearing of the case. The agency accused Ghatak of trying to influence the judge who heard the bail petition of the accused leaders.The judge granted bail to the four politicians on May 17 but the high court stayed the bail order the same night. The four leaders have since been released on bail.During the argument on Tuesday, advocate general Kishore Dutta, who represented the Bengal government, told the bench that the state is responsible for maintaining law and order.“The state should be given the opportunity to present the actual state of affairs (on May 17) and what action it took. Time will not be lost if the affidavits are taken on record,” Dutta told the bench.Also Read| 50 tumultuous days of Mamata Banerjee’s government 3.0Advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, who represented Banerjee and Ghatak, on Tuesday said, delay in filing of affidavits cannot be the ground for rejecting arguments and evidence. He argued that the case was not only about the CBI’s petition for transfer but involved important issues matters relating to the state.Dwivedi said, “The CBI can provide CCTV footage from May 17 so that the facts can be placed before the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcallows-mamata-to-file-affidavit-in-narada-case-101625080402172.html
01-07-2021||India||NHRC panel submits report in HC on Bengal post-poll violence||The panel set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into allegations of post-poll violence in West Bengal submitted its preliminary report to the Calcutta high court on Wednesday, which talks about the numerous complaints of murder, rape and arson received during visits to north and south Bengal districts, people aware of the development said.The document has cited the panel’s interaction with more than 100 families and referred to complaints about 41 murders and rape of 13 women, an official familiar with the contents of the initial report said on condition of anonymity.A second official said a comprehensive report will be submitted to the high court by July 2.NHRC officials refused to speak on the contents of the interim report.The panel, led by NHRC member and former intelligence bureau chief Rajiv Jain, was set up by a five-judge bench of the high court on petitions alleging the state’s involvement in violence targeting Bharatiya Janata Party workers after Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress returned to power in the state election results declared on May 2.Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hasn’t reacted to news about the NHRC’s interim report. On Tuesday, however, she again dismissed the BJP charge. “One or two cases may be genuine but the rest are made up by the BJP. These are all fake allegations,” she told reporters.At a hearing in the Supreme Court earlier this month, the state government said only 22 people had died in post-poll violence; 16 of them when the administration was still under the control of the Election Commission.Bengal BJP vice-president Ritesh Tiwari said he was confident that the truth about the violence would soon be out. “The NHRC will find out the truth. A special investigation team must be formed to probe each and every case and role of the police and bureaucrats. They have to be held accountable,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcpanel-submits-report-in-hc-on-bengal-post-poll-violence-101625080222160.html
01-07-2021||India||60,000 pieces of content blocked, says Google report||Google removed almost 60,000 pieces of content in April, the company said its first monthly transparency report, required by India’s new guidelines for social media companies and intermediaries. The guidelines mandate significant social media intermediaries (SSMIs) with over 5 million users such as YouTube (owned by Google) to disclose the number of complaints they have received and what action has been taken.According to the report covering the period from April 1 to April 30, Google said it received 27,762 complaints. “The number reflects the total number of complaints received from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms during the one-month reporting period,” Google said in the report. “These complaints relate to third-party content that is believed to violate local laws or personal rights on Google’s SSMI platforms. This data also includes individual user complaints accompanied by a court order.”A Google spokesperson told PTI that the company would “continue to publish more details as we refine our reporting process for India”.Google has been maintaining a transparency report, listing requests for take downs, complaints, and pieces of content removed, since 2010.Of the complaints, 92% or 26,707, related to copyright infringement and the rest to the trademark (357 or 1.3%), defamation (275 or 1.0%), etc. Nearly 98.4% of the action taken was regarding copyright infringement (58,391 pieces of content were taken down as a result).Google has sought two months to submit a more granular report with data on how the removal took place. “In future reports, data on removals as a result of automated detection, as well as data relating to impersonation and graphic sexual content complaints received post May 25, 2021, will be included,” the report said.Facebook has said it will submit its interim report on July 2 with details of content removed between May 15 and June 15. A more detailed report will follow on July 15, which will also include details of complaints received by WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60000-pieces-of-content-blocked-says-google-report-101625078156808.html
01-07-2021||India||Crimes against SC, ST see sharp spike in Karnataka||Between April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, there have been 2,327 cases of murder, exploitation and other cases on members of the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) community in Karnataka, according to data from the state government. This shows an increase of over 54% from the previous year in which there were a total of 1,504 cases registered, which includes murder, exploitation, burns and other crimes against the members of the community, according to data from National Crime Records Bureau. The sharp spike comes at a time when Karnataka has reported at least two cases of “honour” killings in the last 10 days and several others that involve name calling, denial of services and even skirmishes that often go unreported. One of such cases reported by HT on June 24 was related to a hate-crime committed against two teenagers, wherein a boy belonging to the Dalit community and a Muslim girl were allegedly killed in Saladahalli village in Devara Hipparagi taluk in Vijayapura district, about 525 kms from Bengaluru, by the girl’s family and a few others who smashed their heads with rocks. In another case reported from Baragur village in Koppal district, 351 kms from Bengaluru, a boy who belonged to the Madiga community was allegedly murdered by the family of the girl, on June 22 who was from the dominant Kuruba community, for being romantically involved. “There are atrocities that take place and the ones that are reported (to authorities),” Clifton Rozario, lawyer and Bengaluru-based activist said on Wednesday. “When we look at these figures, we have to keep in mind that for every recorded atrocity there are other atrocities that are normalised and routinized,” Rozario added. While Karnataka is well known for its prowess in technology, startups, aerospace and other sectors, the dark underbelly of the state’s rural landscape often goes unnoticed. While the number of cases registered are low, the conviction rates are lower, data shows. In total, there have been 87 murders, 216 cases of exploitation, 2,024 other instances and 3 incidents of fire, according to government data. The government has so far allocated ₹284 crore as compensation for these crimes. Out of the 2,775 arrested persons and 2,945 chargesheeted for crimes and atrocities against SC/ST communities in 2019, only 50 were convicted and 1,513 were acquitted, data shows. On June 6, two brothers from the Dalit community were assaulted, abused and humiliated when they approached two barbers for a haircut in Yelaburga taluk in Koppal, one of the most backward villages in the state and country. But law enforcement authorities, whose duty it is to stop such practices and book those responsible, have also been accused of fueling and participating in such atrocities. On May 10, a youngster was arrested after villagers alleged that he was responsible for marital discord between a couple. After being beaten up, he asked the police for water when the latter asked another person in lockup to urinate on the youngster and even forced to lick it. The police sub-inspector, Arjun Gowda, has been denied anticipatory bail by a local court in Karnataka’s Chikmagalur district, calling the crime “heinous” and one that destroys the dignity of a person. Sanna Hanumantha, a Dalit activist in Koppal district said that there are regular instances of members of the Dalit community refused entry into hotels, temples and even inside villages. He said that members of the so-called upper classes waylaid and picked up a fight with two boys last week because they entered a hotel to drink tea. “They pulled up our boy and his friend (from a different community) because they had a sticker of Dr BR Ambedkar on their motorbike,” he added. A Narayanaswamy, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament from Karnataka’s Chitradurga district, was denied entry into Gollarhatti village in Paavgada taluka in Tumkuru district in May 2019, indicating that the caste-based discrimination and prejudices that continue to dictate almost every aspect of life in rural Karnataka and other parts of the country. Hanumantha said that the members of the Dalit community will undertake a march to the district headquarters on July 19 to highlight the growing instances of discrimination in Koppal, which falls in the Kalayana-Karantaka region of the state. The social welfare minister, additional chief secretary and commissioner of Karnataka could not be reached for comment. “It is not that people are not aware of the atrocities. We cannot keep glorifying that more people are coming to the police station nowadays,” Priyank Kharge, Congress legislator from Chittapur constituency and former minister for social welfare told HT on Wednesday.He added that the increase in all forms of social unrest was also due to the pandemic and that the pandemic has forced migration to and from villages, which has left a larger number of people without enough work to do and has led to friction. Kharge said that those that migrate are people who are economically backward and this largely comprises members of SC/ST, minorities and other communities and that there are several instances where members of marginalised communities get caught in the crossfire between other so-called upper class caste-group fights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crimes-against-sc-st-see-sharp-spike-in-karnataka-101625078902100.html
01-07-2021||India||K’taka HC pulls up labour dept for charging ‘commission’ for compensation||Bengaluru A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj directed the state labour department to appear before the court on Thursday after a report submitted before the Karnataka high court said a commission was charged for providing compensation for domestic workers. A report submitted by the Karnataka State Legal Service Authority (KSLSA) to the Karnataka high court said that domestic workers were being charged a commission at Seva Sindhu Kendras, to register them on the Seva Sindhu portal for availing ₹2,000 one-time compensation announced by the government as relief in view of the lockdown. “Let him come with a solution and action they are going to take against these people…Tell the labour secretary, don’t give us figures of those persons who have received the sum of ₹2,000 as those who have received the amount have had to face the ordeal of paying this ₹200 at the centres,” said the bench. The direction was given during the hearing of a petition filed by the Domestic Worker Rights Union. The bench took serious note of the commission being charged since the government had said that the process of providing compensation would be free of cost. The KSLSA report said that despite the state government announcing a relief package of Rs.2,000 to the unorganized sector workers, there is a lack of awareness created. The government has made provision for online application in Seva Sindhu Portal but due to illiteracy and lack of awareness, the workers of unorganized sectors are not able to upload the application online. “Instead of helping unorganized sector workers to make an application, concerned labour department is only driving the labourers to approach Seva Sindhu Centres wherein they charge commission fee ranging between Rs.100 and Rs. 250…. the fee amounts to almost 10% of the package announced by the state government,” read the report by the KSLSA. The state government and the labour department should have developed a mechanism to assist unorganized sector workers to make an application, the report said. “In fact, this defect is leading to a situation wherein genuine workers are not approaching Seva Sindhu Centres, rather those workers or their group, who are politically or otherwise influential have been successful in accessing the government packages,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-hc-pulls-up-labour-dept-for-charging-commission-for-compensation-101625078782079.html
01-07-2021||India||Karnataka Congress’ top leaders lock horns over youth president’s post||Bengaluru Almost four months after the contentious Youth Congress elections in Karnataka, the issue continues to create frictions in the party’s top leadership in the state, people aware of the developments said, weakening the opposition party’s fight against the ruling BJP. State Congress president DK Shivakumar and legislature party leader Siddaramaiah have locked horns over the issue that the people say has threatened to fuel differences between the two top leaders of the party, accentuating factionalism that has been on a rise in the party. Mohammed Harris Nalapad, the son of Congress legislator NA Harris and backed by Shivakumar, was disqualified even though he won 64,203 out of the over 150,000 valid votes polled, as per the results published in February this year. Raksha Ramaiah, who polled 57,271 votes and has the backing of Siddaramaiah, was declared as the Youth Congress president. People familiar with the developments said Ramaiah and Nalapad have come to a compromise -- the former will remain the state Youth Congress president till the end of the year and then hand over the reins to the latter. “Both of them have mutually come to an understanding that Raksha will remain (as Youth Congress chief) till December 31 and then the post will be given to Nalapad,” Srinivas BV, national president of the Indian Youth Congress, said on Wednesday. But the conflicting stand on the Youth Congress has reignited feud between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar, party leaders said, after the two locked horns over the chief ministerial pick if the party wins the next polls. Despite warnings from the state and central party leadership, legislators close to Siddaramaiah had projected him as the next chief minister, souring relations with Shivakumar and a few other leaders who also nurse ambitions for the top job. “Now, the election officer has said that he will broker a compromise (between Raksha and Mohammed). Make both of them sit together and get whatever compromise is all I have said,” Siddaramaiah said on Wednesday. Shivakumar refused to comment. People aware of the developments said the supporters of Raksha are not happy with the decision taken by the incumbent Youth Congress president without consultations with those who helped him get the post. Congress leaders, wishing not to be named, said that amid the fight between the two top leaders, the party misses an opportunity to take advantage of the leadership crisis in the BS Yediyurappa-led government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-top-leaders-lock-horns-over-youth-president-s-post-101625078722055.html
01-07-2021||India||SII applies for EU ‘green pass’ nod through UK partner||Serum Institute of India (SII) has applied to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for marketing authorisation of its Covishield vaccine through its partner company, United Kingdom-based AstraZeneca, for it to be eligible for the European Union’s Green Pass, said people familiar with the matter.The Green Pass is an immunity document meant to ease travel within and to the European Union from July 1.“The EMA certification has been applied for by SII via its partner AstraZeneca,” said an industry insider familiar with the matter, on condition of anonymity.A day earlier, EU had said in a statement that EMA has not received any authorisation request for Covishield. But on the same day, European Union’s ambassador to India and Bhutan, Ugo Astuto, had clarified to news agency ANI that reports of Covishield being banned in Europe were not true.Also Read| India asks EU members to accept Covishield, Covaxin“It is to clarify there is no banning on Covishield, we have set up in place a new system of Digital Covid Certificate which is meant to facilitate travel within the European Union. Basically, this certificate is proof that a person is vaccinated against Covid or received a negative test or recovered from Covid-19. So this is meant as a facilitator but it is not a precondition for travel,” Astuto said.Travellers vaccinated with Covishield are currently not eligible for the EU Green Pass, as EMA recognises only four Covid-19 vaccines that have received EU-wide marketing authorisation so far.While the list includes Vaxzervria, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine shot produced and marketed in the United Kingdom and other sites around Europe, it does not include Covishield, which is the same vaccine manufactured locally in India by SII. The other three vaccines that EMA has approved for use are Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech), Moderna, and Janssen (Johnson & Johnson).Also Read| Covid in India: 100 million doses of J&J vaccine likely to be procured from EU“I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU. I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” tweeted Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, on Monday.Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin are the two vaccines that are currently being administered under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme, with 289.6 million doses of Covishield having been already administered under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive that began on January 16, according to the central government’s CoWIN dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-applies-for-eu-green-pass-nod-through-uk-partner-101625078663823.html
01-07-2021||India||K’taka administered over 8mn vaccine doses in June: Data||Bengaluru Karnataka has administered over 8 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the month of June, registering almost double the growth compared to May in which the state administered just over 4.2 million doses , according to state government data. But a significant number of these doses were administered after June 21, on the day of the nation-wide Maha Vaccine Abhiyaan, initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in which a record of nearly 9 million vaccines were administered across the country in a single day. At least half of the 8 million doses administered in June in Karnataka has come in the last 10 days since the June 21, data shows. Despite the decline in new Covid-19 infections, the state is trying to administer at least one dose to all eligible citizens by the end of the year. Karnataka and its counterparts are trying to increase its respective vaccination drives to insulate as many of its citizens as possible from the imminent third wave of infections, expected to hit around the end of the year. In one day (June 21), the state recorded nearly 1.16 million doses, from just around 70,000 doses the previous day, indicating the possibility of the BS Yediyurappa government stockpiling vaccines to make the event a success, Hindustan Times had reported on June 22. But there have been several instances where people, waiting for hours in vaccination centres, were sent back due to the non-availability of doses that shows a rising momentum that has been held back due to supply issues. “This month we got 6. million doses which the Centre has provided us. We have a lot of demand but (the Centre) has to distribute it to all parts of the country. The 6 million doses that we got, we have administered,” Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister of Karnataka and head of the state task force on Covid-19 told reporters on Wednesday. He added that private organisations and other corporates have also contributed to around 2.2 million vaccines. Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said that he would visit Delhi on Monday or Tuesday to request the union government for allocation of more vaccines to the state. “I will be visiting Delhi on Monday or Tuesday and will be discussing with the union health minister to allocate more vaccines to the state. But I have never said we are short of vaccines in the state and we have never stopped vaccinating people. Everyday over 200,000 to 300,000 people are being vaccinated. The moment we get vaccines from the union government, we will distribute them,” Sudhakar said on Tuesday. According to data on Cowin, Karnataka has so far administered 2,27,00,527 doses of which the first and second dose account for 1,89,63,478 and 37,37,049 respectively. The estimated population of Karnataka is around 70 million, according to the expert committee on the third wave of Covid-19 infections, which takes the vaccine coverage (both doses) to just over 5.3%. A senior government official said that Karnataka can administer as many as 600,000 to 700,000 doses per day if doses were available. “With a little bit of effort, we can go up to 600,000 to 700,000 every day. We are talking about 6 days a week. If you give me 30 million vaccines, we will finish it in two months,” the official cited above said, requesting not to be named. There are over 13,000 vaccination centres in the state, of which a little less than half or around 6,000 are operational. However, an official from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said that there were delays and issues of availability of vaccines. “As per the government orders, we are giving it to a few categories. But according to availability we are distributing it. A few times, the vaccines that we are supposed to get from the government do not come on time or we do not get the right quantity. All this we have to discuss at the government level and explain our situation to them,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief minister of the BBMP said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-administered-over-8mn-vaccine-doses-in-june-data-101625078605350.html
01-07-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu meets Gandhis amid Cong infighting||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the party’s Punjab MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu in meetings that seemed to suggest that the lawmaker, a trenchant critic of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, has the ear of the Gandhis, although one party insider sought to explain the meeting as a “balancing act”.It was not clear whether Sidhu, who wants to become the Congress state president, received any assurance from the Gandhis. But the back-to-back meetings indicated that the Congress top leadership was still sympathetic to Sidhu despite his rebellion against Singh.Sidhu, a former cricketer and television personality, has been particularly critical of the CM in recent weeks, calling him a “liar” in a June 21 interview with Hindustan Times. That came amid growing dissent in the ranks with some Punjab lawmakers not happy at the free rein the chief minister gave his bureaucrats, the progress on implementing promises made ahead of the last assembly election in 2017, and the seeming lack of action against the Badals for their involvement in the sacrilege and police firing case dating back to 2015. Between June and October that year, three incidents of sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book, were reported in Faridkot district, leading to protests. On October 14, 2015, two protesters were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan. On the same day, police also opened fire on protesters in Kotkpaura.Elections in Punjab are scheduled for early 2022.The Congress refused to spell out what transpired at the meeting but Sindhu tweeted that “it as a “long meeting” with Priyanka Gandhi.” He also put out a photograph.In the evening, Sidhu met Rahul Gandhi, in the presence of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The meeting took place a day after Rahul Gandhi said no meeting was scheduled with the cricketer turned politician.Sidhu did not respond to calls and messages.The meeting is especially significant because Singh, 79, tried to meet the Gandhis on his visit to Delhi from June 21 to 23, but could not do so. The chief minister’s office declined to comment on Sidhu’s meeting with the Gandhis.That meeting was the second that Singh undertook to meet with a three-member committee set up by the Congress’ central leadership to resolve the crisis in the party in Punjab. The committee, headed by Mallikarjun Kharge came up with a list of recommendations, and a sort of to-do list for the chief minister. One of the members of the panel , Harish Rawat, also said separately that the party would have words with Sidhu on his criticism of the chief minister. It isn’t clear whether this has happened.Sidhu wants to be made Punjab Congress chief, a post that will give him significant power ahead of the elections. Singh is averse to giving him such an important role. The former cricketer resigned from the state cabinet in July 2019 due to differences with the CM. There has been buzz that he could be considering joining the Aam Aadmi Party, but a senior leader of that party said on condition of anonymity that the party would not be interested -- not after Sidhu almost joined it after leaving the BJP in 2016, only to jump on to the Congress bandwagon in early 2017. Sidhu is believed to be close to both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, a proximity he has not been reluctant to showcase.The Congress insider cited above said that the meeting was a balancing act. “The optics of general secretary in charge of UP meeting Sidhu underlines that the Gandhi family and the Congress values him but at the same time, the party also can’t afford to ignore the CM ahead of the polls,” added this person who asked not to be named.“Sidhu appeals to young people, can bring a freshness in the organisation whereas the CM’s style of functioning has led to some anti-incumbency,” said a second Congress leader who too asked not to be named.Last week, Rahul Gandhi met one-on-one with at least 20 leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs to get their version of the Punjab story. The three-member committee constituted by Sonia Gandhi said in its June 10 report that Sidhu be suitably accommodated in the state unit.Sidhu also fended off criticism by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, who told reporters that the former cricket was a misguided missile without control. “Today, Punjab doesn’t need a person who does acting but one who thinks about the development of the state,” Badal said.Hours later, Sidhu hit back and accused Badal of corruption. “Until your Sukh Vilas built on Punjab’s ruins is not turned into a public school & public hospital to serve Punjab’s poor, I won’t relent!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-meets-gandhis-amid-cong-infighting-101625078483337.html
01-07-2021||India||Now, pvt hospitals can buy jabs only via CoWIN||Private hospitals will no longer be able to directly procure Covid vaccine supplies from manufacturers, and will have to place their orders through the government’s CoWIN platform which is the backbone of national Covid-19 immunisation delivery management system, people familiar with the matter said .“Yes, they will need to procure through Co-WIN; it is being made a simple and transparent process,” said a senior Union health ministry official aware of the matter who asked not to be named.The new procurement process will be operational from July 1. The move comes even as questions are being raised about the reach of private hospitals when it comes to vaccinations, and their ability to use the entire 25% of vaccine production allocated to them. By some estimates private vaccination centres account for only 4 % of the total vaccination centres in the country. And according to an affidavit submitted by the government in the Supreme Court on June 26, between January and May,2021, private hospitals administered 1,56,30,130 doses of both vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin.Once the private centres place an order on CoWIN, the approval will be granted on the platform itself, and the payment for vaccine doses will have to be made electronically through the National Health Authority Portal (NHA).The union government is procuring 75% of vaccines produced in a given month to be distributed under its free supply scheme, and the remaining 25% is left to be bought by private hospitals .Private hospitals said the move will allow the government to keep tab on how many doses are being procured by each private hospital across the country.“We consider this a positive policy decision taken by the government as this will lead to increase in the vaccination rate as the government will have a clear idea of how many vaccines have been procured by an individual hospital. This will also prevent hoarding of vaccines and ultimately lead to improved transparency in terms of inoculation,” said Dr Prashant Kulshrestha, deputy medical superintendent, PSRI Hospital.The Union government recently advised states to aggregate Covid-19 vaccine distribution in private hospitals on a monthly basis, and either to do the procurement themselves or allow the central government to facilitate procurements, so as to equitably distribute vaccine doses among private hospitals.The step was taken after it emerged that large chains were buying most of the vaccines.Private hospitals have also launched “ door step vaccination, drive throughs, vaccination in malls, offices, residences,” pointed out Dr Kousar Shah, COO, Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital., and they should be allowed to continue doing this, “in the larger public interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-pvt-hospitals-can-buy-jabs-only-via-cowin-101625078482741.html
01-07-2021||India||‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top Army officer||The technology used in the aerial attack on an India Air Force (IAF) facility in Jammu on June 27 indicated “State support and the possible involvement of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba terror groups”, a top Indian Army officer aware of the matter said on Wednesday.The army has tightened security at its key forward installations in the Kashmir Valley following the attack, he added.“We have identified some key military installations and activated countermeasures to pre-empt drone attacks. Steps have been taken in coordination with intelligence agencies,” said Lieutenant General DP Pandey, who heads the Srinagar-based HQs 15 Corps.He said the drones and explosives used for aerial attacks cannot be assembled on the roadside and are likely to be state-supported systems. He said there appeared to be an “element of guidance from State actors” to modify the drones for aerial attacks. “It’s a new and emerging threat that we have to stay prepared for,” Pandey said.The June 27 attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility. IAF has also beefed up defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks, as reported by HT on June 29. Snipers, jammers and other countermeasures have been activated at forward IAF bases.The drone attack is a watershed in asymmetric warfare and underlines the need for the armed forces to build capabilities to deter, detect and neutralise such aerial threats.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday said that India has to start preparing for future generation warfare. He said the three services, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest.DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy said that the counter-drone technology developed by his organisation could provide the armed forces with the capability to swiftly detect, intercept and destroy small drones that pose a security threat. He said DRDO’s anti-drone system would give the military both “soft kill” and “hard kill” options to tackle the aerial threat. The first refers to jamming the hostile drone, while the second involves a laser-based kill system.After the aerial attack at the air force station in Jammu on June 27, another attack was thwarted in the early hours of Monday. Drones were also sighted near military installations in Jammu between 1 am and 4.30 am on Tuesday, indicating terrorist groups could be trying to replicate Sunday’s strike. Drones were again seen hovering over Kaluchak and Kunjwani military stations on Wednesday.The National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into the June 27 attack and registered a case under the Explosive Substances Act, UAPA, and IPC sections on criminal conspiracy and attempt to murder.Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd) said: “Jammu is a wake up call but it must be appreciated that the threat has been long in existence, and the anti-dote to terror drones is a whole-of-government approach since it’s not only military installations that are threatened but civilian infrastructure of importance too.”“Thus, the IB, RAW and other intelligence agencies have to work hand-in-hand to preempt attacks and terminal anti-drone defences have to be provided to key installations. In these Covid crunch times, finances would have to be provisioned from somewhere by the government,” the former additional director general at Centre for Air Power Studies said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-support-behind-drone-strike-says-top-army-officer-101625078424968.html
01-07-2021||India||If a film is given a certificate, it does not mean that it is forever: Benegal||A proposed change in the Cinematograph Act on the certification board can recall a film and review its certification may have caused consternation in the film industry, but director Shyam Benegal believes there is nothing wrong in this. “If a film is given a certificate, it does it mean that it is forever,” he said in an interview. The changes also give the government will also have the power to restrict cinematic content -- with influencing and constraining factors being the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to commit any offence. The proposed changes led to 1400 filmmakers and artists including Anurag Kashyap, Shabana Azmi, and Farhan Akhtar writing an open letter to the ministry objecting to this kind of censorship. Benegal , who in 2016 headed a committee that looked at the process of film certification and recommended a limited purview for the certification board has a different view. Edited excerpts:You have just gone through the new provisions of the Cinematograph Act. What are your first impressions?I think it’s fine, there are no major problems. There were two reports (on this) , one was the Mudgal committee report from 2013 and the other one was a committee of experts report that we made in 2016…. and I think there is not much of a difference. In fact, we will cooperate…Some say that they find it disturbing that a film that has already been certified can be recalled. What do you feel about that?Well, I think, these things can happen. If a film is given a certificate, it does not mean that it is forever. It’s a certificate given by the board and when you are talking of the things changing, you are talking of a world that is changing. So, there are some things that have been valid at one time (in the past) and they may not be valid today.So, recalling films (for another review) is not a big deal. There is a possibility that 20 years from now, something (which is right today) cannot be right for that time. It is possible.What happens once something goes out after being certified by the Censor Board and then there is a kind of outrage among the public?If you have that kind of an outrage and if it is popular -- I mean if it is a popular outrage and not some engineered outreach -- these things can also happen.But then who decides when the outrage is significant enough to merit a recall?The fact is, you have to accept that there is some thing called common sense. There is a certain kind of convention followed in life which we consider to be very much within the purview of our standards. Now (if) you go beyond that, naturally, it is going to be questioned.For instance, you have these streaming channels and television, you have programs where you see people using four- letter words as if they use them every day. It doesn’t happen like that. People don’t always talk like that. Sometimes I get very shocked. But then you accept it because it is in the privacy of your home.The same cannot happen in a public place.OTT platforms of which streaming channels form a part are not publicly (broadcast) .There can be very little clarity on this. The fact is that it depends on how you are going about and what you are going to do about sensibilities. Are you going to censor sensibilities? People have different kinds of sensibilities.As long as that particular sensibility does not become offensive in public discourse, it’s not offensive.Then, in private discourse, are you working to censor anything? Why would you do that? In the privacy of your home or within the privacy in which you and your friends and acquaintances operate, are you going to have censorship (in what you watch)? Clearly not. That’s common sense.So, 1400 filmmakers wrote an open letter saying that this (amendment) makes them helpless. You don’t agree with them?No, it’s not that. It’s just that film makers deal with their audiences. In public discourse, when you are dealing with people, there are certain things that you must make a distinction about, like between private and public discourse. What happens in the privacy of your home is not something that the whole world needs to know about ; you have to distinguish between what is public and what is private. Even that is not so clearly defined. You know if you are telling a story, a family story, there are certain things even in a family story that are public and private. There are so many such factors. It is like they fade in and fade out..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-a-film-is-given-a-certificate-it-does-not-mean-that-it-is-forever-benegal-101625078423115.html
01-07-2021||India||75-yr-old, moved by story of family of missing patient, rides 300 km to help||Bhubaneswar: When Madhusudan Patra last week read a news item in a local Odia daily about the story of a woman looking for her husband, the family’s sole bread earner missing for a month, the 75-year-old farmer knew he had to do something. It took him some time to figure out how.By Friday, Madhusudan Patra mobilised ₹10,000 from his savings, loaded a trunk on his rickety moped and set out from Biranchipur village in the coastal district of Ganjam.His destination was 300 km away, a village in Jagatsinghpur district where Gandharba Jena’s family lived.Gandharba Jena, 65, had gone missing sometime around May 21 when the Covid patient was shifted from a local hospital to the government-run SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. His family knocked on all the doors that they could for the past month, but there was no trace of Jena, who made a living by weaving bamboo baskets that were sold at the village market. The family had been struggling to make ends meet. It took Madhusudan Patra 10 hours to reach the village. Jena’s wife Shanti was surprised at her benefactor.“He said God willing my husband would come back. He also told me not to cry and then gave ₹10,000,” she said.Jena’s daughter Jhili, in her early thirties, said Patra’s help at the time of their distress was something they can never forget.“We have been seeking help from the local police station as well as the block office about my father, but no one helped us in tracing my father. But an old person living hundreds of kilometres away came to help us,” Jhili said.Madhusudan Patra spent the night with Jena’s family and left for home in Ganjam on his two-wheeler on Saturday. He did become a bit of a local celebrity when word of his gesture was reported in the local media.Patra is modest, saying that he just wanted to help a poor family. “Travelling 300 km was no big deal,” he said.“I have some land in my village, but no children. So I have been helping people during the lockdown.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75yrold-moved-by-story-of-family-of-missing-patient-rides-300-km-to-help-101625078125073.html
01-07-2021||India||Death within 3 mths of testing +ve to count as Covid fatality, says SC||People who died within two to three months after testing Covid-19 positive should be counted as death due to Covid-19, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday as it directed the Centre to incorporate this benchmark in its guidelines for death certificates in case of Covid-19 deaths.The procedure followed by states and union territories in registering deaths came under the judicial scanner in two public interest litigations filed by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal.The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah has repeatedly observed through the proceedings that persons affected by Covid-19 can die due to other complications. Unfortunately, the judges noted in their verdict on Wednesday, the guidelines issued by the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) haven’t specifically dealt with this aspect.The top court’s direction on counting deaths within two or three months after testing Covid-19 will lead to an increase in the number of people entitled to ex-gratia payment for the death of family members due to Covid. This direction formed part of the same order where the top court gave six weeks to the Centre to frame guidelines under DMA for providing ex-gratia relief to persons who died due to Covid-19.According to Union health ministry data, 3,98,454 people have died due to Covid since the first death was reported in Karnataka in March last year. But existing government guidelines only count persons who are positive at the time of death to be a Covid death.The court directed the appropriate authority to frame a “simplified procedure or guidelines” for issuing an official document or death certificate to the family of those who died due to Covid-19. This document should state the exact cause of death as “Death due to Covid-19”, added the bench.“If a person has died after he was found Covid positive and he has died within two to three months, either in the hospital or outside the hospital or at home, the death certificate or official document must be issued to the family members of the deceased who died due to Covid-19 stating the cause of death as ‘Died due to Covid-19’,” the bench said.Presently, death certificates do not mention cause of death. This is due to the bar placed under Section 17 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969. This provision states that “no extract relating to any death, issued to any person, shall disclose the particulars regarding the cause of death as entered in the register.”For families who have already received death certificates and intend to apply for correction with regard to cause of death, the court directed the authority concerned to provide the remedy available to such families under the guidelines.The court while considering the petitions had recognised the plight of many families who lost their dear ones due to after-effects of Covid-19 but the cause of death was not certified as due to Covid.The bench said, “It is the duty of every authority to issue accurate/correct death certificates stating the correct and accurate cause of death, so that the family members of the deceased who died due to Covid-19 may not face any difficulty in getting the benefits of the schemes that may be declared by the Government for the death of the deceased, who died due to Covid-19.”During the arguments in the case, the central government pointed out that it is mandatory for states to register all deaths due to Covid-19. It referred to an October 2020 communication issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs to all states/UTs. It said, “All deaths with a diagnosis of Covid-19, irrespective of comorbidities, are to be classified as deaths due to Covid-19. It is submitted that the only exception could be where there is a clear alternative cause of death, that cannot be attributed to Covid-19 (e.g., accidental trauma, poisoning, acute myocardial infarction, etc), where Covid-19 is an incidental finding.”Broad guidelines for recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India were prepared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and issued in May 2020 to all states.These guidelines said that positive deaths would imply deaths related to Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-within-3-mths-of-testing-ve-to-count-as-covid-fatality-says-sc-101625077822009.html
01-07-2021||India||PM Modi meets ministers, reviews preparedness for 3rd Covid wave, jab drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a meeting of the Union council of ministers to review the functioning of the ministries, the preparation for the anticipated third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the ongoing vaccination drive against the infectious disease, people aware of the matter said.The meeting, which was conducted virtually, began at 4.30pm and concluded at 8.30pm, the people quoted above said.According to two people aware of the details, PM Modi told his ministers to work hard to ensure that the guard against Covid-19 was not relaxed. He said the government will have to make sure that people remain alert and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. He also underlined that the government will have to work hard to counter the disappointment on the ground over its Covid-19 response during the second wave, the people added.The PM also told the ministers that while the focus remained on Covid-19 management, the ministers should not take their eyes off issues related to governance.According to a person aware of the developments, NITI Aayog member VK Paul made a presentation at the beginning of the meeting on the vaccination drive, saying it had been accelerated to prevent the spread of the virus and to prepare for a likely third wave of infections. Presentations on the work accomplished by the ministries of telecom, civil aviation, and road transport were also made, the person added.“Road transport and civil aviation ministries’ presentations were to show what we have been able to achieve so far and what challenges lie ahead in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a senior official present at the meeting, asking not to be named.The PM instructed the ministers to oversee all aspects of the vaccination drive and to acquaint themselves with the problems being faced by the people in getting the vaccines, the first person said. He urged the ministers to conduct visits on the ground to oversee the mass vaccination and to address vaccine hesitancy among people.“He said that Indians have a tendency to take it easy as soon as things seem to improve and so, extra caution has to be observed,” the person quoted above said.On Sunday, the Prime Minister, in his radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, made a reference to vaccine hesitancy and urged people to believe what doctors and scientists advised. While asking people not to believe rumours, the Prime Minister cited his own example and that of his mother to drive home the point about the need for vaccines.A third person who was aware of the developments said the ministries were asked to give specifics about the completion of work allocated to them; the spending from budget allowance and accomplishments of the past two years, with focus on the work that was done during the Covid-19 period.Modi also discussed the preparations for the 75th anniversary of India’s freedom struggle, which is being celebrated as Amrit Mahotsav, said the second person.Wednesday’s meeting came close on the heels of a series of review meetings conducted by the Prime Minister over the past month. Several minister, in batches, met the Prime Minister and gave a detailed presentation on the work accomplished by their respective ministries. The meeting took place at a time when there is speculation that a possible cabinet reshuffle could take place soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-meets-ministers-reviews-preparedness-for-3rd-wave-jab-drive-101625077762059.html
01-07-2021||India||Can Covid-19 shot be refused in public health crisis: Madras HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday expressed doubt if anyone can have the right to refuse vaccination, given the larger interest of public health during the Covid-19 pandemic as vaccine hesitancy continues in some quarters.A bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made this observation during the hearing of a public interest litigation regarding vaccination of people with disabilities.The state made its submission on the measures taken and informed the court that there is an “element of reluctance in some quarters” to take the vaccine. The court asked the state to persuade people through awareness campaigns as well as scientific data to indicate the efficacy of the vaccines and their indispensable nature in dealing with the present pandemic.“Indeed, vaccinating oneself may not only be to protect oneself but also in the larger interest of public health,” the court said in its order. “When such a larger interest of public health comes into play and it is possible that a person who has not taken the vaccine may not reveal any symptoms but still be a silent carrier, it is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances.”This came a day after Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s tweet expressing scepticism about vaccination was flagged as ‘misleading’ by Twitter.Tamil Nadu’s health department had submitted a report on June 29 on its measures to vaccinate people with disabilities in rehabilitation homes and mental healthcare centres which the court said was adequate. But the judges raised a concern that the state didn’t indicate a plan for people with disabilities who are homebound and do not have the ability and resources to travel, particularly in the semi-urban and rural areas. “It is hoped that all persons with disabilities, irrespective of status and resources, are taken care of by the State in due course,” the court said. The matter has been posted to July 28.The court had earlier, while passing orders on a different case, directed the state to prioritise vaccination for the differently-abled. Greater Chennai Corporation has been vaccinating those with severe disabilities in their homes if their movements are restricted. A day ago, the court directed the Tamil Nadu government to vaccinate people with mental illnesses, who are either destitute or are homebound, on priority by adopting methods used for vaccinating people with disabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-shot-be-refused-in-public-health-crisis-hc-101625077703308.html
01-07-2021||India||India asks EU members to accept Covishield, Covaxin||New Delhi: India has asked European Union (EU) member states to accept Covid-19 vaccines authorised by the World Health Organization (WHO) or national authorities, such as Covishield and Covaxin, for Indian nationals travelling to Europe, warning that it will follow a policy of reciprocity and exempt EU nationals possessing the “green pass” from mandatory quarantine only if the bloc does this, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday.The EU clarified on Tuesday that the green pass is not a precondition to travel and individual member states have the option to accept vaccines approved by WHO such as Covishield. The clarification came against the backdrop of speculation about the possible impact of the green pass on Indian nationals as the regime doesn’t include any of the vaccines currently being administered in India.The green pass framework is set to be in place from July 1 to facilitate free movement within the 27-member bloc during the Covid pandemic. Under this framework, persons vaccinated with four vaccines currently approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU.Also Read| SII applies for EU ‘green pass’ nod through UK partnerQuestions have arisen about Indian travellers to Europe facing problems as EMA has cleared Pfizer/BioNTech’s Comirnaty, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen , Spikevax or the Moderna vaccine, and Vaxzevria or the European version of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes Covishield or the Indian version of the AstraZeneca shot, is approaching EMA for its approval.“We have requested EU member states to individually consider extending exemption to travellers who have taken Covid-19 vaccines in India, such as Covishield and Covaxin, and to accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal,” said one of the people cited above.The genuineness of Indian vaccination certification can be authenticated on the CoWIN portal, the people said.India has also conveyed to EU member states that New Delhi will institute a reciprocal policy for recognising the EU Digital Covid Certificate.“Upon notification of Covishield and Covaxin for inclusion in the EU Digital Covid Certificate framework and recognition of Indian CoWIN vaccination certificates, Indian health authorities will reciprocally exempt travellers from the concerned EU member state carrying the green pass from mandatory quarantine,” the person said.External affairs minister S Jaishankar took up the issue of approving the Covishield vaccine for travel to Europe during a meeting on Tuesday with Josep Borell, the EU’s high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. The two leaders met on the margins of a meeting of the G20 foreign ministers in Italy.“A comprehensive review of our relationship with EUHR VP @JosepBorrellF. Taking forward the agenda of the Leaders’ Summit. Discussed vaccine production and access. Took up ‘Covishield’ authorisation for travel to Europe. Will be following up,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting.Also Read| Covid in India: 100 million doses of J&J vaccine likely to be procured from EUOn Tuesday, German ambassador Walter Lindner tweeted that his country recognises a double shot of Covishield as “valid proof of anti-Covid vaccination”. He added that this “does nevertheless not modify existing travel or visa restrictions for travellers from areas of concern/virus variants areas”.Covishield and Covaxin are the two main vaccines being used for India’s immunisation programme.The EU Digital COVID Certificate will serve as proof that a person was vaccinated, received a negative test result or recovered from Covid-19. Temporary restrictions on non-essential travel to the EU are currently in place from many countries, including India, due to the pandemic.EU member states are expected to gradually lift these restrictions at external borders as the pandemic fades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-eu-members-to-accept-covishield-covaxin-101625077644412.html
