06-07-2021||Other||Delhi Market associations push for joint teams to ensure adherence to Covid norms||New Delhi: Representatives of nearly 200 markets in the city participated in a video conference on Tuesday and collectively decided to approach the district administrations, police and civic agencies to set up joint action committees to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations – a move that comes in the light of crackdown of district administrations on markets over the last one week for violation of protocols.“In today’s (Tuesday) meeting, the traders observed that the responsibility of controlling the crowd outside shops in the markets should be the primary responsibility of authorities – district administration, municipal corporations and the police. While shop owners will ensure Covid-19 regulations in the premises of the enterprises, the joint action committees will be helpful in following regulations outside the shop premises. We will write to the police, MCDs, the L-G and the revenue department in this regard,” said Brijesh Goyal, president of the chamber of trade and industry (CTI) – a Delhi-based traders’ body which organised the online meeting of market associations.In the last seven days, the district administrations have ordered temporary suspension of markets in areas including Laxmi Nagar, a section in Gandhi Nagar, a pocket in Sadar Bazar, Nangloi, Punjabi Basti and the central market in Lajpat Nagar, for alleged violation of Covid-19 regulations such as social distancing and mask compliance.Vinay Narang, a trader leader from Kashmere Gate market, said: “A joint action committee comprising market association representatives, police, municipal officials, civil defence volunteers and enforcement officials is necessary at this stage. We have collectively decided to write to the concerned agencies at the earliest regarding this.”Nitin Gupta, president of Kamla Nagar market traders’ association, who also took part in Tuesday’s meeting, said, “It is time the authorities crack down on illegal encroachments instead of cracking down on market associations. If shop owners are found flouting rules, action should be taken against the particular shop, instead of closing an entire market.”Atul Bhargava, president of the Connaught Place market association, said, “Unauthorised street vendors and hawkers are increasing the size of the crowd in the markets. That is not in the hands of the power market associations to control.”However, representatives of street vendor associations countered this viewpoint. Arbind Singh, national coordinator of the National Association of Street Vendors of India, said, “Accountability in this case should be evidence-based and not prejudiced. Street vendors are often poor and end up being blamed for most problems. Secondly, they operate in the open, which is less risky in terms of Covid-19 transmission than closed spaces from which permanent shops operate. When there is a protocol for penalising for violation of Covid-19 regulations, there is no room for such blame games.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-market-associations-push-for-joint-teams-to-ensure-adherence-to-covid-norms-101625596156786.html
06-07-2021||Other||66 dairies, six dyeing units shut down in east Delhi||New Delhi: The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) shut down 66 dairies in east Delhi and sealed six jeans dyeing units in west Delhi’s Khyala industrial area in two separate raids, for violating environmental norms and polluting water bodies, officials said on Tuesday. DPCC officials confirmed on Tuesday that a joint team comprising members from DPCC, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) conducted inspections in Kondli and Gharoli villages, and in Gharoli dairy farms between June 4 and June 7, to find 66 dairies violating the Water Act and ignoring the “guidelines for environmental management of dairy farms and gaushalas’’ issued by the CPCB.These dairies have also been slapped with an environment compensation fee of ₹1 lakh each for operating without consent and discharging wastewater and cow dung into drains in the area. “The dairies have been issued closure notice and directed to deposit environmental compensation of ₹1 lakh within 15 days, failing which necessary action will be initiated against them as per law,” the DPCC said in a statement on Tuesday.Meanwhile, in a separate raid, DPCC also sealed six jeans washing and dyeing units in Kavi Nagar, near Khyala industrial area, for allegedly releasing chemicals into the water. Officials said that the DPCC, along with teams from the Delhi government’s revenue department and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), had conducted elaborate raids and shutdown at least 40 such units operating in the area in December last year. However, since the city reopened after the second phase of lockdown, the pollution monitoring department received a complaint that these units have restarted operations. “The raid was conducted based on a complaint that we received. The electricity connection was disconnected and the meter was confiscated. DPCC shall also impose environmental damage compensation on these violating units. The drive will continue for the coming days to ensure that all water-polluting units are removed from this area,” DPCC said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/66-dairies-six-dyeing-units-shut-down-in-east-delhi-101625596156203.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 12-year-old boy killed, 4 others injured after a wall collapses on them||A 12-year-old boy was killed and four other children, including two girls, were injured after a truck crashed into a boundary wall that then collapsed on the children while they were playing near the Rangpuri camp in Vasant Kunj on Monday evening. The driver of the truck, identified as Mukesh (single name), was arrested on Tuesday and the truck seized, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said on Monday, around 8pm, the Vasant Kunj South police station received information that a tipper truck had hit a wall near Rangpuri Camp and some children were trapped under the debris. A police team reached the spot and learnt that five children were rescued and rushed to a nearby hospital.“One of them, identified as Joginder, was declared brought to the hospital. The other four children, aged between four and 10 years, suffered injuries and fractures. A case of death by negligence and rash driving was registered. The errant driver had fled the mishap spot but was later caught from Alwar in Rajasthan,” said DCP Singh.Police said during questioning, the driver told them that the truck was ferrying mud and construction debris for dumping. After dumping the debris, the truck returning to the main road when it hit the old boundary wall of a plot. The wall collapsed and fell on the five children who were playing nearby, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-12-year-old-boy-killed-4-others-injured-after-a-wall-collapses-on-them-101625596155625.html
06-07-2021||Other||HC gives Delhi Police two weeks to conclude inquiry in riots charge sheet leak matter||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted two more weeks to Delhi police to undertake a “comprehensive inquiry” into the leakage of contents of the charge sheet and supplementary charge sheet filed in case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi last year, to the media even before cognisance was taken by the court.Jamia Millia Islamia student and riots accsued Asif Iqbal Tanha approached the high court last year, alleging misconduct by police officials in leaking his alleged disclosure statement in the main charge sheet, recorded by the probe agency during the investigation, to the media.Pulling up the Delhi Police for the delay in the inquiry, Justice Mukta Gupta asked how much time the Delhi police will take to complete the probe while remarking that “one institution which keeps moving even during a lockdown is the police department”.To this, special public prosecutor (SPP) Rajat Nair said that the agency (police) was burdened with additional duties. Nair added that although notice was issued to parties concerned for the purposes of the inquiry, it could not be concluded on account of Covid lockdown.SPP Nair sought two more weeks’ from the court to file the inquiry report which was granted by the court .Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, representing Tanha, told the court that while an additional affidavit on a subsequent leak with respect to a supplementary charge sheet was filed, response from the State was not on record.The judge proceeded to record SPP’s submission that “a comprehensive inquiry on the leakage of the contents of the charge sheet and the supplementary charge sheet is underway and is likely to be concluded within two weeks”, and listed the matter for hearing on August 5.Tanha, who was arrested in May 2020, was recently released from jail after the high court granted him bail.The police have alleged that Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, was a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-gives-delhi-police-two-weeks-to-conclude-inquiry-in-riots-charge-sheet-leak-matter-101625596096861.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Noida gets its first microbrewery two years after state nod||NOIDA Noida’s first microbrewery has become functional at a restaurant in Sector 63, two years after the Uttar Pradesh government gave its nod to hotels, pubs and resorts to set up microbreweries in order to boost tourism and employment opportunities in the state.Now, people across Noida, Delhi and Gurugram will have local microbreweries. According to the revised excise policy that the Delhi government has put in the public domain recently, microbreweries has been incentivised with the restaurants installing them to be allowed to supply draught beer to bars and also provide takeaway services.Gurugram already has several microbreweries. A microbrewery is a small unit that produces limited quantities of beer for captive consumption. Rajinder Rawat, general manager of the Yellow Chilli restaurant, where the microbrewery was set up, said they applied for a licence in September 2019. “In 2020, due to coronavirus pandemic the application process was delayed. We received the final approval in March 31, 2021. We set up the microbrewery at the ground floor of the restaurant and now the freshly brewed beer is supplied through a pipe to the first floor dining hall,” Rawat said. Himanshu Bhakuni, bar manager, said the restaurant attracts customers from Noida as well as from Indirapuram and Vaishali in Ghaziabad. RB Singh, district excise officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “We have also received applications from two restaurants in Garden Galleria mall. The licences will be issued on completion of all formalities of the procedure,” he said. The annual licence fee for setting up a microbrewery in Noida has been fixed at ₹2.5 lakh. Gautam Budh Nagar records a monthly consumption of 15 lakh bottles of beer and 7 lakh litres of foreign liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gets-its-first-microbrewery-two-years-after-state-nod-101625596095615.html
06-07-2021||Other||Farmhouse drug bust: Afghan man gave Aadhaar card for registering rent agreement||New Delhi: The Punjab Police are investigating an Afghan man who leased a farmhouse in Sainik Farms where a heroin-manufacturing unit was busted on Sunday, and four people were arrested during a raid by the state police, officers privy to the probe said on Tuesday.The officers said Najibullah Khalid, the man who rented the farmhouse, submitted a copy of his Aadhaar card when the rent agreement was signed between him and the owner of the property, Pravesh Kumar alias Bobby. The Aadhaar card, a copy of which is with HT, was prepared on a Neb Sarai address. Bobby, and Ganesh Kumar, the property dealer who got the deal fixed, said they have submitted the copy of Khalid’s Aadhaar card to the Neb Sarai police. They have told the police that Khalid introduced himself to them as an Indian citizen, who is involved in the supply and sale of dates. The rent agreement was prepared last month and the four arrested men began staying in the farmhouse around June 26-27, the investigators said.“We are carrying out another operation to nab more drug dealers associated with the syndicate. As far as investigation regarding the Aadhar card and other documentation regarding the rented farmhouse is concerned, we will investigate everything once we complete our operation,” said Tushar Gupta, ASP Garhshankar police (in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur), who led the raiding party during the crackdown on the farmhouse.On Sunday, around 5pm, a Punjab Police team raided the farmhouse number 227, in Sainik Farms and arrested four Afghans for running a heroin-manufacturing unit there. A total of 17 kilogram heroin, assorted chemicals, acids and lab equipments were seized from the farmhouse.The raiding team caught Khalid when he reached the farmhouse to meet his alleged accomplices. The raiding team took Khalid with them for questioning, as the farmhouse was taken on rent in his name. He is yet to be arrested, said a Punjab Police officer, who asked not to be named. “Khalid came to me with the reference of a property dealer in Malviya Nagar, who helped him purchase a flat in Neb Sarai. The Aadhaar card that Khalid gave us for preparing the rent agreement of the farmhouse has the address of the same flat. Khalid told me that he sold that property and wanted to move into a farmhouse with his wife, whom he introduced as an Indian citizen,” said Ganesh. According to Ganesh, the farmhouse leased on a monthly rent of ₹1.6 lakh and Khalid paid ₹4.80 lakh as advance rent and two months of security money. “As a property dealer, I followed all the procedures while renting out the property. Apart from the rent agreement, I also applied online for the tenant’s verification,” he said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (south), Delhi Police, Mandava Harsh Vardhan said a case under Indian Penal Code’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) has been registered at the Neb Sarai police station against the farmhouse owner for not getting the tenant verified from the police. Asked if Khalid could have prepared a fake Aadhaar card for obtaining the farmhouse on rent, the additional DCP said, “We will look into all the aspects pertaining to the case that we have registered.”Another police officer, requesting to remain anonymous, said holding an Aadhaar card means that the card holder is residing in India. But, according to the Aadhaar Act, 2016, even a foreigner who has stayed in India for more than 182 days is eligible to apply for an Aadhaar card.“Khalid has told the police that he was staying in India as an Afghan refugee for the past six years. This information has to be verified, before we find out how he got an Aadhaar card,” the officer added.About the case and the charges against him, Bobby said he did not violate any law because the tenants never told him that they were foreigners. “I would have never rented out my property or had alerted the concerned agencies, if I knew that the tenants were foreigners. Being a responsible citizen, I will cooperate with the police in their investigation,” said Bobby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmhouse-drug-bust-afghan-man-gave-aadhaar-card-for-registering-rent-agreement-101625596096258.html
06-07-2021||Other||AAP alleges corruption by MCDs in building construction||New Delhi: Citing a purported conversation between BJP MLA Anil Bajpai and an east municipal corporation engineer, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday said that the BJP leader has exposed alleged corruption, with “only those who give money to the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD) being allowed to construct buildings in the city”.Addressing a press conference, Bhardwaj, who is the MLA from Greater Kailash, alleged that MCD officials are taking ₹10-15 lakh for each building in his constituency. “Today we have a live audio recording of Anil Bajpai, BJP MLA from Gandhi Nagar Assembly constituency in conversation with a building department officer of the east MCD. They are talking about stopping the demolition of a building. Bajpai is asking the MCD engineer to stop his JE (junior engineer) from demolishing a particular building. When the engineer replies that the demolition took place on the complaint of the mayor, the MLA, exposing the Delhi BJP, pointed out that he has not demolished other illegal and unauthorised constructions under the mayor’s protection. This way, the BJP MLA has confessed about rampant corruption in MCD. He said the BJP-ruled MCD doesn’t demolish the buildings where it gets bribe. Dozens of such buildings were left untouched,” Bhardwaj said.Meanwhile, Bajpai said he was just trying to help a poor family which was about to lose their home: “I did or said nothing wrong. If houses are being demolished, then every such unauthorised construction should also be demolished. Why selectively target the poor?”EDMC mayor Shyam Sundar Agrawal too denied the allegations as “baseless”. “If this is the case I would request the AAP to show where it has happened and we will surely take action if anyone is found guilty. There are many wards under AAP councillors where people neither pay the taxes nor get their house maps approved. There are many 25-30-metre houses for which we have never received the drawings from owners to be approved by the civic body. I have even sent a suggestion for the new Master Plan in the making to make a provision for all houses to be built as per approved design,” said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-alleges-corruption-by-mcds-in-building-construction-101625596036263.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Noida takes first step to resolving Abadi issue||Following orders from the Uttar Pradesh government, the Noida Authority on Tuesday has started a process to resolve the longstanding Abadi resettlement issues of farmers and acquire land for development. “We have made a timeline for villages so that the issues can be solved. Farmers can ready their documents and settle the issues,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.Abadi lands are habitation areas in villages. But what is termed habitation area by farmers is referred to as encroachment by the authority that wants to acquire it for development.As per the Abadi guidelines brought out by the government, if the habitation has been around before 2011, then the authority will not acquire it and leave it for farmers’ use.Officials hope to complete the formalities by July 17.On Tuesday a team from the authority conducted surveys in Jhatta, Raipur Khadar and Bahlolpur villages.So far 18 farmers of 18 villages including Nagli Wazidpur, Raipur, Agahpur, Kakrala, Hazipur, Harola and Chhaproli among others have filed applications to settle issues.“Other village farmers can file applications to settle issues. They should submit an application, affidavit and other land details to process their applications,” said Maheshwari.Farmers said that the survey should be conducted properly.“The authority should conduct survey in a manner so that farmers get justice and the applications should be solved without further delay,” said Subash Singh a Nagli farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-takes-first-step-to-resolving-abadi-issue-101625596035622.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Jewar airport: GB Nagar ADM meets farmers to resolve compensation issues||GREATER NOIDA The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Tuesday assured farmers of two villagesthat it would pay them the compensation for land acquired for the upcoming international airport in Jewar soon. “Around 150 farmers wanted the money before their houses were demolished. We assured them that the payment will be done in the next two to three days,” said additional district magistrate (ADM) Diwarkar Singh.The airport project would entail the demolition of around 3,000 houses in the villages of Ranhera, Rohi, Parohi, Nagla Chhitar, Nagla Ganeshi, Nagla Shareef and Kishorpur.“The houses in all the villages that fall under the project area were demolished, except for 150 houses in Nagla Chhitar and Nagla Shareef. We are working to get funds approved so that we may pay the farmers’ the compensation amount,” said Singh. The families are being rehabilitated to an Airport Township in Jewar Bangar that the Gautam Budh Nagar administration and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority are building. Work on the airport project is scheduled to begin in 2022.According to the Gautam Budh Nagar administration’s latest report, some 2,850 families have given their permission for the demolition drive. “Most have moved to rented accommodations in nearby villages as per their convenience; some have moved to the Airport Township,” said Singh.Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (ACS) Arvind Kumar fixed a deadline of July 15 to shift all farmers to the Airport Township.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-airport-gb-nagar-adm-meets-farmers-to-resolve-compensation-issues-101625595976854.html
06-07-2021||Other||NCRTC ropes in experts to study impact of underground rail corridor on Delhi zoo||New Delhi: The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has roped in experts to study the impact of an underground rapid rail transit corridor that is proposed to pass through the Delhi zoo on the vibration levels in the park, to ensure that animals are not disturbed during the construction of the line and operation of trains. Close to 800 metres of the 107km-long Delhi-SNB Urban complex (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror) Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor, which is part of the Delhi-Alwar RRTS line, will pass through the Delhi Zoological Park at a depth of 80 feet, as per the alignment proposed in the detailed project report. The alignment is yet to be approved by the central government. The NCRTC has asked experts from the Central Road Research Institute (CSIR-CRRI) to do an assessment to gauge the impact of the vibration caused by the trains running underground as well as the construction work.“The stretch below the Delhi zoo will be constructed at a depth of around 80 feet. CRRI will carry out the vibration study in zoo premises after minimisation of Covid impact to establish the current baseline data for vibrations,” a spokesperson for NCRTC said The Delhi-SNB corridor, along with the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut line will provide seamless connectivity in the national capital region by linking cities in the Capital’s east -- Ghazibad and Meerut, to those in south -- Gurugram and Alwar. In Delhi, both corridors will originate from Sarai Kale Khan in south east Delhi. These corridors will also connect all these cities to All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Safdarjung, one of country’s biggest hospitals. Of the total 107 kilometres, 83kms of the Delhi-SNB corridor will be constructed in Haryana, 22 kms in Delhi and 2 kms in Rajasthan. While the corridor in Haryana and Rajasthan will be mostly elevated, it will be completely underground in Delhi. Except for Sarai Kale Khan station, the remaining three stations at INA, Munirka and Aerocity will be underground. Nasim Akhtar, senior principal scientist at transportation planning and environment division, CSIR-CRRI, said, “We will study the current ambient vibration levels in the zoo, both during day and night, and will ensure that they do not exceed the present levels during the construction and operation of the RRTS line.”Akhtar said the first part of the study was done last year before the lockdown to record the day time ambient vibration levels. But the study had to be stopped after a lockdown was imposed again in April this year in view of an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases. Even though a gradual unlock process has begun, the government is yet to reopen the zoological park.  “The day time ambient vibration levels in the zoo is around 75-76 VdB. The vibrations are caused by a railway track nearby, and the movement of vehicles inside the premises. But we couldn’t do the study at night due to the lockdown. We will do the remaining part of the study once the zoo reopens,” he said.When contacted, a senior Delhi zoo official said, “The matter was discussed last year. As of now, no permission has been given to carry out the study, as the zoo is closed due to the pandemic.”Stressing on the need for night time study, Akhtar said, “The train operations will continue till late at night. The ambient vibration levels at night are much less than day time; we don’t want animals and birds’ sleep patterns to get disturbed because of train movement. Our recommendation regarding vibration control to NCRTC will be based on the vibration levels at night time.”The NCRTC spokesperson said that it will be ensured that there is minimal impact of the train movement on the ground level. “The proposed tunnel is very deep in this zone and NCRTC is going to use special track structure to mitigate vibration,” he said.Akhtar said there are a several technologies which can be incorporated during construction to minimise vibration. “According to the soil report from the area, there is sand filling till 17-20 metres depth. This is a good thing, as the vibration will get absorbed. If the night time level is less than 70 VdB, then we might recommend NCRTC to use technology such as a floating chamber to kill vibration at source.”Anish Andheria, CEO of Wildlife Conservation Trust, said animals are far more sensitive to vibrations than humans, and if an alternate alignment of the corridor is possible, then it should be considered. He said if the current alignment is allowed, it should be ensured that there is minimal disturbance to the animals, especially during construction. “The executing agency should put in the public domain the technology they plan to use to minimise vibration impact from the perspective of animals. They should also look at similar projects carried out in other parts of the world to ensure that the most effective technology is deployed,” Andheria said.While the Centre’s approval is awaited, NCRTC has started pre-construction work. “We are working on preparing the detailed designing of structures, geo-technical investigation work, initial pile load test, topographic survey work, shifting of utilities such as electric high-tension lines, water and sewer pipelines etc,” the NCRTC spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncrtc-ropes-in-experts-to-study-impact-of-underground-rail-corridor-on-delhi-zoo-101625595975605.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Master Plan-2031 promises more residential land||In the upcoming Master Plan-2031 for Ghaziabad, around 95 hectares more will be made available for residential purposes as the city population is expected to grow by at least 1 million in the next 10 years, said officials.The new residential areas will be carved out of agricultural land and so too will be land for industrial and commercial purposes.According to the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), the plan is in its advances stage of preparation and will soon be sent to the state government for approvals. Master Plan-2021 will lapse next year.The projections in the new Master Plan are that about 10-15 hectares each of residential land will be made available in the area plans for Modinagar, Muradnagar and Loni, while about 50 hectares will be made available for Ghaziabad city. “In all, we will have about 90-95 hectares of residential land available for group housing or plotted development and most of this land will be converted from agriculture land use. Ancillary activities like commercial and industrial will also be earmarked from the agriculture land use. The MP-2031 is more or less ready and will be implemented from 2022 to 2031. We expect a growth of about 1 million more people in the next 10 years,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, chief architect and town planner of GDA. Ghaziabad’s population currently is around 4.5 million. A master plan is a broad layout of a city and clearly lays out different areas as per their land use like residential, commercial and industrial among others. The new plan takes advantage of the geographic information system framework to analyse spatial location and all details will be made available online.As per officials, about 42% of total land use in a master plan for the city will have to be marked for residential use, while 5% would be for commercial land use and 7-8% is earmarked for industrial land use. “The housing development will either be taken up by GDA or by private sector. Once the land use is defined, it will also be accompanied by infrastructure development like roads, highways, etc.,” Shivpuri added. The officials expect that with projects like the regional rapid transit system (RRTS), Delhi-Meerut Expressway, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and Delhi-Dehradun highway, the city will attract more homebuyers. Developers said that new areas have huge potential for housing development as places like Indirapuram and Vaishali are almost saturated. “Areas like Muradnagar and Modinagar did not see much development due to connectivity and infrastructure issues. However, with the new projects coming up, this may be solved to a great extent. If the government can provide us with basic infrastructure like connecting roads, sewer network, electricity infrastructure, etc, developers will be more than willing to take up planned housing development in new areas,” said Gaurav Gupta, president of CREDAI – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-master-plan-2031-promises-more-residential-land-101625595915652.html
06-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar residents fret over ‘complex’ process for vaccination of those undertaking foreign travel||Several Gautam Budh Nagar residents have described the process to get the second Covishield dose on priority for those undertaking foreign travel as “highly complicated” with multiple trips to the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office in Sector 39 both before and after the vaccination administered at the Sector 30 District Hospital.Last month, the central government had allowed those travelling to other countries - Olympic athletes and those going for study or for jobs- to get their second Covishield dose after just four weeks of the first dose, same as that for Covaxin, instead of the regular 12-to-16 week gap. Gautam Budh Nagar started this facility on June 16.“First, an application has to be submitted to the CMO office (Room no 1, Block no 2) along with a copy of the passport, copy of first dose vaccination certificate and a proof of travel with reason. The above documents can be collected with authorisation letter for the vaccine on the next working day and get the vaccination at the Sector 30 District Hospital at 2 pm. After the vaccination, they need to come back to the CMO office with all documents for certificate attestation,” said CMO Dr Deepak Ohri.Although it may seem that the process will get over in two days, practically it is longer, said several people.“When we went to the CMO office the day after submitting the documents, we were told to come the next day again. On the third day, we finally got the approved documents and proceeded to the District Hospital. There we were told to get a photocopy of all the documents. We had to go outside the hospital to get the copies and then get the vaccine,” said Sector 50 resident Rahul Dwivedi whose daughter had to leave for the USA to resume college. “Then we had to wait for around two hours to get the vaccine and then go to the CMO office again. This to and fro is a hassle.”Sector 45 resident Mandhata Singh’s daughter too had to leave for the USA for her education and they too had a similar experience.“The whole process should be at one stop centre so that residents do not have to run from one place to another. If the document approval and vaccine administration process is all done at one place, it will be convenient for the beneficiaries,” said Singh.Rajiva Singh, president of the Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations suggested that the district follow the Delhi model. “In Delhi, there is a separate vaccination centre where the documents are checked and vaccines administered,” said Singh. The two centres in Delhi are the Navyug School in Mandir Marg and the Kautilya Government Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya at Chirag Enclave.According to CMO Dr Ohri, so far around 250 people have been vaccinated on priority this way.“In one day only around 25 beneficiaries undertaking foreign travel are being given second dose of vaccine and creating a special centre for them is not feasible. Moreover, no such issue has been formally raised to the department so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-residents-fret-over-complex-process-for-vaccination-of-those-undertaking-foreign-travel-101625595855621.html
06-07-2021||Other||Heritage areas, buildings to be remodelled in Ayodhya||Lucknow: The Ayodhya Development Authority is planning to remodel heritage locations and buildings in the temple town on the pattern of temple architecture. Under this initiative, the façade and outer walls of buildings will be remodelled on the pattern of temples. This remodelling will give tourists a feeling of arriving in an ancient city. Locations around prominent temples in Ayodhya have been selected for this make-over. According to ADA officials, this concept is part of the vision document prepared by the international consultant LEA Associates, South Asia Private Limited, hired by the state government. The ADA is also assisting the consultant. Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects are assisting the international consultant in executing the project.The development authority has carried out survey of Dharmhari, Swargdwar, Ramkot, Hanuman Garhi, Kanak Bhawan and other locations for this project. “Possibilities are being explored to remodel these areas giving them a spiritual look,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, Ayodhya’s BJP MLA. The focus will not remain only on areas adjoining Ram Janmabhoomi and the road leading to the Ram Mandir but also on other historic locations. For this project, the ADA also needs support of saints of Ayodhya and locals, as the remodelling will require some demolition. The Ayodhya administration will also carry out documentation of prominent temples of Ayodhya so that their details may be shared with devotees. While reviewing Ayodhya’s vision document on June 26 in a virtual meeting with CM Yogi Adityanath, PM Narendra Modi had stated that Ayodhya was being envisaged as a spiritual centre, global tourism hub and a sustainable smart city. In this meeting, CM Yogi Adityanath apprised the Prime Minister about various upcoming and proposed infrastructure projects, including the Ayodhya international airport, expansion of the railway station, bus station, roads and highway projects which are part of the overall development plan of the temple town. A tourist facilitation centre and a world-class museum will also be constructed in Ayodhya. Box ========= Development plan Ayodhya main road, the road leading to Ram temple, Panchkoshi parikrama, Ayodhya green field township, gates at all entry points of the city, rest-houses for devotees at entry points, Shri Ram International Airport, tourist centre, international museum, Saryu river front, renovation of five water bodies, integrated traffic management system, multi-level car parking, scheme for rehabilitation of animals, ring road and plantation of trees of Ramayan era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heritage-areas-buildings-to-be-remodelled-in-ayodhya-101625595675664.html
06-07-2021||Other||Bhagwat in Chitrakoot for brain storming camp||KANPUR: Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived in Chitrakoot on a seven-day visit on Tuesday morning. He came two days in advance of the five-day long Rashtriiya Chintan Shivir or brain storming camp being held ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh scheduled next year. RSS office bearers and workers gave a rousing welcome to Bhagwat who reached Karvi by Manikpur special festival train on Tuesday morning. He left for Deendayal Research Institute, Arogyadham in Madhya Pradesh side of Chitrakoot in Satna district. He visited the ghats of Mandakini river in which he took a dip, and met a number of sadhus who had gathered to meet him. His meeting with Jagadguru Rambhadracharya could not materialize on Tuesday at Tulsi Peethadheeshwar Ashram. Sources said Bhagwat would call on the sage sometime during his stay. Bhagwat would stay at Arogyadham till July 13 when the five-day long Chintan shivir starting from July 8 comes to an end. The shivir would be attended by the top leaders of the organization in person or virtually to deliberate on various issues. Some 40 leaders, including second in command Dattatreya Hosbole, would be staying at DRI, Arogyadham. In this five-day meet, Bhagwat along with other leaders, would catch the pulse of the assembly elections. Apart from works done by RSS during the year, the top leaders are likely to assess the performance of UP as well as the MP governments. UP would go to polls in February-March next year. Bhagwat would hold a series of meetings with the regional pracharaks on July 9 and July 10. He would connect virtually with the region level leaders for two days on July 10 and July 11. He would leave Chitrakoot on July 13 evening. During the day after Bhagwat’s arrival, the prant pracharaks and political experts met and discussed the UP and MP governments. The 20 office -bearers of the Sangh’s Mahakaushal and Bundelkhand-Kanpur region held the meeting in Vasundhara Cottage. “The coordination between Sangh and ruling party leaders, the benefits of government schemes reaching the masses were deliberated upon; the office -bearers will discuss threadbare the forthcoming plans of the Sangh at the Chintan Shivir,” said a source. Earlier, Bhagwat paid rich tributes to Deen Dayal Upadhyaya and said the country and Sangh would benefit only by following the path shown by Upadhyaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhagwat-in-chitrakoot-for-brain-storming-camp-101625595375571.html
06-07-2021||Other||Vegetable prices in city have up by 30% as transporters blame rising fuel costs||PUNE The prices of vegetables in the city have increased by 30% over the past few days, with vendors attributing the spike to the rising costs of diesel and petrol. Diesel in Pune crossed the ₹95 per litre mark on Sunday. According to traders’ associations, the fuel price rise along with factors like lockdown restrictions is creating an increased demand for vegetables, resulting in a supply shortage. The price of edible oil too has increased by between ₹30-40 per litre.Tomatoes are currently selling at ₹60 per kg, drumsticks at ₹40 per kg, green peas at ₹70, brinjal at ₹25 and potato at ₹20, all per kg. Vilas Bhujal, president of the Pune Commission Agents Association, said, “The fuel price increase has led to the increase in wholesale prices of many vegetables. Potatoes, which cost Rs10 per kg in wholesale a week ago, are now being sold at ₹20 and even higher. The price of onions has increased from ₹20, to ₹30 per kg, in the wholesale market. Transportation costs are rising due to the high diesel prices. Similarly, rains have also slowed down supply last month. With the state government imposing fresh restrictions , there has been a spurt in vegetable demand leading to shortage of vegetable supply during last few days. It is the citizens who will have to bear the brunt of the price rise.” Vegetable trader Sandeep Darekar said, “Most of the vegetable crop was destroyed due to the pre-monsson rains and there has been shortage of vegetable supply in the market. The lockdown restrictions have also increased our difficulties leading to price rises.”Pune gets vegetables come from districts like Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar and Solapur. Supplies also come from Himalchal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sabha, said, “The price rise was a foregone conclusion doe the increase in fuel cost. There has been an increase in the prices of all commodities including vegetables.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vegetable-prices-in-city-have-up-by-30-as-transporters-blame-rising-fuel-costs-101625595136380.html
06-07-2021||Other||11% of Pune district’s eligible adult population fully vaccinated||PUNE As of Tuesday, July 6, only 11% of Pune district’s eligible adult population have been fully vaccinated, taking both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Experts have suggested that it is important to ensure full vaccination to avoid a severe third wave or even stronger Covid-19 variants. The data also showed that senior citizens, aged above 60 years, were the first from the general population to become eligible for Covid-19 vaccination, and close to 50% of this vulnerable population has got the jab.Of the district’s entire population of 11,748,636, 74.4% or 8,742,160 are eligible to get the jab. Of these 198,295 are registered health care workers and 269,811 are registered front-line workers. In addition to this, from the general population, 5,217,569 are from the age group 18-45, of which 34,906 have got the second shot, 2,362,651 are from the 45-60-year age group which forms 20.11% of the district population, of which 333,370 have got both doses; and of the 1,161,940 people from the above 60 years of age, only 406,335 have got both doses. With more age groups and categories being declared as eligible for the vaccine, the gap between two doses has been increased from an initial four weeks to 12 week now. While shortage of vaccine supply has been one of the reasons to extend the gap between doses, less than 50% of the 60-plus age group which was first declared eligible among the general population has got both the doses. The vaccination drive for 18 plus was started since May 1 in the state, while for senior citizens the drive began from March 1. The pace of vaccination for the senior citizens which was high in the first few weeks became sluggish. Most senior citizens who got the first shot since March, became eligible for the second shot in May. In April the city saw its second deadly covid19 wave, more severe than the first wave, most beneficiaries did not step out while some of the elderly population who got infected after the first shot, or did not take the first shot in March, would now be eligible only after three months of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-of-pune-district-s-eligible-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-101625595135633.html
06-07-2021||Other||Offline classes in PMC limits receive lukewarm response from students||PUNE Offline lessons allowed in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits from last week, have been receiving a lukewarm response from students who had enrolled for these batches in February. According to coaching class operators, the physical attendance of students is less than expected, prompting them to put new batches on hold. “Many coaching classes haven’t started planning fresh batches yet. We are continuing the batch which started in February,” said Ranjan Kolambe, president, Competitive Exam Teacher’s Association. Mahesh Gharbude, a competitive exam aspirant said, “Many students have not returned from their native places, and vaccine shortages are impacting the study plans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/offline-classes-in-pmc-limits-receive-lukewarm-response-from-students-101625595077653.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Panel probing complaints from patients orders action against two Noida hospitals||The pandemic public grievance committee (PPGC), set up in Gautam Budh Nagar to address complaints against health-care facilities, on Tuesday ordered action against two private hospitals -- for overcharging a patient and, in the second case, over medical negligence. While the hospital that was found to have overcharged a patient has been asked to refund over ₹3 lakh to the patient’s family, the other has been directed to take action against its paramedics for medical negligence, the committee president said. The committee was set up on May 21 this year after the Allahabad high court, on May 11, directed the Uttar Pradesh government to set up a three-member committee in each district to look into complaints regarding difficulties faced by the public in availing of Covid treatment at government and private hospitals.Civil judge Sushil Kumar, who was appointed the president of the committee in Guatam Budh Nagar, said the committee heard over 30 complaints over the past one month.“The maximum number of complaints -- 17 -- was regarding overcharging for HRCT scan ( a technique to get cross-sectional images of organs such as lungs) by various hospitals and labs in the district after the government capped its price at ₹2,500. Such cases were resolved immediately and the establishments concerned were ordered to refund the excess amount. Now, only seven complaints are pending which will be heard soon,” he said.He further said the committee has not received any new complaint in the past one week.Asked about the two hospitals against which action has been ordered, Kumar said the committee had received a complaint of overcharging against Yatharth Hospital in Greater Noida . “On June 28, a meeting of PPGC was convened to look into a complaint in which a man had alleged that Yatharth Hospital overcharged him for the Covid-19 treatment of his father who was admitted to the hospital on April 15 and discharged on May 7. The complainant’s father died three days later on May 10,” Kumar said.The hospital charged ₹8 lakh for the 22-day stay at the hospital, which was ₹3.39 lakh more as per the rates fixed by the state government, Kumar said. “The committee asked the hospital to refund the excess amount of ₹3.39 lakh to the complainant within 10 days. If the hospital fails to do so, action will be taken against it as per the rules of the Epidemic Act,” said Kumar.When asked, Dr Sunil Balyan, chief medical superintendent at Yatharth Hospital, said the hospital will comply with the orders issued by the committee.In another case heard by the committee, a complainant alleged that her husband died at Kailash Hospital in Sector 71 due to the medical negligence of its staff.“The complainant alleged that on the night of May 17, the paramedics removed her husband’s oxygen mask and told him ‘now you die’. The patient’s wife had complained regarding this to the hospital authorities, including the medical superintendent,” said Kumar.“The arguments of the hospital and the complainant were heard by the committee on June 28. We found that the two paramedics on duty on the night of May 17-18 led to the patient’s death and they were guilty of medical negligence,” said Kumar.Consequently, the committee ordered that the hospital management take action against the two paramedics within a weekand also inform the panel about the action taken by it.However, the authorities of Kailash Hospital said no such order has been sent to the hospital yet. “We did take part in the hearing, but we have not received any order as yet,” said Dr Rajesh Parasher, medical superintendent at Kailash Hospital, Sector 71.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/panel-probing-complaints-from-patients-orders-action-against-two-noida-hospitals-101625595076244.html
06-07-2021||Other||Pet therapy to help deal with Covid grief||PUE While the second wave of the Covid pandemic is on the wane, it has left behind feelings of grief, uncertainty and loss of hope for many. Swakaya, a holistic healing and wellness centre which opened its doors in the city on Saturday, aims to help people deal with such negative emotions with its pet therapy. Cats, dogs and rabbits play the role of furry healers. This centre, started by Lipi Khemka, offers various therapies and healing solutions.The pets help people recover from, or cope with health problems such as heart disease, depression, cancer and mental health disorders. “At this centre we have seven dogs, ten cats and seven rabbits to help assist patients. The centre has tied up with Animal Angels to assist it with the same. All the animals are trained to help human beings and they go through a year’s training before being introduced to assist patients. The treatments can be offered to children, teenagers and senior citizens and our sessions start from Rs400 per hour,” said Khemka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pet-therapy-to-help-deal-with-covid-grief-101625595075510.html
06-07-2021||Other||Kannada Sahitya Parishad launches Pune branch to promote language, literature||The Kannada Sahitya Parishad, established in Bengaluru in 1915, with an aim to promote and disseminate Kannada language and literature, has now launched its branch in Pune. The branch was inaugurated online by Dr Manu Baligar, president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishad and Basavaraj Masuti, president of the Maharashtra division. Malati S Kalmadi, honorary secretary of Kannada Sangh, Pune, will be the president of the Pune District branch of the parishad.The Pune branch will include Pune district, Ambegaon and Haveli taluka.The responsibility of Pune district and Ambegaon taluka will be undertaken by Kannada Sangha Pune, while the Karnataka Sangha team will be handling Haveli taluka.“With the launch of this branch, Kannada literature will be made available to the Kannada speaking citizens of Pune district and surrounding areas and there will be a feast of events related to Kannada literature and culture. Thereby, the promotion and dissemination of Kannada language and literature will get more impetus. In the near future, a number of cultural events, conventions and conferences will be organised under this newly established branch,” said Kalmadi.The functionaries of the divisions of the branch were also announced at the event. At Pune District, Malati S Kalmadi will be the president, while Jyothi Kadkhol and Nandini Rao Gujar will be the secretaries. For Ambegaon taluka, Balajit Shetty has been elected as president, while Pushpa Hegde and Chandrakant Harkude will be secretaries. At Haveli taluka, Krishna Mamdapur will be president, while Lata Kulkarni and Swati Dhole will be secretaries. Along with several districts in Karnataka, Kannada Sahitya Parishad now has branches in Pune, Mumbai, Solapur and Ambernath in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kannada-sahitya-parishad-launches-pune-branch-to-promote-language-literature-101625595017662.html
06-07-2021||Other||77.2 mm of rainfall in 40 minutes in Pashan on Tuesday||PUNE Pashan, on Tuesday, reported 77.2 millimetres (mm) of rainfall in a span of 40 minutes on Tuesday evening. However, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon reported no rainfall on Tuesday. Shivajinagar, on Tuesday, reported a maximum temperature of 31.6 degrees Celsius, 2.6 degrees Celsius warmer than normal. Also, Lohegaon reported a maximum temperature of 33.5 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degrees warmer than normal.As per IMD, the southwest monsoon is likely to revive by July 10. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department at IMD Pune, said that the rainfall event in Pashan was not a cloud burst.“A cloudburst event is when 10cm or more rainfall is reported in an hour. However, rainfall in the Pashan area was in line with the forecast by IMD, which stated that light rainfall is expected with thunderstorm and lightning activity,” said Kashyapi.He added that Pune is likely to see light rainfall with partly cloudy skies in the coming days as well till July 9.“Along with rainfall in Pune, there is rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning activity likely in Marathwada, Madhya (central) Maharashtra and Vidarbha, along with thunderstorms and lightning till July 8. Whereas in Konkan and Goa, isolated heavy rainfall is likely,” said Kashyapi.On Tuesday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was 39.3 degrees Celsius at Akola and lowest minimum temperature reported was 18.8 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.The northern Limit of Southwest Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar as per IMD. “The moist easterly winds in lower level from Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. It is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. Accordingly, Southwest Monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/772-mm-of-rainfall-in-40-minutes-in-pashan-on-tuesday-101625595017037.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Three persons arrested for running illegal call centre||Noida: Three persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly running an illegal call centre from a flat in Greater Noida West and duping a number of the US citizens by impersonating employees of a leading e-commerce company.The suspects were identified as Rajiv Kumar, 26, a resident of Bikaner in Rajasthan; Sachin, 25, a resident of Mahipalpur in Delhi; and Abhishek Jha, 25, a resident of Madhubani in Bihar. They were presently operating from a flat in Gaur City, police said.Ankur Agarwal, additional DCP, Noida Central, said that the crime branch and the Bisrakh police received information about an illegal call centre being operated from a flat. “The police team on Tuesday conducted a raid and arrested the three persons,” he said. The police recovered three laptops, three smartphones, some debit cards and PAN cards, about ₹66,000 in cash and an SUV, Tata Harrier, from their possession. Agarwal said that the suspects had worked in some call centres in Gurugram two years ago. “Later, they quit the job and started a fake call centre from a rented flat. These suspects mostly targeted foreign people. We have found the calling numbers which shows the victims were from the US. These suspects used to identify themselves as representatives of some reputed company and offered discounts on products. Once a person was convinced, they used to seek people’s debit/credit card details and then fraudulently withdraw money from their accounts,” he said. Baljeet Singh, inspector at the cyber cell, said that all the three suspects are Class 12 pass out. “They know how to communicate in English. They have been running this racket for almost six months. We are trying to see if more people are involved in this racket,” he said. A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and Section 66 of IT Act. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-three-persons-arrested-for-running-illegal-call-centre-101625595016227.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Man, his two relatives held for dowry death||The police on Tuesday arrested a 27-year-old man, his sister and brother-in-law in connection with the death of his 23-year-old wife whose family alleged that she was tortured for dowry.Police said the woman’s in-laws reported her death after they found her hanging in the house under the Phase 3 police jurisdiction on Monday night. “They got married in 2015 and things were okay for a while. Later, the family (in-laws) started asking her to get more money from her parents. They would taunt and harass her and she was upset over this,” said the family in their complaint.Based on the complaint, a case was registered at the Phase 3 police station on Tuesday against the husband, his parents, sister and her husband under sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act. “The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail. The roles of his parents is being investigated. Due action will be taken,” said Vivek Trivedi, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-his-two-relatives-held-for-dowry-death-101625595015564.html
06-07-2021||Lucknow||Govt sanctions financial help for lung transplant of frontline woman doc||The state government has sanctioned financial help for the 30-year-old woman doctor who is in need of a lung transplant. The doctor had fallen severely ill due to Covid in April this year.“The state government has assured the financial help. We have estimated an expense of about ₹70 lakh,” said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson for Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science where the doctor was working. She is also admitted there at present.Keeping in view the fact that the cost of treatment may go up, the sanctioned amount is estimated to be around ₹1.50 crore.The woman doctor, a PG student in gynaecology department, was working in the Covid ward despite being pregnant when she had tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 infection in April. She later tested negative but her lungs collapsed and hence she required 100% oxygen support. She delivered a baby girl on May 6-7 and the baby is fine.“She is presently on ECMO (extra corporeal membrane oxygenation). We have assessed her condition jointly with external experts. It is the first case of its kind in the state,” said Dr Srikesh Singh. The woman doctor is under the observation of a dedicated medical team. Her husband too is a resident doctor at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.“There are three centres in India conducting lung transplant and we are focusing first on the centre in Bengaluru,” Dr Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-sanctions-financial-help-for-lung-transplant-of-frontline-woman-doc-101625594235470.html
06-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Vaccination on hold at govt centres for second consecutive day||As the district health department continues to face a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, first dose inoculations will remain suspended for a second consecutive day on Wednesday, except at Huda City Centre Metro station, officials of the health department said.The second dose of Covaxin will be available at 21 government centres and Covishield at seven centres, while 100 Covishield doses will be allotted for the Huda City Centre Metro station session site, said officials.“Over 200 doses of Covaxin, each, for the second shot will be available at 21 vaccination centres. Over 4,200 slots are available for the second shot of Covaxin. For Covishield, there will be 750 slots for the second dose, including 50 for those travelling abroad. Also, at least 100 doses will be available for those living in slums, through mobile vaccination van, and 50 for the second dose at Huda City Centre Metro station,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. The second dose of Covishield will be administered at the government school in Fazilpur, a community health centre in Farrukhnagar, subdivisional hospitals of Sohna and Pataudi, Sector 31 polyclinic, Nathupur health centre and Civil Hospital in Sector 10.On Tuesday, at least 1,677 doses of the two vaccines were administered at the government health centres, of which 1,358 were second doses. As many as 7,728 vaccine shots were administered by private facilities. According to the Co-WIN platform, over 1,505,557 doses have been administered in the district, of which 1,234, 886 were the first dose. In the state, Gurugram has administered the maximum number of vaccine doses despite facing a shortage in phases since May. Since June 21, there was an increase in the vaccination, with more than 300,000 shots being administered in a fortnight. Singh said, “It is expected that the state health department will allocate the vaccines in a day or two. Till then, there will be a slump in vaccination at health centres.” State-level training for vaccination of pregnant women On Tuesday, the health department was directed to vaccinate women during any trimester of their pregnancy, in a state-level training for administering Covid-19 doses to pregnant women. “Only if a woman tests Covid-19 positive during the pregnancy after taking the first dose will the second dose have to be given after the delivery. If the woman is not vaccinated and tests positive, the first vaccine shot has to be given after delivery in such cases too,” said Dr Singh.Earlier this week, the Central government issued guidelines on the vaccination of pregnant women. The process is likely to start in a few days, according to senior health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-on-hold-at-govt-centres-for-second-consecutive-day-101625594000584.html
06-07-2021||Gurugram||Accident response team solves 10 hit-and-run cases in 10 days||A six-member accident response team (Art) of the Gurugram Police is revisiting black spots and hit-and-run cases to identify drivers who fled the spot after hitting motorists and pedestrians this year. The police said on Tuesday that the team has solved 10 blind cases in the last 10 days. The team, constituted on March 25 in Manesar, has been visiting accident spots and scanning footage from closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras to check the cause of accidents. Officials said they decided to start with Manesar as the industrial area witnesses the highest heavy vehicle movement, as well as motorists and pedestrians. The exercise will start across the city by the year-end, the police said. Varun Singla, the deputy commissioner of police, Manesar, said that the officials were tasked with identifying the errant drivers in cases where there were no leads. “We have solved 65 cases out of 85 accidents cases, including 10 blind cases, in the last three months. The team visited the spot, scanned the area and questioned daily commuters. The task is challenging but once these cases are solved, it will reduce the number of accidents as taking action against drivers, who have a casual approach, will set an example,” he said. Officials said that the team would reach accident spots within minutes and cordon off the area to ensure there is no manipulation at the spot to mislead the investigators. The officers record eyewitness accounts in a document, which helps in nabbing the suspect. The police said that the aim of constituting such a team is to reduce fatalities on city roads, identify black spots and ways to make the commute safer at these spots.Commuters alleged that accidents take place repeatedly at black spots and despite regular monitoring, the police are unable to make the spot accident-free. “Drivers, especially of trucks, regularly using the stretch, take advantage of a lack of CCTV cameras and low police presence. They flee the spot after accidents. There have been repeated accidents by same persons but they do not face any action,” said Ram Niwas, an executive working with an automobile firm in Manesar, who met with an accident in February this year. He said his brother was severely injured on the expressway on June 25, after a speeding truck hit him from behind and fled the spot. The police said the mandate of Art is to undertake photography of the crime scene for better prosecution, tracing unknown cases and ensuring that the guilty parties are held responsible. The team will also help victims with first aid and take them to a hospital if an ambulance does not reach the spot quickly. They will ensure that the investigation officer files the requisite Form 54 of MACT [Motor Accident Claim Tribunal] to help victims’ families to claim insurance. Investigation strategyThe police said that between June 21 and June 30, 10 accidents took place in the Manesar area, majorly on the expressway. The injured were hospitalised and there were no clues leading to the suspects in any of the cases. The drivers had fled the crime scene and there were no eyewitnesses either, said officials. In one such incident, wherein a biker was severely injured after being hit from the rear, Singla said the team scanned CCTV footage of the area and recovered videos in which they spotted a logo of a bread manufacturer on the truck. However, they could not decipher the registration number or any other details.The team started deploying members on the route to intercept the truck and after 10 days, they managed to locate one, following which they were able to locate the company and subsequently, identify the person responsible for the incident.Singla said the team employed a similar strategy in other cases as well, and followed up with transport and automobile companies whose vehicles were spotted in the area around the time of accidents.Singla said, “Tampering of evidence is a common practice, so the crime spots need to be cordoned off till all pieces of evidence are collected. The team admits victims to nearby hospitals. They question eyewitnesses and people near the accident spot.” Pilot projectKK Rao, the commissioner of police for Gurugram, said that this was a pilot project to reduce the number of accidents in the area. “The Art collects crucial details of accidents, victims, suspects, vehicles used in the crime, times, and other factors to prepare a report for insurance claims. This pilot project has improved the quality of investigation and also help families of the victims to receive justice on time,” Rao said. The police use Google forms to fill in details, after which mapping of the area is done and measures are undertaken to ascertain the reasons for accidents and reduce the same.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert, said the initiative by the police will help identify all blackspots and the reasons for the accidents. “This way, action will be taken against the people who are responsible for the accidents and will prevent mishaps. This can be a useful exercise if done regularly and across the city, instead of focussing on one area. There are various other spots where the roads are unsafe; there are engineering faults and concerns of speeding, but they are still out of the police radar,” she said, adding that despite several awareness drives and increased deployment, motorists are not following safe practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/accident-response-team-solves-10-hit-and-run-cases-in-10-days-101625593999248.html
06-07-2021||Gurugram||Monsoon delay helps Gurugram authorities prepare for waterlogging||Officials of civic bodies and development authorities said that the delay in monsoon has helped them complete preventive measures to counter waterlogging on Golf Course Road, Sector4/9A stretch and the Narsinghpur to Khandsa road.The second wave of the coronavirus disease hit the city hard, due to which monsoon preparedness measures could start only by May-end, which is two months later than usual, officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said. With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) initially predicting the arrival of the monsoon around June 12, officials of GMDA and MCG were scrambling to procure resources, such as motor pumps and suction machines, which are needed to tackle waterlogging across the city. On Tuesday, the IMD issued a fresh update, stating that the monsoon is expected to hit the National Capital Region by July 10.The four additional weeks, officials said, have allowed them to complete de-silting and drain augmenting measures across the city, including undertaking key works of widening of Khandsa drain, cleaning of four creeks in the Aravallis and building a parallel open drain along the Sector 4/9A railway line.Badshahpur drainOfficials of the GMDA said widening of the Badshahpur drain is almost complete, which is crucial to prevent waterlogging on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.On the Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch, adjacent to the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway, a 33-metre stretch of the Badshahpur drain in Khandsa village was the focal point of the 2016 “Gurujam” incident, when commuters were stuck on the road for almost two days.Along the 33-metre stretch, the width of the city’s main drain — which carries 60% of Gurugram’s rainwater — reduces to such an extent that during monsoon, rainwater overflows onto the main carriageway of the National Highway 48 (NH-48) and inundates all its service lanes.The carrying capacity of the Badshahpur drain reduces from 2,300 cusecs to 800 cusecs.In the first week of June, GMDA officials, under the Disaster Management Act of 2005, acquired the 33-metre stretch of disputed land to widen the drain.“Excavation and widening work on the drain has largely been completed due to the extra four-week time period. The setting up of a retaining wall to ensure rainwater does not overflow though will be taken up post monsoon. In addition, eight motor pumps have been installed by GMDA and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to keep waterlogging in check,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.Golf Course RoadOfficials of the GMDA said that the delay in monsoon has allowed them to complete preparatory measures, slotted for this monsoon, with regard to four creeks in the Aravallis, located in sectors 26, 42, 54, and 56, to curb waterlogging on Golf Course Road.“The additional time has helped us construct check dams and chutes (spillways) as well as complete all de-silting measures along the Aravallis. C&D waste is also being removed from the area. These works will result in a large amount of rainwater seeping into the soil and reducing the amount of run-off rainwater reaching the Golf Course Road,” said Kumar.GMDA officials said they will also be working on the ecological restoration of the creeks so that native trees and shrubs can absorb rainwater and help recharge the groundwater table. The entire restoration is expected to take at least three to four years, said officials. “This year, no flooding will occur at most of the critical points. We have deployed teams at each key waterlogging point so that they can monitor the on-ground situation round-the-clock during monsoon and send real-time information to the GMDA’s integrated command and control centre. GMDA, MCG, and Gurugram police can then, accordingly, initiate counter-waterlogging measures,” said Kumar.Sector 4/9A roadWork on excavating a parallel open drain to channel rainwater to other outlets, and subsequently, towards a sewage treatment plant in the vicinity, will be completed in a week, said officials.On Saturday, a joint team of the MCG and GMDA officials inspected the Sector 4/9A stretch between Laxman Vihar and Dhanwapur. According to MCG officials, the stretch is the lowest point in Old Gurugram and thus, remains susceptible to waterlogging.The MCG’s long-term plan for this stretch is to widen the existing stormwater drain and extent it up to the Dhanwapur sewerage treatment plant (STP), where rainwater can be disposed of. A plan in this regard has been sent to the Haryana government for approval.During the visit, MCG executive engineer Tushar Yadav said the excavation work is being done at a fast pace and will be completed within a week. “Work will be completed soon and through the open drain, water will be channelled into a drain located on the other side of the railway line,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/monsoon-delay-helps-gurugram-authorities-prepare-for-waterlogging-101625593998248.html
06-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Active cases fall below 100 in Gurugram||Fewer than 100 people in the district are currently battling Covid-19, according to the district health department data, with the active caseload dipping below the century mark for the first time in over a year. This is a big turnaround, said officials, as the district was devastated by the second wave of Covid-19 less than two months ago. According to Tuesday’s health bulletin, there are currently 95 active Covid-19 cases in the district, which, as of May 6, was at a peak of 39,682 following a rapid surge in cases from March-end. As many as nine new cases of Covid-19 were detected on Tuesday. Dr Jai Prakash, the district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “Active cases have finally dropped below 100, which is a landmark (going by the numbers) over the past year. Testing has been ongoing, with about 28-30 testing camps being organised in market areas, congested areas and at borders in Kapashera and Kherki Dhaula. Even if the cases are few, the teams are directed to collect samples to check clustering of infection in any pocket of the district.”To prevent a repeat of the situation witnessed during the second wave, when hospital infrastructure was overburdened and oxygen supply ran low, the state government is now focussing on tackling the next wave of Covid-19. Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday directed all district heads to constitute a Covid-19 monitoring committee, comprising the deputy commissioner, police commissioner, chief medical officer and members of Indian Medical Association (IMA), to make preparations in advance. Officials said that Tuesday was the fourth consecutive day that the district recorded fewer than 10 infections in a day. Over the past week, the district added an average of nearly six cases per day, according to the government data. The decline in cases comes after the district’s fight against Covid-19 for almost two months, in April and May, when over 100,000 contracted the infection and 455 succumbed to it. The surge led to a lack of intensive care unit (ICU) beds and ventilator beds in hospitals, even as medical facilities and residents in home isolation scrambled to get their oxygen supply. Now, the state government has set a deadline of July 10 for the district administration to submit details of bed availability, ventilators and oxygen supply in the district. All private hospitals having a bed capacity of 50 and higher were also directed to set up oxygen plants before July 10. Vij said that government institutions above the level of community health centres are also setting up oxygen plants. Apart from this, 40 oxygen plants will also be set up in the state by the Central government, as part of a nationwide plan announced earlier. The chief medical officer for Gurugram, Dr Virender Yadav, said, “There are at least 28 hospitals in the district having more than 50 beds, of which only 15 hospitals have their own oxygen plant.” During the peak of the second Covid-19 wave, the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, touched almost 39%. The positivity rate is a metric to gauge the prevalence of infection. The positivity rate has dropped considerably since the last week of May and is currently 0.1%. On the other hand, almost 11 people died due to infection in the last six days, while 83 deaths were reported in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-active-cases-fall-below-100-in-gurugram-101625593996959.html
06-07-2021||Lucknow||IET to introduce two new courses||The Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET), a constituent college of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), will introduce two new courses—M Tech (artificial intelligence and data science) and B Tech computer science and engineering (artificial intelligence)— from 2021-22 session.Along with this, B Tech computer science will also be taught in Hindi in the affiliated institutions of the university in compliance with the new education policy.These decisions were taken in the executive council meeting of the university held on Tuesday under vice chancellor prof Vinay Kumar Pathak. On this occasion, approval was also given to the minutes of the building committee, academic council and finance committee.An in-principle consent was given for setting up a “Technology Business Incubator” at IET, Lucknow in the field of electrical manufacturing. This proposal will be sent to the department of science and technology for approval.In the meeting, university’s pro vice chancellor prof Vineet Kansal apprised the members of the council about the works done by the university in the last six months which was appreciated by the members of the council, said spokesman for the university Asheesh Misra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iet-to-introduce-two-new-courses-101625593995522.html
06-07-2021||Gurugram||Warehousing transactions maximum in Gurugram as e-commerce firms increase footprint||Despite a 20% year-on-year decline in warehousing transactions in Delhi-NCR [National Capital Region], the industrial corridor of Gurugram, Manesar and KMP [Kundli-Manesar-Palwal] Expressway witnessed maximum transactions in the region as demand from e-commerce companies helped steady the local market in 2020-21, according to a study by a private real estate consultancy on Tuesday. A report released by Knight Frank, a real estate consultancy, stated that warehouses on NH-48, Kundli, Manesar and along the KMP Expressway accounted for 73% of the warehousing deals (from March 2020 to March 2021) in NCR. Mudassir Zaidi , the executive director, north, Knight Frank India, said, “The disruption in economic activity caused by the pandemic has influenced lower than expected transaction volumes for NCR’s warehousing market in financial year 2021 . While transactions were mostly muted in the industrial sector, e-commerce witnessed an expansion in its warehousing footprint. ”The KMP Expressway emerged as the major e-commerce hub, with top companies renting major top quality properties in the area, the report stated. It further identified areas on the outskirts of Gururgam, such as Farrukhnagar, Bilaspur-Tauru-Sohna road and Pataudi-Luharu road, as those of strategic importance for warehousing industry due to the location, competitive rent and future opportunities for expansion. The report stated that these locations offered significant advantages to e-commerce and other players due to easy connectivity to adjoining states, high level of industrialisation and availability of land for incremental increase in warehousing stock. Overall, the warehousing industry witnessed a 23% year-on-year decline in volume, which has been attributed to the disruptions caused by Covid-19 pandemic and the associated lockdowns that brought the entire economy to a standstill. A number of companies also deferred new leasing decisions, which led to a decline in the volume of transactions, the report stated. The NCR saw warehousing transactions to the tune of 6.9 million square feet, which was 20% less than the transactions in the previous financial year of 2019-2020. “E-commerce accounted for 61% of the region’s [NCR’s] warehousing transactions. Third Party-Logistics (3PL) players accounted for 26% . The increased reliance on online shopping during the lockdown has resulted in many companies expanding their last-mile delivery footprint and drive higher volumes. 3PL players, servicing the e-commerce sector are taking up Grade A warehousing space to ensure the seamless expansion of the last-mile delivery mechanism,” the report stated.As far as rentals are concerned, Greater Noida in Delhi-NCR led the pack, at ₹22- ₹ ₹30 per square feet, followed by Gurugram-Binola area, where the rent was in the range of ₹22- ₹26 per sq ft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/warehousing-transactions-maximum-in-gurugram-as-e-commerce-firms-increase-footprint-101625593935432.html
06-07-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to crack down on illegal construction of multiple flats on single plot||Officials of the town and country planning department (DTCP) on Tuesday warned of strict action against illegal constructions in municipal areas, after taking note of several such offences over the past few weeks.According to officials, most of the offences constituted the construction of multiple flats on single plots in localities of Jyoti Park, New Colony, Jawahar Nagar, Miyanwali Colony and Rajendra Park, among other areas. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the process of identifying offences is underway and junior engineers have been asked to conduct a detailed survey. “We have received directions from the director, DTCP, that action should be taken against owners of plots and developers who have constructed multiple flats or apartments on small plots without taking any permission from the authorities. The law clearly states that subdivision of plots is not allowed and vertical subdivision is also against the rules. Fifteen such properties have been identified and notices will be issued beginning next week,” said Bhath. Officials said that action would be initiated under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975. The DTCP will work in coordination with municipal authorities to clamp down on violations, they said.If the owners don’t take corrective action, the properties will be sealed and the district administration will be asked to stop registration of such properties, said officials. In a related development, the enforcement wing also held a meeting to discuss violations in areas under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) and decided that a detailed survey will be done to identify the violations.“It is being observed that large-scale construction of shops, commercial structures and houses is taking place in sectors and villages of MCM. The violators want to take advantage of the fact that this body is still in its infancy and they can carry out violations without any check. We have also received several complaints and now, action would be initiated,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-crack-down-on-illegal-construction-of-multiple-flats-on-single-plot-101625593935992.html
06-07-2021||Other||NCERT syllabus in UP Board - works of Tagore, Radhakrishnan, Rajaji no longer part of class 12 course||With the Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP), popularly known as UP Board, implementing National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) syllabus for English in class 10 and class 12, students of these classes will no longer study works of Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore and former President S Radhakrishnan from the new academic session (2021-22). This change has resulted in the story “The Home Coming” by Rabindranath Tagore and the essay “The Women’s Education” by S Radhakrishnan besides AL Basham’s ‘The Heritage of India’ getting removed from the curriculum of class 12.Likewise, RK Narayanan’s story “An Astrologer’s Day” and “The Lost Child” by Mulk Raj Anand, both of which were part of class 12 syllabus, have also been taken out of the curriculum. Even poems of renowned poets like John Milton and PB Shelley will no longer be taught to class 12 students. On the same lines, Sarojini Naidu’s poem “The Village Song” that was part of class 10 syllabus has now been removed just like the works of Chakravarti Rajagopalachari, WM Raeburn and R Srinivasan.Though UP Board officials are reluctant to comment on the change as it is yet to be put up on the official website of UPMSP, senior officials confirmed these changes citing an approval received from the state government recently. “Within the next few days itself, the new curriculum would become online,” said one of these senior officials in the know about things.Officials said the NCERT syllabus means the students would need to study lesser number of books now. There were four books besides grammar in class 12 of UP Board till now but now just two books “Flamingo” and “Vistas” will be taught.In high school, however, while there were two books earlier and now also two books “First Flight” and “Footprints Without Feet” will be taught, they added. As per the new syllabus, students in class 12 in “Flamingo” will study Anees Jung’s “Last Spring”, William Douglas’s “Deep Water” and Louis Fischer’s “Indigo” from his work “The Life of Mahatma Gandhi”.In poetry, the students will study poems by famous poets like Kamala Das, Pablo Neruda and John Keats. In “Vistas” supplementary book, Pearl S Buck’s “The Enemy” and works of Tishani Doshi, John Updike and Kalki will be taught.In high school, the students in the prose section of the “First Flight” book will study works by the former President of South Africa Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, author N Frank and Russian writer Anton Chekhov. In the poetry section, works of famous poets like Robert Frost, Walt Whitman and William Butler Yeats will be studies by them even as the supplementary book will feature works by renowned authors such as Ruskin Bond, Robert Arthur, HG Wells and KA Abbas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncertsyllabus-in-up-board-works-of-tagore-radhakrishnan-rajaji-no-longer-part-of-class-12-course-101625593756270.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||DMRC launches India’s first FASTag-based parking facility at Kashmere Gate Metro||The Delhi Metro Railway Corporation launched a FASTag/UPI-based cashless parking facility at Kashmere Gate metro station in the national capital. The parking facility is the nation’s first to accept payment via the UPI (Unified Payments Interface) mode. This system is part of DMRC’s multimodal integration of transport services initiative.“For the first time in the country, a FASTag-based and UPI-based cashless parking facility was launched on Tuesday at the Kashmere Gate metro station by Mangu Singh, managing director, DMRC, in the presence of senior officials of the DMRC and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI),” the DMRC said in a statement.The parking facility located at gate 6 of the metro station is exclusively cashless. It can accommodate 55 four-wheelers and 174 two-wheelers. Two wheelers can use their DMRC card with parking. The DMRC said that only vehicles bearing FASTag will be allowed to park at this facility.“The entry and exit and payment by the riders of four-wheelers can be done through FASTag. The parking fee will be deducted through FASTag, which will reduce the time for entry and payment. Only vehicles bearing FASTag will be allowed to park at this facility,” DMRC said. It also said that two wheelers will not be charged and the smart card swipe is used only for registering the time of entry and exit and fare calculation.The officials said that the parking fee for the two-wheeler can be paid using UPI-based apps by scanning a QR-code. Provisions will be made at a later stage for commuters to use their Delhi Metro smart card and the NCMC (National Common Mobility Card), officials told news agency PTI.These facilities are aimed to help the commuters travelling to and from the Kashmere Gate station, which is connected to a major inter-state bus terminus (ISBT) and several offices around the station.“The cashless parking project is a major step as part of the government's 'Digital India' initiative. We have taken this up as a pilot project. After observing the response, we will plan similar systems at more parking facilities at our stations,” the DMRC chief Mangu Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-launches-india-s-first-fastag-based-parking-facility-at-kashmere-gate-metro-101625593019894.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP puts ex-minister Joshi on notice for ‘anti-party’ outbursts||With former minister Anil Joshi continuously attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command and state leadership for mishandling the farm agitation, the party’s Punjab unit has finally initiated disciplinary action against him.“You are continuously giving statements against the central government, party’s central leadership and state leadership. Such activities are anti-party... Please file your reply within two days of receiving this notice as (to) why disciplinary action should (not) be initiated against you,” reads the notice sent by Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma to the two-time former MLA from Amritsar North.. The notice has the approval of the state BJP chief, Ashwani Sharma. According to a senior party functionary, the action is being taken against Joshi after getting consent from the senior central leadership. Joshi had been critical of the party’s style of handling the farmers’ agitation, and has taken on state leaders, including Ashwani Sharma, party’s Sikh face Harjit Grewal and former minister Surjit Jyani, for giving “wrong feedback” to the Centre on this critical issue. In a series of well-planned interviews given to different media houses a few days back, Joshi had also accused the BJP central leadership of having an adamant attitude in dealing with farmers. He has also demanded withdrawal of the contentious agricultural laws as being sought by the farmer groups. The former minister made fresh salvos on the senior leadership a couple of days back in Ludhiana, where he also announced the candidature of former deputy mayor RD Sharma, who has supported his statements, for the assembly elections from Ludhiana North. Even as Joshi’s outbursts against the party have got support of a few other senior leaders too, the Punjab BJP has not issued notices to them. ‘Ready to face 100 such disciplinary actions’Joshi, when contacted, said he was not afraid of any notice and would reply to it in detail. “I am ready to face 100 such disciplinary actions for speaking for Punjab and farmers. However, it is unfortunate that the party high command is playing in the hands of leaders like Ashwani Sharma and his coterie, who are not at all aware of the ground realities. I talked for farmers and I am proud of it,” said Joshi. A few leaders close to Joshi said the former minister was not in a mood to relent and has already made up his mind to tour the entire state on the issues he has been vocal about. A senior BJP leader, who did not wish to be named, said even the party was in no mood to spare Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-puts-ex-minister-joshi-on-notice-for-anti-party-outbursts-101625593036125.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab State Cancer Institute misses June deadline||The Punjab State Cancer Institute, which is coming up at Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, will not become operational for at least another four months.Minister of medical education and research Om Parkash Soni, who had earlier set June as the deadline for completion of the project, said on Monday that 90% of the work is over and the institute will be inaugurated soon.However, according to the GMC principal, Dr Rajiv Devgan, the first phase of the building will be “hopefully” made functional by the end of October, and the equipment will be installed by December this year.The foundation stone of the ₹120-crore project was laid in November 2017, but even after three-and-half years, a lot of civil work of the multi-storey building is pending.“The delay was due to unfavourable circumstances created by Covid-19. Many labourers contracted the virus in the second wave, and some died too, stalling the construction,” said Dr Devgan, adding the situation has improved and almost all workers have been vaccinated. The principal said sufficient funds are being received from the government, and the process for recruiting doctors and nurses has begun. About the instituteThe institute will be a state-of-the-art 150-bed complex that will provide world-class treatment facilities to cancer patients. It will house all the latest medical technology, including high-end linear accelerator, advanced operation centre, modular operation centre and advanced machines to execute image-guided radiation therapy.Besides departments of surgical oncology, medical oncology, nuclear medicines and radiation oncology, it will have a special rehabilitation unit and department for palliative treatment, said Dr Devgan. “With the help of this institute, we will be able to handle three times the number of patients we’re handing right now,” he said. Meanwhile, minister OP Soni, during a meeting on Monday, said: “Once the institute is inaugurated, patients from the region who have to go to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and other hospitals in neighbouring states will be able to get cancer treatment in Amritsar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-state-cancer-institute-misses-june-deadline-101625592976260.html
06-07-2021||Other||Security tightened - entry to visitors at Prayagraj airport suspended||People coming to see-off or receive family members and friends at the Prayagraj airport will not be allowed to enter the airport building as issuing of visitor’s pass has been suspended. This follows a nationwide alert in the wake of the recent attack on the Jammu airbase. “An alert has been issued at all airports across the country and we too have tightened security in and around the Prayagraj airport premises. As part of these efforts, issuing of visitor’s passes has been deferred till further notice,” said regional director (Prayagraj) of Airport Authority of India (AAI), Achal Prakash. Information regarding the visitor’s pass being suspended has been put up on the airport gate too. Prior to this decision, people accompanying passengers could enter the airport building with a visitor’s pass, costing ₹50, and accompany them till the waiting hall. After the advisory, authorities are not allowing anyone, barring passengers, to enter the airport premises. Family members and taxis are permitted to enter the main gate and drop the passengers at the entrance of the airport but beyond that, the entry is only for travellers, officials said. “The arrangement will stay in place till permission is received from higher authorities,” Prakash said. After a sluggish year, in terms of air-travellers and number of flights coming to Prayagraj during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic, the Prayagraj airport is back to routine business. Currently, this airport is catering to over 1,000 air-passengers daily and there are around 14 or more flights (landing or taking off) each day. On June 4, the airport catered to 1,355 passengers and 18 flights, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-tightened-entry-to-visitors-at-prayagraj-airport-suspended-101625592496249.html
06-07-2021||Other||Ensuring upkeep of community toilets in villages, empowering women||Hundreds of women associated with self-help groups (SHG) in the 23 development blocks of the district are being financially empowered by taking care of community/public toilets in their respective villages, in Prayagraj.The panchayati raj department of the district has paid close to ₹2 crore to over 500 SHGs which have in turn paid the money to women members looking after community toilets at the village level, officials said. “After the construction of community toilets at the panchayat level, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had instructed entrusting the responsibility of taking care of these toilets to women SHGs. Thus, in Prayagraj, women SHGs have been given the responsibility to ensure proper upkeep of these toilets,” said district panchayati raj officer (DPRO) Alok Kumar Sinha. He said that according to the information received from the state government, Prayagraj is at the seventh place in the state in terms of payment made to SHGs.Under the scheme, the panchayati raj department has entered into an MoU with women SHGs which have been given the responsibility of maintaining these community toilets constructed in their respective panchayat areas. The SHGs are paid a monthly amount of ₹9000 per toilet, out of which the honorarium of the female caretaker is ₹6,000 and the rest of the money is for items needed for maintenance and cleaning of the toilet.The official further said that there are 23 development blocks in the district and 1,540 panchayats. “We have constructed 1,399 public toilets in these development blocks and 929 toilets have been handed over to SHGs for maintenance,” said Sinha. All these public toilets have been geo-tagged, he added. In terms of toilets in each development block, 66 public toilets have been geo-tagged in Bahadurpur block, 85 in Baharia, 42 in Bhagwatpur, 18 in Chakka, 102 in Dhanupur, 68 in Handia, 51 in Holagarh, 63 in Jasra, 66 in Karchana, 53 in Koudhiyara, 32 in Kaurihar, 84 in Koraon, 68 in Manda, 54 in Mauyama, 68 in Meja, 65 in Phoolpur, 71 in Pratappur, 42 in Sahson, 78 in Saidabad, 71 in Shankargarh, 48 in Shringverpur, 47 in Soraon and 57 public toilets have been geo-tagged in Urva panchayat, Sinha said.He said that of the target of 1,540 toilets, 1,399 toilets have been completed and their details uploaded on the website of the government of India. The construction work of the remaining toilets will be completed within a month. “There are six gram panchayats where we have failed to find suitable land and because of which the toilets have not been constructed,” he explained. The toilets that have been handed over to the panchayats are being maintained by 929 SHGs and the panchayati raj department has paid money to 566 SHGs for looking after these toilets, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensuring-upkeep-of-community-toilets-in-villages-empowering-women-101625592196162.html
06-07-2021||Other||Women stage dharna in Azamgarh village, allege cops vandalised their houses||VARANASI Women of the families of 11 people accused of attacking a self-styled doctor and two constables in Palia village of Azamgarh on June 29, staged a dharna on Tuesday, alleging that the police vandalised their houses on the pretext of action. The police refuted the allegation, saying some unidentified people had vandalised their houses. All the 11 accused were absconding. SP (Azamagarh) Sudhir Singh said village head Munna Paswan and his accomplices were reportedly passing obscene comments on girls passing by a street in Palia Bazar on June 29. Subsequently a self-styled doctor, Littan Biswas, started making a video of their act. Enraged over it, Munna and his accomplices assaulted Biswas, after which he fell unconscious.Soon after, two constables, Vivek Tripathi and Mukhram Yadav, tried to rescue Biswas. Munna Paswan and his accomplices attacked the cops and Tripathi suffered head injuries. He was admitted to hospital and underwent a surgery.Thereafter, Biswas and the cop filed separate complaints at the Raunapar police station. Two cases were registered against 11 villagers, including village head Munna Paswan, under relevant sections of the IPC on June 29 night, he added.Meanwhile, women of the families of the accused alleged that police vandalised their houses and misbehaved with them. One of them alleged that cops used indecent language during the raid at their houses in Palia village three days ago. The women staged dharna on Monday, demanding action against the police.SP (Azamgarh) Sudhir Singh called the allegation baseless and said some unidentified people vandalised the houses of the village head and the other accused. In this case, an FIR was registered against unidentified assailants under relevant sections of the IPC. The SP said to avoid arrest, the accused had instigated the women of their families to stage dharna.TAKE ACTION AGAINST CULPRITS: PRIYANKA Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Monday tweeted, “There is news of UP Police attacking Dalit families in Palia village of Azamgarh, Raunapar. Several houses were damaged and a case was registered against hundreds of people.”“This shows anti-Dalit mentality of government employees. Action should be taken against the culprits (who attacked the houses of dalits) immediately and compensation should be given to the victims,” read the tweet.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad also announced that he would visit Palia village to seek justice for the families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-stage-dharna-in-azamgarh-village-allege-cops-vandalised-their-houses-101625591415354.html
06-07-2021||Other||Take steps to trace gangs duping people on pretext of loans, lucky draws: HC||PRAYAGRAJ Taking a strong note of suicide of a man who was duped on the pretext of a loan offer, the Allahabad high court directed the UP DGP to take immediate steps to trace out the “widespread racket of hardened criminals,” who are cheating innocent citizens with loan offers, lucky draws and rewards related to TV shows. The court also directed the DGP to issue circulars to the district police heads to come down heavily on such cheats.Justice JJ Munir passed the order while rejecting the bail application of Kuldeep, who was one of the accused in an “abetment of suicide” and cheating case registered at Kutubsher police station in Saharanpur.As per the prosecution, one of the accused in the case - Sunil Kumar –introduced himself as an employee of a private finance company to the complainant’s son - Shubham Kumar and offered him a loan of ₹10 lakh to start a business. On the pretext of the loan proposal, Kumar duped him of ₹1 lakh. After being cheated, the complainant’s son went into depression and later committed suicide.The applicant’s plea was that he had not cheated the deceased and the allegation against him was that he was arrested along with main accused when they were travelling in an SUV and some mobile phones were also recovered from him. The government counsel argued that such crimes are an organised and widespread phenomenon, where innocent people are psychologically caught in their weak moments to part with money on the pretext of loans or rewards under various schemes. The accused was part of an organized racket, who were duping people of their hard earned money. “The deceased could not withstand the shock of losing a sum of ₹1 lakh to cheats and frauds and ultimately committed suicide,” argued the government counsel. The court, after hearing the parties concerned, observed: “Indeed, the act of cheating a person, seemingly by a well organised gang, in times thatare so hard and dear on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, where scores of citizens have lost their jobs, is an enormous crime. It has to be dealt with an iron hand. As far as the applicant is concerned, he has been caught red-handed along with those men, from whose custody mobile phones etc have been recovered, that were employed in perpetrating this fraud.”While rejecting the bail application, the court observed: “This court feels that it is high time when the state police must take widespread action to immediately bring to book all offenders, who call up citizens and make them cough up money by offering alluring schemes for the provision of loans or TV show rewards or lottery bonanzas. This court is convinced that no case for bail is made out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/take-steps-to-trace-gangs-duping-people-on-pretext-of-loans-lucky-draws-hc-101625591175309.html
06-07-2021||Other||No Covid death in Lucknow for 7th consecutive day||LUCKNOW No Covid death was reported from the state capital for the seventh consecutive day even as 15 fresh cases surfaced on Tuesday. As many as 13 patients recovered from the infection during the last 24 hours.The district’s active case tally and fatality count stood at 167 and 2,651, respectively. So far, 2,35,575 people had defeated Covid in Lucknow, as per health department’s data.Only two out of the 3,400 focused samples collected from various departments tested positive, said Dr Milind Vardhan, ACMO. BLACK FUNGUS One patient succumbed to black fungus on Tuesday while six were admitted to the KGMU in the last 24 hours. So far, 514 patients of black fungus have been admitted here, said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU.Five patients, who recovered from black fungus, were discharged from the hospital, he added.Yogi visits PGI, enquires about Kalyan Singh’s healthChief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday visited the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) here to meet former UP CM Kalyan Singh, who is undergoing treatment at the hospital. “There is slight improvement in his condition today as he opened his eyes and gave a very mild response when the CM enquired about his well-being. A team of senior doctors is supervising his treatment. His vital parameters are under control,” said Prof RK Dhiman, director, SGPGI. The chief minister directed doctors to take full care of the former chief minister and keep him updated about his health. Singh had been unwell for the past two weeks and was hospitalised on Sunday evening. Earlier, the 89-year-old veteran BJP leader was admitted to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. (Inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-death-in-lucknow-for-7th-consecutive-day-101625590575328.html
06-07-2021||Indore||Money laundering case: ED attaches assets of former Indore Municipal Corporation staffer||The ED on Tuesday said it has attached assets worth ₹1.39 crore of a former Indore municipal corporation employee in connection with a money laundering case against him.Mohd Aslam Khan was a class-III employee of the corporation and was raided by the Madhya Pradesh Lokayukta (special police establishment) in 2018 on charges of amassing alleged disproportionate assets.Gold, cash, vehicle, house, shop, agricultural land and plots of Khan located in Indore and some other districts of Madhya Pradesh have been attached after a provisional order was issued against him under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The federal investigative agency said in a statement that Khan "earned proceeds of crime in the form of tainted money by corruption, while working in the Indore Municipal Corporation." "He parked ill-gotten wealth either by directly utilising it or by routing cash into their controlled bank accounts through inter-connected transactions finally culminating into acquisition of movable and immovable properties that were purchased in his name and in the name of his wife," the Enforcement Directorate (ED) claimed.The ill-gotten money was systematically invested in gold, vehicle, agricultural land, plots and commercial shops, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/money-laundering-case-ed-attaches-assets-of-former-indore-municipal-corporation-staffer-101625589170120.html
06-07-2021||Ranchi||Ramesh Bais appointed new Jharkhand Governor||BJP veteran and former Union minister Ramesh Bais was on Tuesday appointed as the new Governor of Jharkhand. Bais’s appointment is part of shuffle and appointment of governors across eight states by the Centre. Bais, currently Governor of the northeastern state of Tripura, will be replacing incumbent Governor Draupadi Murmu, who will relinquish office in Raj Bhawan after a long tenure of over six years. The only woman to have held the post in the state since its creation in 2000, Murmu, who hails from neighbouring Odisha, was appointed the ninth Governor of the tribal state in May 2015. Bais is from Chhattisgarh and has represented capital Raipur in Lok Sabha for seven times. He served as a Union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. In the 2019 general elections, Bais was denied ticket by the party. However, the Modi government at the Centre, soon after returning to power, appointed Bais as Governor of Tripura. Bais is expected to arrive in the state soon and will take over the charge from the outgoing Governor after taking oath, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ramesh-bais-appointed-new-jharkhand-governor-101625586975128.html
06-07-2021||Patna||Initiative by Dadhichi Dehdaan Samiti: 582 Covid orphans in Bihar to get financial aid, edu for three years||Altogether 582 children in the state, who lost their parents during the first or the second wave of the pandemic, will be given ₹500 a month for sustenance, besides education for three years, announced Dadhichi Dehdaan Samiti, a group of social activists, here on Tuesday. To provide them financial support, a total of 153 donors from different parts of the state have come forward. “We have a list of 153 donors who have agreed to support such children. But very soon we will achieve the target of providing support to 1,000 such children, “ Sushil Kumar Modi, former deputy chief minister of state and patron of the Dadhichi Dehdaan Samiti, said. The Samiti had earlier announced to provide financial support of ₹500 a month to 1,000 children who lost either one or both the parents during the Covid-19 pandemic. These children will be given this kind of support for three years, Modi added. Modi said Samiti has been the first organisation that has launched this kind of financial support for the children of the Covid victims.Bimal Jain, Dehdaan Samiti general secretary, said that out of the target of 1,000 children, only 582 have been identified now. “We are trying to achieve the target of 1,000 within a month. The Dehdaan Samiti has released today a contact number through which families with such children may contact the Samiti for support,” he said. The Samiti will also welcome more donors for the programme, he added. Modi said, “Altogether 1,624 children got homeless because of losing one or both parents during the first and second wave of the pandemic,” he said. Total 36 children lost both parents during the pandemic and while 1,286 children lost their fathers, altogether 302 children lost mothers due to the virus, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/initiative-by-dadhichi-dehdaan-samiti-582-covid-orphans-in-bihar-to-get-financial-aid-edu-for-three-years-101625586915084.html
06-07-2021||Patna||Vaccine shortage holds back Bihar’s daily target||Shortage of Covid-19 vaccines pulled back Bihar’s effort to administer 4.54 lakh doses of vaccine daily to its target adult population of 7.22 crore, as the state could complete 100,004 vaccinations on Tuesday evening (6pm). The state vaccine depot in Patna exhausted its stockpile of over 1.81 lakh vaccine vials, which translated into 18.11 lakh doses, available between June 30 and July 5 after the state launched its vaccination mega drive on July 1. Bihar would expect a lull in terms of vaccination even on Wednesday, as the next tranche of 959,220 doses of the Covishield vaccine is expected from Pune today (Wednesday) in the afternoon. With no inventory left, the state health authorities had to shut down several vaccination session sites on Tuesday. The 1,106 vaccination session sites functional on Tuesday were a little over one-third its targeted 3,000 static session sites the state health department wanted to be functional at least four days a week till December. No vaccinations took place at Saharsa, Gopalganj and West Champaran, while Madhepura reported one and Khagaria six. Four other districts, Darbhanga (19), Rohtas (65), Kishanganj (71) and Jehanabad (30), reported double-digit vaccinations till 6pm on Tuesday. Thirty-six of its 46 vaccination session sites were shut in state capital Patna due to unavailability of vaccines on Tuesday. A day before, 32 session sites were closed. “Most of our session sites are closed today due to unavailability of vaccines. They will reopen as soon as we get vaccines,” said Dr SP Vinayak, district immunisation officer, Patna. The state capital, he said, had been vaccinating an average daily 30,000 doses of vaccine against its capacity to administer 1 lakh doses. “We have not been given any daily target due to uncertainty of vaccines. We have simply been told to exhaust vaccines by administering them to people in the shortest possible time after getting them,” said Dr Vinayak. The Patna district administration hopes to saturate administering at least one dose of the vaccine to the eligible population in urban Patna this month itself. “We have achieved 57% first dose vaccine coverage against a target population of 14.36 lakh in Patna urban,” said Dr Vinayak. However, Patna’s rural coverage, like most other districts, has not been satisfactory. The first dose vaccine coverage was only 24% against its 29.12 lakh target population in rural Patna. The 70-odd “Teeka Express” or mobile vaccine vans, plying in Patna, were inoculating 150-175 people on an average against its daily target of 200. The vaccination coverage through “Teeka Express” was less in rural areas as compared to urban areas, even as officials contended that the rural population was fast shedding their vaccine hesitancy. For the next six months, Bihar has set itself a target to administer daily 4.54 lakh doses four days a week, barring Wednesday, Friday (reserved for routine immunisation) and Sunday. It had administered 1,333,980 doses during the last five days since the launch of the vaccination mega drive on July 1. Another 100,004 doses were administered till 6pm on Tuesday, taking the cumulative vaccination doses to 1,74,76,123. Of this, 1,50,06,336 were first dose vaccinations and remaining 24,69,787 second dose. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has set a goal to fully inoculate the state’s target population by December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vaccine-shortage-holds-back-bihar-s-daily-target-101625586795070.html
06-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Educational institutions, coaching centres to partially reopen from July 12||Educational institutions, including universities, government training institutes, coaching centres and schools for Class 11 and 12, will be allowed to partially reopen from July 12, officials of the state education department said on Tuesday.In this regard, the education department issued elaborate guidelines for making necessary arrangements before reopening of educational institutions. Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary of education department, said, “At the recent meeting of crisis management group, it was decided to resume classes at varsities, colleges, senior secondary schools and coaching centres with 50% strength from July 12. All educational institutions are supposed to thoroughly sanitise their premises before reopening.”The SOPs released by department mandate that hostels and school buses will have to be sanitised once before schools reopen and then twice a day after reopening. Schools and other institutions have also been directed to constitute different teams to look after sanitisation, cleanliness and social distancing.Kumar said, “50% students can be called on alternate days for attending classes. Though classes have not resumed for students of class 1 to 10, schools have been permitted to call 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff daily.” The guidelines also say educational institutions should to avoid organising functions and ensure availability of medical staff for any emergency.Association of Independent Schools ( AIS) and Private Schools and Children Welfare Association (PSCWA) welcomed the decision.CB Singh, president of AIS, said, “We assure the government that all CBSE affiliated schools would follow Covid-19 safety protocols. Teachers have been facing a financial crisis for last 15 months due to closure of schools. Reopening is likely to give some respite to them through employment opportunities as many teachers lost their jobs during pandemic.” Shamael Ahmad, national president of PSCWA, said, “We appeal the state government to soon resume physical classes for students of Class 1 to 10 as online schooling is affecting health and holistic development of children. Besides, schools are facing huge financial crunch as majority of parents are reluctant to pay school fees despite availing online class facility which has mounted financial burden.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-educational-institutions-coaching-centres-to-partially-reopen-from-july-12-101625586735696.html
06-07-2021||Patna||Munger: 170 villagers fall ill after consuming ‘prasad’, stable||Panic gripped Munger village after at least 170 residents, including women and children, were hospitalised due to suspected food poisoning after consuming ‘prasad’ on Monday evening, officials said on Tuesday.All the patients are now fine and recovering, Munger district magistrate (DM) Navin Kumar said, adding that a team of doctors was sent to Kothwan village under Dharhara police station, where the incident took place, to keep an eye on the situation.“Most of those who took ill were discharged after being administered with medication. Medical teams have also started sample collection from shops of all the areas where the residents fell ill,” the DM said. The ‘prasad’, which was made of milk, was apparently contaminated and led to the illness, civil surgeon Dr Harendra Kumar Alok said, while quoting police and health department officials . Samples of the prasad have been sent to the laboratory for examination, he added.According to sources in the district administration, more than 250 people were invited at a function at one Mahesh Koda’s house on Monday evening, and were given ‘prasad’. After consuming it, most of the attendees complained of stomach pain, loose motion,dizziness and vomiting, officials said. Initially, around 22 people complained of vomiting and other symptoms of food poisoning. Gradually, the number increased and they were rushed to medical shops and village doctors, who failed to contain the situation. On being informed, the civil surgeon sent a health care team to attend the victims at around 11pm. The patients were treated on the street due to increasing numbers of patients. Dr N K Mehta, who treated the village residents, said of the total 170 people, 90 were discharged and the rest are under treatment. “Everyone is out of danger,” he said. Besides, 15 persons were admitted to a nearby community health centre as a precautionary measure as they showed symptoms of dehydration, the civil surgeon said. “It was only a preventive move and all of them are recovering fast. All of them will be discharged by Tuesday evening,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/munger-170-villagers-fall-ill-after-consuming-prasad-stable-101625586735135.html
06-07-2021||Other||Bodies of 3 children recovered from inundated E Champaran villages||SAGAULI: Security personnel in East Champaran district on Tuesday recovered bodies of three children from different part of the district, as heavy rainfall and regular discharge of water from neighbouring Nepal coupled with overflowing rivers devoured villages.According to East Champaran police, bodies of two minor girls of Chheljhapi village under Sagauli police station and a six-year-old boy of Pakaridayal were recovered after Sikarahana river inundated their villages. Irate residents of the girls’ village blocked National Highway-28A, disrupting vehicular movement on Raxaul - Chapawa road for about an hour. The blockade was lifted after Sagauli circle officer (CO) assured compensation to the bereaved family. “Compensation of ₹4 lakh will be given to family of each of the deceased,” said CO Dharmendra Kumar Gupta. Meanwhile, children of villages in Sagauli block were indulging in perilous acts for fun. A number of children were seen playing in water and rowing rafts. “This the season to swim together and have fun,” said 13-year-old Rangila, a resident of Lal Parsa village, who emerged after swimming across a culvert along with other children.Refusing to share data immediately, additional district magistrate (ADM) of disaster management Anil Kumar said,“One or two deaths owing to drowning continue to be reported almost everyday after water inundation in villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bodies-of-3-children-recovered-from-inundated-e-champaran-villages-101625586675069.html
06-07-2021||Patna||JD(U) set to join union cabinet, Nitish silent on numbers||Amid indications of an imminent reshuffle of the Union cabinet, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday did not rule out the possibility of his party Janata Dal (United) joining the central government, but parried questions on the number of berths, saying party president R C P Singh was the person authorised to speak on the matter.“I have no knowledge about any formula but our party’s national president has the authorisation for this,” Kumar told reporters in Patna.Asked about the numbers of ministers to be inducted from JD (U) quota, Kumar said with a smile, “I have no idea about how many numbers are being discussed. Whatever Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants will happen.”RCP Singh, who left for Delhi from Patna on Tuesday, told news agency ANI, “Whatever our leader has said is true. You will see soon.” Sources in Bihar said four ministers could be inducted from Bihar — two are from JD (U), one from LJP faction led by Pashupati Paras, and one from the BJP. A top JD (U) leader said the party wanted to have four ministers. “BJP has 17 Lok Sabha MPs in Bihar and five ministers at the Centre. But JD (U) has 16 MPs and not a single minister. We have asked for four ministerial posts, two of them of cabinet ranks and rest as ministers of state,” he said. In 2019, JD (U) had refused to join union cabinet, demanding proportional representation. “What happened at that time is over. I was the party president at that time,” Kumar said, dropping cleat hints of JD(U) joining the union cabinet this time.Bihar has 40 Lok Sabha seats, of which BJP won 17, JD(U) 16, LJP six and Congress one in the 2019 parliamentary polls. Names of JD(U) doing the rounds for a berth in union cabinet were R C P Singh and Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh. “Party’s national president (RCP Singh) will take the final decision (on who will be made ministers). All I can say right now is that we are going to be involved (in the proposed expansion of the Union Cabinet),” JD(U)’s Bihar president Umesh Kushwaha said.Meanwhile, LJP leader Pashupati Paras left for New Delhi after reportedly receiving a call from Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-set-to-join-union-cabinet-nitish-silent-on-numbers-101625586615042.html
06-07-2021||Patna||Chirag writes to PM amid buzz of a Cabinet berth for Paras||Amid the buzz of a possible expansion of the Union Cabinet and a berth for Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan on Tuesday said he has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi that nobody from his party’s breakaway group of five MPs should be inducted from the LJP quota. Paras, who is Chirag Paswan’s uncle, recently led a rebellion by five of the six LJP MPs and was later declared leader of the party in the Lok Sabha by the Speaker.Both Paras and Paswan factions claim to be the real LJP, which has been a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance at the Centre. “If any of them gets included in the Cabinet from the party’s quota, I will certainly have objection to it and I may have to take legal recourse. If any of them is made a minister as an independent or from some other party, I have no problem. But as far as LJP is concerned, its constitution allows me to be the president and the matter is before the Election Commission as well as the Lok Sabha Speaker,” Paswan told reporters in Patna. A day after launching his “Ashirvad Yatra” from Hajipur, Paswan said LJP continued to be with the NDA at the Centre and whatever happened in the party was akin to stabbing late Ram Vilas Paswan in his back. “I have already written to PM Narendra Modi as well as the EC in this regard. The common practice is that the party president is consulted if anyone from the party has to be included in the Cabinet,” he said. The Jamui MP said his uncle engineered the split in LJP only to become a minister, at the behest of Nitish Kumar. “Nitish Kumar always tried to insult my father, but my uncle chose to sit in his lap at the cost of the family and party, which gave him everything,” he said. Attacking Kumar, Paswan said the Bihar chief minister did not even pay tributes to his father on his first birth anniversary after death, though the Prime Minister, home minister and several others did. “But this is nothing new with Nitish Kumar. He did not even seek to know about his health when Ram Vilas Paswan was admitted in the hospital and that is why the actions of his uncle pains him more,” he said. “I am not eager to become a minister. My first objective is to build the party as a viable alternative in Bihar. Even when my father was around, attempts were made to break the party, but LJP continued its march. It will continue its march and I am overwhelmed with the response of the people for my Ashirvad Yatra the very first day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-writes-to-pm-amid-buzz-of-a-cabinet-berth-for-paras-101625586555004.html
06-07-2021||Patna||After five years, Nitish to resume his Janata Darbar||After a five-year break, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has decided to resume his trademark ‘Janata Ke Darbar Mein Mukhyamantri (CM in people’s court) programme from July 12 to hear grievances of the common man.“I had announced after the assembly elections to restart the Janata Darbar, but it could not start due to pandemic. It will restart from next Monday in old format,” Kumar told reporters in Patna after returning from an aerial survey of flood situation in north Bihar. On Tuesday, chief Secretary Tripurari Sharan Singh held a video conference with secretaries of various departments, besides director general of police and other top police officers, including district chiefs, and asked them to make preparations for the same.The weekly programme, which is generally held every Monday (except the fifth Monday, if any) at the CM’s residence at 1, Anne Marg, was discontinued in 2016. After taking over as chief minister, Kumar held his first Janata Durbar in April 2006. An average of 300-400 people would attend these weekly sessions, where the CM would personally receive petitions and listen to their grievances before directing officials on the spot for quick redress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/after-five-years-nitish-to-resume-his-janata-darbar-101625586495003.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray dismissive about talk of patch-up with BJP||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday dismissed rumours that the Shiv Sena and BJP may come together again, and also slammed the opposition party for its conduct during the state legislature's just-concluded monsoon session.Speculation was rife in political circles in the last few days over possible reconciliation between the Thackeray-led Sena and the BJP which parted ways after the 2019 Assembly elections. "Something which didn't happen when we were together for 30 years, what can happen now, " he said to a question about whether the two parties would join the hands again. Talking to the media after the two-day session ended, the chief minister said the actions of the BJP members were not the sign of a healthy democracy.Twelve BJP MLAs were on Monday suspended from the Assembly for one year for allegedly misbehaving with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber. "What was the need for the BJP to create a hue and cry over a resolution asking the Centre to provide census data of 2011 to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare empirical data of OBCs....should we say its animosity for OBCs came to the surface?" Thackeray asked. The conduct of BJP MLAs "made us hang our heads in shame", he said. "Even if you feel the resolution wouldn't yield anything, couldn't you still support it? What was the need to create ruckus. If the Centre is not providing us the data, how do you know there are mistakes in it," Thackeray said. "If there were mistakes, why did the Devendra Fadnavis government seek information about it in 2019," he asked.Monday's ruckus was an attempt to destablize the Sena-NCP-Congress government, Thackeray alleged, adding the attempt failed and it had failed in the past too. "The BJP blames us for murdering democracy and called the MLAs' suspension a black chapter, then what are ED and CBI doing, painting the democracy white?" he further said.To a question on the pending election for Assembly Speaker, the chief minister said his government applies Covid-19 rules to itself too. "During a pandemic, the health of people and legislators is important. I underwent a Covid test on Sunday and got the report on Monday morning. (But) What about MLAs from rural areas, how can the 72-hour period for RTPCR test be implemented," he asked.Justifying the delay in holding election for Speaker and short duration of the session, he said in two days "we could do a lot of work which will help people".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-chief-uddhav-thackeray-dismissive-about-talk-of-patch-up-with-bjp-101625582999731.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab meritorious schools: Application deadline extended to July 15||The Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab has extended the deadline for online registration to get admission in Classes 11 and 12 till July 15.This is the third extension. The decision on the date to hold the common entrance test will be taken after July 15. “We have extended the deadline again to give more time to students to apply. The entrance test date will be declared after July 15,” said Inderpal Singh Malhotra, assistant project director, meritorious schools. There are 4,600 seats each in Classes 11 and 12 across 10 meritorious schools in the state. To date, 18,200 students have registered for the test. Students who have completed Class 10 from government-aided and private schools affiliated to the Punjab School Education Board and those belonging to below poverty line (BPL) families with smart cards are eligible to register. A general category student should have secured 70% and a scheduled caste/scheduled tribe student should have a score of 65%. The website is www.ssapunjab.org. While 10% seats are reserved for children from BPL families, 20% are reserved for girls belonging to families of women-headed households. There is a quota for differently abled students too: 10% for girls and 5% for boys. In case, the seats cannot be filled by students from the earmarked quota, these will be transferred to the general pool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-meritorious-schools-application-deadline-extended-to-july-15-101625582717201.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Two Indian army sepoys held for spying for ISI||The Punjab Police have busted a cross-border espionage network with the arrest of two army sepoys, who are accused of providing classified documents to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).They have been identified as sepoys Harpreet Singh and Gurbhej Singh, both 23. Harpreet belongs to Cheecha village in Amritsar and was posted in Anantnag. He joined the Indian Army in 2017 and belongs to the 19 Rashtriya Rifles. Gurbhej is from Punian in Tarn Taran, belongs to 18 Sikh Light Infantry and was working as a clerk in Kargil. He had joined the army in 2015. Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday said that the espionage network was unearthed after the Jalandhar rural police recovered confidential documents related to the functioning and deployment of the Indian Army from cross-border drug smuggler Ranvir Singh, who was arrested with heroin on May 24. During interrogation, Ranvir disclosed that he got the documents from Harpreet, who was his friend as they both belong to the same village. “Ranvir motivated and lured sepoy Harpreet Singh with financial benefits for sharing defence-related classified documents, following which the latter inducted his friend Gurbhej into such anti-national spying activities,” said DGP Dinkar Gupta. As Gurbhej was working as a clerk in the 121 Infantry Brigade Headquarters in Kargil, he could get easy access to classified documents containing both strategic and tactical information related to the Indian Army, said the DGP.Drug smuggler with contacts in Pak held tooGupta said the two armymen had already shared photos of over 900 classified documents — pertaining to defence of the country and national security — with Ranvir Singh over a period of four months between February and May 2021. Ranvir had further passed on these documents to the Pakistan ISI operatives, either directly or via Gopi, said the DGP. Gopi, who belongs to Dauke village in Amritsar, has been identified as the main drug smuggler with links with Pakistan-based drug-smuggling syndicates and ISI officials, who invariably work in tandem.Following Ranvir’s disclosures, police have also arrested Gopi, who has confessed to having transferred the classified documents to Pakistan-based drug smuggler Kothar and ISI operative Sikander in lieu of heroin and financial benefits, the DGP said, adding that all the photographs were transmitted through encrypted apps. Naveen Singla, senior superintendent of police, Jalandhar rural, said the army authorities have handed over both the accused sepoys to them and further investigations are being carried out to ascertain the involvement of others. Police had earlier registered a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Mehatpur police station in Jalandhar, to which Sections 124-A (sedition) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Official Secrets Act have been added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-two-indian-army-sepoys-held-for-spying-for-isi-101625582715670.html
06-07-2021||Noida||After vaccine shortage for 2 days, people flout Covid norms to get jabs in Noida||The incident was reported at Government District Hospital in Noida’s Sector 30. Visuals shared by news agency ANI showed a large number of people gathered to get their jabs, and were also seen not maintaining social distance.The chief medical superintendent told ANI that the crowd was formed because several people were not able to get inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine jabs in the last two days. The official said that the reason behind this was that the hospital did not have enough stock of vaccines. Therefore, as soon as the hospital received sufficient vaccine doses, people began thronging to the place to get their jabs, ANI reported.“On Monday, we got 3,000 vaccine doses. Our staff is there to make people aware of Covid norms. We also made a new centre,” the chief medical superintendent was quoted as saying by ANI.Noida | People throng District Hospital, Sector-30 to take vaccine jab, defying social distancing norms For last 2 days, we were getting less dosses. Today, we got 3000 vaccines. Our staff is their to aware people to follow COVID norms. We also made a new centre: CMS (05.07) pic.twitter.com/ARR9ZElRb6Meanwhile, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday quashed media reports that due to shortage of vaccine doses in the last two days, some Covid-19 vaccination centres in Rajasthan had been closed down.The health ministry in a statement said that all states and Union territories had been informed “adequately in advance” about the total vaccine doses to be sent to them as well to the private hospitals, and that they were asked to “plan their vaccination sessions” as per the availability of the Covid-19 vaccine jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-vaccine-shortage-for-2-days-people-flout-covid-norms-to-get-jabs-in-noida-101625580569721.html
06-07-2021||Jaipur||'You see, but don’t observe’: SC quotes Sherlock Holmes while dismissing plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday, while upholding a life term awarded to a man in a murder case, quoted popular fictional detective character Sherlock Holmes and said, “You see, but you do not observe.”The apex court dismissed an appeal filed by the man himself against the conviction, news agency PTI reported. The court rejected the submission of amicus curiae that it was impossible for the four eye witnesses to see at night the face of the man, who had committed the murder.The man in question is one Mukesh, who is currently lodged in Jaipur jail, after the trial court awarded life sentence to him in the murder of a fellow villager named Gopal Lal in July 2012, PTI reported. In April 2019, the Rajasthan high court dismissed his plea challenging the trial court’s order.During the latest hearing in the top court, advocate Pijush Kanti Roy, who has been appointed amicus in the matter, said that at the time of the murder in an isolated place, it was a dark night and that there was no way all the four witnesses in the case could have seen the face of the petitioner.The bench, however, upheld the order passed by the high court that all the witnesses saw the face of the petitioner in the light of a motorcycle’s headlight. “It’s like Sherlock Holmes telling Dr Watson, ‘You see, but you do not observe’,” Justice Nariman said, PTI reported.The division bench of the apex court also told Roy that he has done “more than the duty of amicus curiae.”“You are flogging a dead horse…There is a clear-cut finding,” the bench added, as per the PTI report.In his plea, Mukesh said that the high court ought to have appreciated the fact that there was no enmity between the petitioner and Gopal Lal, and that he had no intention to kill him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/you-see-but-don-t-observe-sc-quotes-sherlock-holmes-while-dismissing-plea-101625579534991.html
06-07-2021||Bhopal||Three kids die of cold and dehydration, 25 ill in Madhya Pradesh village||Three children have died after showing symptoms such as cold and dehydration while another 25 were being treated for similar issues in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna district, said a health official on Tuesday.“In Pushottampur village of the district, three kids aged between two and three fell ill a few days ago. They had a cold and diarrhoea. They were being treated at home. Two kids...died on June 27... while...(the third) died on July 2,” said RS Pandey, chief medical and health officer, Panna. “Their families performed their last rites without informing the authorities. So, we did not get a chance to take samples of these kids for Covid 19 testing. We came to know about it Monday after a few villagers informed us about it,” said Pandey.He said the other kids, aged between one to eight who are showing similar symptoms, tested negative for Covid after rapid antigen testing. “We have also sent their swab samples for RT–PCR testing.”Also Read | ‘Frightening’: ICMR, health ministry on overcrowding in hill stationsA team of doctors has started their treatment. “Surprisingly, only kids are ill. The symptoms of the disease are similar to Covid 19, but we cannot confirm that without a test report,” Pandey said.The team of doctors was rushed to the village along with officials from women and child development and panchayat and rural development departments on Tuesday.Udal Singh, project manager of women and child development department, said one of the kids who died was malnourished, and his full body check-up was done at Nutrition Rehabilitation Centre, Panna, on June 24. “He was absolutely fine.”The kid’s father, Babulal Adiwasi, said he works as a labourer. “Due to (the Covid-19) lockdown, I returned to the village in April. I am facing the worst financial crisis. My son Sanjay and niece Rashmi fell ill. We did not have money to take them to the city for treatment. But all of a sudden, their condition deteriorated, and they died within a week.”Manoj Kushwaha, a village resident, said the deaths caused panic in the village. “Many families have locked themselves and their children in their houses since the deaths happened last week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/three-kids-die-25-ill-in-madhya-pradesh-village-101625575514469.html
06-07-2021||Lucknow||‘UP govt exploiting youths, Dalits’: Priyanka asks Cong workers to stage protest||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday held another virtual training programme for youth Congress workers and party workers ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. During the training programme for party workers in Jhansi, Priyanka said that the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh is exploiting Dalits as well as the people from the deprived sections of society. She said that the government failed to give relief to the people.“Crimes are on the rise in Uttar Pradesh. The prominent agenda of the Yogi Adityanath government is exploitation of the Dalits, the deprived and the exploited sections of the society. The silent support to criminals is making the situation explosive. The government is far from giving any relief to the people,” Priyanka was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Priyanka, who earlier held a similar session with workers from Mathura and Lucknow, reiterated that party workers need to stand firm with the people of the state. She said every worker should play an active role in tackling the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Priyanka said that the nation is adversely affected because of the ‘anti-people’ policies of the government and Congress can take the leading role in tackling the challenges.“Spiralling inflation, poverty, malnutrition, crime and challenges before the democratic values, Constitution and Constitutional institutions, can only be tackled by the Congress. For this, everybody has to play an active role,” Priyanka told the party workers. She further added that Congress workers know how to sacrifice everything for the country. She reiterated that Congress workers need to work with the people as the BJP ‘committed the sin of pushing people into problems’.“Stand with them, share their pain, and work hard to help them get rid of the pain,” Priyanka said. She also instructed the Congress workers to question the BJP on inflation, unemployment, increasing prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas by staging protests over these issues.Priyanka attacked the government over unemployment in the state and said that the recruiting process is corrupt and selected candidates are struggling to get their appointment. “The BJP government has no vision. It is cheating the youth and the unemployed persons, and doing injustice. Instead of answering questions, it speaks lies, and avoids accountability,” Priyanka further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-exploiting-youths-dalits-priyanka-asks-cong-workers-to-stage-protest-101625572726147.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Sainik Farms drug bust: Afghan national used Aadhaar to take farmhouse on rent||The farmhouse in south Delhi’s Sainik Farms, where Punjab Police on Sunday unearthed a heroin-manufacturing unit, was taken on rent by an Afghan national, Najibullah Khalid, who used an Aadhaar card to identify himself as an Indian resident while getting the rent agreement for the property, said owner of the farmhouse and the property dealer who finalised the deal. Afghan nationals Mujahed Shinwari, Mohammad Lal Kaker, Jannat Gul Kakar, and Samiullah Afghan, who were allegedly running the unit, were arrested from the farmhouse during the raid. Khalid was caught later when he arrived there to meet his accomplices. The raiding team took Khalid for questioning as the farmhouse was taken on rent in his name. He is yet to be arrested, said a Punjab Police officer who did not want to be named.Also Read | After Mumbai, cases of Avascular Necrosis reported in DelhiKhalid’s Aadhaar card, a copy of which is with HT, carries a Neb Sarai address. The farmhouse owner, Pravesh Kumar alias Bobby, and the property dealer, Ganesh Kumar, said they have submitted to the Neb Sarai Police the Aadhaar card’s copy, rent agreement, and other documents that they obtained from Khalid while renting out the property. The two told police that Khalid had introduced himself as an Indian citizen into the business of supply and sale of dates. The rent agreement was prepared last month and the four men started staying in the farmhouse around June 26-27. “Khalid had come to me through the reference of a property dealer in Malviya Nagar who had helped him purchase a flat in Neb Sarai. The Aadhaar card that Khalid produced for preparing the rent agreement of the farmhouse has the address of the same flat. Khalid told me that he had sold that property and wanted to move into a farmhouse with his wife, whom he introduced as an Indian citizen,” said Ganesh. He said the farmhouse was rented out to Khalid on a monthly rent of ₹1.60 lakh. Khalid paid ₹4.80 lakh as one-month advance rent and two months of security money. “I followed all the procedures while renting out the property. Apart from the rent agreement, I had also applied online for the tenant’s verification,” he said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (south) Mandava Harsh Vardhan said a case under Indian Penal Code’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) has been registered at the Neb Sarai police station against the farmhouse owner for not carrying out tenant verification. Asked if Khalid had prepared a fake Aadhar Card for obtaining the farmhouse on rent, the additional DCP said, “We will look into all the aspects pertaining to the case that we have registered.”Another police officer, who did not wish to be named, said holding an Aadhaar card means that the card holder is residing in India and as per the Aadhar Act, 2016, even a foreigner who has stayed in India for more than 182 days is eligible to apply for an Aadhaar.“Khalid told the police that he has been staying in India as an Afghan refugee for the past six years. This information has to be verified first before finding out how he got an Aadhar card,” the officer added.About the case and the charges under which he has been booked by the Neb Sarai police, farmhouse owner Bobby said he had not violated any law because the tenants never told them that they were foreign nationals. “I would have never rented out my property or had alerted the concerned agencies, had I known that the tenants were foreigners. Being a responsible citizen, I will cooperate with the police in their investigation,” Bobby said.On Sunday around 5pm, around a dozen personnel from the Punjab Police raided Bobby’s farmhouse number 227, spread in nearly 1,700 square yards, and arrested four Afghan nationals for running a heroin-manufacturing unit there. A total of 17 kilogram of heroin, assorted chemicals, acids and lab equipment were seized from the farmhouse.“We are carrying out another operation to nab more drug dealers associated with the syndicate. As far as investigation regarding the Aadhar card and other documentation regarding the rented farmhouse is concerned, we will investigate everything once we complete our operation,” said Tushar Gupta, ASP Garhshankar police (in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur), who was leading the raiding party during the crackdown at the farmhouse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sainik-farms-drug-bust-afghan-national-used-aadhaar-to-take-farmhouse-on-rent-101625572694897.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Kejriwal launches scheme to provide relief to families who lost kin||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana for financial assistance to the families of those who died of Covid-19. Under the scheme, the government will offer a one-time compensation of ₹50,000 to their kin. Monthly ₹2,500 will be given to families who have lost their earning members. Children, who have lost their parents to Covid-19, will be provided a monthly allowance of ₹2,500 till they turn 25. These benefits will be in addition to the ongoing social welfare scheme of the Delhi government such as old-age and widow pensions.Kejriwal urged officials to be empathetic towards the families during their visits to check the eligibility of the applicants for the scheme. He stressed that the families, at no point, should feel harassed during the entire process. Kejriwal added in the cases, where the required documents are unavailable with applicants, it will be the responsibility of the officers to get them completed for the application process.Also Read | Can’t take as long as you want: Court on Twitter’s non compliance of IT rule“Please do not put the families under stress because of any missing papers. If you do so, it will be like adding salt to their wounds. They are already going through a lot and are bereaved. It is our duty to help them in such tough times. We have to make sure that these families receive their dues swiftly as they will be intently relying on it since there is no one to look after them right now. Reassure the families, be empathetic, tell them we have been personally sent by the chief minister. Build a relationship with them and expedite the process so that the cheques reach them at the earliest,” Kejriwal said while launching the scheme.The scheme can be availed either by applying for it on www.edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in or through direct identification by the government representatives, who are expected to visit such families based on the database provided by the state health department.Kejriwal said the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi was the most brutal of all. “The entire country may have seen two waves, but for Delhi, this was the fourth wave. Last year in June, we saw the first wave, in September, the second wave, in November, the third wave, and now the fourth wave. This fourth wave was very severe, widespread and almost every family was affected by it. It was also very lethal. We lost a lot of lives because a lot of children became orphans, a lot of families lost their breadwinners. There is no one to look after them now, which is why the Delhi government has come up with this scheme.”Also Read | When a demolition drive destroys a villageThe scheme was notified on June 22. Those who have died, and their dependents should be from the national capital to avail benefits under it. Also, the dependents can get the benefits only if the deaths of their kin are certified to have been because of Covid as per the data with the Union home ministry or the death should have happened within one month of testing Covid-19 positive. The state health department will also verify such deaths as Covid fatalities.If a family is survived by only minor children, then the applicant or beneficiary will be the foster parent or guardian declared fit under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act by the Child Welfare Committee. The financial assistance shall be transferred to the joint bank account in the name of the minor child and the foster parent or guardian.According to a Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights survey, over 2,000 children in the national capital have lost either one or both their parents to Covid-19. As many as 67 of them lost both their parents since the pandemic hit in March last year. At least, 651 children have lost their mothers and 1,311 children their fathers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-launches-financial-assistance-scheme-for-kin-of-those-who-died-of-covid-101625569034848.html
06-07-2021||Pune||Pune civic body initiates process to collect civic data on 23 newly-merged villages||After the state government on June 30 issued a notification of formally merging 23 villages within the Pune municipal limits, Vikram Kumar, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner, has instructed the regional ward officers to collect data from these villages and transfer the information to concerned departments of the municipal corporation.The information includes staff engaged in the gram panchayats, all documents, financial status, computers used in government offices, garbage transport vehicles, primary health centres, tax details among others.Kumar said, “The ward officers would appoint dedicated officers to collect the data of all records, street lights, tax and deposit receipts, properties, water schemes, vegetable markets and hand it over to concerned departments.”Sunil Indalkar, head of PMC general administration department, said, “As 23 new villages are now merged in PMC, more staff will be recruited. The staff working with gram panchayats will become part of municipal staff. Right now, we don’t have exact numbers, but the ward officers have been instructed to collect the data.”One of the officials from PMC on condition of anonymity said, “As new staff will get added to PMC, it will create more financial burden. It is not clear whether PMC will add the teachers and health workers which are working with Zilla Parishad. Already PMC has planned to execute the 7th Pay Commission for its staff.”Recently, Kumar said that PMC revenue expenditure has already increased and so the civic body is not able to allot more funds for development projects and maximum money is going on salaries and maintenance work.Meanwhile, after the merger of the villages the city is now one of the largest in Maharashtra in terms of area. With the city growing by around 187.16 sqkm, to now 518 sqkm from the existing 331 sqkm, and an additional population of 0.5 million.PMC to use MRDA’s development plan for 23 villagesMunicipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Monday said, “These 23 villages were part of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority and PMRDA’s development plan for the area including these 23 villages in the last stage, PMC will use same development plan and will call the suggestion and objection for the plan for these 23 villages.”“The PMRDA likely to publish development plan very soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-initiates-process-to-collect-civic-data-on-23-newly-merged-villages-101625568797394.html
06-07-2021||Pune||Amnesty scheme to regularise illegal water connections in Pune to commence in 15 days||Though the standing committee had given nod to execute the amnesty scheme for regularising illegal water connections, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not started the scheme yet. The civic officials say the scheme will be launched in the next 15 days.The panel had given the nod to execute the scheme on June 30 to regularise the illegal water connections and instructed the administration to execute it on an immediate basis.Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of the water department, said, “We proposed the amnesty scheme to the standing committee and after that, it was expected that it would go to the general body for final approval. But the standing committee asked the administration to start execution considering that the general body will approve it later. Now we need to put the proposal again in front of the municipal commissioner and later we would publish the scheme details in the newspapers.”“It is expected that the scheme will get launched in the next 15 days, after completing the administrative process. It would be for a limited time frame of three months. Later, PMC administration would also put the proposal in front of the general body for approval,” he said.Hemant Rasne, chairman of the standing committee, said, “As all parties supported the scheme, it is clear that the general body will approve it.”Pawaskar said, “The fee is less to regularise the water connections. It depends on the size of the pipe for the water connection. Even the rates are different for commercial and residential use of the water.”The officers from the water department said on anonymity, “Citizens have already started inquiry for the scheme. We are expecting that this time the elected members themselves will appeal to the citizens to regularise the water connections. They will also benefit from the 24x7 water scheme. Even as it is an official scheme, there are no chances to take any action for illegal water connection.”Maximum defaulters are from government offices, which include BSNL, Railways, and many central government officials. PMC has appointed special officers to collect dues from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amnesty-scheme-to-regularise-illegal-water-connections-in-pune-to-commence-in-15-days-101625568615292.html
06-07-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: A mobility forum for women, by women||Anita used to walk to school. After Class 10, when she got admission to a junior college about 12km away, her family’s first thought was how will she travel every day? Fortunately, they found at least one direct bus route from a bus stop just 300 metres away, and several possibilities involving one change. Anita and her mother checked out the bus and were happy to find it a workable option. Sadly, this is not the case for a large number of children, women, and the elderly in Pune. Travel modes and patterns of men and women are different. Many more women walk to work as compared to men. The top reasons that women and elderly people use cycles are convenience and affordability. Women are much more likely to use sustainable modes – walk, cycle, public bus, shared rickshaws – but often face an unsafe, unfriendly road environment and inconvenient services. This is the case in many other cities too. For example, Shriya Khelurkar, studying urban planning at CEPT University, in her research at Ahmedabad found that some girls could not continue their studies, while women found it difficult to travel for work, as it was not easy to even reach the bus stop. No first- or last-mile connectivity, lack of street lights, lack of footpaths, and presence of gambling dens due to a lack of jobs made the journey a daily battle.Long waiting times, lack of proper shelters at bus stops, poor road conditions, aggressive traffic, lack of street lights, and harassment are some very common and yet unaddressed issues that a majority of women face. The only concession made for women, of reserving the left side in buses for them, has often met with hostility and non-cooperative attitudes among staff and male commuters, but is a step in the right direction. Unsafe and inadequate transport means that women and girls have fewer opportunities for education and livelihoods! In 2013, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) prepared a framework for a women-friendly city with the help of the All India Institute of Local Self Government. It details out a number of improvements towards safety, education, health, culture, transportation, water, sanitation, informal sector and housing which all influence women’s everyday lives. Years have passed since then. An online discussion last week with women leaders, activists and professionals emphasised taking women’s safety and mobility up a few notches in Pune. Kiran Moghe, president of Pune Zilha Gharkamgar Sanghatana, who was part of this exercise for gender-sensitive planning in Pune said, “The report was an important step, but we need to see implementation.” “The transport sector and services are typically planned in a gender-neutral way, with little consideration for the specific needs of women,” said Pranjali Deshpande, a transport planner. Lakshmi Narayan from Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat, felt that, “Pune should be a city that is conducive for women as commuters, of course. But, we would also like women as drivers, operators, managers, designers and decision-makers in the movement of people, services and goods in the city.” It is clear, Pune needs a “mobility forum for women, by women”. Such thinking resonates with a new report by the Kerala Government with support from GIZ which recognizes that reforms in public transport must integrate a gender orientation. The formation of metropolitan transport authorities, using technology for data collection and analysis, and moving to electric buses, should help focus attention on and respond to women’s specific travel and safety needs, the report suggests. Women’s participation in the transport sector in different ways is key to develop a conducive environment for women working in the sector and for women as users. The leadership of women corporators would be necessary to ensure each ward has a participatory assessment and action for women’s safety and mobility. Women corporators would need to assert themselves and ensure that municipal budgets and programmes, the public bus service and other transport facilities, and the police, become responsive to gender and mobility concerns. Will Pune’s political parties step up? We would like to see election manifestos present the vision for how Pune can be a city where women and girls have safe, comfortable, convenient and affordable mobility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-a-mobility-forum-for-women-by-women-101625568135624.html
06-07-2021||Other||Crowdfunding raises ₹18 crore to treat Kerala child with rare genetic disorder||In a massive crowdfunding drive, people raised ₹18 crore in Kerala’s Kannur within seven days for an 18-month-old child, suffering from muscular atrophy – a rare genetic disorder that causes degeneration of muscles.The MIMS Hospital in Kozhikode suggested that Mohammed should be administered a dose of Zolgensma, which is one of the costliest drugs in the world. His 15-year-old sister, Afra, who is also suffering from the same disease and is being treated at the MIMS Hospital, is paralysed below the waist due to delay in diagnosis and treatment, according to reports.The treatment committee led by MLA M Vijin appealed to the public to crowdfund for the treatment of Mohammed. Afra had also put up a video of her sitting on her wheelchair, seeking help to buy the world’s most expensive medicine, which has to be imported from the US. The video was reportedly aired by several news channels. Contributions for Mohammed’s treatment came in from around the world.On Monday, the committee informed that they received more than ₹18 crore and asked people to not donate anymore. The committee has also petitioned the state government to initiate the procedure of obtaining the medicine from the US, news agency PTI reported.According to the doctors at MIMS Hospital, Mohammed’s disorder can be treated if he is administered the medicine before turning two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crowdfunding-raises-18-crore-to-treat-kerala-child-with-rare-genetic-disorder-101625567124990.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Caught off guard, taking the interviewer for a ride||It was a chilly morning of the early ’70s. Standing at the Ambala railway station with a lit cigarette in hand, I was waiting anxiously for a train to Hisar. It was a different world then. You could conveniently smoke on a crowded platform, but it was not convenient to reserve a seat on a train. I wanted to reach Hisar that evening. The next day, there was an interview for the post of lecturer in English at CRM Jat College that I desperately wanted to attend. With an air of despondence, I was looking at the crowded trains entering the platform, stopping to disgorge a mass of people, and then departing after sucking more of them. I was wondering whether I would get a toehold on my train. But what happened next was no less than a miracle. The train for Hisar arrived and I was pushed by a crowd into a compartment. A gentleman occupying a window seat gestured me towards the seat facing him. Perhaps, it had been vacated by the person who had come to see him off. I sat depositing my airbag beneath the seat, heaved a sigh of relief and then regarded my benefactor. He was an elderly man with a suave, clean-shaven face and bright eyes shining from behind the rimless spectacles, an air of sophistication around him. Wrapped in a spotlessly clean white shawl, he could be a political bigwig or a highly placed bureaucrat. Our conversation took off from my expression of gratitude and telling him how important this travel was for me. I told him about my interview the next day. Some people are such avid listeners that you tend to talk your heart out before them. He was such a person, listening to me intently with a genial appreciative smile, punctuating my narrative with appreciative “Really so?” or “Oh! That’s great!” and the like. At one place, he asked, “So you must have prepared hard for this interview?” I told him that I had been appearing for such interviews for a while after my post-graduation and I had developed a technique of my own. “Now I know how to take the expert interviewer for a ride,” I said with a boastful grin. “He will surely ask what my favourite field in literature is. I shall declare it’s modern fiction. Then the next question will naturally be who my best-loved author is. Thus, we shall reach Aldous Huxley, which is my cherished territory! I have read the synopses of all his works with notes and commentaries.” Throughout the journey, my companion cautiously evaded my questions regarding his identity or whereabouts by changing the topic or by simply ignoring me. I lost him in the crowd when we got down at Hisar without having any chance to say a proper goodbye. The next morning, I was sitting before a panel of a five-member interview board. It was a prestigious college with a reputation for fair selection of lecturers. Just satisfy the expert at the interview and you will be in, I was told. The centrally seated chairman asked me a few questions about my antecedents and handed me over to the person sitting on the left edge of the table, “Your witness, Mr, Bombwall!” I turned left to face Mr Bombwall and was shell-shocked. He was the man I met on the train the day before. He was wearing a well-tailored business suit instead of a white shawl and his bright eyes were laughing silently behind the rimless specs. A mocking smile curled round his lips when he addressed me, “So Mr Parmar, let us cut it short and start directly with Aldous Huxley. I’m ready for the ride.” Anyway, I was selected for the post. The man on the train, Mr KR Bombwall, turned out to be an angel of a person. I found out later that he was a consummate scholar and noted educationist of Haryana. parmar.ranbir@gmail.com The writer is a Shimla-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/caught-off-guard-taking-the-interviewer-for-a-ride-101625567414915.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||After Mumbai, cases of Avascular Necrosis reported in Delhi||After three cases of Avascular Necrosis (AVN) were reportedly detected in Mumbai among patients who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), three separate cases have been found in Delhi's BLK Super Specialty Hospital as well.Also Read: After black fungus, 3 avascular necrosis cases seen in Covid-recovered patientsThe patients detected with Avascular Necrosis in Delhi are in the age group of 32 to 40 years and of them two are under medication, while one had to undergo surgery."AVN is a post-Covid sequelae. Like other post-Covid ailments, recently we are seeing Avascular Necrosis of the femoral head in the bone and joint segment. This is because of steroids used in the treatment of Covid-19. This is not an immediate effect and it might take between three months to one year to show effects of steroids in joints," Dr Ishwar Bohra of BLK Institute for Bone said.In the backdrop of these cases, experts have warned against neglecting joint pains, especially those in the shoulder and the hip."Steroids soften the bone, but cartilage starts collapsing and reduces blood supply too. It is steroid-induced necrosis of bone," Dr Bohra further said, adding that the cost of operating on patients to treat AVN may range between ₹3-4 lakh.AVN, also known as osteonecrosis, is among various fungal infections seen among patients who recovered from Covid-19, the other being mucormycosis (black fungus), candida, along with common pain, breathing difficulties, hyperlipidemia, malaise, fatigue and hypertension. In it, a lack of blood supply leads to the death of bone tissue; a broken bone or a dislocated joint can interrupt the blood flow to a section of bone.The infection can lead to tiny breaks in the bone, eventually causing the bone to collapse.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-mumbai-cases-of-avascular-necrosis-reported-in-delhi-101625562735432.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police ex-DGP, prisons, Mohd Izhar Alam passes away||Mohammad Izhar Alam, 73, a former director general of police, prisons, died after a cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Mohali on Tuesday. He is survived by wife Farzana Nissara Khatoon, a former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Malerkotla, three sons and two daughters. Also read: New Himachal governor Rajendra Arlekar is 1st Goan to occupy the postThe 1972-batch Indian Police Service officer was a Padma Shri awardee. He had a controversial stint during the decade of militancy in Punjab. Despite opposition, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal inducted Alam into the SAD on November 18, 2009, and appointed him chairman of the Punjab Wakf Board. In the 2012 assembly elections, Farzana won the Malerkotla seat on the SAD ticket, defeating Razia Sultana of the Congress. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh also mourned the former DGP’s death. The last rites will be performed in Sirhind on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-ex-dgp-prisons-mohd-izhar-alam-passes-away-101625564654496.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal launches social security scheme for families affected by Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched the “Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana”, a social security scheme for families affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Kejriwal said the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana was launched as many children lost their parents and families lost their sole breadwinners to Covid-19.“India has seen two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. The first wave was in 2020 and the second was in April this year. But in Delhi, this was the fourth wave. Last year, the first wave hit Delhi in June, second in September and third in September. However, the fourth wave was extremely severe. There would be very few families which didn’t get infected during this wave,” Kejriwal said while addressing the launch event virtually.The scheme was notified by the Delhi government on June 22. Under it, an ex-gratia of ₹50,000 will be provided to families who have lost their loved ones to Covid-19. An additional pension of ₹2,500 per month if the deceased was the family’s sole breadwinner.The notification also stated that the deceased and the dependent should be from the national capital. “Death should be certified as Covid-19 death or death within one month of testing Covid positive and verified by the health department as Covid death,” it added.Kejriwal also pointed out on Tuesday that orphans, including those who lost one parent to Covid and the second parent due to any other reasons, will be given financial assistance of ₹2,500 per month till the time they attain the age of 25.Representatives will visit the homes of the affected families and help them in documentation work, he said.“I want to tell all such representatives not to conduct scrutiny of applications. If the families lack any document, we will help them obtain it. We have to make sure that we make this happen. Don’t find faults with their documents... don’t make them unhappy, encourage them,” the Delhi CM further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-launches-social-security-scheme-for-families-affected-by-covid19-101625561356677.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Young medics in the pandemic: Exhausted, overburdened and fearful||Since the pandemic struck, life has certainly turned topsy-turvy for one segment of frontline workers, that is, doctors. From working in shifts 24X7 to consoling the patients’ families, while putting their own lives as well as their families’ lives at risk, most docs have been doing it all. But this time has been especially challenging for the young medics, many of who started their careers right in the midst of the pandemic. And having overcome most of the challenges, what still pains them is the treatment that they are meted out, whenever a situation goes awry. Reportedly, in the recent most incident, two doctors from AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital were “teased” for “spreading corona”, and attacked by locals in Delhi’s Gautam Nagar area. But this is just one of the many cases of violence against doctors and other healthcare workers across the country. Dr Saif Ashraf, who works at Hindu Rao Hospital’s surgery department, says, “I’ve always been someone who likes to keep my work arena fun no matter how sad the situation gets. But this one day, during my shift at the Covid isolation ward, I had three critical patients. One moment I was sitting there sweating in my PPE kit, and the next moment I was trying to revive a crashing patient, who unfortunately couldn’t make it.” Recalling the subsequent horrifying incident, he adds: “What followed was a distressing encounter with the patient’s attendants who came in howling, blaming me for the death! They had to be calmed down. But in the very next moment I had to rush to another patient who had started gasping, and I couldn’t save her either. I remember crying in my suit at that very moment... What people don’t realise often is that we (doctors, nursing staff, ward boys and other healthcare workers) are also emotional beings, who are somehow getting up every day with positivity, risking their own lives, and dragging their bodily limits until it reaches the brim of tolerance.”“They make it seem like we are in the midst of a war and that we are the ones who can help save lives and then suddenly the narrative takes a heartbreaking turn and we are the villains!” states Dr Diksha, who works in Respiratory Medicine at Safdarjung Hospital. She feels that young Covid warriors need a proper redressal for their concerns and the masses in general need to be sympathetic to the cause of the doctors who are burning the midnight oil to serve the patients even now when the situation seems quite ‘normal’. “It’s a vicious loop. The relatives get agitated when a doctor doesn’t respond to their queries, and the doctor is hesitant because of the incidents happening around, which could make him or her end up with the same fate as their peers. The doctors are unable to dispel even half of the rumours that are abuzz in the public domain because we cannot drag you from your homes to give a treatment; the patients have to come and seek it! We cannot run around telling people that we aren’t the villains of their story. Actually, we are at the lowest step of the hierarchy of people who are making all the decisions, yet we are bearing the brunt of it all,” she adds.The Capital has started to breathe easy due to the respite from the scary second wave that jolted most. But, the young doctors in the Capital, many of who started their careers with intensive Covid-19 duties, confess that they are feeling exhausted, overburdened, and continue to work in fear of being attacked whenever things go wrong. Overcoming the grief and chaos, these young medics are also struggling to deal with the anxiety of an impending third wave. “It’s so disheartening to see the morale in the hospitals. We are doing 36 hour shifts! There is stress, pain and concern all around yet doctors have continued to serve even while dealing with their personal losses, non-payment of salaries at various hospitals, and not to forget the strenuously long working hours,” says Dr Noopur Gupta, a post graduate resident in ENT at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. She informs how treating cases of mucormycosis or black fungus turned their work into a war scale fight, and adds, “When we had started out, we were showered with praises. But soon after we had to face the scorn of people whose family members could not be saved. We are young, we are working harder than we possibly can, and doing all this only to see our patients recover. But now, we need to address the stress that the medical professionals are reeling under, and not be casual about it, else a third wave wouldn’t be far behind!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/young-medics-in-the-pandemic-exhausted-overburdened-and-fearful-101625559381863.html
06-07-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy’s wife Krishna dies of post-Covid complications in Chennai hospital||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy’s wife Krishna died at a hospital in Chennai on Tuesday morning. She was suffering from post-Covid-complications. She is survived by her husband and son Subhranshu Roy. She was admitted in a private hospital in Kolkata in May, before being shifted to a hospital in Chennai where she died around 4.30am. Also Read | Pranab Mukherjee’s son joins TMC, lauds Mamata for ‘stopping BJP’West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her condolences. Her nephew Abhishek Banerjee had visited the Kolkata hospital when Krishna Roy was admitted there. Mukul Roy, one of the founding members of the TMC, returned to the party this June after leaving it for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2017 where he became a vice-president. His son joined BJP in 2019. In June, both of them returned to TMC. Mukul Roy won the assembly elections from Krishnanagar Uttar constituency on a BJP ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-s-wife-krishna-dies-of-post-covid-complications-in-chennai-hospital-101625556734352.html
06-07-2021||Kolkata||Most buses remain off the roads in Bengal despite easing of Covid-19 curbs||West Bengal eased Covid-19 restrictions by allowing public transportation services from July 1, but over 95% of the private buses have remained off the roads amid demands for an increase in fares, transporters said. Transporters associations have demanded the increase saying it is needed to cope up with the losses because of the rising fuel prices. But the state government has asked them to first begin their operations before the demand is considered.“There are around 42,000 private buses in West Bengal. Around 7,000 of them ply in and around Kolkata. Only 3%-5% are plying despite the government relaxing Covid-19 restrictions because of the huge losses the bus owners are suffering,” said Tapan Banerjee, general secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.The government allowed government and private buses to ply from July 1 with 50% of the seating capacity as private and government offices, shops and markets began reopening.Also Read | Ration scheme in all states soon, says Centre“We have not asked any bus owner not to operate the buses neither can we force anyone to hit the roads. Bus owners are suffering heavy losses as the state government has not increased the fares. The fares were hiked for the last time in September 2018,” said Subrata Ghosh, honorary secretary of Bengal Bus Syndicate, one of the major bus owners’ associations in Kolkata.Bus owners said that fuel prices and costs of other items including spare parts have shot up several times.On Tuesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to slash the taxes on fuel. She said fuel prices have been increased at least eight times since five assembly election results were declared on May 2. In June, fuel prices were increased six times.State transport minister Firhad Hakim, who met bus owners on Monday, said they have requested the associations to operate the buses. “The committee on fares has sent some recommendations to us. The government would consider them. But first, they (bus owners) need to hit the roads. People are facing a lot of harassment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/most-buses-remain-off-the-roads-in-bengal-despite-easing-of-covid-19-curbs-101625555654032.html
06-07-2021||Patna||At least 170 people take ill after consuming prasad in Bihar’s Munger district||At least 170 people took ill due to suspected food poisoning in Kothwan village in Munger district of Bihar late on Monday. Sources in the district administration said more than 250 people were invited to the house of one Mahesh Koda for Satyanarayan Katha on Monday evening. After consuming the prasad, most of the villagers complained of an upset stomach, dizziness and vomiting. As the number grew, the district administration alerted the civil surgeon who sent a team comprising two doctors, six paramedical staff and three ambulances to attend to the patients at around 11pm. Also Read | At least 500 take ill after consuming buckwheat flourMunger district magistrate Navin Kumar said most of those who took ill were fine after being given medication. Dr NK Mehta, who treated the villagers said of the 170 people, 80 are still under treatment and everyone was out of danger. Civil surgeon Dr Harendra Kumar Alok said 15 persons were admitted to the nearby community health centre (Dharhara) as a precautionary measure as they showed symptoms of dehydration. “It was only a preventive move and all of them are recovering fast. All of them will be discharged by Tuesday evening,” he said. Citing police and health department officials, Dr Alok said the charnamrit [prasad comprising milk] served after the Katha could have been contaminated, leading to the illness. Samples of the prasad were seized and sent to the laboratory for examination, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/at-least-170-people-take-ill-after-consuming-prasad-in-bihar-s-munger-district-101625554934063.html
06-07-2021||Patna||Forest guard shot dead in Bihar’s Purnia||Armed men shot dead a forest guard near Kath Pool under the jurisdiction of Kasba police station late Monday. He was returning home when the incident took place. Residents of the area blocked NH-57 for two hours to protest the incident and demanded immediate arrest of the killers.The forest guard was identified as Arun Yadav, 45. The incident took place around 10pm on Monday.Soon after locals heard the gunshot, they rushed to the site and found Yadav dead. They immediately phoned local police and rushed him to the district hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.Locals blocked the NH-57 for about two hours demanding the immediate arrest of the killers. Later, they agreed to lift the blockade after sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Anand Kumar Pandey assured them of justice to the victim’s family.Pandey said, “We are recording the statement of the family members of the victim and soon we’ll arrest the criminals soon.” Meanwhile the body has been sent for postmortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/forest-guard-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-purnia-101625554693998.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Want to feel normal again: Denizens queue up @restaurants||In the current stage of unlock, one thing seems to bind the residents of Delhi-NCR, and that is food served at the restaurant! Many are heading back to their favourite eateries, rather than opting for home delivery, so as to treat themselves some yummy delicacies alongside enjoying an outdoor experience. Despite the scorching heat, they don’t seem to mind waiting in queues, to get a table at their preferred food joint, where they have missed going during the recent lockdown. Be it Khan Market, Connaught Place or CyberHub, the view is the same almost everywhere. And. the management of these places are leaving no stone unturned to make it a safe outing for their patrons.Lohit Bharadwaj, an IT professional, didn’t mind Delhi’s searing heat to try hi favourite cuisine. He says: “The food at some places in CP is amazing, and that’s why I don’t mind waiting for it. It’s very hot and it’s indeed tough to wait, but since the food will be rewarding, I’m only thinking about it. One of my favourite restaurants is here, and I was waiting to try the variety they serve.”Manjari Purwar, a dietician and nutritionist, adds: “We had been waiting to come here, and we are surely going to enjoy our meal... It has been a tough time for all of us. Everyone is adjusting to the new normal, but it’s very boring to be at home all the time. The government is taking good precautions and we’re feeling more confident in stepping out now.”Feeling refreshed at the sight of his fave place, Ashish Roy, a banker from Malviya Nagar, says: “We want to feel like things are normal again which is why we came here today. We are happy and are already feeling refreshed. We know that the restaurants are taking precautions. We love the food here and we are so thrilled to be back.”Shipra Tomar, a fashion student from Ghaziabad was eagerly waiting to revisit her favourite restaurant. And the wish was fulfilled. “Waiting time here in Khan is more than an hour! Yet, we’ve been waiting eagerly at one of our favourite restaurants; we checked its other branch in Saket and there too, there was a waiting of 90 minutes. Ab toh yahin wait karenge, and will go in for lunch,” she says. Aurindam Mukherjee, a digital advertising professional, who ventured out after a really long time with his wife at CyberHub, says: “We went out after February 2020 on a Sunday. Although we did go out in September but that was an outdoor cafe and we were absolutely paranoid. This time around, after getting our first vaccine and ensuring to be home for three weeks for antibodies to be developed, we figured it was time to be less anxious and go out and do the things we loved. In a couple of restaurants we went to, the seating was occupied at 50% and though the staff were regularly sanitizing their hands, and were fully masked, some of the restaurants we didn’t go to were completely packed with families waiting to get inside.”Megha Bhowmik, a digital marketing executive, who too went out after four months, says: “We have our masks matching with our dresses. This is the new normal! And accepting to start living with it, we’ve come to our fave joint in CyberHub. I feel here in Gurugram, it’s quite safe.” Echoing similar sentiments, Gurugram-based CA Aman Gupta, was thrilled to be back with friends. He adds: “We were planning to meet since long time. But due to Covid-19 situation, we weren’t able to. The sanitation process at Cyber Hub was really good. I am feeling relaxed after a long time, thanks to this outing.”Sarthak, a Noida-based Banker, had a tough time looking for a place to eat at CyberHub, and was unable to find a table around 8:30pm. “Hume table hi nahin mil rahi. Dhoondh rahe hain bahut der se, because 50% capacity hi allowed hai sab restaurants mein yahan CyberHub mein. But if that’s how everything is to be conducted, to follow all social distancing norms, then why not; it’s Ok to wait. We’ve to come out a little bit,” he shares. Author tweets @anjuri and @nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/want-to-feel-normal-again-denizens-queue-up-restaurants-101625553586290.html
06-07-2021||Other||Another elephant dies of herpes at Kerala jumbo centre||Another elephant succumbed to herpes at Kerala’s Kottur Elephant Rehabilitation Centre on Tuesday, officials said and added two other calves have been infected and prompted them to quarantine other animals and their keepers to check the spread of the disease there.Herpes viruses can infect a wide range of animals including Asian elephants and cause sores and fever blisters.On June 28, Sreekutty, a 19-month-old calf, was the first to succumb to the disease at the centre, which houses 16 elephants including 10 calves. Officials said an epidemiology study was underway to find out the source of the infection. An expert team has been constituted to deal with the infection, they added.State animal husbandry minister J Chinchu Rani said they are closely watching the situation and that experts were camping at the centre to contain the spread and save the lives of other elephants. Officials said animals and keepers, who have been quarantined, were being administered anti-viral drugs.Also Read | Kerala man hits the jackpot in Dubai, wins ₹40 croreA major tourist attraction, the centre has been closed for visitors for over a year now because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, two mahouts and two other workers at the Centre were tested positive for Covid-19. They have since recovered.Authorities are planning to develop Kottur, 35 km away from the state capital, into a mini “jumbo township” with an elephant museum, mahout training centre, a super-speciality hospital, a retirement home and crematorium for pachyderms on the lines of Pinnawala Elephant Orphanage in Sri Lanka. Once fully operational, the elephants will be set free in 65 hectares of forest land surrounded by trenches, said officials.Usually abandoned and injured animals are admitted to the centre. The forest department can also bring captive elephants, which are often ill-treated and overworked by their owners and admit them there. According to the last elephant census, the state has 507 captive jumbos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-elephant-dies-of-herpes-at-kerala-jumbo-centre-101625553074076.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway to run 72 special trains during Ganesh Chaturthi. Check timings||The Central Railway has decided to run 72 special trains on the route between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Panvel, Sawantwadi Road and Ratnagiri in order to clear the extra rush of passengers ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Maharashtra, one of the biggest festivals of the state.The Central Railway said that these special 72 trains will comprise one AC-2 tier cum AC-3 tier, four AC-3 tiers, 11 sleeper classes, and six second class seating. Bookings for the trains that will have special charges will begin from July 8 onwards on the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website as well as at all Passenger Railway System (PRS) centres.Here is a list of these special trains:1. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Sawantwadi Road Daily Special (36 trips)The 01227 special train will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 12.20 am daily and reach Sawantwadi Road at 2pm on the same from September 5-22, 2021. For the return journey, the 01228 special train will leave Sawantwadi Road at 2.40pm daily and arrive at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 4.35am the next day during the same timeline.These trains will have halts in Dadar, Thane, Panvel, Roha, Adavali, Kankavali, and Ratnagiri, among others.2. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Ratnagiri Bi-weekly Special (10 trips)The 01229 bi-weekly special train will depart from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus every Monday and Friday at 1.10pm and arrive at Ratnagiri at 10.35pm on the same day from September 6-20, 2021. The return 01230 bi-weekly special train will leave Ratnagiri every Sunday and Thursday at 11.30pm and reach Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 8.20am the next day during the same timeline.These trains will have halts in Panvel, Roha, Mangaon, Veery, and Khed, among others. However, only the 01229 special train will halt in Dadar and Thane.3. Panvel-Sawantwadi Road tri-weekly Special (16 trips)The 01231 tri-weekly special train will leave Panvel every Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday at 8am and arrive at Sawantwadi Road at 8pm the same day from September 7-22, 2021. The return 01232 tri-weekly special train will leave Sawantwadi Road every Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday at 8.45pm and arrive at Panvel at 7.10am the next day during the same timeline.These trains will have halts in Roha, Veer, Khed, Sawarda. Aravali Road, and Kankavali, among others.4. Panvel-Ratnagiri bi-weekly special (10 trips)The 01233 bi-weekly special train will depart from Panvel every Thursday and Sunday at 8am and reach Ratnagiri at 3.40pm the same day from September 9-23, 2021. The return 01234 bi-weekly special train will leave Ratnagiri every Monday and Friday at 11.30pm and arrive at Panvel at 6am the next day during the same timeline.These trains will have halts in Roha, Mangaon, Veer, Khed, Sawarda, Chilpun, Aravali Road, and Sangameshwar Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-railway-to-run-72-special-trains-during-ganesh-chaturthi-check-timings-101625550575544.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama turns 86 amid low-key celebrations during pandemic||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama turned 86 on Tuesday amid low-key celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The kashag (cabinet) of the Tibetan government-in-exile in McLeodganj held a small celebration at its headquarters, while all monasteries and settlements were directed to avoid congregations and instead mark the day by offering mandala and white scarves to the spiritual leader’s portrait. Also read: Dalai Lama’s birthday: Facts about the Tibetan spiritual leaderThe Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, was born at Taktser, a hamlet in Tibet’s Amdo province’s Kumbum region on this day in 1935 as Lhamo Dhondub. He was recognised as the reincarnation of the 13th Dalai Lama at the age of two. The Chinese invasion and subsequent circumstances compelled the then 16-year-old to shoulder the spiritual and temporal leadership of Tibet in 1950. Six decades ago, he escaped to India in 1959 after a failed uprising against Chinese rule. He spent a year in Mussoorie before shifting to McLeodganj. Expresses gratitude for love, respect and trust In a video message on his birthday, the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize winner described himself as just another human being who wants to express “deep appreciation and thanks to the people who have shown me love, respect and trust”. “In spite of my old age, my face is quite handsome and many people show genuine friendship. Some say they love my smile,” he said, chuckling. The spiritual leader said that he would remain committed to serving humanity and protecting the environment. Appreciates India’s secular values He said since he became a refugee and settled down in India, he has valued the freedom and religious harmony in India. “I appreciate India’s concept of secular values, not dependent on religion but honesty, karuna (compassion) and ahimsa (non-violence),” said the Dalai Lama. I am committed to these principles till my death, he said, and it would be a birthday gift for me, if all friends, brothers and sisters also commit themselves to these values. Can reorient Sino-Tibetan history: Kashag The kashag paid tributes to the spiritual leader, describing him as the founder of nascent Tibetan democracy-in-exile and for his efforts for the peaceful resolution of the Tibet issue. “The Dalai Lama is one of the foremost guides of our time and is one of the few individuals who can reorient Sino-Tibetan history in a positive direction,” the kashag said in a statement. It said the Chinese government should, therefore, recognise that he is the key to resolving the Sino-Tibetan conflict. “It should use this opportunity offered by taking the mutually beneficial middle path to foster a harmonious environment where Tibetans and Chinese can co-exist amicably,” it said. We appeal to the Chinese government to invite the Dalai Lama to Tibet and China on pilgrimage without any preconditions, the kashag said. The Dalai Lama has expressed his wish to return to Tibet and visit the sacred Buddhist sites in China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalai-lama-turns-86-amid-low-key-celebrations-during-pandemic-101625550854015.html
06-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka gets back to normal as lockdown lifted||Karnataka has been rather swift in getting itself back to the pre-Covid time as normal life has been restored to normalcy owing to the lifting of lockdown in the state, reported Asianet Kannada. However, lockdown restrictions are yet to be eased for pubs, schools and cinema theatres and according to the government, these will take some time to open.Following the lifting of lockdown, markets are brimming with people. The Yeshwantpur regulated market has come back to its usual hustle. Stocks of vegetables, staples, fruits and many other essentials are traded mostly during the day on Mondays and in the early morning on Tuesdays. The Krishnaraja Market, Russel Market and Johnson Market are operating to their fullest extent.After the temples opened their doors to devotees, shops dealing in flowers and few other things have also reopened. Public offices opened fully with 100 per cent attendance. However, those officials who were found to be positive were allowed to continue working from home or even given full leave of absence.Since it was the first day in the last three months when traffic opened fully, many cities in the state experienced traffic jams. Many places in Bengaluru, including K R Market, Chamarajapet, Kalasipalayam witnessed traffic snarls. Roads of Mangaluru, Mysuru and Belagavi were also teeming with motorists.However, experts are wary of the emerging situation and have conveyed their warnings to the government. They fear that over-enthusiasm and complacency among people after lockdown might give rise to the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. People were found to be going about their daily work without wearing masks or maintaining social distance.City bus service in Mangaluru was seen carrying people at full capacity of the vehicles, with no regard to Covid appropriate behaviour or safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-gets-back-to-normal-as-lockdown-lifted-101625550156455.html
06-07-2021||Other||Fire breaks out near Prabhat Talkies in Thane||A minor fire broke out in two electronic shops at Jaijawan market, near Prabhat Talkies, Thane railway station road, on Tuesday morning. A fire brigade team reached the spot and controlled the situation within half an hour. According to officials, the two electronic shops Gitesh Electronics and FMC Mobiles are adjacent to each other and there was electrical sparking in one of the shops, which lead to fire at around 9am on Tuesday. An investigation is still going on. Thane nagar police officer said, “Regional Disaster Management Cell, fire brigade reached site with one fire engine and one water tanker at 9am. Within half an hour, everything was under control. No casualty, no injury was reported during the process. Also the shops were closed and other passersby reported fire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-breaks-out-near-prabhat-talkies-in-thane-101625549353938.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal ex-CM Virbhadra Singh suffers cardiac arrest, in ICU||The health condition of veteran Congress leader and six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh deteriorated after he suffered a cardiac arrest on Monday night. Also read: India reports 34,703 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in nearly four monthsThe 87-year-old leader has been shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and is on ventilator support. “His condition is critical but stable,” said Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj Pakhretia. Hospitalised since April 23, he fought two Covid bouts Virbhadra Singh is under treatment at IGMC since April 23. He was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection on April 13 and was taken to Max Hospital in Mohali. He was discharged on April 23 but on his arrival in Shimla, he developed breathing difficulty and was admitted to IGMC. He contracted the coronavirus infection in the hospital on June 11 and fought off the disease again. Nine-time MLA and five-time MP Virbhadra Singh, who is a nine-time MLA and five-time member of Parliament, was Himachal Pradesh’s chief minister for six terms. At present, he represents Arki constituency in Solan district in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-ex-cm-virbhadra-singh-suffers-cardiac-arrest-in-icu-101625548513596.html
06-07-2021||Other||Top police officer suspended in Chhattisgarh over alleged disproportionate assets||The Chhattisgarh government has suspended Indian Police Service officer GP Singh four days after the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) raided his premises in connection with a disproportionate assets case, officials said on Tuesday. Singh has been asked to report to the police headquarters in Raipur.The three-day searches were conducted at around 15 locations linked to Singh, an additional director general-rank officer, from July 1 to July 3. Singh allegedly owns movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore.Also Read | State not suffering, says C’garh health minister amid reports of rift with CM“After a preliminary probe into complaints against Singh for allegedly amassing disproportionate assets during his service period, the EOW registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act. He seems to be involved in activities that are not expected from a government official. Singh’s alleged act is against the All-India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. Therefore, disciplinary action should be taken against him,” said the suspension order issued on Monday.The ACB on July 3 said the documents seized during searches at Singh’s premises established he allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known source of income and indulged in “a massive exchange of money”.“Singh also allegedly tried to commit money laundering by investing in shell companies,” the ACB said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/top-police-officer-suspended-in-chhattisgarh-over-alleged-disproportionate-assets-101625547073879.html
06-07-2021||Lucknow||BJP sets sight on UP block pramukh polls this weekend||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh has relaxed some of its rules for party members for the block pramukh polls scheduled for this weekend.The July 10 elections are the last of the rural polls before the 2022 UP assembly elections, and the candidates have to be nominated by July 8. “We are a party that is always poll-ready,” said UP BJP general secretary JPS Rathore who was in charge of zila panchayat polls that the party swept recently, and is also entrusted with block pramukh elections. Like the zila panchayat chairpersons’ poll, in which BJP won 67 of the total 75 seats [including one seat won by its ally Apna Dal], these polls too won’t have a direct public participation as elected block development council (BDC) members will elect the block pramukh. There are 58,000 gram panchayats in UP and each block comprises roughly 70 gram panchayats, an official said. Nearly 77,000 BDC members would vote for 825 of the 826 block pramukhs (block chairpersons) coming Saturday. The election for the pramukh’s post in Mujhena block in Gonda district will not be held yet, as more than six months are left for the tenure to get completed there. For these elections, the BJP has decided to let party lawmakers or their families contest block pramukh polls. During the zila panchayat elections, party functionaries were allowed to contest only after quitting party posts. “There is no bar on candidates anymore. If an MLA wants to project their family for block pramukh polls, we will not have a problem. However, preference would be first given to party cadres,” Rathore said. In the recently concluded zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls, Opposition parties had alleged massive malpractices and misuse of official machinery, a charge that the BJP rejected. “These block pramukh polls have their importance in an election year for political parties. Riding on its recent success in zila panchayat chairperson polls, the BJP would surely look to continue to expand its rural imprint. The Opposition Samajwadi Party, which did well in elections for the zila panchayat ward members, would also look to make an impression,” said Professor Manuka Khanna, head of the political science department of Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-sets-sight-on-up-block-pramukh-polls-this-weekend-101625546173864.html
06-07-2021||Other||Odisha records highest single-day vaccination||Odisha on Monday administered over 40,00,00 Covid-19 vaccine doses, surpassing its previous high of 33,20,00 on June 21, officials said. The doses on Monday were administered across 1,735 centres and nearly half of them were given to people in the 18-44 age group, they added. On Monday, the state also achieved another milestone by administering the first doses to at least 10 million.“Many congratulations to our health team and to the citizens of Odisha who made it possible,” the state health department tweeted. The state has over 30 million people in the 18+ age group, who are eligible for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-records-highest-single-day-vaccination-101625545874150.html
06-07-2021||Patna||Pvt centres in Bihar concerned about charging for Covid vaccine while govt jabs free||Private healthcare facilities are shying away from participating in the government’s Covid-19 vaccination drive in the absence of clarity on the return of unused vaccine vials. Meanwhile, the government wants private players to buy the vaccines and charge a fee from beneficiaries, while administering the doses free of cost at its own centres. Amid uncertainty of footfall and no return policy, most private hospitals are now cagey about blocking their money by paying upfront for bulk order of vaccines. “We have placed an initial order for limited 50 doses or five vials of Covishield because we are not sure about their consumption, given the fact that the jabs are free at government centres while private centres like ours will charge fee from the beneficiaries who come for inoculation,” said Dr Shaswat Kumar, medical director of the Medipark Healthcare Pvt Ltd in New Patliputra Colony, Patna. Also Read | No clinical trial of Covaxin on children as of now: BMC“We had inoculated around 10,000 beneficiaries between February and April when the government was supplying us the vaccines free of cost. Later, it changed the policy (on May 1), and made the vaccines chargeable at private centres. Enquiries for vaccination at our facility have reduced since then,” added Dr Kumar. The Netaji Subhash Medical College Hospital (NSMCH) at Bihta had also ordered only 50 doses of Covishield on a trial basis. “We ordered a small quantity of vaccines because of some confusion as the government authorities told us that the indent required to be placed was only for the last four days of June. The supply is already delayed. We are ready to place fresh orders of over 500 doses for July. We will, however, appreciate if the government comes out with a return policy for unused vials of vaccine, which otherwise dissuades us from placing bulk orders,” said Dr Uday Kumar, medical superintendent of the NSMCH and former principal of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, an autonomous institute under the government of Bihar. The Mahavir Vaatsalya hospital and the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, run by the Mahavir temple trust in Patna, had placed orders for Covishield 100 doses each. The nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination at the Mahavir Vaatsalya hospital Dr Upendra Prasad Sinha was critical of the government frequently changing its policy. “If the government wanted to put a cap on the minimum order for vaccines, it should have told us earlier. Why did they accept our advance payment towards the end of June and come up with fresh guidelines by July 3. Revising our order will lead to further delay in arrival of vaccines. There is no clarity on return of unused vaccine vials either,” said Dr Sinha. The SS Hospital in Patna had placed an order for 10 doses of Covishield, which is just one vial of the vaccine. A senior functionary of the BIG Apollo hospital was critical of the frequent changes in the vaccine policy and the delay on the part of the state government in allotment of coronavirus vaccine centre (CVC) identity number. The hospital has purchased vaccines through its corporate office in Hyderabad and was inoculating people for a fee, which the government had capped at a maximum price per dose of ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin and ₹1,145 for Suptnik V. Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, said in light of the revised guidelines, private players seeking a low number of doses will be asked to revise their order. The government, last Saturday, revised the vaccine procurement guidelines for the third time in as many months, specifying the minimum consignment size for dispatch of vaccines. As per the new rules, each private facility, empanelled for vaccination with the state government or the Union territory, has to order minimum 500 doses of Covishield and 160 doses of Covaxin. Similarly, a vaccine consignment has to be of minimum 6,000 doses of Covishield and 2,880 doses of Covaxin for dispatch to the state government, said Kumar. A senior government officer, handling vaccination, said the Central government order was silent on the return policy of unused vaccine vials. Amid uncertainty, only 10 of the 76 private health facilities empanelled with the state government for Covid-19 vaccination had so far paid in advance for cumulative 3,010 doses of vaccines, of which 2,660 doses were Covishield and 350 Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pvt-centres-in-bihar-concerned-about-charging-for-covid-vaccine-while-govt-jabs-free-101625545273592.html
06-07-2021||Other||Odisha man beaten, forced to drink urine for ‘practising sorcery’||A man was allegedly beaten up and forced to drink urine for allegedly practising sorcery in Odisha’s Bolangir district on Saturday. The matter came to light on Monday after a video of the incident went viral.Police said Hadibandhu Bagarti faced the accusation after a few people fell sick in his village and he was declared guilty at a meeting. On Saturday, a group of villagers dragged him out of his house and assaulted him with sticks before he was forced to drink urine. Bagarti was rushed to a hospital after his family informed the police.Also Read | Couple hacked to death in Aurangabad for ‘practising witchcraft’, 3 heldBolangir police superintendent P Nitin Kushalkar said two cases have been lodged and a few villagers have been detained.On Sunday, a 63-year-old widow in Mayurbhanj was murdered over allegedly practising witchcraft. Her headless body was found outside her village. “We have detained two people after lodging a case in this regard. More arrests are likely. Prima facie it looks like a case of murder over witchcraft though a detailed probe (is underway)...,” said Mayurbhanj police superintendent Smith Parmar.Last month, a man in Ganjam was beaten to death before he was forced to eat human excreta along with two others over suspicions of practising witchcraft. Police have arrested 14 persons in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-man-beaten-forced-to-drink-urine-for-practising-sorcery-101625543653414.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Parts of old Thane to face 24-hour water cut from 9am today||Some parts of old Thane will face a 24-hour water cuts on July 6 due to repair works on a pipeline. These includes areas of Naupada- Kopri ward where the work on Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme is in progress. A civic official informed, “The work on repair of the 600mm pipeline of water tank in Kanaiya Nagar in Kopri is undertaken. The water supply in the area will be shut from 9am on July 6 to 9am on July 7.”The shutdown will affect areas of Chendani Koliwada, Ramnagar, Natu Pranjpe Colony, Subhash Nagar, Anand Bharati Marg, Kumbarwada, Sawarkar Nagar, Swami Samarth Math, Walmiki Society, Shramdan Society and Patrakar society among others. The water supply will also be at low pressure in these areas for the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parts-of-old-thane-to-face-24-hour-water-cut-from-9am-today-101625543413560.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Bars to open till 3am, no crowd near vends in Delhi's new liquor policy||The Delhi government has made the city's new excise policy public. The details were uploaded on the government's website on Monday evening after a hearing on petition filed by liquor traders' association of the national capital.The petitioners had questioned the delay in uploading the document.The new policy aims to introduce sweeping changes in the city’s liquor business, clean up malpractices, and improve user experience.Here are the main highlights of the liquor policy approved by the Delhi government in May:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-new-liquor-policy-explained-in-10-points-101625540142694.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Mercury to soar this week as monsoon evades city||High temperatures are likely to continue in Delhi this week, as monsoon showers are expected to evade the city till at least July 10, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The IMD said on Monday that the monsoon showers are likely to advance in parts of northwest India, including Delhi, and the remaining parts of central India by July 10.Officials, however, said that while the city waits for rains, the temperatures in the national capital are expected to rise this week with the maximum temperature likely to remain above the 40-degrees Celsius mark. Officials said that the high humidity levels would also increase the “discomfort index” in the city. Discomfort index is gauged by the level of heat and humidity in a region.Also Read | These states may witness heavy rainfall from July 10: IMDThe IMD had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early.Delhi has received 43.6 mm rainfall against the normal of 75.7 mm so far -- a deficiency of 42%, since the monsoon season started on June 1.Central Delhi, which has got 89% less rainfall than normal, is the second-most rain-deficient district in India after Kistwar in Jammu and Kashmir.The maximum temperature in the national capital settled at 39.5°C. Hot weather continued to prevail in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab, with Gurugram sizzling at 41.8°C. The temperatures are expected to further rise in the region during the next 2-3 days. Gurugram, which recorded four notches above normal maximum temperature, was the hottest place in Haryana. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-mercury-to-soar-this-week-as-monsoon-evades-city-101625539993239.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Cong MLAs meet KC Venugopal, seek key role for Bhupinder Singh Hooda||On Monday, a group of MLAs from the Congress'; Haryana unit met party general secretary KC Venugopal, seeking a key position for former state chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and also a leadership change, news agency PTI reported. Hooda is currently serving as the leader of opposition (LoP) in the Haryana Assembly.The 22 MLAs met Venugopal at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters in Delhi on Monday. Of the total 31 MLAs in the state, majority are faithful to Hooda.After almost six years, the Haryana Congress is beginning with an organisational reshuffle.“We discussed organisational matters pertaining to the state unit as for many years district unit presidents have not been appointed… political situation in the state in the backdrop of ongoing farmers’ agitation, upcoming panchayat polls… all these issues were discussed,” MLA Kuldeep Vats said while addressing reporters on Monday, according to PTI.Four days back, 19 MLAs from Haryana met the state’s affairs in charge Vivek Bansal in the national capital on July 1, where they sought a strong leadership for the party and also pushed for a key role for Bhupinder Singh Hooda and a greater say in all organisational matters.Post the meeting, Bansal said the MLAs had not met for a long time due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and hence it was decided to take their feedback about the political situation in Haryana and also seek suggestions with regard to Congress’ organisation structure along with the upcoming panchayat elections.On the other hand, a senior Congress leader, who was a part of the July 1 meeting with Vivek Bansal , pointed out the MLAs requested for a change of leadership at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC)-level in order to strengthen the party.During both these meetings, the MLAs said the Congress has not had any district unit presidents for the last eight years.The fast paced developments in Haryana Congress come at a time when the party is facing infighting in neighbouring Punjab, where senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu is at loggerheads with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Singh will be meeting Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi today and discussions are expected to take place on how to resolve the ongoing crisis.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cong-mlas-meet-kc-venugopal-seek-key-role-for-bhupinder-singh-hooda-101625537693245.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Covid cases hit a five-month low in Haryana, 44% inoculated with first dose||The downward trajectory of coronavirus in Haryana carried on for an eighth successive week with the state reporting 525 infections last week (June 28-July 4). The number is an all-time low during a period of decline. A similar weekly infection number (534) was reported in February first week following which the Covid cases had started increasing. Asked for a projection on the possibility of a third wave, state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said they will have to keep tabs on trends in other states such as Delhi, Punjab, Kerala and Maharashtra. “We will also have to keep a watch on whether there is an increase in the number of influenza-like-illness (ILI) cases,” he said. The virus curve has been flattening after the havoc caused by the contagion between March end and mid-May. As of Monday, there were 1,113 active cases with about 40% in home isolation. Eighteen districts have less than 100 active cases and fifteen have 50 or less active cases. The four districts with more than 100 active cases are Hisar, Panipat, Gurugram and Sirsa. Data showed the weekly number of fatalities due to viral illness came down to 101 last week. About 44% vaccinated with the first dose Officials said that about 44% of the 18-plus population has been vaccinated with one dose. As per the health department data, about 78.38 lakh individuals in the state have been inoculated with the first dose. The number of persons who have got the second dose also is about 15.69 lakh. A total of 94.07 lakh vaccine doses have been administered so far. Sero survey in limbo Following issues raised by health minister, Anil Vij, the third round of serological survey which was scheduled to start June 15, has not taken off. The third serological survey was planned to determine the prevalence of Covid antibodies in the community and in children aged 6-17 years. Population based surveys of antibody sero-positivity are conducted to estimate the cumulative incidence of infection. When asked about the deferment of the third round of sero survey, the health minister said that he wanted vaccinated individuals to be included in the sero-survey. “We also need to know how many of those vaccinated have formed anti-bodies,” said Vij. Health officials said the minister wanted that anti-spike protein test should also be a part of the serological survey. The number of antibodies, produced in the human body after vaccination, which counter the spike protein of coronavirus can be found out from the spike-protein antibody test, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekly-covid-cases-hit-a-five-month-low-in-haryana-44-inoculated-with-first-dose-101625517372140.html
06-07-2021||Other||INSO state chief accuses MDU V-C of appointments in violation of guidelines||The ongoing tussle between Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) vice-chancellor (V-C) Professor Rajbir Singh and Indian National Students Organisation state president Pradeep Deswal seems to be escalating with every passing day with the latter accusing Singh of making nearly a dozen appointments amid Covid in “violation of guidelines”.Deswal, who had fought the 2019 parliamentary elections from Rohtak seat on the Jannayak Janata party’s ticket, alleged, “Section 9F of University’s Act calendar 1 volume stated that the university shall not create any teaching and non-teaching posts or revise the pay scale of employees without obtaining prior permission of the state government. Under some pressure, Singh had generated two posts and appointed two persons with a politically influential background at a handsome salary. What forced the V-C to make these appointments without any prior advertisement at a time when the varsity was closed due to the pandemic situation,” he added.The two high-profile appointments are said to be that of Dilawar Singh, who has been made the chief consultant, hospitality, and Rajveer Singh who was hired as chief consultant, security, on contract basis. It is learnt that Rajveer Singh is a relative of Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma and Dilawar is said to be close to the V-C himself.In a sharp attack on the V-C, Deswal said he had waived off fee to the tune of ₹2.54 crore of students of state university of performing and visuals arts (SUPVA).“The students had paid the exam fee but the authorities of (SUPVA) had not made the payment to MDU. The V-C waived off ₹2.54 crore. It is a big scam. Why did he not waive off ₹11 lakh of students studying at Jat College in Rohtak. He has flouted rules in making the appointments and waiving off this amount,” he added.Responding to Deswal’s charges, MDU vice-chancellor Professor Rajbir Singh said the appointments of chief security and hospitality consultants were made after it was passed in the executive council’s meeting.“Similarly, we had waived off fee to the tune of ₹2.54 crore of students in an EC meeting. All allegations against me are baseless and false. We have been taking all decisions as per rules and regulations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inso-state-chief-accuses-mdu-v-c-of-appointments-in-violation-of-guidelines-101625516951638.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Next Haryana police chief: Proposal with UPSC to pick 3 eligible officers||Nearly two weeks after Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava sought premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) citing career consideration and family requirements, the state government has set in motion the process to pick his successor. A proposal containing the names of eight IPS officers has been sent to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for shortlisting three senior-most officers. Officials said the proposal containing the names of the officers who are eligible for empanelment as DGP and sent to UPSC was approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Apex court’s directionsAs per the directions of the Supreme Court, the state DGP shall be selected by the state government from amongst the three senior-most officers of the department who have been empaneled for promotion to that rank by the UPSC on the basis of their length of service, very good record and range of experience for heading the police force. “And, once he has been selected for the job, he should have a minimum tenure of at least two years irrespective of his date of superannuation,” the apex court had said in the landmark Prakash Singh judgment of 2006. The SC had in March 2019 clarified that recommendation for appointment to the post of DGP by the UPSC and preparation of panel should be purely on the basis of merit, and of officers who have at least six months of service prior to the retirement. Officers in reckoning for the top police chair Technically, seven officers who have put in 30 years of service are eligible for empanelment. They are 1988-batch officer PK Agrawal, 1989-batch officers Mohammad Akil and RC Mishra, 1990-batch officers Shatrujeet Kapoor and Desh Raj Singh and 1991-batch officers Alok Roy and Sanjeev Kumar Jain. Though the name of the incumbent DGP, Manoj Yadava also figured in the list of eligible officers sent to the UPSC, it’s a mere technicality since he has sought repatriation and has not given his consent for being considered for the job of head of police force.However, the three IPS officers who will make the cut will actually be the top contenders for the job. Officials said that a realistic assessment of the eligible officers indicate that on the basis of their service record, seniority and range of experience only four officers will be actually will be in contention for making it to the UPSC panel of three officers. They are PK Agrawal, Mohammad Akil, RC Mishra and Shatrujeet Kapoor. After shortlisting three names, the UPSC will send the panel to the state government for selecting the next DGP. The state government will have the discretion of picking one officer from the panel and appointing him as the DGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/next-haryana-police-chief-proposal-with-upsc-to-pick-3-eligible-officers-101625516231652.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana asks pvt schools to update students’ data fast||The school education department of Haryana on Monday warned private schools of strict action if they fail to provide accurate information about the enrolment of students. Directing all private schools to update their Management Information System (MIS), the education department said details of 12 lakh children were still on the portal, but they have not been updated on MIS even as private schools could update MIS in a single click. Against 29 lakh students enrolled in private schools of the state last year, data of 17 lakh students have been updated in the system so far. The MIS of the education department covers all government and private schools. It helps monitor admissions through a Unique Student Registration Number (SRN) given to every student. “Private schools are not updating students’ data on time. The data can be updated only from the login of the school,” an official spokesperson said. “12 lakh children are still on the portal, but they have not been updated on MIS,” the education department said. Meanwhile, education minister Kanwar Pal directed the private schools to update their MIS immediately, saying strict action will be taken if they fail to follow the instructions.“Currently 12 lakh children are on the MIS portal and there is no chance of any drop out or disappearance...After the stipulated time frame, strict action will be taken against schools if they are not able to update the complete record on the portal,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-asks-pvt-schools-to-update-students-data-fast-101625516111654.html
06-07-2021||Other||Graft case: Arrested MC official claims Panipat ADC, two others took their share||Four days after a special team of the state vigilance bureau arrested Sudheer Kumar, the chief sanitary inspector of Panipat municipal corporation, for taking a bribe of ₹13.7 lakh from a private company to clear its pending dues, he is said to have named three other officials who were allegedly hand-in-glove with him. As per vigilance sources, Kumar confessed before the vigilance team that Panipat additional deputy commissioner Vatsal Vashisht and two officers of municipal corporation’s account branch used to take their share from bribe taken in lieu of clearing the pending bills. It is also learnt that Kumar has been given one-year extension after his retirement. The vigilance had arrested Kumar on Thursday night for demanding 10% commission as bribe to clear the pending bills of a private company, IND Sanitation Solutions, which has been given the contract of cleaning roads in Panipat town. “During questioning, Kumar confessed that 4% of the commission went to former Panipat municipal commissioner Vatsal Vashisht, who is posted as Panipat ADC now, and 2% went to auditor Pradeep Punia and senior accounts officer Sunil Dahiya. Kumar himself used to take 2% of the commission amount and the remaining 2% was being distributed among other staff members. The 10% commission was being paid every month to clear the pending bills. All payments were being made through Sudheer Kumar,” officials revealed. Vigilance officials said they will call Panipat ADC Vashisht, Punia and Sunil Dahiya for questioning in the case. Panipat district and sessions court had given anticipatory bail to ADC Vashisht on Friday with directions to appear before the vigilance bureau by July 7 to join the investigation. The ADC had gone for a seven-day leave. The court had also granted bail to Punia and Dahiya against a bond of ₹50,000 each on June 23. Narsingh Ahlawat, deputy superintendent of the vigilance bureau’s Rohtak range who led the raiding team, said the complainant was given the tender to ensure that roads within Panipat’s MC limits were clean. An employee of the company, however, approached the bureau to complain against Kumar. The complainant brought along audio call recordings in which Kumar was purportedly heard demanding a bribe to clear the dues from the accounts branch of Panipat MC. In his complaint to the vigilance bureau, Chankit Dalal, administrative officer, IND Sanitation and Solution Company, said the tender for road sanitisation in Panipat, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Sonepat and Panchkula had been awarded to their company. Sudhir reportedly spoke to Krishan Kumar, company director, on his cell phone and demanded 10% commission as bribe in lieu of passing the outstanding bills of ₹1.37 crore and further extending the tender, he said. Panipat ADC Vatsal Vashisht could not be reached for a comment. Activist PP Kapoor said senior accounts officer Sunil Dahiya, whose name has now surfaced in the case, had been transferred from Sonepat to Panipat municipal corporation and he may influence the probe. “Why is Dahiya being transferred to Panipat even though he is facing bribery charges. He may try to distort the evidence. Sudheer Kumar is also under scanner in connection with a project of garbage lifting from outside the houses and involvement of other officials could not be denied,” said Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/graft-case-arrested-mc-official-claims-panipat-adc-two-others-took-their-share-101625515871657.html
06-07-2021||Other||Charuni clears water cannon boy, his father of funds “misuse” charge; expulsion to continue||Almost two days after Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) expelled radical farmer leader from Ambala, Jai Singh Jalbera, and his son Navdeep, popularly known as water cannon boy, for allegedly getting involved in anti-union activities and misappropriation of funds, union president Gurnam Singh Charuni cleared them of the said charges. In a video message on Monday, Charuni said that after the duo’s expulsion, some facts regarding the usage of funds came to his notice that appeared to be true. “Navdeep refused to appear before the inquiry committee twice while Jai Singh failed to prove the charges were false. But later, the funds use was found to be genuine, so they are now free of the charges. But due to the indiscipline they created in Panchkula, their expulsion will continue,” he said. The duo was dismissed after they had allegedly gone against the union’s plan of action during the governor house gherao on June 26 and got into a brief scuffle with fellow protesters for breaking the police barricades. A top union leader said the father-son duo has been given a month’s time to appear before a five-member discipline committee, comprising Rampal Chahal from Karnal, Azad Palwa from Jind and other leaders. “The fund that was mentioned earlier, amounted to ₹25,000, but now they’ve clarified its usage. However, they have to appear before the other committee on the Panchkula issue if they believe that our decision was wrong,” the leader said. Meanwhile, Navdeep said the fund was collected by activists of the same region to utilise it for campaigning, purchasing milk for Shambhu border or travelling to Singhu border. “It was a volunteer fund of Ambala-1 and 2 blocks, not of jathebandi as claimed. It was used in the interests of the union but some people conspired against us to implicate us, but all allegations were proved to be false,” he said. On being asked about the next course of action, the 26-year-old said, “We are conducting our own meetings to decide if should appear before the committee or not.” The union’s Ambala Unit will hold a panchayat under the chairmanship of President Malkit Singh at a gurudwara on Tuesday to discuss on the issue. All the members of the union have been publically invited to the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charuni-clears-water-cannon-boy-his-father-of-funds-misuse-charge-expulsion-to-continue-101625515753607.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Captain to meet Sonia in Delhi on Tuesday amid infighting in Punjab Cong unit||Punjab chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is slated to meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday amid efforts by the high command to resolve the factionalism in the party’s state unit ahead of the assembly polls due early next year. Amarinder will leave for Delhi in the morning and call on the Congress president late in the afternoon, people familiar with the matter said. The chief minister was in Delhi twice last month to meet the three-member central panel constituted under Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge to look at the crisis in Punjab, but did not get an audience with the Gandhis. He had sought time from the Congress president who has now called him for a discussion, according to sources. The CM’s meeting with Sonia comes days after disgruntled ex-minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is at loggerheads with him, met former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Sidhu has been counting on Priyanka and Rahul for support in his standoff with the two-time chief minister. “Tuesday’s meeting is an indication that discussions on resolving the rift in Punjab Congress have entered the phase of final decision-making on how to accommodate Sidhu,” said a senior state leader who did not want to be identified. While Sidhu wants to head the Punjab Congress, the chief minister is opposed to having him in that role. All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge Punjab affairs Harish Rawat had, on June 24, stated that the Congress president would take a decision on the government and organisational set-ups by July 8-10. While Sidhu’s team said he is back in Patiala, his continued attacks on the chief minister and the state government on the ongoing power crisis and power purchase agreements (PPAs) have left some of his party colleagues confounded and some of them are apprehensive about the rift worsening in case there is no quick decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/captain-to-meet-sonia-in-delhi-on-tuesday-amid-infighting-in-punjab-cong-unit-101625515752360.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab runs out of vaccine stock||A few days after inoculating a record 6 lakh people in a day, Punjab has run out of vaccine doses with only a few left for administering the first jab. Only 25,000 shots were administered on Monday due to the shortage and the state is likely to remain out of stock for another 4-5 days as the health department may not get more doses from the Centre before July 9. “Around 1 lakh doses of Covishield are expected on July 9. It may get delayed till July 11 as was communicated by the Centre,” a senior health department official involved in the inoculation drive said. Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state will not be able to run the vaccination drive for next few days as they are out of stock now. “We don’t have the stock to administer the second dose,” he said. On July 3, the state administered over 6 lakh jabs in a day having received 6.75 lakh doses two days before. A senior government official said the strategy behind consuming maximum doses in a day was aimed at conveying to the Centre that the state has the capacity to administer such a large number of jabs and that it was not being given adequate doses. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Centre’s distribution strategy for the opposition-ruled states like Punjab is completely biased. “Earlier, the Centre was accusing us of not administering enough jabs. Now, when we have shown our capacity by vaccinating 6 lakh people in a day, they are not providing us more shots,” said Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-runs-out-of-vaccine-stock-101625515332603.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cancel PPAs if it ensures cheaper power: Sukhbir Badal to Punjab govt||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked the Congress government in Punjab to cancel the power purchase agreements (PPAs) with three private thermal plants if it translates into cheaper electricity for state residents. The SAD chief said the government should provide affordable and 24-hour electricity in the state as was done by the erstwhile dispensation led by their party instead of politicising the issue of fixed charges paid to thermal plants to cover up mismanagement. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, he said, “Punjabis want cheap power. If that’s possible by cancelling the PPAs with three private thermal plants then do it. But chief minister Amarinder Singh should take the responsibility of covering the shortfall of 4,500 megawatt (MW) power at cheaper rates so that Punjab residents do not suffer due to this.”The SAD chief said the issue of fixed charges was being politicised by both the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) even as they know the truth that this cost is applicable on private and government thermal plants as well as power purchased from outside the state. “The Congress government is playing politics on the issue of setting up of private thermal plants which came up after much thought due to huge power shortfall in 2007. This shortfall occurred because the then Congress government (2002-07) led by Amarinder Singh did not add a single megawatt power to the state kitty. The SAD government took the decision to make Punjab power surplus and followed a standard PPA document created by the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government at the Centre to establish captive thermal plants in the private sector,” he added. The PPAs were signed to purchase electricity between ₹2.86 and ₹2.89 per unit, the cheapest at the time, he claimed. “The erstwhile SAD government spent ₹5,000 crore on upgrading the transmission and distribution network,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cancel-ppas-if-it-ensures-cheaper-power-sukhbir-badal-to-punjab-govt-101625515331591.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal making false promises on free power: Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday slammed Arvind Kejriwal for making “false promises” on free power in the state with an eye on the 2022 assembly polls. “The Kejriwal government has completely failed the people of Delhi on all counts, with no free power to the farmers in the villages located in the national capital and excessively high power tariffs for the industry,” said Amarinder.The people of Punjab have already rejected the Delhi model of governance, he claimed. Last week, Kejriwal had announced to provide 300 free electricity units to each household if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) forms government in Punjab in 2022. “Delhi is charging ₹9.80 per unit for industrial power and the Punjab government is levying a subsidized tariff of ₹5 per unit to attract industry in the state which has received more than ₹85,000 crore investment in the last four years,” Amarinder said.In a sharp contrast, the CM said, the Punjab government is giving free power worth ₹6,735 crore to 13.79 lakh farmers while the AAP regime in Delhi has made no effort to support to the agricultural community. “The Delhi government is befooling people by offering 200 free power units for domestic consumers and taking away even higher amount by charging high tariffs on shopkeepers, industry and farmers for commercial and agriculture power,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-making-false-promises-on-free-power-amarinder-101625515271572.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu should have cleared power mess by accepting ministry instead of giving suggestions: Harsimrat||Former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday said that Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu should have implemented his suggestions by taking charge of the power portfolio when it was offered to him instead of talking about issues in the power purchase agreements (PPAs).Talking to mediapersons in Bathinda, Harsimrat asked why did Sidhu refuse the power ministry when chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh offered him. “He should have taken the opportunity and cancelled the power purchase agreements if they were faulty as he claims. Why he waited till the next elections to raise this issue. He is just doing politics to defame the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are hand in glove and they just want to defame the party of Punjabis to take the control of the state,” she added. “The entire Punjab has taken to the streets. There is chaos for electricity. Forget about setting up new plants, they have closed down the existing ones. The industry is closed for two days and timings of government offices have been reduced. The farmers are the worst-hit as they are not getting electricity for irrigation,” the Akali MP said. “The government departments had electricity bill dues to the tune of ₹2,200 crore. If the common man doesn’t pay bills their connections are snapped but nothing is done when government’s own departments and MLA are not paying bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-should-have-cleared-power-mess-by-accepting-ministry-instead-of-giving-suggestions-harsimrat-101625515213761.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sets ₹20 lakh limit to buy staff car for babus re-employed after retirement||Bureaucrats being given plum posts as chairpersons or commissioners of Constitutional bodies after retirement will not be entitled for a new staff car costing more than ₹20 lakh in Haryana. Different types of vehicles were being purchased for officers appointed after retirement to statutory, non-statutory, constitutional bodies, commissions, authorities etc in the absence of any specific provision regarding entitlement of staff car, according to a July 2 order of the government. Officials said issuing new instructions had become imperative as the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government was often grappling with this issue of post-retirement entitlement of staff car for retired officers appointed as chairpersons or members. “After careful consideration, the state government has now decided that whenever any government officer (including an All-India Service officer) after retirement is re-employed/appointed...under Haryana government, he/she will be entitled to a staff car the cost of which will be up to 10 times the last basic pay drawn by the officer. This condition will be subject to a ₹20 lakh ceiling, excluding taxes,” the government has said in a communiqué to the administrative secretaries, heads of departments, divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners. In case the officer re-employed after superannuation doesn’t want to avail the facility of staff car and opt for a private vehicle (with own driver) to undertake official duty at the headquarters and outside the headquarters, the government will pay road mileage allowance @ ₹18/per km up to 5,000 kms in a month. The journey beyond 5,000 kms in a month will be treated as private. Haryana government has been offering plum posts to retired officers as has been the practice during earlier governments too.In April, the government had appointed former IAS officer Navraj Sandhu (1984-batch) as the chairperson of the police complaint authority, and Kameshwar Kumar Mishra, IPS (retd), and Ramesh Chand Verma, IAS (retd), as members. The chairperson and members of the police complaint authority hold the posts for three years from the date of joining. Last month, TC Gupta was appointed as chief commissioner of Right to Service Commission within weeks after he superannuated from the IAS. Earlier, the government had appointed former IAS officer Dhanpat Singh as the state election commissioner (SEC) and former chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, as chairperson of Haryana Water Resources Authority. All the officers given post-retirement assignments in these statutory, non-statutory, constitutional bodies, commissions, authorities etc are entitled for perks including staff car, bungalow and service of a battery of personal staff such as peon and clerk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sets-20-lakh-limit-to-buy-staff-car-for-babus-re-employed-after-retirement-101625515212756.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Phagwara resident booked for duping ex-armyman of ₹20 lakh||Shimlapuri police have booked a Phagwara resident for duping a retired armyman of ₹20.3 lakh on the pretext of securing a job for his son as an assistant superintendent of police (ASP) in the Haryana Police.During investigation, the police found that the accused had also duped a Shimlapuri resident of ₹10.15 lakh on the pretext of securing a job for his wife in the Railways. The accused has been identified as Sandeep Bhardwaj.The complainant, Kuldeep Singh of Azad Nagar, said he had come in contact with the accused in 2018. “Sandeep claimed that he had links in the Haryana Police department and can help his son in securing a job,” he told the police. Kuldeep added that he had paid the total amount to the accused in instalments, but to no avail. “In 2020, when I asked the accused to return my money, the accused issued a cheque of ₹20.3 lakh to me, which was dishonoured by the bank due to insufficient funds. Later, the accused started threatening me,” he said. On February 26, he approached the police.Sub-Inspector Gurdial Singh, who is investigating the case, said that after a probe, the police have registered an FIR under Section 420 of the IPC against the accused. A hunt is on to nab him, he added.Women lose ₹23,000 to fraudster inside bankAn unidentified man snatched ₹23,500 from a woman and her daughter inside a bank near the Clock Tower on Monday afternoon on the pretext of helping them in finding damaged currency notes from the bundle.The women had gone to the bank to withdraw ₹1.08 lakh in order to repay the money borrowed for buying a house. The Division Number 1 police initiated an investigation after reaching the spot. At the time of the incident, the CCTVs installed in the bank were not functioning.Lalita, 44, of Chhawani Mohalla and her daughter Ritika, 18, said they had bought a house in the same locality. “To buy the house, we had borrowed some money from our relatives. We had saved money to repay the loan,” Lalita added. She said they had withdrawn ₹1.08 lakh when a man without a mask, who was standing by her side, advised them that they should count the money. “While we were counting the money, he kept on standing there. Meanwhile, he took one of the bundles from my hands saying that two notes are damaged and we should exchange them,” said the woman.“But he stole ₹23,500 from the bundle and fled. We tried to catch him, but he managed to escape,” she added.Sub-inspector Harjit Singh, Division Number 1 SHO, said the police have recorded the statements of the victims and are in process of registering an FIR. CCTVs cameras installed in the markets are being scanned to identify the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/phagwara-resident-booked-for-duping-ex-armyman-of-20-lakh-101625515211716.html
06-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman, daughter foil snatching bid, nab accused||A mother-daughter duo, who had gone out shopping on Sunday, became the victims of a snatching bid but, they managed to catch hold of the accused in Jawahar Nagar Camp and handed him over to the police.The accused was identified as Sachin Sharma of Sant Nagar in Ghumar Mandi.Tanya Kalra of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar informed that she, along with her mother, had gone to Jawahar Nagar Camp for shopping. While they were on their way back home, the accused, who was riding an Activa, snatched her bag. When he was trying to escape, Tanya’s mother held him from behind. The accused lost control over his scooter and fell on the road. The mother-daughter duo nabbed him with the help of passers-by and handed him over to the police.ASI Mewa Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 379-B and 511 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-daughter-foil-snatching-bid-nab-accused-101625515152961.html
06-07-2021||Other||Verification drive: Ludhiana auto-rickshaw drivers demand relaxation of registration process||The Auto-rickshaw Union members on Monday submitted a memorandum with the DC office and demanded relaxation of the process of the UID registration drive being carried out by the police department.Auto-rickshaw Union leader Om Parkash said due to the pandemic and the subsequent strike by the transport department, some of their documents required for registration are still under process. The traffic police department is refusing to register the auto-rickshaws without all the documents, he added.“It is being stated that the autos that don’t have a UID number will not be allowed to ply on the city roads. Such a move will render hundreds of auto drivers jobless. The authorities should look into it and offer some relaxation for registration,” said Om Parkash.To make people feel safe while travelling in auto-rickshaws, the Ludhiana police on June 30, launched a drive to verify all three-wheelers by equipping them with a unique ID and linking the same with PPSAANJH mobile application.The traffic police have come up with a plan to do away with unlicensed auto-rickshaws in the city. The move is aimed at curbing crime involving auto-rickshaw gangs.Police chief Rakesh Agrawal, while launching the android mobile application, said that by using SafeAutoPb on the PPSAANJH app, passengers can verify all details of an auto-rickshaw and the credentials of its driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/verification-drive-ludhiana-auto-rickshaw-drivers-demand-relaxation-of-registration-process-101625515151802.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Inmates tweak Ludhiana Central Jail’s security, officials clueless about smuggling channel||Despite claims of tight security inside the Ludhiana Central Jail, inmates manage to smuggle mobile phones and other contraband easily. This could be gauged by the fact that at least 300 mobile phones have been seized from the central jail in the past three years. In such cases, police do not get custody of the accused for questioning, due to which the secret of sneaking in a mobile phone inside the prison remains a mystery for the cops as well as jail officials.Officials claim that the inmates manage to smuggle mobile phones through their accomplices, who simply fling these items over the compound walls of the prison. As per the jail officials, they conduct surprise checks frequently. They also claimed to have increased patrolling outside the compound wall to curb the menace. According to the police, in case of recovery of mobile phones or any other contraband, they register an FIR under the Prisons Act, which is a bailable offence. They do not get custody of the inmates for questioning, so they fail to get to know from where and how contraband is smuggled inside the jail.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (East) Davinder Chaudhary said SIM cards used in mobile phones recovered from the jail are mostly procured on fake identity documents. “When we questioned the people who talked to the inmates over phone, they made excuses that they were not aware that the caller was lodged in the jail,” he added. He said to investigate the matter thoroughly, the police need to secure custody of such inmates. “When we do not get their custody, investigation in most of the cases remains affected,” he added. It has been learnt that a local court had turned down the police’s request for the remand of six inmates who were booked for partying, enjoying booze and hookah in the prison. Balkar Singh, superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail, said most of the mobile phones and contraband are thrown inside from the outside. “We are highly alert and recovering contraband on a daily basis. We have also increased vigil outside and inside the jail,” he added. It is pertinent to mention here that a nexus between jail officials and prisoners had surfaced with the arrest of three jail officials – including two head warders Makhan Singh and Ravinder Singh and nurse Sachin Kumar – who had helped in smuggling contraband inside the Ludhiana Central Jail. Sunday night seizureMeanwhile, six mobile phones and as many sachets of tobacco were recovered from six jail inmates on Sunday night during a special checking. Assistant jail superintendent Kashmiri Lal lodged a complaint stating that items were recovered from Jagdev Singh, Manoj Kumar, Jasvir Singh, Jaskaran Singh, Sunny Kumar and Gurjant Singh.ASI Karnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on a production warrant for questioning to ascertain how did they manage to get mobile phones inside the prison.A case has been registered under Sections 52 A (1), 42 and 45 of the Prisons Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inmates-tweak-ludhiana-central-jail-s-security-officials-clueless-about-smuggling-channel-101625515091544.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to phase out open plinths being used for storing grains||The covered area plinths (CAPs), also called open plinths, for storage of food grain in Punjab will be phased out gradually. The state’s food and civil supplies department has given a roadmap of three years in a proposal sent to the Centre. Food grains stored in the open plinths are vulnerable to the vagaries of weather and most of the grain damaged in the past was from open plinths. The cost of damaged grain runs into crores of rupees. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) that regulates public distribution system in the country has asked the state to phase out open storage and come up with a proposal. “We have proposed to build covered godowns to store 63 lakh tonnes of grain. As per the roadmap suggested by us, in the first year(2022-23), storage capacity of 16 lakh tonne (25%) will be built, and for next two years, 22 lakh tonne (35%) and 25 lakh tonne (40%) will be added,” said an officer of the state food department. At present, the entire open storage (plinths) capacity is 95 lakh tonne in which around 92 lakh tonne wheat is stored and the rice is stored in covered godowns. Department officials revealed that 60 locations have been identified for building covered godowns and most of them will be where the open plinths existed. A storage capacity of 19 lakh tonne in silos has also been sanctioned in the state for which a separate proposal is being rolled out. As 45% of the total (640 lakh tonne) food grain stocks in the country is stored in Punjab (around 300 lakh tonne) and there is no space in the state godowns to store more, the state government has asked the Centre to increase the grain movement. According to FCI, the average daily movement from the state is 35 rakes which earlier were 15 rakes. According to director of state’s food and civil supplies department, Ravi Bhagat, discussions are on to have 2 lakh tonne capacity in each godown. “The private players who have shown willingness to build covered storage spaces want a guarantee on minimum storage, time frame and rent offered. Once these issues are sorted, the things will be smoothly done,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-phase-out-open-plinths-being-used-for-storing-grains-101625515034628.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests major drug supplier from south Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday arrested a major drug supplier and history-sheeter Mohammed Jaman Hidaytullah Khan alias Sonu Pathan from south Mumbai. Khan was wanted in several drug cases including the one in which the central agency busted a drug laboratory and allegedly seized 12kg of mephedrone and ₹2.18 crore along with two weapons from a flat in Dongri in January . Two drug traffickers — Parvej Khan alias Chinku Pathan and Arif Bhujwala — were arrested at the time of the raid.“Several summons were issued to Khan in the past six months to join the investigation but he was evading us. Apart from drug cases, there are seven body offences registered against him at Pydhonie, Dongri, Kalachowki and Shivaji Park police stations,” said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of NCB.Khan was a partner in the drug factory and he fled from Mumbai and was hiding out after the bust. He visited Mumbai a few times. NCB got information about his whereabouts and nabbed him, added Wankhede.“A team laid a trap once we received intelligence about Khan that he was arriving to meet his accomplice in Pydhonie area. The team was deployed in the vicinity from Sunday evening and after getting confirmation that Khan is present in the locality he was intercepted in the wee hours on Monday,” said an NCB officer. He was then brought to the NCB office.Apart from the drug factory case, Khan was also involved in another case where a lady trafficker, Iqra Qureshi, was arrested along with a commercial quantity of Mephedrone in Mumbai. Khan and Pathan are cousins and are relatives of late gangster Abdul Karim Sher Khan alias Karim Lala.Meanwhile, NCB on Sunday intercepted two persons on Mohammed Ali Road and allegedly seized 57 gms of MD from them. The arrested have been identified as Mohammed Asif Iqbal Shaikh, a resident of Mohammad Ali Road, and Pranav Shah, a Borivli resident.The accused were going to deliver the contraband material to local customers when they were arrested by the agency. They are active in south Mumbai and mostly supply MD to local users and peddlers in south Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-major-drug-supplier-from-south-mumbai-101625515035113.html
06-07-2021||Other||15-year-old girl stays in Bhiwandi as boy after leaving Pune home||A 15-year-old boy was summoned by Shanti Nagar Police in Bhiwandi for questioning late on Saturday evening after locals complained that he was seen roaming or begging on the streets and refused to tell his name. The police, who questioned him for almost a day, were shocked to learn that the boy was actually a girl in disguise. The girl had run away from her home in Pune eight months ago to work in Mumbai and landed in Bhiwandi. When she failed to get a job and was forced to stay on streets, she cut her hair and dressed as a boy for self-protection, said the police, adding that the girl also changed her name to Samir Shaikh and started doing odd jobs. After hearing her story, the police reunited the girl with her family on Monday. The girl stayed in Mumbai till she was 10 years old, after which her family shifted to Hadapsar, Pune. She said she did not like Pune and left home to work in Mumbai. She only had ₹1,000 as her savings after doing odd jobs with her parents. Her father works as a plumber while her mother does odd jobs.According to the police, the girl first went to Dadar by train and looked for a job. She did not find any job and went to Bhiwandi. Senior inspector Sheetal Raut of Shanti Nagar police station said, “After wandering for days, she landed in Bhiwandi and met a group of homeless people who suggested that she change her attire and live as a boy so that nobody takes advantage of her. She also changed her name and started living on streets. Few social workers and residents realised the person is new in the area and offered help, but she refused to speak to anyone.” Some of them informed the patrolling officer about it, who took the teen for questioning to the police station. Raut said, “During questioning, we came to know that she is a girl, though she refused to give any more details to us apart from some basic information. Our officers contacted Pune Police and found her name in the missing complaints and made a video call to her mother. She broke down while talking to her mother and agreed to go home.” The officers got the girl new clothes and took her to her house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15yearold-girl-stays-in-bhiwandi-as-boy-after-leaving-pune-home-101625514970938.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||4 Afghans running drug unit in Delhi held, 17kg heroin seized||Police on Sunday claimed to have busted a major drug supply chain with the arrest of four Afghan nationals and seizure of 17 kg heroin from a unit in South Delhi. With the seizure, the Punjab Police has dug up another trail leading to Uttar Pradesh, and a team has been sent there to unravel the network, Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said. Giving details of the arrests, the DGP said the accused have been identified as Mujahed Shinwari of Nangarhar in Afghanistan; Mohammad Lal Kaker, Jannat Gul Kakar and Samiullah Afghan from Kunduz region of Afghanistan. The police have also recovered assorted chemicals and lab equipment used to manufacture the drug, from the Neb Sarai unit. The arrests and seizure came on the basis of leads from Hoshiarpur police’s investigation into drug cases. Police said further investigations are being carried out to unearth more linkages of the international drug racket and raids are being conducted to nab the remaining accused. A case under relevant sections of NDPS Act has been registered at Garhshankar police station in Hoshiarpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-afghans-running-drug-unit-in-delhi-held-17kg-heroin-seized-101625514911631.html
06-07-2021||Other||28-yr-old Mumbai man held for circulating deepfakes on social media||The issue of deepfakes – convincingly real looking fake videos and pictures – is once again in the spotlight after the Ambernath police arrested a 28-year-old Malad resident for allegedly generating objectionable content of a 25-year-old woman who refused to marry him.Police said that the victim, who is married and pregnant, stays with her family in Ambernath. She approached the police on May 19 this year to complain about several objectionable videos and pictures of her that were circulated on social media through multiple accounts. The police said that the victim was in a panic as she had never posed for any of the pictures or videos, and the repeated emergence of such content on Facebook and Instagram was causing problems in her married life.The police registered a case against unknown persons and started investigating the matter. Details of all the pictures and videos were collected and, with the help of the Thane Police cyber cell, the Ambernath police sought Internet Protocol addresses and other data from Facebook and Instagram. The data, which was received after several days, included a cell phone number, and the police then obtained Call Detail Record and registration details of the number. “Based on these inquiries, we picked up the accused, identified as Maqsood Ali Khan, 28, a hardware engineer by profession. We examined his cell phone and found four Facebook accounts as well as three Instagram accounts that he was using to upload the objectionable content. His phone also had apps that generate nude photos and videos on the basis of normal photographs of the victim,” senior inspector Sanjay Dhumal, Ambernath police station, said.Dhumal added that Khan had been committing the offence for the past 10 months. “Khan and the victim had studied together till junior college and he had proposed to her. She turned down his proposal and married someone else. The victim had even forgotten about the whole thing and was shocked to discover that Khan was allegedly behind the sustained harassment,” Dhumal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28yrold-mumbai-man-held-for-circulating-deepfakes-on-social-media-101625514850866.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Assembly: State seeks additional ₹23,149 crore||On the first day of the budget session of the state legislature, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Monday tabled supplementary demands worth around ₹23,149 crore to be spent in addition to the annual budget. Supplementary budget refers to additional expenditure required for the year for unforeseen expenses over and above the annual budget.Among the provisions is to provide an additional fund of ₹1,402 crore for procuring medicines and accessories to deal with Covid-19 pandemic and ₹1,841 crore for implementing rural health mission. Rural health infrastructure is not strong enough which the administration realised while trying to control the pandemic. The state has sought ₹6,895 crore as mandatory expenditure, which is related to establishment cost and the rest ₹16,254 crore for development and welfare schemes including those run by the central government, according to the documents provided by the state legislature. “It has been decided to provide an additional fund of ₹23,149.75 crore to repay the advances taken under special drawing facility,” states a supplementary statement of expenditure 2021-22 tabled by deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar in the state assembly on Monday.Of the total amount, the state has sought a maximum ₹4,959 crore to repay loans under Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY), a scheme introduced by the Centre to bring out power distribution companies from the financial crisis.The other notable provision made by the state is to provide ₹3,800 crore for Jal Jeevan Mission that aims to provide safe and adequate drinking water to all households in rural India by 2024. It has also made a provision of ₹1,200 crore to repay interest on loans taken for Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Greenfield Expressway. A provision of ₹1,150 crore was also made for implementing Hybrid Annuity scheme to develop roads and bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-assembly-state-seeks-additional-23-149-crore-101625514791550.html
06-07-2021||Other||747 MLD of untreated sewage let out into rivers||A total of 747 megalitres of untreated sewage is released into four rivers in Mumbai each day, a civil appeal petition filed by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) in the Supreme Court (SC) stated. These include the Mithi River, which receives the highest quantum of dry weather flow (DWF) at 285 megalitres per day (MLD), followed by Poisar river (67MLD), Dahisar river (56MLD) and Oshiwara river (17MLD). One megalitre is 1 million litres.BMC officials said tenders for infra works, which will divert sewage away from these water bodies and into the municipal treatment and disposal systems, are close to being awarded. Broadly, they involve laying down new sewer lines, building retaining walls, constructing small capacity sewage treatment plants and installing drainage interceptors at strategic locations. However, the commissioning of these works is still some time away. “As per National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) instructions, we have floated the tenders. Financial packages have also been opened, and we’re in the final process of awarding the work to contractors. But the work, undertaken as part of the municipal sewerage improvement programme, is expected to complete only in three-four years,” said additional civic commissioner P Velrasu.A review of MCGM’s submission to SC (challenging NGT’s order from last October order to penalise the civic body for repeatedly polluting city’s rivers, creeks and drains), however, reveals that the planned interventions may not be sufficient to fix the problem. “On completion of the river rejuvenation works, major DWF of 426 MLD will be diverted into the existing municipal sewer lines/STPs,” stated MCGM’s petition (a copy of which is with HT). This still leaves nearly 321MLD, for which MCGM does not seem to have a clear action plan, as per documents. “This is a glaring problem which MCGM has not even acknowledged before SC,” said Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, whose petition in NGT led to its October order. Velrasu said, “We’ll aim to divert as much untreated sewage as possible, as well as reduce the quantum of DWF being generated.”Meanwhile, MCGM has proposed to carry out a range of infra works along the Mithi River in four packages. In package one – which runs from Filter Pada to the WSSD Garage in Tilak Nagar – an 8MLD STP is being built for the treatment of wastewater to meet revised effluent standards, as prescribed by NGT. “The work commenced from 27.11.2018 and was likely to be completed within the period of 24 months. However, due to the present pandemic, the same is delayed... Due to the revision of the effluent norms the project extended further by 14 months and is scheduled to be completed by 31.12.2021,” the MCGM has told the apex court. Fresh sewer lines, 1.65kms in length, are also being built to channel DWF to the upcoming STP. Also, the construction of... 24 MLD Influent pumping station is in progress. The physical progress of work is till date 70% (sic),” stated MCGM’s civil appeal.In package two (from WSSD garage to CTS Bridge) works are further divided into four different tenders. They include building an 8-km sewer, installing 102 drainage interceptors, building a retaining wall of about 3km and a service road of about 9km. Though the work order for these has been issued, MCGM has not specified the degrees of progress achieved as on date. “Time period for package-2 works is 24 months (excluding monsoon months),” the corporation has submitted.Work on packages three and four are yet to commence. Package three (from CTS Bridge to Mahim Causeway and Vakola nullah) involve construction of fresh sewers (8km), retaining wall (also 8km) and service roads (7km), in addition to installation of more drainage interceptors, gate pumps, sewage pumping stations, and beautification of the riverfront. It is unclear whether tenders for the works have been awarded. The specified time period for this work is at least 36 months.Package four comprises construction of a 6.5-km tunnel to divert 168MLD of intercepted DWF (from Bapat and Safed Pool nullahs) to a proposed STP at Dharavi, which will be commissioned only in 2026. Tenders are invited. The contract period for the work is four years from date of award. Similar interventions have been proposed along the Poisar, Dahisar and Oshiwara rivers. In all, about 17.5km of fresh sewer lines, 16.5km of stormwater drains, 16 drainage interceptors and 17 small capacity sewage treatment plants will be built over the next four years. Key locations for installation of STPs include Sukurwadi and Indira Nagar along Dahisar river; Kranti Nagar, Gokul Nagar, Durga Nagar, Poisar Subway and Sanjay Nagar along Poisar river; and area near Hindu cemetery in Aarey Colony, which is aimed at tackling a significant quantity of wastewater that is discharged from the dairy industry there.The corporation has received 10 bids from contractors. BMC’s tendering process, their civil appeal shows, has been considerably delayed due to the pandemic. Tenders that were invited last April and May are yet to be awarded for works on the three smaller rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/747-mld-of-untreated-sewage-let-out-into-rivers-101625514790933.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Assembly: 2 resolutions to seek Central help on quotas||Amid the struck down reservations to Marathas in jobs and education and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local body elections, the state moved two resolutions on Monday seeking Centre’s intervention. The government has asked for empirical data of OBCs for restoration of political reservation and also demanded constitutional amendment by the Centre to remove the reservation cap of 50% put by the Indra Sawhney ruling. A resolution was passed in both the houses of the legislature demanding the Centre should relax the 50% ceiling in reservation by moving constitutional amendment. While quashing the reservation for Marathas on May 5, the five-judge bench had cited three reasons, one being the 50% cap on the reservation. It was also struck down as the state had lost its power to give reservation after 102nd amendment and raised questions over the Gaikwad commission which ratified the backwardness of the community. A review petition filed by the Centre challenging the verdict over rights of the states was also dismissed by the SC last Thursday. “Even if the states got the powers, (if Centre took such constitutional steps) we would not be able to give reservation until there is a cap on it,” said public works department minister Ashok Chavan.Chavan, who also heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said the BJP had tried to create confusion among people by levelling baseless allegations over the powers after 102nd amendment. The resolution was passed in the absence of the members from opposition benches as the opposition had boycotted the proceedings of the house. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the state’s attempt is to shrug its responsibility. “The committee of retired high court judge appointed by the state has recommended the government should constitute Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes and collect data to establish the backwardness of the community. Instead, the state is demanding removal of the ceiling,” he said. Earlier in the day, a resolution was passed unanimously seeking empirical data by the Centre, collected under Socio Economic Caste Census 2011, for restoration of political reservation to OBCs. In the resolution moved by food and civil supplies minister and OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal, the state has stated the empirical data, as pressed for by the Supreme Court, is with the Centre. “The SC in K Krishnamurthy case has clearly stated that the empirical data needs to be collated by constituting MSCBC,” he said. Fadnavis said the Centre did not share the SECC data because it had more 80 million errors, of which 6.9 million errors were from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-assembly-2-resolutions-to-seek-central-help-on-quotas-101625514731462.html
06-07-2021||Other||local trains on Kalyan-Kasara route hit after gas tanker reaches tracks||Train services between Kalyan and Kasara stations were disrupted on Monday evening after a gas tanker truck plying on road lost control and reached the tracks between Atgaon and Asangaon stations at 7.40pm. “We had to suspend the services on this route for safety reasons. No one was injured in the incident,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway (CR). Due to the incident, four trains suffered detention on the down line and three on the up line.“The gas tanker was fully-loaded, and while it on its way to Mumbai, it lost control due to technical issues and entered the tracks,” said VD Shardul, senior inspector of Government Railway Police (GRP), Kalyan. With the help of cranes, the tanker was removed from the tracks and services towards Kasara resumed at 9.10pm, while trains towards Kalyan started operating at 9.30pm. As per CR, a major mishap was averted due to the alertness of track maintainer Dilip Narayan Wagh, 30, who reported this incident to control room through the senior section engineer and train services were immediately halted.A case has been registered against the truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/local-trains-on-kalyan-kasara-route-hit-after-gas-tanker-reaches-tracks-101625514730858.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Assembly: 12 BJP MLAs suspended for a year||Amid high-voltage drama in the Maharashtra legislature, 12 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators were suspended for a year over alleged abusive language used against the presiding officer, Bhaskar Jadhav, and misconduct in the state Assembly. The BJP denied the allegations and said the action was taken with an intention to reduce the party’s strength on the floor of the assembly. The suspended legislators are Ashish Shelar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Yogesh Sagar, Parag Alavani, Sanjay Kute, Harish Pimple, Ram Satpute, Jaykumar Gore, Bunty Bhangdiya, Abhimanyu Pawar and Narayan Kuche. They won’t be able to enter the legislature premises during suspension. State parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab moved the proposal, which was passed through a voice vote by the ruling parties with a comfortable majority. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis admitted to use of objectionable language against the presiding officer, but denied use of abusive language. He said they have apologised to Jadhav for the unruly behaviour. He alleged the ruling parties have used the incident to reduce the number of opposition legislators in the state Assembly. Both the ruling and opposition benches were involved in a heated argument on Monday after a resolution was moved to seek empirical data from the Centre to provide political reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local body elections. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the Centre had conducted Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC) and the OBC reservation issue would be resolved, if the Centre provided it to the state. He also said the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government too tried but failed to acquire the data. Fadnavis said the resolution is unlikely to give desired results as the Supreme Court in its order specifically mentioned collecting empirical data and the state was wasting time. The resolution was passed in the pandemonium following which a few Opposition legislators reached up to the chair of the speaker and tried to snatch the mike and the mace. Jadhav was presiding over the House proceedings. Later, the BJP legislators reportedly used abusive language against the presiding officer in the speaker’s cabin. Jadhav said, “I have never seen such behaviour of legislators in my legislative career of 36 years. The BJP legislators tried to corner me and used abusive language in the cabin. I requested Fadnavis, who was also present in the cabin, to ask their legislators to calm down but he refused.” “Some of our legislators used objectionable language, but no one abused the presiding officer. The brawl started after Sena legislators reached the cabin. There could have been a scuffle had I not intervened. I even apologised to Jadhav for the misconduct. Despite that, the ruling parties passed the resolution to reduce the number of opposition MLAs,” Fadnavis said in the lower House. “It was Bhaskar Jadhav who used objectionable language in the deputy speaker’s cabin,” he told reporters. In the evening, all suspended legislators met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and requested him to seek a report from the government and take action. “A conspiracy was hatched to suspend BJP MLAs. We have been accused of what has not happened. The government has assured us to do the needful,” Shelar said after meeting Koshyari at Raj Bhavan. Fadnavis denied the possibility of Speaker’s election. “There are rulings where the courts have said the election cannot be held if MLAs are in suspension.”In March 2017, the Fadnavis government had suspended 19 MLAs of Congress and NCP for interrupting budget speech of state finance minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-assembly-12-bjp-mlas-suspended-for-a-year-101625514671558.html
06-07-2021||Other||Unable to act against illegal structures due to SRA: Mumbai civic body to HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), while responding to the observations made by retired justice JP Deodhar in his preliminary report on the building collapse at Malvani in Malad, informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the existing laws on slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) did not permit the civic body to take action against unauthorised structures that have mushroomed across the suburb. BMC submitted that the ill-fated structure – which collapsed on June 9 killing 12 – had come up in 2012. However, due to the state’s policy which “protects encroachers”, the civic authority could not take action against it under section 351 of Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, BMC submitted. The HC, however, observed that BMC could not shrug off its responsibility for the tragedy by shifting blame to the state authorities. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) initiated last year after the Bhiwandi building collapse. Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, who represented BMC, informed the bench that the civic authority had a limited role to play with regards to the unauthorised structures that had come up in Malvani. Chinoy added that out of the 8,485 structures in Malvani, 4,900 were ground-plus-one, of which 4,540 were probably unauthorised. He submitted that most of the ground-plus-two and three structures had violated the 14-foot height restriction mandated in the slum rehabilitation scheme. Chinoy said that the slums prior to 2000 were protected and even if they were above the 14-foot restriction, they could not be demolished. He added that as the slums were under SRA, BMC could not carry out any action against unauthorised structures. Chinoy submitted that action under section 351 of MMC Act could be initiated against structures that had a plan. However, as these structures were constructed illegally without any plan, the said section could not be invoked for demolitions. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said only those structures which were within the 14-foot restriction were covered by the policy.The hearing will continue on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unable-to-act-against-illegal-structures-due-to-sra-mumbai-civic-body-to-hc-101625514670915.html
06-07-2021||Other||‘Name unknown persons mentioned in FIR along with ex-Maharashtra min Anil Deshmukh’||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to disclose the names of the ‘unknown persons’ mentioned in its April 21 first information report (FIR) registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. HC said that as over two months had lapsed since the registration of FIR, it expected names of all the accused to be disclosed and directed the central agency to clearly mention the names of the unknown persons, which may include members of the panel which was responsible for reinstating former assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing Deshmukh’s petition challenging CBI’s case against him and unknown persons on charges of bribery, corruption and criminal conspiracy, was informed by senior advocate Amit Desai along with advocate Kamlesh Ghumre that the Central agency had failed to take the state government’s consent before registering the FIR and commencing investigations. Desai reiterated that CBI had bypassed the provisions laid down under the Prevention of Corruption Act by not availing prior approvals from the state to investigate a public servant. He termed CBI’s action as illegal and arbitrary, and in breach of law. Before Desai could continue, the bench sought to know from additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi – representing CBI – who the unknown persons mentioned in the FIR were. “In FIR, you have mentioned petitioner and other unknown persons as the accused. We usually see that in robbery, theft and dacoity cases. You have conducted the preliminary inquiry; then who are the unknown persons? It was your responsibility to mention the names of everyone involved and not just Deshmukh. We want to know the status of the investigation by CBI so far. Give us the investigation progress report in a sealed envelope; we will see and then return it.” The bench also drew the attention of the agency to HC’s words in the April 5 order that directed CBI to conduct a probe against Deshmukh and said that the inquiry was ordered to restore public confidence in administration. Hence, the names of the other accused should also be mentioned. The bench clarified that it was not forming any opinion but was just an observation while having a dialogue with the lawyers. Desai then said that the FIR was vague and it seemed that there was an attempt to protect certain people by not mentioning their names in it. He then added that there was no doubt in CBI’s ability. “Please don’t misunderstand me. CBI has done exceptional work in some cases. But I’m arguing on point of law. Public confidence will be upheld only when the investigating agency abides by the provisions of law for all individuals,” said Desai. In the post-lunch session, when Desai sought to continue his arguments, the bench stopped him as it was informed by the lawyers of Elgar Parishad accused Stan Swamy that the 84-year-old had passed away in Holy Family Hospital, Bandra, due to cardiac arrest. The court said that it would have to pass a detailed order in Swamy’s case, and hence, adjourned the hearing of Deshmukh’s plea to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/names-unknown-persons-mentioned-in-fir-along-with-ex-maharashtra-min-anil-deshmukh-101625514612719.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||SIT quizzes Dhadrianwale, records his statement in Kotkapura firing case||The newly constituted special investigation team (SIT) quizzed Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale on Monday and recorded his statement in the Kotkapura police firing incident occurred on October 14, 2015. A three-member team led by additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav reached the circuit house in Patiala and questioned Dhadrianwale, who is a key witness in the case, for nearly three hours. It may be mentioned that the SIT called Dhadrianwale on July 2 to Faridkot to record his statement along with other preachers, Panthpreet Singh and Rupinder Singh Panjgrain, but he failed to appear before the SIT. Dhadrianwale said the SIT came up with multiple questions on what actually happened on October 14, 2015, and what was the mood of protesters before the police action. “I am recording my statement for the fourth time before different SITs since the incident, and briefed them what exactly happened and how the police resorted to lathi-charge, used tear gas shells and fired in the air to disperse the crowd,” he said. “I have deposed of before the new SIT that not only the civil and police administration present at the spot, top senior police officials and political leaders of the then government were well aware of the ground situation. The police action was carried out with the approval of political leaders and top police officials,” Dhadrianwale said. He said many leaders and officers may be denying that they had any information on the police action, but they (protesters) knew the reality. “The SIT asked me about why this particular issue was raked up that much. I clearly told them that the matter was related with the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib which is supreme for the community,” he added. Dhadrianwala was among other preachers who were booked for instigating protesters to attack police personnel. However, he was given a clean chit by former SIT chaired by IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh last year. The preacher said the Sikh community was hopeful that the new SIT will take this matter to its logical conclusion. caption: Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwala coming out after recording his statement with SIT at Patiala on Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-quizzes-dhadrianwale-records-his-statement-in-kotkapura-firing-case-101625514612208.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu, Bajwa demand concrete steps to make PPAs redundant||Punjab Congress leaders Navjot Singh Sidhu and Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday pressed for immediate action on the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the previous SAD-BJP government with independent power producers in the state, questioning the delay. Sidhu, who has been taking digs at his party’s government for its handling of the power sector, demanded a white paper on PPAs to make Badals accountable and new legislation to make them (agreements) redundant. “A White Paper on PPAs must be brought in Punjab Vidhan Sabha to make Badals and other authors of these corrupt agreements accountable to people...I have been demanding this since 2017, but bureaucratic control of department corners people-elected ministers to mere showpieces,” the former minister tweeted, raising questions over the working of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The Amritsar East MLA, who has been at loggerheads with Amarinder ever since he quit the state cabinet in 2019, alleged that Badal-signed PPAs are looting Punjab and legal options against them are limited due to their protection from courts. “Only way forward is new legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha with retro-effect capping power purchase prices to make the anti-people agreements redundant,” he claimed. Sidhu had resigned from the cabinet after his portfolio was changed to power and renewable energy from local government. Bajwa, who has also been critical of Amarinder throughout his (Capt’s) second term as CM, favoured renegotiation of these agreements immediately to stop the continued organised loot of the state exchequer. “Why is it that concrete steps have not been taken till date to do the same in Punjab? There has been a valid precedent and yet after four years of governing the state, the PPAs signed by the SAD-BJP government are still enforced. These agreements have caused irreparable financial burden to the state,” he said, citing the permission given by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) on July 1 to BSES to renegotiate its PPA with the NTPC-Dadri power plant. The Rajya Sabha member said the officers who negotiated these anti-Punjab PPAs on behalf of the previous government are still holding important positions in the present dispensation. “These individuals can create a roadblock for any long-term change to the status quo,” he claimed. He further demanded 300 units of free power to every household, stating that the Congress had already sought to ensure 200 units. “The state government should focus on promoting the creation of new renewable energy infrastructure like solar power,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-bajwa-demand-concrete-steps-to-make-ppas-redundant-101625514433594.html
06-07-2021||Other||‘Allow all citizens on Mumbai local trains or face protests, BMC poll boycott’||As local train services have been suspended for general commuters for over two months now, passenger associations have threatened to protest and not cast their votes in the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections. Stating that travelling within the city has become impossible for citizens, passenger associations said they would stage protests along with commuters if no immediate action is taken by the Maharashtra government. Local train services were suspended for general public for the second time since March 2020 after an increase in coronavirus cases in the city on April 15. Earlier, the state government had permitted citizens to travel by locals during stipulated time periods. They were allowed to commute during non-peak hours, excluding 9am to 12pm and 4pm to 9pm, resulting in nearly 3.3 million passengers (2 million on Central Railway and 1.3 million on Western Railway) travelling by local trains every day. “People have been approaching us to tell about their difficulties in commuting. They are forced to travel for around six hours every day by buses for work. What kind of an unlocking process is this? If there is no action taken, there will soon be a time when people will sit on the railway tracks and roads to protest,” said Subhash Gupta, president of passenger association Rail Yatri Parishad. Associations have also stated that if no respite if given to passengers, they would ask citizens to not vote in the upcoming BMC elections. “We have been urging people to use social media to bring the attention to the travelling situation in the city. As trains have not been resumed, we will ask people to not vote in the elections,” added Gupta. Passenger associations have suggested the state government and railways to allow vaccinated passengers to travel by local trains. “It becomes impossible for somebody to travel from Thane to south Mumbai for work every day amid the suspension of local trains. At major workplaces, employees are required to take the vaccine. The state government should start allowing passengers who have taken the vaccine or permit people to travel during stipulated time periods like before,” said Lata Argade, secretary of Suburban Railway Passenger Association, which is another body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allow-all-citizens-on-mumbai-local-trains-or-face-protests-bmc-poll-boycott-101625514434020.html
06-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government claims consistent increase in revenue recovery||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday claimed a consistent increase in its revenue recovery, collecting tax of ₹30,156.58 crore from April 1, 2021 to June 30, 2021. The amount represents about 67.3% of the target of ₹44,826.89 crore set for the first quarter of 2021-22.The state’s total tax collections were ₹10,963.05 crore during the same period in 2020-2021. This sum was about 69.7% of the target of ₹15,721.85 crore. On the non-tax revenue front, the recovery was about ₹1953.43 crore, about 32.2% of the target of ₹6067.85 crore. The state government’s non-tax recovery was ₹1020.63 crore, 50.4% of the target of ₹2026.00 crore.Uttar Pradesh minister for finance Suresh Khanna expressed satisfaction over revenue collections and said he was hopeful of further increase in the pace of recovery. He gave a breakup of the collections made under different heads and said revenue recovery had improved considerably in June 2021.The tax and non-tax revenue was ₹11,164.11 crore in June 2021, up by ₹2129.28 crore against collections of ₹9,034.83 crore in the same month in 2020. He said the recovery of revenue from mining and minerals was ₹243.48 crore, 72% of the target of ₹338.00 crore for June 2021. He said it was lower than the amount of ₹337.07 crore recovered in the same month in 2020.As the Covid-19 restrictions ease further in the coming weeks, the revenue recovery is likely to go up further, though a wide gap between the collections and the targets remains a cause for concern. The state government’s recovery of revenue has increased considerably, but its tax collections in the first quarter were only 16.2% of the annual target. The state government spends a large chunk of its revenue on payment of salaries and pension and the expenditure under this head is likely to go up further.The state government will need to step up recovery of revenue further in the coming months to fund ongoing development projects and ensure their completion before UP goes into poll mode for the 2022 assembly elections.“These figures point towards the state government’s economic recovery and it is hoped that this trend will continue in coming months as well. Since the recovery is short of the targets for the period, the state government will need to work to mobilise both tax and non-tax revenue. Augmented revenues will be essential to accelerate developmental activities at this point when the government will be in a hurry to complete the mega projects in coming months in view of coming assembly elections,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor at the department of economics, Lucknow University.The state government may present its first supplementary budget for 2021-22 to fund some of the recent announcements that include schemes for children who have lost their parents to Covid-19. A scheme for Covid-19 affected women, who have lost their husbands, is also being worked out. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath may announce some public welfare schemes and make announcements in coming months as the polls draw closer. The state government will, therefore, have to get ready to make token financial allocations for such schemes and see their implementation before the announcement of the 2022 UP assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-claims-consistent-increase-in-revenue-recovery-101625514371696.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Cong MLAs meet senior leader Venugopal, seek ‘leadership change’||Amid infighting in its Punjab unit, trouble is brewing for the Congress in Haryana as a group of party MLAs met senior leader KC Venugopal on Monday, apparently lobbying for a key role for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The meeting comes a few days after some MLAs sought a “strong leadership” for the party in the state when they had met another senior Congress leader in the national capital. The two meetings indicate rumblings in the Haryana Congress, even as the party’s top leadership deals with factionalism in neighbouring Punjab. On Monday, the meeting was held at Hooda’s Delhi residence. Hooda is the Leader of Opposition in the Haryana assembly, while Kumari Selja is the state Congress president. Barring Hooda, 22 MLAs visited AICC headquarters to meet Venugopal, the Congress general secretary in charge of the organisation. Later, some of the 22 legislators held a meeting with him, party sources said. Of the 31 legislators that Congress has in Haryana, a majority of them are considered Hooda loyalists. “We discussed organisational matters pertaining to the state unit as for many years district unit presidents have not been appointed… political situation in the state in the backdrop of ongoing farmers’ agitation, upcoming panchayat polls… all these issues were discussed,” Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats told reporters on Monday. Replying to a question of reporters in Delhi after the meeting, BB Batra, who also went to meet Venugopal, denied that there was any infighting in the state unit. Senior Haryana Congress leader Kiran Choudhary, who is a sitting MLA and a former minister, met Venugopal separately. Choudhary, however, described her meeting as a routine one. “He is our general secretary in-charge of the organisation. He is a senior leader, I keep meeting him from time to time. There was no specific agenda of my meeting today. In routine, I keep meeting the senior leadership,” she said. According to the sources, some MLAs will meet Venugopal on Tuesday also. The Haryana Congress is in for a major revamp, which is pending for a long time. Four days ago, 19 Congress MLAs from Haryana had met AICC general secretary and party’s Haryana affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal in Delhi. During the two meetings, the MLAs sought a key role for Hooda in the state unit and a greater say in organisational matters, with some of them saying this was necessary in the present scenario as farmers’ agitation is going on and former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was serving a 10-year term in the teachers’ recruitment scam, has been released from the prison. The legislators were of the opinion that only a “strong leader” could counter any advantage which the INLD might get owing to Chautala’s release from jail. After his meeting with the MLAs on Thursday, Bansal had told reporters that as the legislators had not met for a long time due to the Covid pandemic, it was decided to take their feedback about the political situation in the state and seek suggestions about the party’s organisational structure and upcoming panchayat polls. However, a senior Haryana Congress leader, who had attended the meeting with Bansal, said the MLAs conveyed that there should be a “change of leadership at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC)-level” to strengthen the party. Reacting to the meeting of the legislators with Bansal, Selja on Friday had downplayed the matter, saying nothing wrong with MLAs meeting their party’s Haryana affairs in-charge. “The MLAs can meet their party affairs in-charge. I don’t see any indiscipline if party legislators go and meet the party’s state unit in-charge and say something. It is their right. Bansal sahab later clarified what the meeting was all about,” she had said. Selja had also separately met the senior leadership of the party after the legislators’ meeting with Bansal on Thursday. The developments in the Haryana Congress have come amid infighting in the Punjab unit of the party, where senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu is at loggerheads with chief minister Amarinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cong-mlas-meet-senior-leader-venugopal-seek-leadership-change-101625514193712.html
06-07-2021||Other||Petrol price rises to ₹105.92/l in Mumbai||The price of petrol in the city increased for the second consecutive day on Monday.Inching closer to ₹106 per litre, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹105.92 on Monday after witnessing rise of 34 paise. There was no increase in the price of diesel in the city. Petrol price had crossed the ₹105-mark on Friday. In Thane, a litre of petrol crossed the ₹106-mark and reached ₹106.04. Fuel prices in the city have been on rise since May 3. On May 29, petrol price crossed the ₹100-mark in Mumbai and has been on a constant rise since then. In 34 days, the price of petrol has risen from ₹100 to ₹105. In Maharashtra, the costliest petrol was available in Parbhani on Monday at ₹108.23 per litre, while the highest diesel price was recorded in Amaravati, where one litre of the fuel was priced at ₹98.37. Petrol prices increased across metro cities and rest of the country too, on Monday. Inching closer to ₹100, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹99.86 in the national Capital while in Chennai the fuel’s price crossed the ₹100-mark and was available at ₹100.75 on Monday. In Hyderabad one litre of petrol was priced at ₹103.78.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-price-rises-to-105-92-l-in-mumbai-101625514190919.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC: Passport renewal can’t be denied if applicant barred from leaving country||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that passport authorities can’t refuse renewal of the travel document on the ground that the person has been barred from leaving the country. The high court was dealing with a case of denial of renewal of passport by Regional Passport Office, Amritsar, in the case of one Harjit Singh Chadha. The passport authorities had argued that Section 6(2) (g) of the Passports Act, 1967, prohibits the renewal of a passport when a competent court has restrained a person from travelling abroad. The bench of justice Sudhir Mittal observed that the clause cited by the passport authorities entitles the passport authority to refuse a passport or travel document in case a court prohibits the departure of the applicant from India. However, the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) order being cited by the authorities in the case in hand passed in June 2019 does not prohibit the petitioners from leaving India. The order only restrains them from leaving the country without prior information. Thus, the clause does not get attracted in this case, the court added. “…there can be no apprehension of petitioner No.1 escaping his prosecution in India. Every citizen of the country is entitled to a passport and Articles 19 & 21 of the Constitution of India give every citizen the Fundamental Right to travel,” the court observed. The passport had expired in September 2019. In a loan dispute case, proceedings against Chadha stood initiated before the DRT. It was in these proceedings that the DRT had passed an order restraining the petitioner from leaving the country without prior information to the court. The bank was also directed to ensure compliance by sending the order to the passport officer concerned. In 2018, an FIR too got registered against him in which he was a co- accused but, in that case also, the court had given permission for release of his passport for renewal and deposit it after the process is completed. But authorities had refused to renew the passport in view of restrictions on his travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-passport-renewal-can-t-be-denied-if-applicant-barred-from-leaving-country-101625514011696.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctors turn saviours for Covid orphans||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a group of city doctors is providing school fees to children from poor economic backgrounds who have lost either or both of their parents to the Covid-19 infection. This group has already managed to help 36 such children with their annual school fees, which generally range between ₹30,000 and ₹35,000. Dr Amit Thadhani, a surgeon, along with his fellow friends from the medical fraternity, is reaching out to such needy students across the country through his non-government organisation (NGO), Prime Education Health Learning Services (PEHL). So far, they have received 90 applications across India from students who have lost their parents to the Covid-19 infection. Of these, two applicants have been orphaned after Covid claimed the lives of both of their parents. Already, 36 of them have been helped with this year’s school fees. A Google document has been circulated through social media to submit the details for the grant. “This is the time of school admissions and due to Covid-19, many families who have lost their sole breadwinners are struggling to pay their school fees. We are trying to help such students. Once selected, we would pay their school fees for the three subsequent academic years. We have a target to help 100 such students,” said Dr Thadhani. “The fees are directly sent to the school’s bank account,” he added. The NGO has six-seven doctors on board, who are working closely to facilitate it. All applications undergo scrutiny before getting the approval. “We have three project coordinators who look after three different parts of India — west, north and south. Once we get an application, we check essential documents such as Aadhaar card, ration card and death certificates of the deceased parents. Also, we check the mark sheets of the previous two years to confirm that the students didn’t drop out,” said Dr Anjana Thadhani, developmental paediatrician and director of PEHL services. In most cases, they are getting applications from families where the fathers have died because of Covid-19. “In some cases, if we find the family belongs from a very poor economic background, then we also provide school fees to the other siblings in the family,” she added. On an average, they are providing ₹30,000- ₹35,000 as annual school fees. But recently, they have provided ₹1.15 lakh to a student who is studying engineering. It is the highest amount that has been paid so far to a student. Other than getting financial support from different trusts for the campaign, doctors also are also chipping in money from their own pockets to support the cause. “Most of the money that is being donated through the campaign has been mostly contributed by doctors and members who are part of the NGO. We are also getting fellow peers who are coming forward for help,” said Dr Thadhani. In the state, since the outbreak of the pandemic, till July 4, a total of 123,030 individuals have succumbed to the infection. ‘Father died in April, mother struggled for son’s school fees’On April 18, Sunil Kundale, 43, a resident of Nagpur, succumbed to Covid-19 infection, leaving behind his wife and two children—a one-year-old daughter and an 11-year-old son. Amid the loss, his wife, Deepali Sunil Kundale, had to knock at people’s doors to collect money for his son’s school fees. Kundale used to work as a manager in a local coaching centre. In the first week of April, he contracted Covid-19 and was hospitalised. Most of his savings were spent on his treatment which has now left the family penniless. “I didn’t want my son to leave school. So, when a relative sent me a link to apply for the financial grant, I immediately applied. Last week, they transferred ₹30,000 to the school’s account for my son. Now, at least, I won’t have to feel guilty for my inability to pay my son’s school fees,” said Deepali, who is looking for a job to support her family. ‘It was a year of struggle after my husband’s death’Mandakini Dubey, 32, lost her job as a sales advisor, when the malls closed down owing to the pandemic. Soon, hell broke loose on her when her husband, Sunil Dubey, 32, died because of Covid-19 last year in July. The situation turned more problematic when she ran out of her savings this year and failed to pay her seven-year-old son’s school fees. “My husband, who used to work at a security company, lost his job early in the pandemic. We both were dependent on our savings. Last year, when he died, I wasn’t in a condition to work so my brother helped us financially. But this year, I didn’t even have the money for my son’s education,” she said. Later, the NGO came forward and submitted ₹21,750 to his son’s school in Mulund. “The doctors spoke with my son on video call and even inspected our house. Later, they deposited the money and my son was raised to Class 1,” she said. “I have no way to thank these doctors who helped us in this situation,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-turn-saviours-for-covid-orphans-101625513950868.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||No Speaker poll yet, 12 MLAs suspended from Maharashtra Assembly||The monsoon session of the state assembly did not witness the much-anticipated election for the post of the Speaker – which would have signalled the strength of the ruling coalition government that has seen a rocky year, including a high-profile resignation of the state home minister – even as 12 Opposition legislators were suspended for misbehaviour on Monday. The election was expected to take place during the two-day monsoon session which ends on July 6, but neither a meeting of the state cabinet on Sunday nor those held by various leaders of the coalition last week, was able to reach a unanimous decision on the date. While the Congress, a junior partner in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition was keen to hold the election soon, the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were not. “Eleven legislators from the treasury benches are absent as they have been affected by Covid. In such a situation it was not advisable to hold the poll,” Congress legislator Balasaheb Thorat said.The post has been lying vacant after Nana Patole resigned to head the state Congress in February. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal has been presiding in the absence of the Speaker. As per the power-sharing pact between the three allies, the post would be held by a Congress legislator. The election is held via a secret vote and is a bellwether of the strength of the government as it indicates how many members of the legislative assembly (MLA) are in support of the ruling party – or, in this case, the MVA coalition.“The election to the post of Speaker is held by secret voting, making it difficult to avert the cross voting. Proving the majority would not be an issue, but keeping the votes we received during the confidence motion in 2019 intact is important. Reduction in even a few votes is assumed to be the technical defeat of the government. It would have been senseless to spend the strength on efforts to garner support when the ruling parties are facing volatility,” said a senior Shiv Sena leader on the condition of anonymity.The MVA government had won a floor test in 2019 by polling 169 votes in 288-member House. Besides the strength of 154 MLAs from three parties the ruling alliance, 15 MLAs from smaller parties and independents also supported the government. The BJP claimed to have the support of nine MLAs from smaller allies and independents.The unwillingness to conduct an election that could signal support – or the lack of it – comes at a time when the MVA government has faced a series of controversies in the past six months, and BJP leaders have dared the MVA to prove their majority on the floor of the House during the election. Last week, BJP leader Ashish Shelar – one of the 12 MLAs suspended on Monday – said that they would ensure the MVA’s defeat on the floor of the House. In April, former home minister Anil Deshmukh resigned after the Bombay high court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct an enquiry into his alleged role in a possible cash-for-transfer scam involving police personnel and politicians. The allegation, made by Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, was based on a report brought out by former state Commissioner of Intelligence Rashmi Shukla. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Deshmukh, an NCP leader, and his son, Hrishikesh, in connection with this case. In March, former Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh also alleged that Deshmukh ran an extortion racket and directed top cops in Mumbai to collect money from various establishments including hookah bars and restaurants.Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s relatives are also under the ED scanner in separate cases for purported financial irregularities. State leaders said that the pressure being built by the investigative agencies, under the BJP-led Centre, are attempts by the BJP to pull down the MVA government. In the past week itself, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as well as other top ruling coalition politicians to discuss means of “combating the pressure by the Centre”, a senior Congress leader said.Fadnavis’s meetings with BJP’s top leadership, especially with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi this week has led a section of BJP leaders to speculate on the longevity of the state government. “Fadnavis has made it clear that he would not be part of the Union cabinet, which is expected to be expanded in the next few days. It seems that he has convinced the party high command that changes in Maharashtra are possible only if he is camped in the state. If pulling the government down is not possible immediately, it could happen in the near future,” a senior BJP leader and former minister said.However, in past few days, the Shiv Sena and the BJP have made overtures towards ending the impasse, prompting political experts to contend that it was likely that the Shiv Sena deferred the Speaker election because of talks between the two parties whose political alliance dates back to 1995 and broke only prior to the formation of the current government. Shelar met Sanjay Raut of Sena this past Saturday; a day later, Fadnavis also said that Sena and BJP may have differences of opinion but they were not enemies. “We have parted ways due to some differences but we are certainly not enemies. Sena and BJP’s fight is not a long- standing traditional war.”Though the strength of the BJP legislators has been reduced following the suspension of 12 MLAs, including former ministers Shelar, Sanjay Kute, Girish Mahajan, and Jaykumar Rawal, the MVA government is still unlikely to conduct the Speaker election. “They might have an advantage whenever the election is held, but to conduct it during the ongoing session, the government needed to have intimated the Governor in advance. The proposal to that end needs to be passed in the cabinet meeting. With only one day of the session left, the government would have no time left to complete the procedure,” an official from the parliamentary affairs department said on Monday.The legislators were suspended during the resolution moved by state government to seek empirical data from the Centre in order to restore reservation granted to members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) which stands to be abolished following a recent Supreme Court order. There is a 27% reservation in local self-government body elections for this category. As the discussions became heated, Opposition legislators approached the seat of presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav and tried to snatch the microphone and remove the mace on the table. Jadhav announced the passing of the resolution and adjourned the proceedings for 10 minutes. He later told the members of the Assembly that the MLAs hurled abuses at him and tried to manhandle him.“This has been unprecedented in my more than three decades legislative career. I was abused by the BJP legislators who also tried to physically assault me. They were supported by leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis,” said Jadhav.The BJP however refuted Jadhav’s claims with one of the suspended MLAs, Ashish Shelar accusing the MVA government of “putting the Taliban to shame”.Fadnavis said that the government used the ruckus as an excuse to suspend MLAs. “Our legislators did not abuse the presiding officer. In fact Jadhav used filthy language which I cannot mention. The clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP legislators took place in the cabin when Sena legislators started creating ruckus. We apologised to Jadhav, despite which they suspended our MLAs without discussion.”The suspension of BJP legislators would not have helped the ruling coalition, Fadnavis said. “The suspension of 12 members would not help the government in winning the speaker’s election as one Supreme Court ruling has mandated against it. The apex court has clearly said that such suspension to facilitate any such floor test is invalid.”The Assembly on Monday passed a resolution urging the Centre to provide the 2011 Census data to enable the State Backward Class Commission to prepare empirical data of the OBC population, in a bid to restore political reservations for its members in local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-speaker-poll-yet-12-mlas-suspended-from-maharashtra-assembly-101625513710923.html
06-07-2021||Other||File report on FIR plea against Sirsa, Raina: Court to Srinagar cops||A court here has directed the police to file a report in a petition seeking an FIR against Sikh leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa and J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina for allegedly promoting enmity between communities and public mischief.The court of Srinagar chief judicial magistrate (CJM) has given a week’s time to the SHO of Saddar police station directing him to file the status report in light of the allegations put forth by Nasir Khuehami, national spokesperson of J&K students’ association.“Submit report (by) 12/7/2021 positively, failing which action under law shall be initiated against the SHO concerned,” the order by CJM Farooq Ahmad Bhat said.Khuehami had approached the court on July 3 stating that the police paid no heed to his application for registration of FIR against Sirsa, Raina and one Aman Singh Bali.“Prima facie the accused have committed offences under IPC sections 153(a), 153(b), 505(1) and 505(2),” the application states.The sections deal with offences promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion and race, assertions prejudicial to national integration, statements conducing to public mischief and promoting hatred between different classes.Sirsa, who is president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management committee and national spokesman of Shrimoni Akali Dal, had held a protest in Srinagar on June 27 and also issued statements alleging forcible conversion and marriage of Sikh girls. The petition adds that Raina and Bali also made prejudicial statements and tried to instigate Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/file-report-on-fir-plea-against-sirsa-raina-court-to-srinagar-cops-101625513653937.html
06-07-2021||Other||Nadda discusses poll strategy with party cadres in Himachal||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president Jagat Parkash Nadda on Tuesday discussed the strategy for upcoming bypolls to two assembly segments and one parliamentary segment in Himachal Pradesh. He also reviewed the preparations for the assembly elections scheduled next year.On a three-day tour of his home state, Nadda emphasised on building leadership. He also pulled up party workers and leaders of Mandi segment for not promoting the policies and programmes of the central government among the people. Displeased over many workers not remembering the names of the central schemes, the party chief told them to self-reflect and see where they stood.“The workers should have complete information about all central and state schemes, and the figures on their tips,” said Nadda while instilling confidence and enthusiasm among the workers. He also gave them leadership tips and discussed how to build the workforce, asking the party cadres to gear up for the polls.Bypolls are due for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies. The Mandi seat fell vacant on March 17 after the demise of MP Ram Swaroop Sharma, while the Fatehpur segment was emptied after Congress legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania’s died on February 12. Jubbal Kotkhai seat vacated upon former minister and BJP chief whip Narendra Bragta’s death due to post-Covid complications.State unit reflects on achievements BJP state chief Suresh Kashyap said BJP was getting stronger in Himachal under Nadda’s leadership. “We performed well in the Panchayati Raj elections held earlier and the public is continuing its support to BJP,” said Kashyap, adding that a conference would be organised soon to further strengthen the organisation.Heaping praises on Nadda, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said they have seen the former work hard in Himachal and that they took pride in him being the national president of the largest political party in the country.“It is our target to again form a BJP government in the state in 2022. Our three-and-a-half-year tenure has been full of achievements, and all the initiatives have reached the people,” said the CM assuring to exert full force and win all the three seats in the upcoming by-elections.Visit to Atal Tunnel Earlier in the day, Nadda visited Atal Tunnel along with CM Jai Ram Thakur. He described the tunnel as one of country’s biggest engineering marvel created by Border Roads Organisation.He also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for envisaging personal interest in realising the dream of former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee to construct a tunnel to connect the land-locked hinterland Lahaul-Spiti with rest of the world. He said the tunnel was also important from strategic point of view as it would ensure uninterrupted supply of logistics and other support to the army manning the frontiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nadda-discusses-poll-strategy-with-party-cadres-in-himachal-101625513651459.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Millennium City’s monuments||Nobody associates Gurugram, the so-called Millennium City, with monuments. That’s a mistake. Here are some landmarks that add history to this ultra-new metropolis of malls and high-rises.Kaman SaraiIt is one of the city’s few public buildings to be nearing 200 years. Kaman Sarai gateway was built around 1825 and housed a police station during the British era. The gateway is sandwiched within bazaar shops, near the town’s bus stand. Weedy grass has taken over this edifice of stone and lakhori bricks. The roof is broken. The gateway’s arches support a tunnel-like corridor; the backside has many picturesque windows and niches. Out of the original four chattris at the top, only one stands.Ghamandan SaraiThis is the most picturesque landmark of Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar, if you don’t include the beautiful Jama Masjid, which is just across a garden. While it is impossible to know the exact age of the gateway, it certainly came up after 1820, before which this area was a jungle. The pavement traders sitting about it marvel that the edifice is entirely made of stone—no brick or wood has been used. A few decades ago, locals say, parts of the gateway were demolished to make way for a narrow lane. In the evening’s soft light, the gateway looks sublime.Agricultural HallSwatantrata Senani Zila Parishad Hall, in Civil Lines, originally had nothing to do with swatantrata senani, the freedom fighters. The building was called Gurgaon Agricultural Hall. It was built in 1925 to honour the memory of the then district commissioner’s son. Two old canons stand outside. The side garden is more sombre. It has a tower inscribed with the names of the area’s soldiers who were killed in the First World War, as well as those of Indian Army personnel from the district who died in the “Chinese aggression in 1962”, the “Indo-Pak conflict of 1965” and the “Indo-Pak war 1971”. The memorial is surrounded by a row of frangipani trees. The flowers frequently fall on the ground.Church of EpiphanyTucked in a corner of Civil Lines, the church was consecrated in 1866 by the Bishop of Calcutta for a handful of British officers. The building is of Colonial-era aesthetics—the tall thin lancet windows, the tiny bell tower, and the gabled roof that slopes down on both sides as harmoniously as a slow-moving sonata. Inside the tiny church, the ceiling rests on a frame of timber roof truss—its coffee-coloured wooden beams feels like secret keepers of the bygone time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-millennium-city-s-monuments-101625513147020.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||No clinical trial of Covaxin on children as of now: BMC||Clinical trials of indigenous vaccine Covaxin on children between the age of 12 and 18 years is unlikely to happen in the city, said civic officials. BMC had planned to start clinical trials on teenagers between the age of 12 and 18 years for Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV), and had according sent a proposal to the central government in the last week of May 2021. However, the Central government has not given a go-ahead for the same.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have not got any response from the state or central government directing us to start clinical trials on children from the age group of 12 to 18 years. Hence, we will not conduct any trials for now. We are expecting that maybe at a later stage we might be asked to join the clinical trials.”The Central government had in mid-May announced that it would start clinical trials of Covaxin on children in the age group of two to 18 years, following which five medical institutions in Kanpur, Patna, Mysuru, Hyderabad and Nagpur had been approved by the ethics committee to conduct the clinical trials.Meanwhile, on Monday 69,626 citizens were vaccinated in the city. So far, a total of 5,723,972 citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16. On Tuesday, owing to shortage of doses, vaccination will be conducted only for three hours between 2pm and 5pm at civic and state-run government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-clinical-trial-of-covaxin-on-children-as-of-now-bmc-101625513410822.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai to announce UG final-year results soon||Final-year undergraduate (UG) students of the University of Mumbai (MU) can expect results of their fifth and sixth semester soon, said university officials. While semester-5 exams were held earlier this year, final-semester exams were held in May and June.“First, we will announce the results of semester-5 exams. Students can expect their results by the end of this week or early next week,” said an official from the board of examination and evaluation, MU.As of Monday, the university has declared results for 28 subjects, the exams for which were held at the end of the summer semester in May. However, the consolidated results for BA, BSc and BCom courses are yet to be announced.The university is facing a staff crunch amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are working with almost half the number of people in the office owing to travel restrictions. However, we are doing our best to release the results on time,” said the official.Students planning to study abroad will require mark sheets in time to apply for admissions starting from August. For such students, if the papers have been evaluated and marks allotted, the university will provide a confidential result to the university that the students apply to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-to-announce-ug-final-year-results-soon-101625513351528.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chaos at RN Cooper Hospital as it runs out of vaccine for students||Chaos broke out at civic-run RN Cooper Hospital on Monday as several students, who are to fly abroad for studies and have to mandatorily get vaccinated before flying out of the country, were asked to go back home due to non-availability of vaccine doses.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has designated several vaccination centres in the city where students going abroad for educational purposes are given vaccines. A total of 5,000 such students have been inoculated till Monday, after the dedicated drive started 45 days ago.On Monday, BMC had allotted four centres — Dahisar Jumbo, RN Cooper, Rajawadi and Kasturba Gandhi Hospitals — for vaccination drive for such students between 9am and 5pm. But due to shortages of doses, the centres were given only 200 doses each, which was not adequate considering the high demand among students.Ayush Tripathi, 26, who had gone to RN Cooper Hospital on Monday, said, “When I went to Cooper hospital around 11am, there was complete chaos and students were shouting and asking for jabs. However, hospital authorities said they do not have vaccines available.”He added, “Later, police were brought in and we were asked to go back home. But to my surprise, when I went back in the evening, I was told to directly go inside where I was given the shot. The management can be better prepared to ensure there is no repetition of chaos like today.”Sana Sattani, 26, said, “I got my first dose of Covishield on May 25 and now I need my second dose before July 15 as I am headed to the USA for further studies. But looking at the management at the hospital today, I have very little hope left.”Sattani added, “If I do not get the second dose before July 15, I might have to wait for another year to start my studies abroad. I feel the Cooper hospital authority should understand and give priority to students going abroad rather than giving excuse of shortage of vaccine doses.”Several students also took to social media and alleged that those waiting from 6am were not given the shots while some were given preference by giving back-door entry. BMC clarified that they had distributed tokens and only those with tokens were given vaccines, and added that it was not done based on reference.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Each centre was given 200 doses for the students. At Cooper hospital, the vials got over faster while the demand was quite high. We would still look into the incident for further clarification.” Meanwhile, Cooper hospital administration blamed lack of vials as the reason behind the chaos. “We get over 400 students daily for inoculation, but we aren’t getting enough vials. Students start lining up from 6am. Also, we have been instructed to prioritise beneficiaries for the second dose so, we cannot use their doses for the students,” said a senior doctor who is looking after the vaccination drive at the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-chaos-at-rn-cooper-hospital-as-it-runs-out-of-vaccine-for-students-101625513350855.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra revokes GR calling for reopening of schools in non-Covid zones||Hours after a government resolution (GR) from the school education department was released on physical reopening of schools for classes 8 to 12 in areas with zero Covid-19 cases, it was removed from the government website. An official from the school education department told HT that the implementation of this GR has been stalled by a few days.“Due to the lockdown, children from across the state have been holed up in their houses and missed out on quality education. Their education is limited to what they learn online, which is leading to other troubles such as addiction to screen time and even depression in some cases. Drop-out rate has increased in rural parts and the only solution for this is reopening of schools in a phased manner,” the GR had stated. It further clarified that schools and junior colleges will follow basic standard operating procedure (SOP) and maintain social distancing and regular temperature check of students when on campus.In November last year, the school education department had released a similar circular announcing re-opening of schools for classes 9 to 12 in a phased manner. In January this year, another circular was released directing for reopening of physical classes for students from classes 5 to 8 while maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour on campus. “Both the circulars were revoked once Covid-19 cases started rising again and the state government called for another complete lockdown in mid-April,” said a state education department official.This new GR, however, was quickly removed from the official website. “The Covid situation in the state is still precarious and therefore, reopening of schools cannot be implemented across all districts. We will hold the implementation of this GR by a few weeks until we get a final go-ahead from the state government and the chief minister’s office,” said another official.School administrations feel that instead of confusing schools and students with reopening rules, classes should continue online till the Covid situation is under control and maximum people are vaccinated. “Reopening schools for some students in some districts while others still study online will cause unnecessary confusion. The state should instead focus on bettering technical infrastructure in rural Maharashtra to ensure that students do not miss out on basic education,” said the principal of a suburban school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-revokes-gr-calling-for-reopening-of-schools-in-non-covid-zones-101625513171605.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Police stop residents from protesting against Ulhasnagar civic body||Residents of Ulhasnagar were stopped by the police on Monday morning from carrying out a protest against Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) for disconnecting power and water supply of dangerous buildings. Around 20-25 residents who started with an indefinite strike outside the UMC headquarters, were not allowed to continue the strike and five of the residents were detained by the police.“Many residents were supposed to join us. However, the police stopped them. Our protest will continue in some or the other way in the coming days,” said Ram Wadhwa, 33, a resident of Ulhasnagar and secretary of Sai Vasan Shah, an NGO that initiated the protest.However, by noon the civic body assured the residents to restore the water and power connections of the buildings and a few of them were, indeed, restored.Earlier, the UMC had disconnected the water and power supply of 47 dangerous buildings after serving a notice period of 15 days to do a structural audit.“Connections for one of the buildings were restored on Monday itself and the rest will also be done,” added Wadhwa.UMC PRO, Yuvraj Badane, said, “We did not allow the protest considering the ongoing pandemic. The police bandobast ensured that there was no gathering on the streets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-stop-residents-from-protesting-against-ulhasnagar-civic-body-101625513170838.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Teachers struggle to reach junior colleges to work on HSC results||Two days after Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) results will also follow the 30:30:40 formula, giving 30% weightage each to Class 10 and 11 marks and 40% weightage to Class 12 internals marks and students’ performance in the year, teachers are struggling to find a convenient way to reach schools and colleges, especially with travel restrictions in place.Gaikwad has requested schools and junior colleges to release Class 10 and 12 results by the end of this month, but education institutes and teachers are finding it difficult. “How do we reach our college without using trains? No one will pay for cab to and from college and it will take us a long time to travel by local buses. The government needs to look at the entire picture before announcing deadlines,” said a teacher from a junior college in Charni Road. A resident of Bhandup, the teacher, like many fellow teachers, is finding it difficult to make it to college in order to start work on HSC results.On Saturday, in a letter addressed to state school education minister and secretary, deputy director of education Sandeep Sangve requested for allowing Class 10 and 12 teachers to travel by train at least till the results are announced.“Since the final result will include marks of Class 10 and 11 as well overall performance of students in Class 12, it will not be possible to do this while sitting at home. Teachers will have to start visiting respective schools/junior colleges and work with the admin staff to get Class 10 and 11 marks and put this together,” said a teacher, adding that without permission to travel by trains it would be very difficult for many teachers to reach their respective institutes.At present, colleges are trying to work out a timetable to bring teachers on campus on a rotational basis so that everyone does not have to stress about travel. “Some of our non-teaching staff reside in Titwala, Navi Mumbai and Nallasopara; so, it is impossible for them to travel to college unless they are allowed to travel by train. But we have no choice but to announce results in time, so teachers are willing to adjust and work out a plan to ensure the work on results is not affected,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate.Another principal said that teachers are now resorting to traveling ticketless in trains to reach their colleges in time. “We, teachers, are being pushed to break the law because we are not being sold train tickets without a pass approved by the government. Some of my teachers are traveling without tickets to beat the system,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-teachers-struggle-to-reach-junior-colleges-to-work-on-hscresults-101625513111440.html
06-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records decline in active Covid-19 cases in last 2 months||The number of active cases in Maharashtra has gone down significantly in the past two months. The state recorded 6,740 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 116,827, down from 188,027 active cases recorded a month ago on June 5 and 641,596 recorded on May 5.Pune topped in terms of active cases this month at 16,960, followed by Thane at 16,742. Kolhapur occupied the third spot with 12,716 active cases.Last month of the total 188,027 active cases, Pune led with 22,280, followed by Kolhapur with 18,130 and Mumbai 18,118.On May 5, which marked the peak of the Covid-19 second wave, the number of active Covid cases in the state was a whopping 641,596, with Pune leading with 114,254 cases, Nagpur with 58,944 and Mumbai 56,153 cases.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said the decline was due to the proactive steps taken by the state government. “We ramped up the number of tests and isolated patients, thus limiting the spread. Lockdown played an important role in cutting down transmission rates and consequently interrupt the surge of the virus,” said Salunkhe.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said the decline in active cases indicates the waning signal of the second wave. “Maharashtra has done very well in containing the virus. Active cases would have been much lesser today, had some districts not witnessed such a continuous surge. Districts like Kolhapur, Sangli, Pune and Satara are still clocking high number of cases, thereby increasing the tally of active cases,” said Gilada.Mumbai on Monday clocked 486 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, bringing the case tally to 725,161 and toll to 15,554. On Thursday, 169,517 tests were conducted while the number of recoveries stood at 13,027.The total number of Covid cases in the state now stands at 6,104,917 and toll at 123,136. Pune topped with 16,895 deaths, followed by Mumbai at 15,554.Meanwhile, facing defiance from traders in Kolhapur, the authorities allowed them to open shops after three months. However, the timings for the same has been restricted to 7am to 4pm while maintaining all Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-decline-in-active-covid-19-cases-in-last-2-months-101625513110828.html
06-07-2021||Bangalore||Repeaters to be passed with grace marks in PUC exams: State to HC||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government told the high court on Monday that all repeaters in Pre-University College (PUC) exam will be declared passed by giving them grace marks. The state government also said that regular students of II-year PUC will be promoted by giving 45% weightage for their SSLC marks, 45% for I PU marks and 10% for the internal assessment marks of II PU. The government submitted an affidavit giving out details of its policy of promoting before a division bench comprising justice BV Nagarathna and justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by SV Singre Gowda, the managing trustee of Gnana Mandira Education Trust, Bengaluru. Hearing this, the division bench disposed of the petition which had challenged the different yardsticks adopted by the state for promoting repeaters, private students, and fresher students for the second PUC exam amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Even the private candidates, who are appearing as repeaters, will be declared as passed by giving grace marks. However, the court was told that the private candidates, who are appearing for the II PUC for the first time, will have to appear for the exam that would be conducted when the Covid-19 situation in the state subsidies. The affidavit said the results of the second PUC will be announced before July 31, as per the direction given by the Supreme Court. The bench on June 17 had directed the government not to declare the results of the II PU course till the decision be taken based on suggestions to be made by an expert committee, which was set up to study methodology to be applied for promoting repeater students. “Pending a comprehensive decision to be taken by the state, it shall not announce results of those who have not taken the second PUC exams,” the court had directed. The department of pre-university education (DPUE) had announced its decision to promote regular/fresher students of second PUC based on the first PUC exam while deciding to hold examinations only for repeaters by way of a notification dated June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/repeaters-to-be-passed-with-grace-marks-in-puc-exams-state-to-hc-101625512630793.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Noida Metro: New stations to have commercial space||The Noida Metro will build stations on the proposed Noida-Greater Noida corridor on the lines of the Delhi Metro with commercial space for eateries, retail outlets and bars.At present, the Aqua Line, which the Noida Metro operates, does not have any such space and its revenue sources are ticket sales and advertisements. The Delhi Metro formula for stations, said Noida Metro managing director Ritu Maheshwari, will help earn more. “We have decided to develop more commercial space at all Metro stations to be built on this new corridor. We have observed that Delhi Metro stations have commercial space. Therefore we have decided to increase floor area ratio to use as much space as possible for commercial purposes to earn more revenue,” said Maheshwari who is also the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Noida authority.But to make this happen, the authority has to amend its building by-laws and the city’s Master Plan 2031 to increase the floor area ratio to 4.5 from the current 2.5. This will allow the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) to use more ground and vertical coverage for commercial purposes. Authority officials said they have started this process and it is expected to be completed soon. The changes will be applicable to the Metro project only.“The stations will in a way be able to function as small shopping malls, wherever there is adequate space, thereby earning more revenue,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to media.The NMRC will build five Metro stations on the 9.15km corridor that will branch out from Aqua Line’s Sector 51 Metro station and connect to Greater Noida West’s Sector 2. The corridor will later be extended by nearly 6km to reach Knowledge Park 5 in Greater Noida and four other stations en route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-metro-new-stations-to-have-commercial-space-101625512270759.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Noida authority sets up two sump wells to tackle waterlogging||NOIDA: The Noida authority has set up two sump wells in the city to deal with waterlogging issues during the monsoon. It will also start a helpline number for quick redressal of complaints related to waterlogging, officials said.“We have developed two sump wells at the DND (Delhi-Noida-Direct) Flyway and near Mahamaya flyover. Besides, we will start a helpline for waterlogging complaints on Tuesday,” said RP Singh, senior manager (water works) of the Noida authority.The authority has built one sump well on a road that connects Sector 126 to Amity University from Mahamaya flyover, and another at a road coming from Greater Noida side and going towards DND Flyway. “These are two major points of waterlogging that hassle commuters. But going forward, commuters will not face any inconvenience during rain,” said Singh. According to the officials, a sump well, which is a temporary pit, helps trap rainwater that can later be pumped into nearby drains.According to the authority, there are 22 low lying areas in the city where it will temporarily set up pumps to drain water. Besides, the authority has also de-silted the city drains in order to prevent waterlogging, said the officials. The drains get choked with plastic and filth thereby causing waterlogging in different areas of the city, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-sets-up-two-sump-wells-to-tackle-waterlogging-101625512211447.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Mercury to rise but no heatwave in Noida||Noida Weather analysts on Monday predicted that the monsoon may arrive around July 9-10, against a normal arrival around June 23. Temperatures are also likely to rise again and hover around 41° Celsius (C) over the next two days, following a mild rainfall last week, they said.The city people, however, won’t experience any heatwave, the weather analysts added.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there are predictions of rainfall over the next five days, and temperatures may also rise on Tuesday and Wednesday.“There’s a delay in the monsoon, and it may arrive around July 9-10. This is the maximum delay since 2016, as the monsoon usually arrives in Noida and adjoining regions by June 27. At present, the region is receiving moisture laden south-westerly winds, and not the dry and warm westerly winds. However, the mercury may rise over the next two days, and reach up to 41° C. There are chances of light rainfall, depending on a slight shift in trough or moisture laden winds, but the chances are very low,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.According to the IMD, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures at 38.6° C and 29° C on Monday, against 38.6° C and 24° C a day earlier. The Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered as an average for the National Capital Region (NCR), recorded maximum and minimum temperatures at 39.5° C and 28° C, respectively, on Monday.Air quality likely to deteriorateMeanwhile, pollution monitoring agencies expect the air quality in Noida to deteriorate over the next few days.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) in Noida on Monday was recorded at 168, against 147 on Sunday. On a scale of zero to 500, the AQI in Greater Noida was recorded at 209, against 174 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 180 on Monday, against 155 a day earlier.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), due to the transport of dust, pollution levels are likely to increase for a short range of time. “Surface winds are moderate and westerly. Dust long-range transport from western dry arid regions and local emissions are likely to continue in the coming days. Dust (particulate matter / PM10) will be the lead pollutant for the next three days. The AQI is likely to be in the ‘moderate’ category for the next three days,” according to a SAFAR statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-to-rise-but-no-heatwave-in-noida-101625512210813.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Man robbed on ride to Aligarh||Noida: A 62-year-old man from Delhi who was on his way to a wedding in Aligarh on Sunday was allegedly assaulted by three men and robbed near the Botanical Garden metro station, said police. “The man was waiting for a public transport when a shared cab arrived and offered to give a ride till Aligarh. They decided on a fare and made a deal. On the way, the driver and the other passengers assaulted him and took his wallet. They abandoned him on the road before fleeing. The victim approached the police before going back home without filing a complaint,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.While some social media posts claimed that the man was assaulted over his religion - he is a Muslim- Singh denied this and maintained it was a robbery.Police said they were in touch with the family and will act once they file an official complaint. When HT reached out to the man’s family, they said they did not want to pursue legal action for fear of being targeted further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-robbed-on-ride-to-aligarh-101625512091470.html
06-07-2021||Noida||CISF officer kills wife, takes his own life||Noida: A 30-year-old sub-inspector attached with the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) allegedly strangled his 23-year-old wife to death before taking his own life early Monday morning in Dadri area under the Jarcha police jurisdiction. The police said that a suicide note recovered from the mentioned domestic disputes between them.The sub-inspector was posted at the NTPC plant in Dadri, the police said.According to police, the couple, both from Bihar, had been married for six months.“Last night, neighbours heard them arguing till around 1.30am. In the morning, when the sub-inspector didn’t turn up for his shift, his colleagues came to check on him and found the door of his room locked but the air cooler on. They broke in and found the bodies,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.Police said they were informed about the incident around 7am. The police said prima facie, it seems that the man first smothered the woman with a pillow and then hanged himself. However, the exact cause of death will be ascertained only after the autopsy, they said.“A suicide note was recovered from the spot which stated that the two were having domestic disputes because of which he decided to take the extreme steps. The bodies have been sent for autopsy and families have been informed,” said Pandey.The police said a case of murder (over the woman’s death) was filed at the Jarcha police station against the man based on a complaint by his neighbours. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline for suicide prevention or help. A few major suicide prevention helplines in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cisf-officer-kills-wife-takes-his-own-life-101625512090777.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Positivity rate now 0.09%, Delhi adds just 54 Covid-19 cases||A day after the number of active Covid-19 cases in the city fell below 1,000 for the first time since April last year, Delhi marked an important landmark in its pandemic fight on Monday as the test positivity rate fell below 0.1% for the first time ever, and daily infections fell to a nearly 15-month low, showed the state government’s daily health bulletin.The test positivity rate — proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 — dropped to 0.09% on Monday, the lowest ever recorded in the city since the pandemic broke out in early March last year.Click here for Covid-19 coverageExperts and the World Health Organization (WHO) recommend a test positivity rate below 5% for at least two weeks in a region for an outbreak to be considered under control. The number in Delhi has been below this mark for 46 days, and below 1% for 36 days.Daily infections on Monday also fell to their lowest since April 15, 2020, as Delhi added just 54 fresh Covid-19 cases. This took Delhi’s overall case count to 1,434,608, while two more deaths took the toll to 24,997.The city added an average of 88 new cases every day over the past week, the joint-lowest since the week-ending April 21 last year, when Delhi logged an average of 85 new cases.The number of active cases — people currently battling Covid-19 — which on Sunday dropped below 1,000 for the first time since early April last year, fell further to 912, showed Monday’s health bulletin.Of these, 566 people are admitted in hospitals across the city, even as a majority of Covid-19 beds in the Capital remain vacant. Over 96% of the 14,662 hospital beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients are empty, according to state government records.“The number of cases going down is natural; our study in collaboration with WHO has shown a very high sero-positivity [in the city]. A wave of any infection can happen only when there is an adequate pool of susceptible people. For example, we see dengue cases increase every four or five years in Delhi because there is a susceptible population by then,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“There will be some ups and downs in the number of cases, but the delta variant was so infectious that a very high proportion of people in Delhi have already been exposed, protecting them against another infection from at least six to 10 months, as the current evidence suggests. In the meanwhile, we are also expanding the vaccination net; people who do not have immunity from a previous infection will get it through immunisation,” said Dr Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/positivity-rate-now-0-09-capital-adds-just-54-cases-101625511826532.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: DME’s rail overbridge turns traffic bottleneck||With traffic returning to the roads after two months of Covid-induced curfew, thousands of commuters using the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) are forced to brave long snarls during rush hour at the under-construction rail-overbridge (ROB) at Chipiyana (near ABES College), which has become a traffic bottleneck. Currently, the 16-lane ROB (which is 125 m long on one side and 90 m on the other) has only four lanes active. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials said that they were scheduled to open six more by July, but that has been now pushed to August 15 because the curfew that affected work. The ROB is the only major structure yet to be completed on the DME’s 19.2km Phase 2 spanning UP-Gate to Dasna. The section serves short distance commuters travelling to Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Noida and Delhi, while it is also a link to long distance commuters travelling to Moradabad, Bareilly and even to Meerut. “For the past 10-15 days, the ROB has turned into a bottleneck and thousands of commuters get stuck during peak hours. It takes anything from 30 minutes to even an hour to navigate the ROB. The traffic police are deployed but they struggle to manage such a massive traffic,” said Namita Gaur, a resident of Crossings Republik Township. “The problem is more acute for local travellers as they have to battle snarls and jams at the ROB every morning and evening and there is hardly any alternative route available,” said Nishant Sinha,a resident of Nehru Nagar. NHAI said the traffic at the ROB section was around 70,000 passenger car units (PCUs -- which is a measure of traffic taking into account the different vehicle sizes and types) whereas the section could accommodate only around 30,000 to 40,000 PCUs, which was the daily amount of traffic during the partial curfew in April and May.“We have just opened four lanes of the ROB and six more were to be opened in July but now they will be opened only by August 15. The rest are scheduled to open by the end of December,” said Mudit Garg, project director from NHAI. He said the authority suggested some traffic regulations, but Ghaziabad traffic police did not accept them. “We requested traffic police to regulate the vehicular speed at other points on the expressway so that the ROB section does not clog but they did not implement it,” he said. Traffic police officials said they had deployed personnel there to manage traffic, but the volume at the ROB was exceptionally high. “If we regulate speed of incoming traffic on the ROB and at other points, we risk having a jam all along the expressway. Likewise, we cannot put up barriers as they will hinder traffic flow. We have asked the NHAI to expedite the work. Once the monsoon arrives, there may be further delays in opening the lanes,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-dme-s-rail-overbridge-turns-traffic-bottleneck-101625511970757.html
06-07-2021||Noida||Gyms in Noida reopen, members being urged to get vaccinated||Noida: Gyms and wellness centres in the city, which reopened on Monday after over two months, witnessed a decent footfall on day one with owners urging the members to get vaccinated before visiting the centres.The gym managers and owners said that while they are following all Covid-19 protocols, they will be working on slots to ensure their centres are not overcrowded. “The day was quite encouraging as a number of members showed up. This time we are ensuring that all our members are vaccinated. The good thing is that about 80% members have received their first dose. We will keep reminding those who have not received the Covid-19 vaccine yet,” said Rajiv Kumar Pathak, who manages Gold’s Gym centres at sectors 30 and 104.Pathak further said that they are also urging the members to get their slots for workout. “It’s important to ensure the floor is not crowded. So, we are giving slots to the members and ensuring that not more than 30 of them are there at a time,” he added.As per the new guidelines issued on July 3 by the UP government, gyms in the state have been allowed to operate at 50% capacity from Monday.According to Ankur Arora of La Fitness in Sector 18, the members are willing to visit the fitness centre.“A number of members have been vaccinated. On the first day, the strength was about one third of what we used to get before the Covid curfew. We are receiving a number of calls from our members who have recently recovered from Covid. We have asked them that if they are feeling weak, then they should take rest before resuming the workout,” said Arora.Fearing the possibility of a third wave of Covid-19, some gym owners said that they are trying to encourage the members by making up for their lost membership days.“It’s a very good response for the first day. Though we have suffered losses due to the lockdown, we are encouraging our members by compensating for lost days on memberships,” said Nupur, who runs a branch of Anytime Fitness in Sector 77.Deepa Ahuja, who operates two centres of Anytime Fitness in sectors 48 and 104, said that they have extended the membership of their customers by two months. “Our businesses have suffered, but we are trying our best to make it up for our customers,” said Ahuja.The gyms and wellness centres had been closed since April 30 when the partial Covid curfew was imposed in Gautam Budh Nagar following the second wave of Covid-19. While the restrictions were gradually lifted from June 7 after the active cases in the district went below 600, the gyms had been asked to remain closed. Poonam Bishnoi, district sports officer, GB Nagar, said that the swimming pools will remain closed till further orders. “The gyms will have to remain closed on the weekends,” Bishnoi said.Last year, the gyms in Noida were closed from March 15 to June 10, about 10 days before the nationwide lockdown kicked in on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gyms-in-noida-reopen-members-being-urged-to-get-vaccinated-101625511910727.html
06-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar restarts walk-in vaccination for 18+ today||Gautam Budh Nagar resumed walk-in registrations at its government vaccination centres from Monday after having suspended them for a week due to a paucity of vaccines.As per officials, the district got around 39,000 more vaccines - 14,000 Covaxin and 25,000 Covishield doses - from the state on Sunday, enough to meet the district’s target of 10,000 vaccinations at government centres for three days. The private sector buys it directly from the government’s Co-WIN platform. “On Monday we had a total of 57,000 vaccines. We hope to get more from the state health department soon,” said district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri. To manage crowds at the centres, the district has deployed police. “They can provide information regarding session capacity at each centre. This will help manage the crowd at the centres as only a limited number of walk-in doses will be administered,” said Dr Ohri.Though it has been advised that beneficiaries should book their slots on the Co-WIN portal for convenience, those who are unable to do so can opt for walk-in vaccinations, he added. District immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that the district inoculated 17,908 beneficiariesacross 113 government vaccination centres on Monday. “Out of this, the 11,629 people in the 18-45 age group got their first dose and 593 got the second dose. Of the 45-60 group, 1,918 got their first dose and 2,003 got their second dose, and 722 under the 60+ age group got their first dose and 1,005 got their second dose,” said Dr Tyagi. Last week, the district health department had to suspend the administration of Covishield on June 29 (Tuesday) and all vaccinations the next day as well. This was due to the state government reducing vaccine supply to districts in order to launch a mega vaccination drive from July 1 when it targeted to vaccinate 1 million people a day.On July 1, vaccinations resumed at government centres but walk-in registration was suspended and only those who had booked slots on the Co-Win portal were given the vaccine. As per the official data, the GB Nagar health department had aimed for 10,500 vaccinations on July 1 but only 6789 vaccinations took place for 18-45 age group. Similarly on July 2 and 3, 6,397 and 6,198 vaccinations took place for the same age group respectively.The number of government Covid vaccination centres (CVC) carrying out vaccinations has now increased to 113 now from 36 last week.Even the 39,000 vaccine doses provided to the district is for the next three days is in stark contrast to the district health department’s earlier plan to inoculate at least 40,000 people a day in July.District Magistrate Suhas LY said, “Yes, vaccinations are currently not going as per the plan. But we are in a better position than last week when were only able to inoculate around 6,000-7,000 people at government CVCs.”He added that the total number of vaccinations done in the district including private CVCs is around 20,000 which is a ‘good number’. When asked whether near-to-home cluster vaccinations will start across GB Nagar, he added, “It all depends on the number of vaccines we will get from the state health department. We are hoping to get more vaccines this week”.According to the Co-WIN portal, till Monday as many as 12,52,171 doses have been administered in the Gautam Budh Nagar district, of which 10,87,939 people have taken their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-restarts-walk-in-vaccination-for-18-today-101625511850694.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||L-G, govt tussle again, this time over advocates for Jan 26 cases||The appointment of special public prosecutors (SPPs) for cases pertaining to the violence in the city on Republic Day during a tractor rally taken out by farmers protesting against the new farm laws has emerged as the new sticking point between the Delhi government and Raj Bhavan, according to official documents seen by HT.On February 26, Delhi Police sent a proposal to the state government’s home department seeking appointment of 11 law officers or advocates to represent the state in all cases related to the farmers’ agitation. However, the Delhi government said it wanted its existing team of SPPs to argue the cases.On July 1, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Delhi home minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting on the matter, but the matter could not be resolved. The same day, Jain added a note to the file saying that he urged the L-G “not to insist on appointing SPPs on the behest of the Delhi Police”.“...The SPPs should not be appointed at the behest of the investigation agency in the interest of justice and fair trial as the investigation and prosecution are two different facets in the administrations of criminal justice. Prosecutors have duties not only to bring criminals to justice according to the rule of law, but also have duties to the accused so that an innocent person is not convicted,” Jain said in his July 1 note.On July 2, L-G Baijal wrote a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting him to convene a meeting of the council of ministers to decide upon the disagreement within a week.“I have also received his (Jain’s) note dated July 1, 2021 pointing out that the SPPs should not be appointed on the request of Delhi Police. No doubt, the public prosecutor represents the State by the virtue of his/her office, he/she is also an officer of the Court and is required to render assistance to the court in arriving at a just and equitable decision. While discharging these duties, the public prosecutor acts in a manner that is fair to the Court, to the investigating agency as well as to the accused in accordance with the guiding principles of the spirit of law based on precedence, common sense and equity. Therefore, there is no reason to suspect that the Special Public Prosecutors wouldn’t perform their duty fearlessly and impartially as officers of the court,” the L-G said in his letter to Kejriwal.Raghav Chadha, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national spokesperson, on Monday said the L-G’s and the police’s request was part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s “vengeful attempts to harass and defame innocent farmers”.“No complaint against the Delhi government’s lawyers has been received. Still, the L-G wants to replace them with BJP’s lawyers to teach the farmers a lesson,” Chadha said in a press conference.“The country has been witnessing ‘BJP vs Kisan’ for the last eight months and the BJP’s anti-farmer face is showing day by day,” he added.Officials in the L-G’s office who spoke on condition of anonymity said keeping in view the “enormity and sensitivity” of the matter, Baijal called the relevant file from the state home department on March 24 and tried to discuss the issue with the government on several occasions.“It was then (March 24) that the L-G found out that the state home minister rejected the Delhi Police’s proposal. On April 7, the L-G urged Jain to reconsider his decision and hold a discussion with him through video conference. However, Jain cancelled the meeting. The L-G again requested a meeting around June 1-2, but the minister urged him to convene the meeting once the fourth wave ebbs. Accordingly, the meeting was finally held on July 1,” the official said.Scores of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws are from Punjab, which is going to polls in 2022. The Aam Aadmi Party is the principal Opposition party in the Punjab assembly.The Delhi government and the L-G’s office had a similar disagreement last year over the appointment of state lawyers to argue the north-east Delhi riots cases. In 2018, difference of opinion surfaced over appointment of SPPs in the case of alleged assault on former Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash.In these cases, the L-G’s decision prevailed since the matter was finally referred to the President, who approved the L-G’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-govt-tussle-again-this-time-over-advocates-for-jan-26-cases-101625511420217.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sexual harassment case: GMCH staffer denied anticipatory bail||The district court on Monday dismissed the anticipatory bail application filed by an OT technician, who allegedly sexually harassed a third-year medical student of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32.The complainant stated in the FIR that on June 27, she was on evening duty and when she went to the store room to get some medicines, an OT technician, named Kamleshwar, followed her: “As I tried to run away, he held me from the front and molested me. As I managed to get out of the store room, he threatened that he would kill me if I ever complained about it,” the student complained.The accused, who is a resident of Mullanpur, was booked under Section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code on June 28.In the court of an additional sessions judge, complainant’s counsel Terminder Singh argued that the complainant had specifically mentioned in the FIR that the accused had molested her.Accused alleges regionalismIn his plea, the accused stated that because he was from Bihar, everyone used to address him as “bhaiya”, because of which a heated argument had taken place and a “false” case had been registered against him.The complainant argued that it was a serious matter and she had no motive to falsely implicate him, adding that custodial interrogation was required. After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail petition.Students protest on premisesThe police are yet to arrest the accused, and the slow action by the authorities has angered the medical students, who could be seen protesting outside the police post on the hospital premises on Monday. The students raised slogans and held placards.The doctors have also been anguished as it took the authorities almost a week to suspend the accused.A letter dated July 3 mentioned that the accused had been immediately placed under suspension in view of the complaint, for not appearing in front of the internal complaint committee of sexual harassment of women at workplace, and a case against him was under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sexual-harassment-case-gmch-staffer-denied-bail-101625511312134.html
06-07-2021||Other||TN minister seeks Delhi’s mediation in dam dispute||Chennai/Bengaluru: Tamil Nadu’s water resources minister S Duraimurugan flew to Delhi on Monday to meet union minister for Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, a day after the state’s chief minister MK Stalin responded to his Karnataka counterpart BS Yediyurappa urging him to drop the Mekedatu project. “I am going to speak about Mekedatu and river Markandeya. We will discuss several problems related to Tamil Nadu,” Duraimurugan said about his meeting scheduled on Tuesday afternoon. The Mekedatu issue has evoked emotions on both sides of the border as it is an extension of the century-old Cauvery river water dispute that has defined generations in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.Yediyurappa on July 3 made a fresh bid to resolve the issue on construction of the reservoir in Mekedatu across the Cauvery river by proposing bilateral talks with Stalin. But Stalin has stuck to the stance of his predecessors that the project would affect the state’s agrarian community and affect its water resources. He didn’t address the call for a meeting.At different points, the Mekedatu project often came to the fore only to be relegated to the background as it went through several litigations. The long-winding legal battles have been used as a political currency in the past as well as an active tool to deflect attention away from other issues. This time with a new chief minister at the helm, the main arguments over the project have resurfaced. It’s one of those few issues where regional parties concur with each other to take the side of their respective states. While every elected Karnataka chief minister has been keen to roll out the project, Tamil Nadu’s chief ministers have objected. Delegations from both states have over the years met Prime Ministers in Delhi with Tamil Nadu urging the union government to stop Karnataka while they in turn asked for the Centre’s cooperation. Tamil Nadu petition filed in 2018 challenging the project is still pending in the Supreme Court. The suit says that the proposed projected violates the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, and that the construction would impound and divert the flows coming in Cauvery in the intermediate catchment below the Krishnaraja Sagar and Kabini reservoirs, and Billigundulu in the common border of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.Stalin on Monday in his letter said that Karnataka’s objective to construct “such a major reservoir”, which is too far away from Bengaluru to meet its drinking “does not sound valid”. In a letter to Stalin on Saturday, Yediyurappa said that two projects proposed by the Tamil Nadu government--Kundah pumped storage Hydro-electric project and Silahalla pumped storage Hydro-electric project in Bhavani Sub-basin of Cauvery basin--was done without consulting Karnataka, making a veiled attempt to barter consensus on projects on either side of the border. But Stalin said that it wasn’t appropriate to compare them.Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s minister for home, law and parliamentary affairs on Monday said that Tamil Nadu continues to object to all projects since Krishna Raja Sagara (Dam).“Our intention is that their government has changed. This project is for drinking water and generating power and would be helpful in distributing water during distress years. This is what we have been trying to communicate to them but the Chief minister’s (Stalin’s) “tone and tenor” is not correct,” he said. Bommai said that Karnataka will continue to fight the legal battle in the Supreme Court and complete the project.The state unit of the Congress party, which is in alliance with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in Tamil Nadu, said there was no need to write a letter to Stalin.“Look. Yediyurappa writing a letter to Tamil Nadu chief minister is wrong. If he writes to Tamil Nadu chief minister and asks him to agree, will he do that? There is no need to ask them. The court has not said it nor has the tribunal. We are doing it on our part. According to the tribunal order, they have the right only to ask for the water that has been alloted to them but to make a balancing reservoir here is something we do not need to ask them to make,” Siddaramaiah, former chief minister and leader of the opposition said on Monday. To be sure, Karnataka has already received a nod in favour of the project and the Tamil Nadu’s Kundah pumped storage too has been accorded environmental clearance in February this year while the Sillahalla project is under consideration.The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, soon after it came to power in 2013, announced the construction of the project which would cost ₹5912 crore to help use the excess water to quench the thirst of surrounding districts, including Bengaluru. Then Tamil Nadu chief minister, (now late) J Jayalalitha wrote to the union government not to give the project an environment clearance as it would disrupt the natural flow of water from the upper riparian state.The DMK says they wouldn’t budge either. “This is against the principles of federalism where an upper riparian state cannot dictate terms,” says advocate and DMK spokesperson, A Saravanan. “They (Karnataka) are raking up the issue now because the BJP is fragmented so they want to divert attention by putting up a united front on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-minister-seeks-delhi-s-mediation-in-dam-dispute-101625511190724.html
06-07-2021||Other||Madras HC issues notices to Centre, Bar Council on constitution of disciplinary committee||Chennai: The Madras high court on Monday issued notices to the union government, the Bar Council of India (BCI) and the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on a petition challenging the validity of section 9 of The Advocates Act, 1961. A bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy posted the matter to appear in four weeks. Section 9 of the Act pertains to a Bar Council to constitute one or more disciplinary committees. The petition moved by advocate Karthik Ranganathan argued that these disciplinary committees should have retired judges as members and not the present system where lawyers decide on cases involving their peers.Section 9, states, “A Bar Council shall constitute one or more disciplinary committees, each of which shall consist of three persons of whom two shall be persons elected by the Council from among its members and the other shall be a person co-opted by the Council from among advocates who possess the qualifications specified in the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 3 and who are not members of the Council, and the senior-most advocate among the members of a disciplinary committee shall be the Chairman thereof.”The court asked for the copy of the petition to be sent to the office of the Additional Solicitor-General, R Sankara Narayanan. “Mr Rajesh Vivekanandan, learned Senior Panel Counsel, accepts notice for the first respondent. Issue notice to the respondents 2 and 3; returnable four weeks hence,” the court said in its orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madras-hc-issues-notices-to-centre-bar-council-on-constitution-of-disciplinary-committee-101625511130672.html
06-07-2021||Other||Madras HC upholds bail to man booked over FB post||Chennai: The Madras High Court recently upheld the decision of a special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to grant default bail to a man accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) over a Facebook post. The court dismissed two criminal appeals filed in the case by the NIA.A bench of Justices PN Prakash and R Pongiappan in their order dated June 28 said that the state had acted in a cavalier manner and that there was no diligence in the investigation. The order was made public on Monday.The appeals challenged the validity of two orders passed by the Special NIA Court in Chennai on May 5 which rejected police custody of the accused and granted him bail. Accused, Vivekanandan alias Vivek, allegedly uploaded an offensive post in his Facebook account, for which, Inspector of Police of Thallakulam Police Station in Madurai, registered a case under Section 13(1)(b) of the UAPA and Section 505(1)(b) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He was arrested in December 2020. He was produced before the Judicial Magistrate No.2 in Madurai who remanded him to custody. “Seemingly, the Judicial Magistrate No.II, Madurai, has been placing Vivek (A.1) in judicial remand from time to time under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C.,” the court said in its orders.The NIA filed a chargesheet against Vivek and several others on June 11 and according to their press statement released then, his Facebook post in April denigrated Independence Day celebrations as a sham.“Investigation and scrutiny of posts uploaded on social media accounts of accused persons have revealed their support and active role in propagating (the) cause and ideology of proscribed terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organisations,” the agency said in a statement.Earlier, local police had said that the post was ‘against the spirit of democracy’, threatened the integrity of the country and therefore posed a threat to public peace. The time period prescribed for default bail under Section 167 Cr.P.C. is 90 days and the 90th day fell on 15 March 2021. An order from the union government dated three days before that had transferred the case to the NIA. The central agency re-registered the case. However, the Thallakulam Inspector was proceeding with the investigation of the case in terms of Section 6(7) and 10 of the NIA Act. “Seemingly, another FIR in Cr.No.2594 of 2020 was registered against Vivek in which he was arrested by the State police and was being remanded in custody from time to time,” the court said.Since a charge sheet was not filed either by the State police or by the NIA before the 90th day, Vivek filed a petition for default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. before the Judicial Magistrate No.II, Madurai, who returned the petition on the ground that the case has been transferred to the NIA. It deprived him of his indefeasible right to be released on bail, Vivek said in his application to the NIA’s special court in Chennai. The Special Court heard Vivek’s plea for bail and the NIA seeking police custody and passed two separate orders. Human rights activists point to the excessive use of the draconian UAPA. “It is obvious that the FB post cannot and did not disturb public peace or attract any offence defined under UAPA,” says senior advocate and human rights activist Sudha Ramalingam. “This is just throttling the fundamental right of freedom of expression and speech. For a post that went unnoticed from April to Sept or so when the case was registered, there is no material to substantiate the accusation. But the courts did not go into the merits of the case. Now what is granted is bail on technical ground.”The court said given the facts of the case at hand, the Supreme Court judgement in Rambeer Shokeen vs. State (NCT of Delhi), as relied on by counsel for the NIA, cannot be pressed in this case. “In this case, we find that there was absolutely no diligence at all,” the court said.“The State should have ensured that Vivek was being produced before the Principal District and Sessions Court, Madurai, for remand. Unfortunately, they did not do that,” the court said. “However, the Public Prosecutor had approached the Principal District and Sessions Court, Madurai, with a manifestly defective report under Section 43(D)(2) of the UAPA by combining two crime numbers. This shows how the State had acted in a cavalier manner for extinguishing the statutory right of a prisoner to be released on default bail…”“The case alleging that the accused Vivek had posted on Facebook a message that was against the spirit of democracy is as vague as it can be,” says Ramalingam. “That it was threatening the integrity of the country is vaguer and should be seen as conjecture with no factual information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madras-hc-upholds-bail-to-man-booked-over-fb-post-101625510950694.html
06-07-2021||Other||Lal Bahadur Shastri’s grandson joins RLD||Former Prime Minister late Lal Bahadur Shastri’s grandson Vinamra Shastri joined the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in presence of party president Jayant Chaudhary in Delhi on Monday. Jayant who is the grandson of former Prime Minister late Chaudhary Charan Singh said Vinamra would help strengthen his party. “Vinamra Shastri who is beginning his political innings today would contribute to framing of economic policies and political strategies for RLD,” Jayant said. He said both Lal Bahadur Shastri and Chaudhari Charan Singh were seen as messiah of farmers and both families enjoyed cordial relations throughout. “Vinamra had been heading the Lal Bahadur Shastri Memorial Foundation and had done a lot of work for the welfare and progress of farmers, soldiers, youth and other sections of the society. He has also led various corporate companies in different capacities,” said Anupam Mishra, RLD national spokesman. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh unit of the RLD has announced that it would launch a signature campaign against the increasing prices of diesel and petrol here in the state capital on Tuesday. The campaign, according to Mishra, will start from the Hamuman temple at 12 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lal-bahadur-shastri-s-grandson-joins-rld-101625510832542.html
06-07-2021||Lucknow||CISCE reduces English, Hindi syllabus for Class10, 12||Students of ICSE (class 10) and ISC (class 12) appearing in board examinations in 2022 will have to study truncated syllabus for English and Hindi now.“On the basis of the revised syllabus sent by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), the syllabus has been reduced by 30%,” said the teachers at these schools.In view of the lockdown and prolonged closure of schools, the CISCE has initiated the process of syllabus review for various subjects at the ICSE, ISC levels specifically for classes 10 and 12 for examination year 2022 to identify portions of the syllabus which may be reduced without compromising on the quality of content, according to a letter issued by Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council in a letter addressed to all heads of CISCE-affiliated schools.“Candidates will be tested only on the portion of the syllabus that is prescribed for Class X. For class 10 English Literature (English Paper II) students will have to study --The Merchant of Venice Act III, Act IV and Act V only. However, for English Language (Paper 1) grammar portion remains the same for class 10 and 12 both. There is no change in that,” a teacher said.For class 10 students now there will be 4 poems, 4 short stories. Similarly, class 12 students will be tested on the portion of syllabus prescribed for ISC which is 5 poems and 5 short stories.Similarly, class 12 students would have study Act III, IV, V for Shakespeare’s play --The Tempest and Act I and II in class 11. This bifurcation of syllabus is good, a teacher said.As for Hindi there is not much reduction.Arathoon said modified syllabus for the exam year 2022 is available on CISCE website (www.cisce.org) under the publication section.“As we moved into second year of COVID-19 pandemic, schools across the country continue to struggle to cope up with disruption in educational activities brought due to extended lockdown in the country. In addition to a significant loss of instructional hours during the past years, teaching learning processes have also been impacted due to the various alternate modes of syllabus transactions that needed to be adopted due to closure of schools,” he said.The board has asked the schools to make sure that the concerned subject teachers cover the syllabus according to the sequence of topics. “This will ensure that all CISCE affiliated schools are broadly teaching the same topics at any given point of time as well as facilitate subsequent reduction in syllabus, if required,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cisce-reduces-english-hindi-syllabus-for-class10-12-101625510532650.html
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage committee reduced to a bystander||The municipal corporation’s recent move to unilaterally replace heritage manholes without taking the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee (CHCC) on board, has added credence to the growing view that CHCC is being “ignored” on crucial heritage protection issues.The MC recently floated tenders inviting firms to replace the more than 2,000 heritage manholes with ordinary manholes.As per CHCC’s mandate laid down by the union government, it should be on board when changes are made to the city’s heritage. But, as MC chief engineer Shailender Singh conceded, the CHCC wasn’t consulted in this decision. Rather, it followed from a MC general House resolution passed in December 2019.“Our immediate concern is to safeguard heritage manholes. There were number of instances when they were stolen. For the time being, these will be kept in a store,” said Singh.But, this is not the first time when the city’s governing apparatus moved on with its plan, without even consulting the CHCC or taking its consent. The Tribune Flyover, the Sector 17/16 pedestrian underpass and the rejuvenation plan of Sector 17 are some instances wherein the CHCC has been largely reduced to as a bystander.The committee’s roleThe UT administrator constituted CHCC as per the ministry of home affairs’ decision on April 20, 2012. CHCC derives its mandate from the approved report of the Expert Heritage Committee and the letter-dated December 23, 2011, conveying approval of the Union ministry of home affairs. This report was incorporated in Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP)-2031.It’s defining function is the preservation, conservation and the maintenance of the city’s heritage. The mandate also includes taking requisite steps in a time-bound manner for completion of incomplete projects of the original plan and declaring heritage buildings and heritage zones to prepare a conservation management plan and frame conservation regulationsIt is headed by UT adviser and comprises senior UT officials, representatives of Union government and subject-experts.‘Heritage committees have no power’Speaking at a seminar, a CHCC member had said, “There are heritage committees, no doubt, but these are unable to do anything and are helpless.”Another member of the committee, requesting anonymity, said, “Generally, the administration takes the route of appointing a consultant to bypass the committee. This happened when some committee members objected to the construction of the Sector 17/16 pedestrian underpass.”Similarly, the full details of the rejuvenation plan of Sector 17 hasn’t been shared with the committee. “It is a major heritage hub of the city. Major changes being made to it, like the city’s map being engraved on the plaza floor, should be under the purview of the committee,” said the member.In the case of the Tribune Flyover, the administration had gone through with the project, even though CHCC hadn’t given approval. Only a sub-committee had given conditional consent.SD Sharma, member of the CHCC and a chairman of the CHCC sub-panel, said, “The administration does seek the committee’s approval on major issues. But, sometimes it comes to know about changes only after they have already been made. For instance, the walls of a building in PGIMER were recently painted white. There should be law to penalise any damage done to a heritage building.”Rajnish Wattas, former principal of the Chandigarh College of Architecture and member of the CHCC sub-committee, said, “Agenda and mandate can be streamlined. A city like Chandigarh cannot be replicated now and we need to preserve its character.”Advocating that the CHCC should be headed by an expert, Shilpa Das, practising architect and secretary, Act! Chandigarh, said, “This will provide it necessary autonomy and not just make it a forum to serve UT officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-heritage-committee-reduced-to-a-bystander-101625510291441.html
06-07-2021||Jaipur||Ramgarh Vishdharito be the fourth tiger reserve in Rajasthan||The ministry of environment, forest and climate change on Monday approved the conversion of the Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary in Rajasthan’s Bundi district into the fourth tiger reserve in the state.Making the announcement on Twitter, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said: “Happy to sanction one more tiger Sanctuary, Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary which will link Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in the Northeast & Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve on the southern side. Increasing numbers of Tigers and other apex predators certify our robust biodiversity.”According to a 2018 tiger census, there are 102 tigers in three reserves -- Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in Sawai Madhopur, Sariska Tiger Reserve in Alwar, and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in Kota — in the state.The proposal for converting the Ramgarh Vishdhary Sanctuary, which is spread across 1,071 square kilometre, into a tiger reserve was recently approved by the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s technical committee, a senior forest official said.The state government will soon issue a notification in this regard, he said.Last year, the Rajasthan government announced its plan to develop the Bundi sanctuary as a tiger reserve to provide a second habitat for tigers in the Ranthambore Reserve.According to experts, there is overcrowding at the Ranthambore reserve, which houses 77 tigers.Over 300 sq km area in the proposed sanctuary will be left as a critical habitat for the animals, while the rest will be a buffer zone, the officials familiar with the matter said.The NTCA is now expected to send a committee to review the Bundi sanctuary, a second official said. Tigers from Ranthambore can only be translocated to the new sanctuary after the NTCA’s approval.Upgrading the sanctuary would resolve the space crunch at Ranthambore reserve, the second official said.Officials also hope to connect Ranthambore to Ramgarh and Mukundra. “To strengthen the prey base, the state has already approved shifting of chital (spotted deer) from Ghana Bird Sanctuary (Karauli) to Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve, Keoladeo National Park, and Ramgarh Vishdhari,” said third forest official who did not want to be identified.A fourth official said that the proposed sanctuary is known as a breeding place for tigers. According to a 1985 census, there were nine tigers there. At least three big cats have strayed out of Ranthambore to Ramgarh since 2013. This shows that tigers are migrating there naturally, the official said.Wildlife expert and founder secretary Sariska Tiger Foundation, Dinesh Durani, said the move to increase tiger population and reduce territorial infights is welcome.“But the focus should be on improving the existing tiger habitat and corridors for their easy disbursal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ramgarh-vishdharito-be-the-fourth-tiger-reserve-in-rajasthan-101625509634832.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Markets in Delhi walk tightrope between business, safety||As more markets in Delhi get pulled up for Covid-protocol violations, traders and shopkeepers said that while they respected the importance of distancing and masking norms, the sheer rush of customers has made the rules difficult for them to impose, even as they underlined their desperation for business in the face of two lockdowns that devastated their businesses.The government ordered the closure of all shops in Lajpat Nagar’s Central Market and the Rui Mandi in Sadar Bazar on Monday after an inspection by district authorities showed gross violations of the protocols put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19. Markets in Delhi were opened on June 7 with restrictions under a phased unlock after a lockdown was imposed in April following an unprecedented spike in new cases and deaths of the infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMembers of traders’ groups said enforcing curbs was a difficult ask, and said they will ask authorities to bolster the deployment of civil defence volunteers to crack down on violators.“Every time I see visitors in the market without a mask, I request them to mask up. However, many people get aggressive. But I continue to warn people since we don’t want our market to aid the spread of Covid,” said Bharat Ahuja, president of the Delhi Electrical Traders Association, Bhagirath Palace.He said the market association has asked for a meeting with the north Delhi district administration to enforce Covid-appropriate protocols. “People often don’t take us seriously. If civil defence volunteers start issuing fines, people will be more wary of violations,” said Ahuja.Vijay Kumar, president of the Photo Market Association in Chandni Chowk, said he doesn’t expect Chandni Chowk to be shut, with the main stretch becoming a no-go zone for motorised vehicles. “While the main stretch is barely ever crowded, internal roads or narrow roads face different challenges,” said Kumar.Mohd Sabir (38), who runs a footwear store in Ballimaran, said while shopkeepers were taking steps and asking customers to wear masks properly, they have no control over passersby. “We can ask customers in our shops to wear a mask. Most visitors already wear a mask in any case. However, one cannot ask other visitors or locals to abide by rules. They only listen to the police,” he said.Several visitors to Chandni Chowk said that while they recognised the need for caution, trips to the market were essential. Shweta Kalyanwat (26), a shopper at Dariba Kalan, said, “I have stepped out for the first time in over a year, because my best friend is getting married. I couldn’t avoid it. While I have received the first vaccine dose, I am still hesitant about going out since there are concerns about a possible third wave.”Others, however, were less doubtful about stepping out.Dhwani Kapur, 28, who was shopping at Ballimaran in old Delhi, said it was her second visit to the market in a fortnight. “I have been visiting markets along with my family because of a wedding,” said Kapur.Delhi witnessed a peak of over 28,000 cases a day during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/markets-in-delhi-walk-tightrope-between-business-safety-101625509270603.html
06-07-2021||Delhi||Busted heroin unit was rented for foreign patients||The farmhouse in south Delhi’s Sainik Farms, where a heroin-manufacturing unit was busted on Sunday in a raid by the Punjab Police, was taken on rent a fortnight ago to keep patients from Afghanistan visiting Delhi for treatment, local police officers and people living in the neighbourhood said on Monday.The Delhi Police on Monday said they have booked Pravesh Kumar alias Bobby, the owner of the farmhouse, for not informing the local police about keeping foreigners as tenants, and not getting their credentials verified by the local police. A case under Indian Penal Code’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) was registered against Pravesh at the Neb Sarai police station.The station house officer (SHO) of Neb Sarai police station and four other police personnel were also sent to district’s lines and a departmental enquiry was initiated against them since the farmhouse is in their jurisdiction, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Four Afghans, who were living in the farmhouse, were arrested by the Punjab Police for allegedly running the heroin-manufacturing unit late Sunday evening. The Punjab Police director general Dinkar Gupta announced the raid in a tweet on Sunday evening. “Punjab Police unearth & bust a major heroin manufacturing unit in South Delhi. Around 17 kg heroin, assorted chemicals, acids & lab equipment recovered. 4 Afghan nationals arrested,” tweeted DGP Gupta.Gupta on Monday said the accused have been identified as Mujahed Shinwari of Nangarhar in Afghanistan; Mohammad Lal Kaker, Jannat Gul Kakar and Samiullah Afghan from Kunduz province of Afghanistan. The police have also recovered assorted chemicals and lab equipment used to manufacture the drug, from the Neb Sarai unit. The arrests and seizure came on the basis of leads from Hoshiarpur police’s investigation into a drugs case, Gupta said.A case under relevant sections of NDPS Act has been registered at Garhshankar police station in Hoshiarpur district, said Punjab Police officers.“Until the police raid on Sunday, we did not know that four Afghans were living in the farmhouse. All we knew was that some foreigners shifted there around a fortnight ago. We saw one or two of them coming in or going out in auto during this period. They never interacted with anyone in our neighbourhood,” said Vinod Singh, owner of an adjacent farmhouse.According to Singh, the farmhouse where the heroin-manufacturing unit was busted, belongs to his brother, Pravesh Kumar alias Bobby. Pravesh lived there with his family till last year, Singh said.Pravesh shifted to their other home in Dwarka and the farmhouse was rented out to the Afghans through a local property dealer, Ganesh Kumar. The property dealer was questioned by the Punjab Police.When contacted Pravesh said, “The tenant who finalised the deal told us that they were Indians and also produced his Aadhaar card to confirm his identity. We prepared a rent agreement and also applied online for tenant verification. As far as the illegal activities are concerned, I wasn’t aware of it. I will co-operate with the police in their investigation and provide them all assistance.”The farmhouse is located in the Forest Lane in Sainik Farms, and spread over nearly 1,000 square yards. It is built on one portion of an acre-long property (plot number-227) that belonged to the family of Singh and Pravesh. The property was subsequently divided into five plots, three of which are now owned by Singh, Pravesh and their relative. A serving Delhi Police inspector lives with his family in another property adjacent to the farmhouse where the raid was conducted.“We have learnt that the property was taken on rent on the pretext of keeping some ailing Afghans after their treatment in a Delhi hospital. However, except the four arrested foreigners we had never seen anyone else visiting the farmhouse. The four never looked like patients to me,” said Manish, Singh’s son.The main entrance of the farmhouse has a big black iron gate with an electronic call bell and a CCTV camera. Three locks were hanging on the gate on Monday when HT visited the spot. The two wooden doors of the three-bedroom house inside was also locked. Tyre marks of some cars were visible on the granite-floor behind the gate. A white plastic bag containing a half-filled cold drink bottle and some snacks was hanging on the main gate.Nobody in the neighbourhood had any idea what was happening in the farmhouse until the local police and some mediapersons reached there and told them about the heroin-manufacturing unit, said the woman, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heroin-unit-busted-farmhouse-was-rented-on-pretext-of-keeping-afghan-patients-visiting-delhi-for-treatment-101625509271230.html
06-07-2021||Other||No student can be penalised for free speech, says Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday ordered that no penal action should be taken and no fine should be imposed on a Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) student who allegedly posted ”distasteful remarks” online against chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during the annual convocation held in December last year.The university last week imposed a fine of ₹5,000 on a 24-year-old postgraduate student and took disciplinary action against her after a proctorial inquiry found her guilty of making the comments against chief minister in protest against an alleged fee hike.In a letter to the secretary, higher education, Sisodia said that no student should be punished for expressing views different from that of the government or the university.“It has been brought to my notice that disciplinary action has been taken against a student of Ambedkar University for voicing certain remarks against the Chief Minister and myself. Firstly, no action has been taken against any student for expressing a viewpoint that is different from the government and the university, unless the said statement damages the social fabric of our country or is against our constitutional values. Secondly, since the student was expressing her viewpoint against the government as reported in the media, the matter first should have been brought to our notice before initiating any against her,” Sisodia, who is also Delhi education minister, said.“A university should be a safe space for students to freely voice their opinions, debate and develop their points of view. No students should be punished for exercising their right to free speech within the University space,” Sisodia added.He asked the principal secretary to ensure that the fine imposed on the student be cancelled and that she faces no action. “The principal secretary should issue relevant directions to all universities that come under the aegis of the Delhi government to ensure that no such action is taken against students in future also for expressing their opinions unless they are damaging to the social fabric of the country and go against our constitutional values,” he said.A university official said the fine has been withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-orders-ambedkar-university-not-to-fine-student-for-remark-about-cm-101625508910556.html
06-07-2021||Gurugram||‘Three generations have lived here, authorities now say our home is illegal’||After living for over six decades in Faridabad’s Khori village, 64-year-old Jamila Devi finds it hard to believe that her home is an “illegal encroachment on forest land” that is to be demolished soon.“My father started working in the mines here -- it was mostly stone and minerals -- in the 1960s after leaving our village in Rajasthan. When I came of age, I too started working in the mines as a labourer and we settled in Khori village as it was close to the mines. Since then, three generations of our family have lived here; we have no roots left in our village in Rajasthan. But now, the authorities are now saying the settlement is illegal,” said Devi, who worked in the mines in the 1980s.On June 7, the Supreme Court ordered the eviction of thousands of residents of Kori village, as the settlement was encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district, and said there cannot be a compromise or concession on forest land. Since then, the residents have been demanding rehabilitation.Devi said till the early 2000s, most Khori residents worked in the mines as labourers, drivers or stone crushers. “There was no concept of forest land or government land till the 1990s. It is only after 1992 that this area was taken over by the municipal body of Faridabad, but those who worked in the mines continued to live here.”In 2002, the Supreme Court banned mining within five kilometres of Delhi and mass mining stopped in Khori. Following that, illegal developers started selling plots in the village to the urban poor, with the promise that they would have complete ownership ”soon”.In 2009, the Supreme Court imposed a blanket ban on all mining of major and minor minerals in the eco sensitive Aravallis of Faridabad, Gurugram and Mewat, which, residents say, led to an unemployment crisis. However, many still chose to buy land at cheap rates in Khori village, using their savings, so that they could have a place to live.“In 2010-11, one square yard was sold to us at ₹1,000, and I bought 50 square yards. At that time, the only concern was that I will be able to have a house of my own and not pay rent. Thinking on similar lines, many bought plots on the assurance that there would be no issues. We were not even given a receipt of the land sale, but we believed that the colony was set up with due permissions from officials,” said Santosh, a resident of Khori.Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar from the faculty of Architecture, Building and Planning at the University of Melbourne, who has been studying Khori village said, “During the 1970s to 1990s, first, the quarry workers settled down here as they could not go back to their home states since they were stuck in a vicious cycle of debt to the contractors. Later, by the early 2000s, after mining was completely banned in this region, inhabitation picked up in this region, as people from different bastis in Delhi started purchasing land here. Along with this, people from nearby states also started moving to Khori, after selling all of their lands in their villages, which is why many of the residents do not have savings anymore.”“Mostly, none of the residents knew that this was a settlement on government land when they purchased it. In 2012, after the officials from the tourism department visited the area and discovered the settlement, a demolition drive was conducted, and that is when the residents first realised that this was government land. An association of the residents under the name of Khori Goan Colony Kalyan Samiti approached the High Court of Chandigarh next, and a legal battle has been going on since then,” said Chatterjee.Locals said despite the court case, the sale of plots continued in the village as word had spread that plots were available at cheap rates in the village. Given its proximity to the national capital, many who worked as drivers, carpenters and construction workers in Delhi also decided to settle down there.Siyaram Pal, who works as a driver, said, “I bought land in Khori in 2011 at ₹2,000/square yard thinking that this area is close to Delhi, and it will be good for us, as children will have access to education and jobs. As these areas were mining pits, we first filled the land, levelled it and then constructed our house. This did not happen overnight, and if it was illegal, then authorities should have pointed it out then itself as we would not have invested our life savings.”According to satellite images, the sale of plots continued till 2019, with Khalsa Colony being one of the latest settlements to come up on the higher terrain of Khori. Residents of Khalsa Colony, which came up in 2014, said they were not given any proof of purchase for their plots and alleged that they had to pay officials of various departments before starting construction.Arun, a resident of Khalsa Colony in Khori village, whose house was already demolished in a drive in April, said, “We are already living in the ruins of a demolished house. What more will they demolish now? When we shifted here in 2016, we had to pay money at each step. When bricks and other construction materials would leave the factories, the truck drivers would immediately inform the local police and officials would come and take money from us before even one brick was placed. But now, none of these officials can be traced. They never share their contact numbers and we are unable to file a complaint.”Senior officials, meanwhile, said if the residents file complaints, action will be taken without discrimination.Speaking about allegations against police facilitating land mafia, Anshu Singla, the deputy commissioner of police (NIT), said, “At present, we are following the orders of the Supreme Court. If there are any specific complaints against anyone, then action will definitely be taken against them, irrespective of who they are, what they are and from where they are.”Raj Kumar, the divisional forest officer for Faridabad, said, “I am not aware of what happened when the colony was being set up around eight to 10 years ago. We have not received any complaint against any forest staff so far.”Over the past few weeks, the situation in Khori has remained tense, with first the district administration on June 14 prohibiting gathering of five or more persons “within a radius of 200 metres of village Khori”, fearing a possibility of unrest. On June 16, a 70-year-old man died by suicide, fearing that his house, which he recently constructed for ₹3 lakh, would be demolished.Last Wednesday, the Faridabad police booked over 400 persons for violating prohibitory orders on gatherings in Khori village and pelting police personnel with stones, following a clash, as residents started congregating for a mahapanchayat.Owing to the tense situation, the commissioner of Faridabad Police declined to comment on the allegations made by the residents.Residents also said that if they were away from their houses for long, the land mafia would threaten to sell off their properties to others (as there was no documentation proof) and to avoid it, they paid a monthly fee of ₹300 to them.“My sons go out for work and my husband, on his way to work, drops our daughters at his sister’s place in Malviya Nagar every morning. I guard the house throughout the day and in the evening, they all return. The situation is so hostile that we are fearful of approach the authorities. We fear that if we complain, it will hardly take any time for the land mafia to send people and hurt us,” said Sheila Devi, a resident.Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad district, could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-generations-have-lived-here-authorities-now-say-our-home-is-illegal-101625506275047.html
06-07-2021||Pune||Residents of Hinjewadi alert authorities to sand mining on Mula riverbed||PUNE Thanks to the residents of Hinjewadi, illegal sand mining, allegedly going on in the Mula river, has once again been brought to the notice of the authorities.Following complaints from residents, officials of the state irrigation department visited the site and found deep holes on the riverbed where miners had scraped sand from. “We did a site inspection after we got a call from the residents that sand was being illegally mined and we went to check, but they had left in a hurry. We saw track marks and a JCB was used for loading. Tonight we will depute officials to catch them red handed and keep a vigil,” said Ashok Late, junior engineer, irrigation department. Walkers and joggers, on Monday, spotted activity close to the Mula at 6am. This digging was continuing at a fast pace along a small bridge on the river near Blue Ridge Towers 18 and 19. “I saw an earth moving machine digging the sand from the riverbed and there was a dumper standing next to it where they were filling the sand in. This was at around 6 in the morning and the dumper was almost full... that means they were doing it from very early in the morning and were about to leave. However, the dumper got stuck in the sand on the riverbed, and few people who were there tried to push the dumper out. After their failed attempt, they emptied the sand and only then could they move the dumper from that spot,” said Ravi Kiran Reddy, a resident of Blue Ridge. There is a heap of sand along the side of the bridge.Local representatives, along with the Hinjewadi residents’ welfare association (HIRWA), informed the police officials. Reddy pointed out that although he has witness to the sand mining in action for the first time, he has seen trucks carrying sand away from the river. “These people should be punished for their actions as it creates an environment hazard for us, that could lead to a flood next to our society,” added Reddy. Vikram Sakare, sarpanch, Hinjewadi said, “This is the first time I have heard of sand mining on this side of the river. We have spoken with the other members of the panchayat and will keep a vigil to catch the people illegally sand mining. We will work together with HIRWA and residents to make sure that the river is protected.” Residents to the rescueIn November 2020, a group of alert citizens kept vigil and managed to catch illegal sand miners red handed. A chance observation by an alert citizen, followed by co-ordinated efforts of residents of Aundh, Baner and Pashan helped crack down on a sand mafia operation going on within the city. “We realised that the gang had already destroyed the eco-sensitive confluence of Ramnadi with the Mula river, altering its very structure, with most of the excavation done under water, making it invisible,” said Pushkar Kulkarni, resident of Baner, who caught the culprits red handed. “The current status of the river is such that from being more than 30 metres wide, it has now become only 17 metres wide and the banks have been eroded. Thus, when gates of the dams open, the flow of the river will accelerate and erode faster to cause flooding,” said Kulkarni. “When we got closer to the spot we noticed that there were two trailers without registration numbers that were being loaded with sand from the excavators. The damage outside the river is visible, but they managed to extract the sand from the basin where the water level is intact making the damage immeasurable. We are still keeping a vigil on the river,” added Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-of-hinjewadi-alert-authorities-to-sand-mining-on-mula-riverbed-101625505431599.html
06-07-2021||Pune||Pune vax drive back on track with 32k doses received on Monday||PUNE After a two-day lull for Covid-19 vaccinations at Pune Municipal Corporation centres (PMC), the city has finally received 32,000 doses of Covishield. On Sunday and Monday, the centres had to be shut due to a shortage of Covishield and on Monday, only Covaxin shots were given at selective centres. On Monday evening, the PMC received Covishield doses which will now speed up the vaccination process on Tuesday.The city saw 54,136 get the vaccine on Sunday across age groups, as private hospitals continued to vaccinate. Of the 54,136 doses administered on Sunday, the majority were from the 18-45 year-age group; 29,964 got the first shot and 1,977 got the second shot. The huge gap in demand and supply is leading to a shortage of vaccines in major cities and July could see this gap widen further, as most the 45-plus age group, who got their first shot in April, are now due for their second shot in July, completing the 84-day period in between. In addition to this, the 18-plus age group and pregnant women who are now eligible for the vaccine will also be in line for the Covid-19 vaccine.Assistant health officer PMC, Dr Vaishali Jadhav, in charge of the Covid vaccination drive, said, “We have received over 32,000 doses of Covishield which will again boost the vaccination in the city. On Sunday and Monday our centres were shut for Covishield beneficiaries as we did not have any vaccines left.” Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner said, from Tuesday vaccination for 18-plus, for both doses, and both vaccines, would begin at 197 centres within the PMC jurisdiction. Earlier to this, PMC had witnessed record vaccinations in the city as over 202 Covid vaccination sites were operational on June 29. This shortage of vaccines is also likely to affect PMC’s other vaccination drives, like vaccination drives in the slums where vaccine hesitancy and lack of internet literacy has hampered vaccinations, or the “Vaccine on Wheels” initiative which vaccinates the most vulnerable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-vax-drive-back-on-track-with-32-000-doses-of-covishield-received-on-monday-101625505430894.html
06-07-2021||World||China irked by Japan deputy PM’s comments on ‘protecting’ Taiwan||China lodged a diplomatic protest with Japan after Japanese deputy prime minister Taro Aso said that Tokyo and Washington should combine to protect Taiwan from the Chinese military if it is attacked, news agency PTI reported.Speaking to news agency The Japan Times, Aso on Tuesday signalled that Tokyo will consider a Chinese invasion of Taiwan an ‘existential threat to its security’. He said in case of such an event it will allow Japan to help defend the self-ruled island with the United States.“If a major incident happened (over Taiwan), it’s safe to say it would be related to a situation threatening the survival (of Japan). If that is the case, Japan and the US must defend Taiwan together,” Aso was quoted as saying.China didn't take Aso's remarks kindly as Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian called the comments ‘extremely wrong and dangerous’, and also invoked references to China’s colonial past.“China rejects this and has lodged solemn representation with Japanese side. Japan’s militarism once committed deplorable crimes against China. Some Japanese politicians still want to make Taiwan its own which shows their failure to learn lessons from history,” Zhao was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Lijian said that these comments run counter to the ‘One China’ policy.Lijian said that no country should have any doubts regarding China’s will to protect its sovereignty. He said that no one should also underestimate the determination of the Chinese people. “China was no longer what it was in history and we will never allow any country to interfere in the Taiwan question,” Zhao said.Earlier on July 1, Chinese president Xi Jinping while addressing the nation during the centenary celebrations of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) said that ‘reunification of Taiwan with the mainland is a historic mission and an unshakable commitment’.Japanese defence minister Nobuo Kishi said that a comprehensive judgment will be taken based on the situation and information collected if it threatened Japan’s survival and the exercise of collective self-defence was necessary. The Japan Times report also said Tokyo, which maintained a silence on affairs related to Taiwan, recently hardened its stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-irked-by-japan-deputy-pm-s-comments-on-protecting-taiwan-101625594142818.html
06-07-2021||World||Recipe for even more powerful COVID-19 vaccines found: Report||Scientists have found a recipe for even more effective and powerful vaccines against the coronavirus and its rapidly emerging variants, based on the way human cells activate the immune system in response to COVID-19 infection.Researchers from Boston University and the Broad Institute of Harvard University in the US noted that it is the first real look at exactly what types of “red flags” the human body uses to enlist the help of T cells sent out by the immune system to destroy infected cells.Until now, COVID-19 vaccines have been focused on activating a different type of immune cell, B cells, which are responsible for creating antibodies.The researchers noted that developing vaccines to activate the other arm of the immune system -- the T cells -- could dramatically increase immunity against coronavirus, and importantly, its variants.The findings, published in the journal Cell, suggest that current vaccines might lack some important bits of viral material capable of triggering a holistic immune response in the human body.The researchers performed experiments on human cells infected with coronavirus, isolating and identifying those missing pieces of SARS-CoV-2 proteins inside the lab.Based on the new information, "companies should reevaluate their vaccine designs," said Mohsan Saeed, a virologist at Boston University, and co-corresponding author of the research paper.The team, including computational geneticists Pardis Sabeti and Shira Weingarten-Gabbay, hoped to identify fragments of SARS-CoV-2 that activate the immune system’s T cells.From the start of COVID pandemic, scientists have known the identity of 29 proteins produced by SARS-CoV-2 virus in infected cells -- viral fragments that now make up the spike protein in some coronavirus vaccines, such as the Moderna, Pfizer-BioNTech, and Johnson & Johnson preventives.Spike protein helps the virus to enter and infect the human cells.Later, scientists discovered another 23 proteins hidden inside the virus’ genetic sequence.However, the function of these additional proteins has been a mystery until now.The latest findings reveal that 25 per cent of the viral protein fragments that trigger the human immune system to attack a virus come from these hidden viral proteins."It is quite remarkable that such a strong immune signature of the virus is coming from regions (of the virus’ genetic sequence) that we were blind to," said Weingarten-Gabby, the paper’s lead author."Our discovery … can assist in the development of new vaccines that will mimic more accurately the response of our immune system to the virus,” Sabeti added.T cells not only destroy infected cells but also memorise the virus’ flags so that they can launch an attack, stronger and faster, the next time the same or a different variant of the virus appears, the researchers said.That, they said, is a crucial advantage, because the coronavirus appears to delay the cell's ability to call in immune help.The researchers said a new vaccine recipe, incorporating some of the newly discovered internal proteins making up the SARS-CoV-2 virus, would be effective in stimulating an immune response capable of tackling the newly emerging coronavirus variants.Given the speed with which these variants continue to appear around the world, a vaccine that can provide protection against all of them would be a game changer, they added. PTI SAR SAR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/recipe-for-even-more-powerful-covid-19-vaccines-found-report-101625593822725.html
06-07-2021||World||Messenger RNA vaccine benefits outweigh heart risks, U.S. CDC says||The benefits of messenger RNA Covid-19 vaccines clearly outweigh the risks despite heart complications seen in a relatively small number of mostly young men, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Roughly 1,200 cases of myocarditis, or inflammation of the heart wall, were reported in people who received mRNA vaccines, the CDC said in its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report on Tuesday. But with about 296 million doses of mRNA vaccines having been administered as of June 11, the benefit is clear in all populations, including adolescents and young adults, the researchers reported.READ: Covid-19: Canada warns of ‘very rare risk’ of heart issues from mRNA vaccinesVaccines made by Moderna Inc. and the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE partnership are the only mRNA inoculations authorised for emergency use in the US. The issue was first explored in a June 23 meeting of the CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.There has been increasing concern that these possible cardiovascular side effects could threaten vaccine uptake among young Americans as the highly transmissible delta variant is hitting under-vaccinated hot spots of the country.The agency report said that fact sheets should be provided before mRNA vaccinations. The US Food and Drug Administration Emergency Use Authorization has been modified to include information on myocarditis after receipt of mRNA Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/messenger-rna-vaccine-benefits-outweigh-heart-risks-u-s-cdc-says-101625592075375.html
06-07-2021||World||UK to ease compulsory Covid-19 self-isolation rules for fully vaccinated from Aug 16||The UK government on Tuesday announced that from August 16, fully vaccinated people in England will not have to undergo a 10-day compulsory self-isolation if a close contact tests positive for Covid-19.UK Health Secretary Sajid Javid told the House of Commons said the policy will also apply to anyone under the age of 18, currently not eligible for jabs.Under the new regime, anyone who comes in contact with a Covid-positive case would be expected to take a PCR test soon after being informed about it by the National Health Service (NHS) Test and Trace system.“From the 16th August, when even more people will have the protection of both doses and when modelling suggests that the risks from the virus will be even lower, anyone who is a close contact of a positive case will no longer have to self-isolate if they have been fully vaccinated,” Javid told MPs.“If someone gets their second dose just before or just after the 16th of August, they would need to wait two weeks after which their second jab can take effect and give them these new freedoms. As we make this change, we will be drawing on the huge capacity we have built for testing and sequencing and advising close contacts who are fully vaccinated to take a PCR test as soon as possible so they can get certainty about their condition,” the minister said.The announcement was followed by another Commons statement by UK Education Secretary Gavin Williamson to confirm an end to the so-called "bubble" system in schools, which has led to large numbers of pupils being sent home if a single child has a positive test.UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps will update Parliament later this week on removing the need for fully-vaccinated international travellers to isolate themselves when they return from an amber list or medium virus risk country.Currently, they are required to self-isolate in their homes for 10 days on their return, with a 10-day compulsory quarantine in place for red list or high risk virus countries – which currently includes India.The changes for the schools system will come in from July 19, the date UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson confirmed on Monday as the timeline for an end of all legal lockdown restrictions such as work from home where possible, one-metre plus social distance and face masks in indoor settings.“So, as we come to the fourth step [of the lockdown roadmap], we have to balance the risks,” Johnson said in a Downing Street virtual briefing.“We must be honest with ourselves that if we can’t reopen our society in the next few weeks, when we will be helped by the arrival of summer and by the school holidays, then we must ask ourselves when will we be able to return to normal,” he said.To the critics calling for a delay, the UK PM warned the alternative was to open up in the winter when the virus will have an “advantage”.While the final decision on the timeline will be made based on coronavirus infections and hospitalisations data next Monday, the plan for England is for an end to all restrictions on July 19.The devolved regions of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland set their own lockdown rules based on localised data, but by and large follow the parameters in England.“I understand that some people are cautious about the idea of easing restrictions. But we must balance the risks,” Sajid Javid said in a Commons statement on the Covid-19 lockdown plans.“This pandemic is far from over, and we’ll continue with caution. But we’re increasingly confident that our plan is working, and that we can soon begin a new chapter based on the foundations of personal responsibility and common sense rather than the blunt instrument of rules and regulations,” he said.The minister, who has been in the post of Health Secretary for around 10 days since predecessor Matt Hancock resigned, has said it is important to move on from a Covid-focus."And we can't live in a world where the only thing we are thinking about is Covid and not about all the other health problems, not about our economic problems, or education challenges, and we have to make use of a vaccine that is thankfully working,” he said.Opposition Labour Party as well as some doctors and trade unions have expressed concern that the lifting of all restrictions, including face masks in enclosed spaces, may be premature as the Delta variant cases continue to rise in the UK.A further 28,773 cases were reported across the UK on Tuesday, and there were another 37 deaths within 28 days of a positive test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-ease-compulsory-covid-19-self-isolation-rules-for-fully-vaccinated-from-aug-16-101625590434603.html
06-07-2021||World||REvil ransomware attack: Experts cast doubts as IT firm Kaseya says 800 to 1,500 customers compromised||Following a ransomware attack by the notorious REvil cybercrime gang, US based IT firm Kaseya, affected in the attack, on Tuesday said that “only approximately 50” of the more than 35,000 customers of the company were breached.In a statement released earlier on Tuesday, the company said that it responded “quickly” to the ransomware attack on its customers launched on the fourth of July weekend. It further claimed that business continuity was ensured after the attack and owing to the company’s “rapid remediation and mitigation measures” several small and medium-sized businesses were saved from devastating impacts to their operations.Experts have pointed the attack to the Russian-based REvil gang after a post on the Happy Blog in dark web, previously associated with the gang, claimed responsibility for the attack, threatening that more than a million systems have been affected.Also read | Kaseya ransomware attack: Hackers demand $70 million ransom to restore data‘Limited impact’The company’s statement came a day after the hackers demanded a ransom of $70 million in Bitcoins, several news agencies reported earlier on Monday.“On July 2, at approximately 2 p.m. EST, Kaseya was alerted to a potential attack by internal and external sources. Within an hour, in an abundance of caution, Kaseya immediately shut down access to the software in question. The attack had limited impact, with only approximately 50 of the more than 35,000 Kaseya customers being breached,” Kaseya said in the statement.“While impacting approximately 50 of Kaseya’s customers, this attack was never a threat nor had any impact to critical infrastructure,” it further claimed.Many customers, who are managed service providers, use Kaseya’s technology for managing the IT infrastructure of local and small businesses that typically have less than 30 employees, the company also highlighted. “Of the approximately 800,000 to 1,000,000 local and small businesses that are managed by Kaseya’s customers, only about 800 to 1,500 have been compromised,” it further said. The company also assured that it is working closely with all government agencies following the breach.Meanwhile, CEO Fred Voccola said that “Our global teams are working around the clock to get our customers back up and running. We understand that every second they are shut down, it impacts their livelihood, which is why we’re working feverishly to get this resolved.”Also read | Hit by a ransomware attack in US? Your payment may be tax deductibleExperts doubtfulDespite Kaseya’s statement, cybersecurity experts opined that it is too early for the company to make a decisive assessment about the impact of the attack, a major reason being, the attack was launched on the fourth of July weekend, a holiday in the USA and businesses might become aware only on returning to work on Tuesday.“Given the relationship between Kaseya and MSPs, it’s not clear how Kaseya would know the number of victims impacted. There is no way the numbers are as low as Kaseya is claiming though,” the Associated Press (AP) quoted Jake Williams, chief technical officer of the cybersecurity firm BreachQuest.Another cybersecurity firm Sophos commented that it was too soon to have any assessment of the impact. “It’s too soon to tell, since this entire incident is still under investigation” Sophos said, according to AP.Ciaran Martin, cybersecurity professor at the University of Oxford said this could be the biggest ransomware attack of all time. “It's probably the biggest ransomware attack of all time. Because of the nature of the attack there's still a lot of uncertainty over its impact,” news agency AFP quoted Martin as saying.He also said that the total number of victims was “potentially huge” because the attack was a supply chain attack, typically targeting a company that serves thousands of firms, who in turn provide IT services to smaller businesses.Of the many victims, Swedish supermarket chain Coop was one among the high profile customers. The cash registers of the company were paralysed because of the attack and according to spokesperson Kevin Bell, many of the 800 stores of the supermarket remained closed on Monday. He also said that the few hundreds that managed to reopen had to rely on other methods of payment by the customers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/revil-ransomware-attack-experts-cast-doubts-as-it-firm-kaseya-says-800-to-1-500-customers-compromised-101625590763240.html
06-07-2021||World||UN, EU human rights officials condemn Stan Swamy’s death||Human rights officials from the European Union and United Nations called the death of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy on Tuesday. They said Swamy was a defender of indigenous people’s rights in India and was ‘falsely imprisoned’ according to a report by news agency PTI.“The news from India today is devastating. Human Rights Defender and Jesuit priest Fr. Stan Swamy has died in custody, nine months after his arrest on false charges of terrorism. Jailing human rights defenders is inexcusable,” Mary Lawlor was quoted as saying by the news agency. Lawlor, who is the special rapporteur on Human Rights Defenders for the United Nations, had earlier expressed her concerns regarding the health condition of Stan Swamy. She had also sought possible specialist treatment for him while describing the charges levelled against him as ‘unfounded’.The special representative for human rights from the European Union, Eamon Gilmore echoed similar sentiment and said that the European Union raised his case repeatedly with authorities. “I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities,” Gilmore said via a tweet where he had also tagged Lawlor’s tweet.Swamy who was arrested for creating unrest in 2020 for in connection with the Elgar Parishad case and lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. The authorities claim that the priest made inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, by the Elgar Parishad near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial following which violent clashes were triggered. Swamy died while waiting for his bail to be cleared. Investigative agencies also allege that the conclave was held by people with Maoist links.Swamy died at Mumbai’s Holy Family Hospital on Monday, a day after he suffered a cardiac arrest. Swamy also suffered from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments and was put on ventilator support. He had also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-eu-human-rights-officials-condemn-stan-swamy-s-death-101625585927703.html
06-07-2021||World||Tropical Storm Elsa lashing Florida Keys, to strengthen slowly||The weather was getting worse in southern Florida on Tuesday morning as Tropical Storm Elsa began lashing the Florida Keys, complicating the search for survivors in the condo collapse and prompting a hurricane watch for the peninsula's upper Gulf Coast.In addition to damaging winds and heavy rains, the Miami-based US National Hurricane Center warned of life-threatening storm surges, flooding and isolated tornadoes. A hurricane watch was issued for a long stretch of coastline, from Egmont Key at the mouth of Tampa Bay to the Steinhatchee River in Florida's Big Bend area.Bands of rain were expected to reach Surfside on Florida's Atlantic coast, soaking the rubble of the Champlain Towers South, which collapsed June 24, killing at least 32 people. Search and rescue crews have worked through rain more than 100 others listed as missing, but must pause when lightning threatens, and a garage area in the pancaked debris already filled with water Monday, officials said.Elsa’s maximum sustained winds strengthened to 60 mph (95 kph) early Tuesday. A slow strengthening is forecast through Tuesday night and Elsa could be near hurricane strength before it makes landfall in Florida. Its core was about 50 miles (80 kilometers) southwest of Key West, Florida, and 270 miles (435 kilometers) south of Tampa. It was continuing to move to the north-northwest at 12 mph (19 kph).The forecast included the possibility of tornadoes across South Florida on Tuesday morning and across the upper peninsula later in the day.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis expanded a state of emergency to cover a dozen counties where Elsa was expected to make a swift passage Wednesday, and President Joe Biden approved an emergency declaration for the state ahead of the storm.Forecasters predicted Elsa would hit coastal Georgia and South Carolina after Florida. Georgia's coast was under a tropical storm watch, as was much of the South Carolina coast. Forecasters said tornadoes could strike in the eastern Carolinas and Virginia as Elsa moves north.The storm surge could reach 5 feet (1.5 meters) over normally dry land in the Tampa Bay area if Elsa passes at high tide, forecasters said. Commander Col. Ben Jonsson said only essential personnel were being allowed Tuesday morning on MacDill Air Force Base, which is located along the bay on the South Tampa peninsula.Tampa International Airport planned to shut down Tuesday at 5 p.m.At a Tuesday morning news briefing, DeSantis reminded residents not to focus on the Tropical Storm Elsa’s so-called “cone of concern” because the storm’s “impacts are expected well outside that area.”“And if you look at how the storm is it’s incredibly lopsided to the east,” DeSantis said. “So most of the rainfall is going to be east of the center of the storm.”Elsa’s westward shift spared the lower Florida Keys a direct hit, but the islands were still getting plenty of rain and wind Tuesday. Tropical storm warnings were posted for the Florida Keys from Craig Key westward to the Dry Tortugas and for the west coast of Florida from Flamingo northward to the Ochlockonee River.Margarita Pedroza, who lives on a boat off Key West, told WPLG a stronger storm would have forced her ashore, but she was riding this one out. "Just batten down the hatches and get ready for it,” she told the television station.“It doesn’t seem like it’s as strong as some of the other storms that have come around, so hopefully the winds won’t be as strong and maybe it’ll be some rain, but hopefully not too much rain,” she said.Cuban officials evacuated 180,000 people against the possibility of heavy flooding from a storm that already battered several Caribbean islands, killing at least three people. But Elsa spent Sunday and much of Monday sweeping parallel to Cuba’s southern coast, sparing most of the island from significant effects.It made landfall in Cuba near Cienega de Zapata, a natural park with few inhabitants, and crossed the island just east of Havana. Tuesday’s rainfall across parts of Cuba was expected to reach 10 inches (25 centimeters) with isolated maximums of 15 inches (38 centimeters), resulting in significant flash flooding and mudslides. But there were no early reports of serious damage on the island.“The wind is blowing hard and there is a lot of rain. Some water is getting under the door of my house. In the yard the level is high, but it did not get into the house,” Lázaro Ramón Sosa, a craftsman and photographer who lives in the town of Cienega de Zapata, told The Associated Press by telephone.Sosa said he saw some avocado trees fall nearby.Tropical storm conditions were continuing over central and western Cuba on Tuesday morning, even as the storm reached Florida.Elsa was the first hurricane of the Atlantic season until Saturday morning and caused widespread damage on several eastern Caribbean islands Friday. As a tropical storm, it resulted in the deaths of one person on St. Lucia and of a 15-year-old boy and a 75-year-old woman in the Dominican Republic.Elsa is the earliest fifth-named storm on record, said Brian McNoldy, a hurricane researcher at the University of Miami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tropical-storm-elsa-lashing-florida-keys-to-strengthen-slowly-101625583743302.html
06-07-2021||World||Florida building collpase: Death toll climbs to 32 after rescuers find 4 more bodies in rubble||The discovery of four more victims in the rubble of a collapsed condominium building raised the death toll to 32, officials said Tuesday as a ramped-up search effort faced new threats from severe weather with Tropical Storm Elsa.Lightning forced rescuers to pause their work for two hours early Tuesday, Miami-Dade Assistant Fire Chief Raide Jadallah said. He said workers have removed 5.5 million pounds of debris from the pile.At the site of the collapsed building Tuesday morning, power saws and backhoes could be heard as workers in yellow helmets and blue jumpsuits sifted through the rubble for a 13th day. Stiff winds of 20 mph (32 kph) with stronger gusts blew through the area as gray clouds from Elsa’s outer bands swirled above.Bands of rain were expected in Surfside as Elsa strengthened with potential to become a hurricane again before making landfall somewhere between Tampa Bay and Florida's Big Bend and crossing northern Florida.The search crews can work through rain, but lightning from unrelated thunderstorms have forced them to pause at times, and a garage area in the rubble has filled with water, officials said.The delays frustrated rescue crews, Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava said.“Truly they live to save lives, and they’ve pushed ahead no matter what is thrown in their way,” she said at a Monday evening news conference.Still, crews got a big boost when the unstable remaining portion of the Champlain Towers South building came down Sunday. The demolition — prompted by fears that the structure could fall — allowed rescuers into previously inaccessible places, including bedrooms where people were believed to be sleeping at the time of the disaster, officials said."The site is busier and more active now than I’ve seen it since we began, now that the damaged building is down,” Surfside Mayor Charles Burkett said, adding that heavy equipment was now able to move freely around the site.Rescuers hoped to get a clearer picture of voids that may exist in the rubble as they search for anyone still trapped under the fallen wing of the building, but they found very few voids, Jadallah told family members late Monday.No one has been rescued alive since the first hours after the collapse, but rescuers were still holding out hope of reuniting loved ones.“We continue to remain focused on our primary mission, and that is to leave no stone unturned and to find as many people as we can and to help bring either some answers to family and loved ones or to bring some closure to them,” City of Miami Fire Rescue Capt. Ignatius Carroll said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-building-collpase-death-toll-climbs-to-32-after-rescuers-find-4-more-bodies-in-rubble-101625583228934.html
06-07-2021||World||Quad summit in October, rising China on agenda||US President Joe Biden will host the leaders of Australia, India and Japan later this year, White House coordinator for the Indo-Pacific Kurt Campbell said on Tuesday.The Quad, also known as Quadrilateral Security Dialogue is a strategic dialogue between the US, Japan, Australia and India during which the sides discuss economic and military cooperation. Its first inklings go back to 2007 but a recent resurgence is largely seen as a strategy to counter China's growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region."You will see [our cooperation] later this year when the president [Biden] hosts the Quad leaders in Washington. You'll see some commitments," Campbell said at an online event hosted by the Asia Society group.WATCH | China tried to scuttle India-US team-up in Quad: Joe Biden's big revelationHe added that the summit should bring "decisive" commitments on such issues as vaccine diplomacy and infrastructure.According to diplomats based in New Delhi and Washington, the foreign ministers of quad will exchange notes on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in September to frame the architecture of the security grouping before the summit.While China calls the Quad security dialogue as the new NATO framed against Beijing, the Quad partners view it as a grouping where democratic countries can get together and cooperate to build up resilient supply chains, health architecture, disaster management and security to the shipping lanes handling trade of the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific.What started as an instrument to ensure freedom of navigation in the South China Sea (SCS) has now become a democratic tool to help the world in vaccine supply, human disaster relief, counter-terrorism, defence and trade cooperation. The Quad summit will also discuss the role of ASEAN countries in the security groupings, as well as countries like France and the United Kingdom, which seek cooperation with quad over Indo-Pacific.The summit leaders will discuss developments in Afghanistan which faces threats from fundamentalist Taliban running rampage all over the country. The Taliban wants to establish an emirate in Afghanistan where Sharia laws will prevail.ALSO READ | India, US to cement bilateral ties with Quad after Jaishankar visitThe Quad summit will also be looking at countries like Indonesia and the Philippines which have a huge role to play in the Indo-Pacific due to geographical locations. While Indonesia sits on all the important ingress routes to the SCS, the Philippines forms the first island chain to deep Pacific.Indonesia has proximity to Malacca, Sunda, Lombok and Ombai Wetar states that box the South China Sea, the Philippines is the first island chain after Taiwan.ALSO READ | The four dimensions that will shape QuadThe Quad summit also comes at a time when China continues to be aggressive against India in east Ladakh, against Australia on trade, against Japan Senkaku islands and against the United States for the control of South China Sea and the Indo-Pacific.While the US has been operating its aircraft carriers in the South China Sea for conducting freedom of navigation operations the Chinese Navy is on the verge of building an 85,000-tonnes aircraft carrier (Type 003) to expand the footprint of PLA Navy in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quad-summit-in-october-rising-china-on-agenda-101625580126433.html
06-07-2021||World||Big Jake, world's tallest horse, dies at age 20||The world's tallest horse, Big Jake died two weeks ago in Wisconsin, said Valicia Gilbert, wife of the Smokey Hollow Farm owner, Jerry Gilbert, on Monday, according to the Associated Press.The 20-year-old Belgian named Big Jake lived on a farm called Smokey Hollow in Poynette. The wife of the farm owner declined to tell the exact date of death when the AP reached her through Facebook.“We would rather not remember him by a date — it's been a traumatic event for our family,” AP quoted her as saying.The 6-foot-10-inches or nearly 2.1 meters tall weighing 2,500 pounds or 1,136 kg horse was certified as the world's tallest living horse by the Guinness Book of World Records in 2010.Jerry Gilbert, the owner of the farm, told WMTV that the horse was a "superstar" and a “truly magnificent animal.” Big Jake was born in Nebraska and weighed 240 pounds (109 kilograms) at birth, about 100 pounds (45 kilograms) heavier at birth compared to a typical Belgian foal, Gilbert said, according to AP.Gilbert plans to memorialize Big Jake by keeping his stall empty and inserting a brick on its outside with his picture and name.He added that the other horses know of his death and are grieving as Jake left a huge void.“It's very quiet (at the farm)," Jerry Gilbert said, reported AP.“The other horses know. I think they have their own grieving time because Jake was the centre of attention around here. There is a huge void. It feels like he's still here, but he's not," he added.Social media was abuzz with the news of his demise, as netizens posted about the news of his death in Wisconsin worldwide. Internet users from around the world posted RIP messages after learning about the death of the tallest horse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/big-jake-world-s-tallest-horse-dies-at-age-20-101625573818040.html
06-07-2021||World||No survivors in Russian An-26 plane crash, say rescue officials||Russian rescue officials on Tuesday said that no survivors were found after a plane with 28 passengers on-board crashed in the country’s far eastern region earlier in the day, according to agency news reports. Also, the search for rescuers was halted owing to the onset of darkness, the AFP reported, citing unnamed sources from the Russian ministry of emergency situations.Meanwhile, search teams have retrieved some parts of the crashed plane. Governor of Kamchatka Vladimir Solodov said that parts of the fuselage have been found along the coast and in the Okhotsk sea.Also read | Plane with 28 people on board goes missing in Russia’s Far East region“There was a catastrophe during the go-around approach for landing,” AFP quoted Solodov as saying in a video released on the government website. He further said that no signs of the passengers or their luggage could be found, AFP said, citing a report by Interfax news agency.The crash site has been located about four to five kms from the air strip, the TASS news agency reported citing the Federal Agency for Air Transport.“The discovery location is about 4 to 5 kilometres away from the airstrip towards the coast. Rescue teams have discovered the wreckage. Considering the geographical features of the location, the rescue operations are complicated. The search group has commenced the rescue endeavour. The mission involves 26 rescuers and an all-purpose vehicle,” TASS quoted the agency as saying.According to the Russian ministry of emergency situations, the twin-engined turboprop Antonov An-26 lost contact with the air traffic control when it was en route from Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, the regional capital, to Palana. Adventure tourists throng the vast Kamchatka peninsula in the country’s far eastern region known for its abundant wildlife and active volcanoes. The plane had 22 tourists and six crew members, according to the ministry.The mayor of Palana, Olga Mokhireva, was also among the passengers, according to a report by the TASS news agency.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-survivors-in-russian-an-26-plane-crash-say-rescue-officials-101625576919951.html
06-07-2021||World||Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘less effective’ against Delta variant: Israel||Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine was less effective in stopping people from getting infected with the Delta variant of coronavirus in the country in recent weeks, the Israeli government has said. According to Bloomberg, data from Israel’s health ministry showed the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine protected 64 per cent of the country’s people against the virus between June 6 and early July, down from the earlier 94 per cent. This decline has been observed amid the emergence and rise in cases of Delta variant in the country, the data revealed.Moreover, the surge in Delta variant cases also coincided with the lifting of restrictions due to the virus at the start of June in Israel, Bloomberg reported. However, the government data also showed that the Pfizer vaccine jab is protecting people from severe illness and hospitalisation. The vaccine jab showed 93 per cent effectiveness in ceasing people from hospitalisation – only marginally dropping from 97 per cent revealed in an earlier government study.Pfizer Inc’s spokesperson Dervila Keane declined to comment on the Israel government findings, Bloomberg added. She emphasised on research showing the vaccine’s continued protection against new coronavirus mutations – although it was slightly decreased in some cases. Keane told Bloomberg that evidence till now indicates that the Pfizer covid-19 vaccine will “continue to protect against these variants.”Although Israel had one of the world’s most effective vaccination drives and administered vaccine jabs to about 57 per cent of its population, several of the new coronavirus cases are being identified among such people, Ynet news services reported. According to the website, last Friday, 55 per cent of the newly infected citizens were inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine doses. Furthermore, as of July 4, the country has as many as 35 serious cases of the virus as opposed to 21 seen on June 19.As per the Bloomberg report, a statement by the Israel Prime Minister’s office said that the government has plans to study vaccinated people who contracted Covid-19, including factors such as pre-existing conditions, inoculation dates, and age, in order to gauge the vaccine’s efficacy and the rate at which it wears off.The government is mulling over reinstating additional curbs after restoring a mandate to wear masks indoors in public spaces. However, the health ministry told Bloomberg that no decision has yet been made on recommending a third vaccine dose for the citizens.Although Pfizer CEO Dr Albert Bourla has said that people will likely require to be administered a third vaccine jab within 12 months of getting fully vaccinated, Bloomberg reported.This development comes only a week after the Indian government stated that they will soon close the deal with Pfizer to make it the fifth covid-19 vaccine available in the country. Notably, Moderna – the first international vaccine, was given a green signal on June 29. Meanwhile, Dr Bourla recently said that an agreement with the Indian government is being finalised.Towards the end of June, Reuters reported that Pfizer’s medical director in Israel, Alon Rappaport told local broadcaster Army Radio that research from the lab and areas where Delta variant has replaced the British Covid-19 variant as the “common variant,” point that Pfizer vaccine is “very effective”, nearly 90 per cent in preventing Covid-19.The Delta variant was first identified in India and has now spread to at least 98 countries. A subtype of the variant, Delta Plus, has already been detected in more than 50 samples in the country. Recently, the World Health Organization (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the world is in a very “dangerous period” of the pandemic owing to more transmissible variants, like Delta, which is rapidly emerging as the dominant strain in several countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizers-covid-19-vaccine-less-effective-against-delta-variant-israel-101625561277982.html
06-07-2021||World||Uyghur community in France protests against China’s atrocities in Xinjiang||The Uyghur community in France on Monday held protests over reports of mistreatment meted out to their fellow people in China’s western region of Xinjiang. The protests, organised by the Association des Ouïghours de France was meant as a medium to raise awareness about the ongoing genocide.A little over 30-minute long video, which was shared by Association des Ouïghours de France on its Facebook page, showed protesters waving the community’s blue flag and displaying banners with ‘Terroriste China’ (Terrorist China). Slogans were also shouted against the atrocities committed by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) against Uyghurs.Monday’s protests in France come as President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Chinese President Xi Jinping held talks on several issues including the ongoing coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) along with other international and regional issues. According to news agency Bloomberg, an Elysee official pointed out that both Macron and Merkel evoked the Chinese government’s crackdown on the Uyghur community.As tensions between the European Union and China are growing, the former has accused China of committing human rights abuses against Uyghurs, along with suppressing Hong Kong’s democratic fabric.Earlier, scores of people from the Tibetian, Mongolian, Vietnamese, Taiwaneese, Hong Kong and Uyghur communities staged a protest at the Bastille square in France’s Paris on June 24, where they demanded a boycott of next year’s Winter Olympics in Beijing over human rights violations against ethnic groups, ANI reported.Despite global provocation, China still continues to deny any wrongdoing against Uyghurs. Time and again, it has denied claims that ethnic Muslims have been forced into internment camps, work programs and birth-control initiatives, Bloomberg reported. However, an assessment by the United Nations claims that Uyghurs- anywhere from tens of thousands to “upwards of 1 million” have been detained.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uyghur-community-in-france-protests-against-china-s-atrocities-in-xinjiang-101625559317872.html
06-07-2021||World||Imran Khan, Kim Jong-un on RSF's 'press freedom predators' list||Press watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF) has released a list of 37 heads of states who massively cracked down on press freedom. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban are among the “predators of press freedom”, said RSF.Two women, Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina and Hong Kong’s administrative chief Carrie Lam, have also been added to the list. This is the first time that women leaders have found a place on the press freedom predators' list.The list was released on Monday. The list has come out after a gap of five years; the RSF released the last list in 2016.The global press body said that 17 of the 37 leaders have been added for the first time on the list. It has accused these leaders of "creating a censorship apparatus, jailing journalists arbitrarily or inciting violence against them".At least 19 countries have been show in the red colour by the RSF, which it says shows the bad situation for journalism. Sixteen countries have been coded black, which RSF says the situation is "very bad".The average of the predators included in the list is 66 and one-third of them are from the Asia-Pacific region.Some of the other inclusions in the list are Brazil's Jair Bolsonaro, Myanmar's Min Aung Hlaing, Saudi Arabia's crown prince Mohammad bin Salman, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Turkey's Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Philippines' Rodrigo Duterte.In the case of Imran Khan, the RSF said, "In the shadows, behind candidate Khan, the military reasserted the deep state," adding that cases of brazen censorship are legion since he became prime minister."Newspaper distribution has been interrupted, media outlets have been threatened with the withdrawal of advertising and TV channel signals have been jammed," the RS further said.Talking about Bin Salman, the report said, “His repressive methods include spying and threats that have sometimes led to abduction, torture and other unthinkable acts. Jamal Khashoggi’s horrific murder exposed a predatory method that is simply barbaric.”Khashoggi was a Saudi journalist who visited the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul to procure documents to marry and was brutally slain inside it in 2018.About the women on the list, the RSF said, "Lam's predatory exploits include the adoption of a digital security law in 2018 that has led to more than 70 journalists and bloggers being prosecuted.”The watchdog's chief urged world governments to disavow the practices used by the leaders it singled out and to recognize the positive contributions made by an independent press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-kim-jong-un-on-rsf-s-press-freedom-predators-list-101625550652360.html
06-07-2021||World||Plane with 28 people on board goes missing in Russia’s Far East region||A Russian airplane carrying 28 onboard has gone missing in the Kamchatka peninsula in Russia’s far east region, multiple news reports said citing regional authorities on Tuesday. The AN-26 plane lost contact with air traffic control while attempting to land, TASS separately cited a source as saying. The plane was flying from Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky to Palana in the Kamchatka Peninsula when it did not make a scheduled communication, the Interfax and RIA Novosti agencies cited the emergencies ministry as saying, according to news agency Reuters.AFP reported that the 28 people on board included six crew members and there were one or two children among the 22 passengers. A search has been launched and rescue workers are on standby, the agency added.Russia, once known for aircraft-related accidents, has improved its air traffic safety records in the past few years. However, poor maintenance of air crafts and a low level of safety standards still prevail. Flying is also dangerous in the country’s isolated regions with difficult weather conditions.This incident in Russia comes exactly two days after a Philippine air force aircraft crashed on a southern island on July 4, killing 50 people. The July 4 crash is the worst air disaster for the Asian country in nearly three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-plane-with-28-people-on-board-goes-missing-in-far-east-region-reports-101625548993403.html
06-07-2021||World||'Lying flat' gains traction in China as youngsters defy norms, Beijing not happy||The Chinese government is grappling with a novel protest from its citizens, especially youngsters. The 'lying flat' movement involves lying down and doing as little as possible.The movement has bene triggered by fears among the young population that they won't be able to do better than their parents. The fear stems from the fact that employees are working harder, and for longer hours, but prices are rising faster than incomes.According to local media reports, the unemployment rate among those aged between 16-24 in China is 13.1 per cent, and the overall unemployment rate is 5.5 per cent. To add to this, more than 20 crore youngsters have graduated in China in the last year, ready for employment.A generation ago, the road to success in China was hard work. But this new movement seeks to break the established norm, defying the country's long-held prosperity narrative by refusing to participate in it."I have been chilling," 31-year-old Luo Huazhong wrote in a blog post titled "Lying Flat Is Justice" in April. "I don't feel like there's anything wrong."Luo quit his job as a factory worker, and decided to opt for odd jobs and survive on his savings. He biked 1,300 miles from Sichuan Province to Tibet to live his new life.The post, which showed Luo lying on his bed in a dark room with the curtains drawn, soon went viral. Soon, Chinese millennials started celebrating the post as an anti-consumerist manifesto. "Lying flat" went viral and has since become a broader statement about Chinese society.And Beijing is certainly not happy.Censors have deleted a tangping (which means 'lying flat') group with more than 9,000 members on Douban, a popular internet forum. The authorities also barred posts on another tangping forum with more than 200,000 members, according to an article written by Elsie Chen in The New York Times.China's internet regulator further ordered online platforms to "strictly restrict" new posts on tangping, according to The New York Times report.The state news media has called tangping "shameful".But experts say the movement is a turning point for China. "Young people feel a kind of pressure that they cannot explain and they feel that promises were broken," said Xiang Biao, a professor of social anthropology at Oxford University who focuses on Chinese society. "People realise that material betterment is no longer the single most important source of meaning in life", said Xiang.China has a strict 996 culture, which means working from 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week. There were protests in 2019 against the practice which sparked debate among leading Chinese businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lying-flat-gains-traction-in-china-as-youngsters-defy-norms-beijing-not-happy-101625542898189.html
06-07-2021||World||Atami mudslide: Japanese authorities continue rescue ops, 24 still unreachable||ATAMI, Japan (AP) — Rescue workers dug through sludge and debris Monday looking for more than 20 people who may be trapped after a torrent of mud, trees and rocks ripped with a roar through a Japanese seaside resort town, killing at least four people.Atami Mayor Sakae Saito said 24 people were still unreachable Tuesday morning, after the city late Monday released the names of more than 60 registered residents who were unaccounted for and the majority of them responded for the contact request. Officials were double checking the number because many of the apartments and houses in Atami are second homes or vacation rentals.Initially, 147 people were unreachable, but officials confirmed many safely evacuated or were simply not at home. In addition to the four people found dead, officials said 25 people have been rescued, including three who were injured.The disaster is an added trial as authorities prepare for the Tokyo Olympics, due to start in less than three weeks, while Japan is still in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, with cases steadily climbing in the capital and experts suggesting a need for another state of emergency.Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga told reporters that rescue workers are doing their utmost “to rescue those who may be buried under the mud and waiting for help as soon as possible." Three coast guard ships, and six military drones were backing up hundreds of troops, firefighters and others toiling in the rain and fog.The landslide occurred Saturday after days of heavy rain in Atami, which like many seaside Japanese towns is built into a steep hillside. It tore through the Izusan neighborhood, known for its hot springs, a shrine and shopping streets. The town has a registered population of 36,800 and is about 100 kilometers (60 miles) southwest of Tokyo.Shizuoka Gov. Heita Kawakatsu, who inspected the area Monday where the mudslide was believed to have started, said rain soaked into the mountainside apparently weakening the ground under a massive pile of soil at a construction site that then slid down the slope.The prefecture is investigating. Media reports said a planned housing development in the area was abandoned after its operator ran into financial problems.Witnesses described a giant roar as a small stream turned into a torrent, and bystanders were heard gasping in horror on cellphone videos taken as it happened.Naoto Date, an actor who was visiting Izusan, was awakened by sirens. His neighborhood is now awash in muddy water with rescuers wading through knee-deep sludge. Just blocks from his home, some houses have been completely washed away, with only their foundations still visible. Mangled traffic signs stick out from the mud. At the seafront, he saw cars floating along with debris from destroyed homes.“I grew up here, and my classmates and friends live here. I’m so sad to see my neighborhood where I used to play with my friends is now destroyed,” Date told The Associated Press by videocall from his home in Atami.While Date's mother, who was staying next door, has moved to a hotel along with other evacuees, the actor said he was staying away from evacuation centers because he is concerned about the coronavirus.The Izusan area is one of 660,000 locations in Japan identified as prone to mudslides by the government, but those designations are not widely publicized and public awareness is low. Early July, near the end of Japan's rainy season, is often a time of deadly flooding and mudslides, and many experts say the rains are worsening due to climate change.With other parts of the country expecting heavy downpours, authorities were urging people near hillsides in areas at risk to use caution. Public broadcaster NHK carried a program Monday about risk factors and warning signs that might precede a landslide.A year ago, flooding and mudslides triggered by heavy rain in Kumamoto and four other prefectures in the Kyushu region in southern Japan left nearly 80 people dead. In July 2018, hillsides in crowded residential areas in Hiroshima collapsed, leaving 20 dead. In 2017, mudslides and flooding in the Kyushu region killed 40.Miyoko Okamoto, an employee at a care home for the elderly, said the mudslide came close to but narrowly missed her house. She and her son ran out of the house, while her husband, a community association leader, escorted neighbors to safer ground.Okamoto said she hasn't been back home since fleeing because she is helping residents at the care home. “We were lucky to have survived, and that's most important," she said.But her neighbor is still looking for his wife. “They are good friends of ours," she said, "and that pains my heart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/atami-mudslide-japanese-authorities-continue-rescue-ops-24-still-unreachable-101625538674223.html
06-07-2021||World||Ransomware attack using Kaseya software affected 1,500 businesses worldwide||As many as 1,500 businesses around the world have been affected by the biggest ransomware attack to be recorded in history, the chief executive of American IT form Kaseya has said. A software developed by the company was used as a conduit by hackers linked to Russia to launch the attack.The firm's CEO Fred Voccola said that they are still trying to estimate the precise impact of Friday's attack.Kaseya is a company which provides software tools to IT outsourcing shops: companies that typically handle back-office work for companies too small or modestly resourced to have their own tech departments.The hackers, believed to be linked to the notorious REvil group, used the VSA software developed by Kaseya which helps companies remotely monitor their computer systems. The company said it sent a detection tool to nearly 900 customers.The disruption has been felt more keenly in Sweden, where hundreds of supermarkets had to close because their cash registers were inoperative, and New Zealand, where schools and kindergartens were knocked offline.A German IT company and two big Dutch IT services companies were also among the victims.The hackers who claimed responsibility for the breach have demanded $70 million to restore all the affected businesses' data. They got in touch with news agency Reuters and one of their representatives, without identifying the name, said, "We are always ready to negotiate."On Sunday, the White House said it was checking to see whether there was any "national risk" posed by ransomware outbreak but Voccola said that - so far - he was not aware of any nationally important organizations being hit.Ransomware criminals break into networks and sow malware that cripples networks on activation by scrambling all their data. Victims get a decoder key when they pay up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ransomware-attack-using-kaseya-software-affected-1-500-businesses-worldwide-101625531520766.html
06-07-2021||World||Germany lifts ban on travellers from delta variant hit India, other countries||Germany on Monday lifted a ban on travellers from India, the UK and three other countries, where the delta variant of coronavirus has been found in the samples of Covid-19 patients. In fact, the variant is the dominant one found in the UK which scuttled the Boris Johnson government's plan to open up the country.The Robert Koch Institute, a German federal government agency responsible for disease control and prevention, said that India, Nepal, Russia, Portugal and the UK have been downgraded to "high-incidence areas" from the current categorisation of "areas of variant concern". This would make it easier for travellers who are not German residents or citizens to enter the country.The current rules in Germany allow only its citizens to enter the country from a variant nation and are subjected to two-week quarantine, regardless of their vaccination status. The "high-incidence areas" status will allow anyone from such countries to enter Germany provided they produce a negative test on arrival and quarantine on arrival for 10 days.The quarantine period can be shortened to five days if they test negative for Covid-19. The new norms will be effective from Wednesday.Travellers from high-incidence areas are also exempt from quarantine if they have been fully vaccinated.German health minister Jens Spahn had said last week that the federal government will look into the situation (of allowing travellers form delta variant-hit countries) "in the next few days".The relaxation in curbs is driven by the fact that vaccines have been found effective against the delta variant, which was first discovered in India."We think that in the foreseeable future, those who have received double jabs will... be able to travel again, without having to go into quarantine," German Chancellor Angela Merkel had said on Friday.Last month, Dubai eased restrictions on Indian travellers who have received two doses of a UAE-approved Covid-19 vaccine. The country has approved the vaccines made by Sinopharm, Pfizer-BioNTech, Sputnik V and Oxford-AstraZeneca.The passengers from India are required to undergo a rapid PCR test four hours prior to departure to Dubai. They must also undergo another PCR test on arrival in Dubai. Following their arrival, the passengers from India should undergo institutional quarantine until they receive their PCR test result, which is expected within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-lifts-ban-on-travellers-from-delta-variant-hit-india-other-countries-101625528827991.html
06-07-2021||India||Will follow any decision by Sonia, says Punjab CM||New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi met with Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday to resolve the crisis facing the party in the state ahead of next year’s assembly elections. . After the meeting, also attended by Congress Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, the head of a three-member committee that looked at dissent and differences in the Punjab unit of the party, and presented the chief minister with a 18-point to-do list, Singh said they discussed the development of Punjab and “internal matters of the party” and that he would follow any decision taken by Gandhi. He also avoided commenting on Navjot Sidhu, the cricketer and TV personality who is his biggest detractor with the party, and who seemingly enjoys the patronage of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, both of whom separately met Gandhi ahead of her meeting with Singh. “I do not know anything about Sidhu,” Singh told reporters. His comments seemed to suggest that Gandhi will take a final call on what is to be done in Punjab, including on a possible position for Sidhu who is keen on becoming the chief of the local unit of the party ahead of next year’s elections, something Singh is opposed to. HT learns that an 18-point list was discussed at the hour-long meeting, and that Singh was told the party has to be united ahead of the election, and to be accessible to his party colleagues. The latest round of troubles for the CM started in April with the Punjab & Haryana high court quashing reports submitted by the Punjab Police in connection with the Kotkapura firing incidents dating back to 2015, and asking for the constitution of a new special investigation team to look into the issue. The firing, which resulted in the deaths of two people protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs, is being investigated, and the new SIT has questioned then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal and his son and then home minister Sukhbir Badal in connection with the case. The chief minister’s detractors allege that he has been soft on the Badals, slow to implement the party’s poll promises, and too reliant on powerful bureaucrats. As the voices of dissent grew with some lawmakers joining the chorus, the Congress’s central leadership set up a three-member committee headed by Kharge to settle the discord. The committee met all the MLAs, Sidhu and the CM. Last week, Sidhu also met with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. According to a person aware of developments, while the Captain’s leadership was not challenged, Gandhi told him ”to take Sidhu into confidence’.’ The party is keen that they go into polls next year with both the CM and Sidhu having made peace and exhibiting “a united face’’. It isn’t clear whether Sidhu, who has openly called Singh a “liar” and also targeted him over the power situation in the state and power supply agreements signed with private firms when the Akalis were in power, will be ready to go along. Sidhu was not available for a comment.It is also not clear whether Gandhi made any commitments to Singh on him being the party’s chief ministerial candidate in the elections. Sidhu left the BJP in 2016, almost joined the Aam Aadmi Party, then joined the Congress. Ahead of the latest controversy, the Congress seemed set to retain Punjab, although the damaging internal fight may have changed the equation now. “The Captain’s position has been deliberately undermined whereas Sidhu has been given such a long rope. The right way should have been to ask captain to take immediate actions to try to fulfill some promises like power sector reforms, employment generation. Sidhu gets unnecessary focus. AAP would not take him. So the only way for him to float his own party and then make alliances,’’ said Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science in Panjab University. A senior Congressman seemed to think the meeting had achieved enough. “With this, we hope to have partially defused the situation,” he said. There was no official comment from the Congress Party on the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-follow-any-decision-by-sonia-says-punjab-cm-101625595976127.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhiwale: The time capsules of Green Park||A gate just big enough for a car to pass through. Beyond it, a small lawn on the side, not fanatically trimmed. And then the single-storey house, not modern-looking, but not nostalgically old-fashioned either. It appears to be a child of the late 1970s, when such no-fuss design was said to be in vogue.This is a residence in Green Park. Until a decade ago it was just an average sight in the leafy south Delhi colony. But now it stands out for being less common, though still quite a few of them exist.Like many genteel Delhi neighbourhoods, Green Park is adapting to the new age. The homes that were originally built to support one household—with at best a barsati on the roof for a single person living on rent—are being pulled down to make way for multi-floor apartments. The ground floors of yesterday are now parking lots for the residents’ cars. Tall walls and immense gates make it impossible to see anything inside. It’s like the gated suburbs have come to the city centre. The modern-day Green Park dwellers are rarely sighted outside their gleaming fortresses, unless you decide to get jalebis at the nearby Evergreen Sweets or the imported Camembert at the nearby Modern Bazaar supermarket.This evening, one of these lanes is mostly empty. The few people you get to see are uniformed security guards outside the new sleek edifices, or construction labourers working in one of the sites of a former house. A few of the old houses are empty—one is in ruins.The new residences have no uniformity in their aesthetics. Some are moderately elegant, others betray too much ambition in their extravagance. The white one near the Jagannath Temple, though, is very minimal, with straight stern lines—it looks so international that it’s as if you were in a gentrified neighbourhood of any city of the world.Besides a turning, a house is being demolished. By now it’s mostly a hill of bricks and cement. Four labourers are dispersed about a concrete crusher.A few steps away stands another of those one-storey houses, with a Fiat Padmini parked inside. It evokes a time when each financially-secured family had just one car, one TV, and one landline phone. Green Park still has some of these time capsules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-time-capsules-of-green-park-101625594142664.html
06-07-2021||India||NIA arrests arms trafficker from Meerut in Khalistani terrorists extortion case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested an arms trafficker in a case related to extortion by Khalistani terrorists, its spokesperson said.Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, was produced before a special NIA court in Mohali in Punjab which sent him to eight-day custody of the agency, the spokesperson said.The NIA said Singh was wanted in a case, originally registered at Mehna Police Station in Moga district of Punjab on May 22, relating to the information received by the police that Arshdeep Singh alias Aarsh, Charanjit Singh alias Rinku and Ramandeep Singh alias Jajj, all currently abroad, had formed a gang and are threatening and extorting money from people.The NIA had re-registered the case on June 10 and taken over the investigation, the spokesperson said.The investigation revealed that Gagandeep Singh is a close associate of Aarsh.Aarsh is a close associate of Hardeep Singh Nijjar, a designated terrorist and chief of the Khalistan Tiger Force, the spokesperson said.The NIA said Gagandeep Singh was involved in smuggling of weapons and on the directions of Aarsh, he had supplied several weapons to the other arrested accused persons which were further used in killing and extorting money from businessmen in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-arms-trafficker-from-meerut-in-khalistani-terrorists-extortion-case-101625590993715.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Historic’: Govt creates new ministry of co-operation ahead of reshuffle buzz||New Delhi: Ahead of a much-speculated cabinet reshuffle, the Union government on Tuesday announced the creation of a new ministry of co-operation to focus on strengthening the cooperative movement in the countryAn official statement described the creation of a new ministry as “a historic move” by the Narendra Modi government to realise the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’ (prosperity through cooperatives).It signals the government’s deep commitment to community-based development partnership and fulfils the budget announcement made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the statement said, a reference to the minister’s budget announcement earlier this year.In her February 1 speech, Sitharaman proposed to set up a separate administrative structure to “streamline ease of doing business for cooperatives”.Tuesday’s statement added that “a co-operative based economic development model is very relevant where each member works with a spirit of responsibility”.Commerce and railways minister Piyush Goyal called the decision was “another visionary step” that will give a massive boost to co-operative movement and create a true people’s momentum for development.RS Sodhi, managing director of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd which markets Amul brand of milk and dairy products, welcomed the creation of the new ministry."It's a revolutionary step by @PMOIndia recognising the role cooperatives can play in creating big businesses by small holders/farmers /workers/traders," Sodhi tweeted.Earlier in the day, President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Union social justice minister Gehlot as the governor of Karnataka, former Gujarat minister Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel as the governor of Madhya Pradesh, BJP MP Hari Babu Kambhampati as the governor of Mizoram, and former Goa minister Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as the governor of Himachal Pradesh.The appointments came as senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies flew into the Capital ahead of a possible Cabinet reshuffle, the first since Narendra Modi swept back to power with an increased majority in 2019.A cabinet meeting is likely to be held at 11am on Wednesday and the swearing-in ceremony of new ministers is scheduled for 6pm, said people aware of developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-govt-creates-new-ministry-of-co-operation-ahead-of-reshuffle-buzz-101625593396021.html
06-07-2021||India||India will be engine of global growth after 2nd Covid wave: Jaishankar||India’s strong economic recovery after it emerges from the second wave of Covid-19 infections will be an engine of growth for the global economy, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday.Jaishankar made the remarks while addressing the maiden edition of the Indo-Pacific Business Summit organised by the external affairs ministry and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) as part of efforts to drive post-pandemic economic growth.The Indo-Pacific concept reflects the “reality of globalisation, the emergence of multi-polarity and the benefits of rebalancing”, and means the “overcoming of the Cold War and a rejection of bipolarity and dominance,” he said. It is also an expression of the collective interest in promoting global prosperity and securing the global commons, he added.“India is coming out of the second wave and will witness a strong economic recovery. It will be a more dynamic and friendlier business destination. We will contribute to being an engine of growth for the global economy,” Jaishankar said.“And we will be very much a part of more reliable and resilient supply chains that the post-Covid world requires. International cooperation...will be very much a key to the better world that we all seek. The Indo-Pacific – a region in which we are so deeply invested historically – will be an arena of particular activity and energy,” he said.Several sessions of the business summit on Tuesday were addressed by envoys of key countries, including Singapore high commissioner Simon Wong, Vietnam ambassador Pham Sahn Chau and United Arab Emirates ambassador Ahmed Al-Banna.Jaishankar noted that the transformation of the past decade has been overshadowed by the impact of Covid-19, which disrupted supply chains, negatively impacted manufacturing, made international trade unpredictable and ruined many services sectors.“Globalised production networks remain vulnerable and fragile, with global merchandise trade falling by 5.6% in 2020, compared to 2019, and the predicted trade in services declining by as much as 15.4% in the same duration...The hit taken by travel, transport and tourism activities is alarming and really moves us into unchartered territory,” he said.Three factors – the salience of health, the power of digital, and the importance of re-building greener – will be crucial as countries chart a course towards recovery, he said.“Covid-19 had brought out many inadequacies in the global health system and the resulting debates are taking place elsewhere. What is relevant for us here is to recognise that in every society, the expectation of our public with regard to health has gone up,” he said.“Whether it is the next wave, the next pandemic or indeed something quite different, part of the answer lies in greater international collaboration. By that I mean the working together not just of governments, but of businesses and the medical and scientific professions,” he added.High-speed internet, cyber security, enhanced digital literacy, regional e-commerce and efficient e-governance will become more important and the strengthening of digital connectivity within and between countries of the Indo-Pacific is essential for economic prosperity, Jaishankar said.Collective efforts are also needed to re-define infrastructure and urbanisation, and can make agriculture more sustainable. “Physical and digital connectivity remain important for supporting shorter, efficient and diversified supply-chains, risk mitigation, enhanced trade facilitation, and reduction in the costs of intra-regional trade,” he remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-be-engine-of-global-growth-after-2nd-covid-wave-jaishankar-101625593216278.html
06-07-2021||India||Central government creates a new Ministry of Cooperation||Ahead of the much awaited cabinet expansion, the Union government on Monday announced the creation of a new ministry named the Ministry of Co-operation to implement the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’ or prosperity through cooperation.As per a government functionary aware of the developments, the ministry will provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country.“The ministry will work to streamline processes for ease of doing business for co-operatives and enable development of Multi-State Co-operatives (MSCS),” said the functionary quoted above.The creation of a separate ministry is also indicative of the Union government’s commitment to community based developmental partnership and fulfils the budget announcement made by the finance minister, the functionary explained.In the past, the government has renamed several ministries to expand their work profile. For instance, the ministry of environment was named as the ministry of environment, forests and climate change; similarly the ambit of the ministry of animal husbandry was expanded to include Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and the HRD ministry was renamed as education ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-government-creates-a-new-ministry-of-cooperation-101625591776206.html
06-07-2021||India||Thaawarchand Gehlot takes over as Karnataka governor from Vajubhai Vala||Thaawarchand Gehlot was appointed the governor of Karnataka on Tuesday and he relieved Vajubhai Vala from the office Vala held since September 1, 2014. Gehlot’s placement is part of eight gubernatorial appointments approved by President Ramnath Kovind.“I extend my warm welcome to Shri Thawarchand Gehlot Ji as the new governor of Karnataka. The state will benefit from Gehlotji’s long experience in public life & commitment to social justice. I thank governor Shri Vajubhai Vala Ji for his contribution to Karnataka,” BS Yediyurappa, the chief minister said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.“Many congratulations to Union minister Shri. #ThawarchandGehlot for being appointed as [the] governor of Karnataka. I wish him success in the new role and hope he works earnestly to uphold the Constitutional values,” Siddaramaih, the Congress’ leader of the opposition in Karnataka said. He did not mention Vala.“Congratulations to Sri @TCGehlot on being appointed as the Governor of Karnataka. My best wishes to the outgoing governor Sri Vajubhai Vala for his future endeavours,” DK Shivakumar, the state Congress president said in a post on Twitter.Vala had taken over from K Rosaiah, the then governor of Tamil Nadu, who was given additional charge of Karnataka after H R Bhardwaj’s five-year tenure came to an end in June 2014.Vala presided over a tumultuous period during which the state saw four chief ministers in a span of seven years. Siddaramaiah was chief minister from 2013-18 when Vala took office. However, after the assembly elections, on May 17, 2018, Vala invited Yediyurappa and the Bharatiya Janata Party that had won 104 out of the 224 assembly seats to form the government since it was the single largest party despite it being short of the majority of 113. The invitation led to accusations of bias since the Janata Dal (Secular) and the Congress had already forged a formal alliance that gave them the majority. On top of this, Vala gave Yediyurappa 15 days to prove his majority despite the latter only seeking seven days.The Congress and JD(S) took the matter to the Supreme Court and a three judge bench, in a midnight hearing, said the majority had to be proven by the evening of May 20.Yediyurappa had to step down after just two days in power. Three days later on May 23, HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) was sworn in as chief minister after joining hands with the Congress.In the 14 months that followed, the Karnataka Raj Bhavan’s role came under scrutiny for alleged political activities before the Cong-JD(S) coalition was nearly wiped out in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which gave the BJP an unprecedented 25 out of the 28 seats in the state.Soon, mass resignations followed from within the coalition government amid allegations that Yediyurappa and the BJP were luring legislators from the Congress and JD(S) to defect to the party. Yediyurappa was finally sworn in as chief minister for a record fourth time on 26 July 2019.Vala leaves at a time when Yediyurappa’s future as CM of the state is under constant challenge from dissenters within the state unit of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thaawarchand-gehlot-takes-over-as-karnataka-governor-from-vajubhai-vala-101625590635974.html
06-07-2021||India||22.5% children have significant fear of Covid-19, 42.3% suffer from irritability: AIIMS study||A study by the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) revealed that at least 22.5% of children developed a significant fear of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 42.3% suffer from irritability and 30.8% with inattention."At least 22.5% of children had a significant fear of Covid-19, and 35.2% and 21.3% of children had boredom and sleep disturbance," said the AIIMS study.Also read | 'Not much data to suggest Delta Plus can cause more deaths': AIIMS directorThe study named 'Psychological and behavioural impact of lockdown and quarantine measures for Covid-19 pandemic on children, adolescents and caregivers' published in the Journal of Tropical Pediatrics in December 2020 concluded that children with pre-existing behavioural problems have a high probability of worsening of their behavioural symptoms.It also found that "anxiety, depression, irritability, boredom, inattention and fear of Covid-19 are pre-dominant new-onset psychological problems in children during the Covid-19 pandemic.""Fifteen studies describing 22,996 children/adolescents fulfilled the eligibility criteria from a total of 219 records. Overall, 34.5%, 41.7%, 42.3% and 30.8% of children were found to be suffering from anxiety, depression, irritability and inattention," the study said.The pandemic and quarantine negatively affected the behaviour or psychological state of a total of 79.4% of children, the study added."Similarly, 52.3% and 27.4% of caregivers developed anxiety and depression, respectively, while being in isolation with children," the study also noted.Studies performed in the past during epidemics caused by SARS, Ebola virus and Middle-east respiratory syndrome have shown a high prevalence of adverse psychological consequences in both adults and children, according to the study.It also noted that while children are less likely to be infected with the virus, or if infected will have milder symptoms or remain asymptomatic, they are not immune to the psychological impacts of the pandemic. It said that children as young as two years of age are aware of the changes around them and get affected by them.Also read | Covid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS studyA meta-analysis of observational studies in epidemiology and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were followed for the study."Only original articles describing prospective/cross-sectional studies, with/without comparison and control arms, enrolling children up to 18 years and their caregivers were included, only if they have a sample size of 50 or more to provide a true pooled estimate," the study noted while describing the methods and materials of the research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/225-children-have-significant-fear-of-covid-19-42-3-suffer-from-irritability-aiims-study-101625586802167.html
06-07-2021||India||Rajnath Singh, Anurag Thakur flag off concentrators for oxygen banks in Himachal Pradesh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday flagged off trucks transporting 900 oxygen concentrators for Himachal Pradesh under an initiative launched by Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur, a native of the hill state. The oxygen concentrators, Singh said, will cater to 1,400 beds and strengthen Himachal Pradesh's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).700 का लक्ष्य था,1400 हासिल कियारक्षा मंत्री श्री @rajnathsingh जी ने श्री @ianuragthakur जी द्वारा हिमाचल में बनाए गये ऑक्सीजन बैंक के लिए अनुराग जी द्वारा एकत्रित किए 900 ऑक्सीजन कंसंट्रेटर,1 लाख मास्क व 3500 पीपीई किट को हरी झंडी दिखाकर हिमाचल रवाना किया।#sevahisangathan pic.twitter.com/aH2hAsNEECApplauding Thakur, the junior finance minister, said, "I applaud him for setting up an oxygen bank for Himachal Pradesh. He has previously sent multiple consignments, including several Covid relief materials and his efforts are immensely admirable. This is a big effort and I encourage him to continue social efforts for his constituency and state." Thakur, Singh further said, took up this endeavour with the intent of "seva" (service) which, he said, is in line with the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) motto of "seva hi sangathan."Speaking on the occasion, Thakur, Lok Sabha MP from Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur constituency, thanked the defence minister for flagging off the trucks. "Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have provided over 1,000 oxygen concentrators and three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants for Himachal Pradesh. We have also strengthened the local administration by providing masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, surgical gloves and other Covid resources. Additionally, we dispatched 17 mobile medical units carrying Covid relief materials for 12 districts in our state," he said.Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, the Hamirpur MP added that all efforts have been made to avert the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, and thus save lives.Besides Singh, BJP national president JP Nadda recently laid the foundation for two PSA oxygen plants containing 140 litres per minute (LPM) each for Hamirpur and Bilaspur and flagged off 108 oxygen concentrators along with 160 oxygen cylinders as part of Covid relief materials for Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-anurag-thakur-flag-off-concentrators-for-oxygen-banks-in-himachal-pradesh-101625584132220.html
06-07-2021||India||Taiwan President follows PM Modi, wishes Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted the 14th Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday. This was the second such call to the Tibetan spiritual leader by Modi since he took over as the prime minister of the country in 2014.The officials in Dharamshala said Modi spoke to the 14th Dalai Lama for almost 20 minutes on Tuesday morning and His Holiness, who is in Dharamshala, the seat of the Tibetan government-in-exile, was delighted to receive the call.Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life.Apart from PM Modi, Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen – a country claimed by China – also wished the revered leader on this birthday, sources close to the development said.In a Twitter post, Ing-wen said, “Wishing a very happy 86th birthday to His Holiness the@DalaiLama. Thank you for teaching us the importance of coming together to help one another through this pandemic.”Wishing a very happy 86th birthday to His Holiness the @DalaiLama. Thank you for teaching us the importance of coming together to help one another through this pandemic. pic.twitter.com/GWyrIVeMl4Many other leaders of international stature and several chief ministers also called up to wish the Dalai Lama throughout the day.Prominent among them are foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and road transport minister Nitin Gadkari.ALSO READ | Dalai Lama turns 86, still longs for Wutai Shan pilgrimage in ChinaUS Ambassador to Nepal Randy Berry also took to Twitter to greet the Tibetan spiritual leader on his birthday. He said that “peace and freedom cannot be ensured as long as fundamental human rights are violated."Peace & freedom cannot be ensured as long as fundamental human rights are violated. Similarly, there cannot be peace and stability as long as there is oppression & suppression."Happy 86th birthday to His Holiness the 14th @DalaiLama. Keep inspiring us for world peace & love!🙏 pic.twitter.com/PwssHq2q3pThe envoy’s tweet followed another tweet by US Ambassador in India Atul Keshap, who said the Dalai Lama's messages of peace and compassion inspire and transcend globally.Wishing His Holiness the @DalaiLama a very Happy 86th Birthday today. His messages of peace and compassion inspire and transcend globally. pic.twitter.com/M3WlNtAYylSeveral chief ministers including Punjab’s Captain Amarinder Singh, Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Sikkim’s Prem Singh Tamang and Delhi's Arvind Kejriwal also greeted the Dalai Lama in a show of respect.Other leaders who also called him included oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan, chief ministers Pema Khandu (Arunachal Pradesh), Pamod Sawant (Goa), Conrad Sangma (Meghalaya), James Sangma (Meghalaya's minister of environment and forests) and Bimal Borah (sports and culture minister in Assam).In exile now for 62 years, the 14th Dalai Lama has been a symbol of struggle for the Tibetan people to the entire world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taiwan-president-follows-pm-modi-wishes-dalai-lama-on-his-86th-birthday-101625588047651.html
06-07-2021||India||Madras HC orders police protection for queer woman from her family||The Madras high court recently granted police protection to a queer woman belonging to the LGBTQ community as she was receiving frequent life threats from her family members after she disclosed her sexual orientation to them. The bench comprising justice M Nirmal Kumar followed the guidelines laid down by the Madras high court earlier in a historic judgment delivered by justice Anand Venkatesh in June in the case of a lesbian couple seeking protection. It included guidelines for police not to harass the community on account of their parents filing ‘missing complaints’ which is what had happened in this case. According to the counsel, the petitioner left home on April 17 fearing for her life and safety as she was subjected to physical and verbal abuse and her family was aware that she was living with a female friend but her brother sent her on WhatsApp, a copy of a missing woman FIR filed on April 22. “The petitioner is a major who consciously and deliberately left her native [place] to escape from her abusing family members and she is now living with her friend,” the counsel submitted. “The petitioner’s apprehension is that the family may try to kill her in the name of honour or adopt other tactics to cause grievous physical harm to her. In view of the same, the petitioner has requested for Police Protection,” the counsel added. The counsel also submitted that immediately after the petitioner completed class 12, she was forcibly married when she was only 17 years old. “The petitioner, in course of time, realized that she was queer and could not stay in a heterosexual marriage. As a result, the petitioner and her husband have fallen apart and nothing survives in the marriage,” the counsel said . She later began living with her friend and later they left the village fearing her parents, who thought she brought disrepute to the family, the counsel said.The police submitted that a case of ‘women missing’ was registered on the complaint of the petitioner’s mother but “the Police, on receipt of any complaint regarding girl/woman/man missing, which upon enquiry/investigation is found to involve consenting adults belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community, after receipt of their statements, closes the complaint without subjecting them to any harassment.” The court observed that the petitioner and her friend are “conscious about their relationship.” “In view of the above, the respondent police is directed not to cause any harassment and also give appropriate protection for the safety and life of the petitioner following the guidelines issued by this Court... dated 07.06.2021.” the court said in its order passed on June 25, which was made public on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-police-protection-for-queer-woman-from-her-family-101625587335721.html
06-07-2021||India||India not closing missions in Afghanistan, says MEA as Taliban expands footprint||NEW DELHI: India on Tuesday dismissed speculation about the closure of its embassy and two consulates in Afghanistan even as Afghan envoy Farid Mamundzay briefed foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on the fragile security situation in the troubled country. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Indian authorities were keeping a very close watch on the fluid situation in Afghanistan, especially against the backdrop of a massive surge in violence by the Afghan Taliban, to ensure that Indian officials and nationals were not put in harm’s way. Gains by the Taliban in northern Afghanistan have led to some countries closing their consulates in this region. Reports suggested some districts collapsed without a fight and that some 1,000 Afghan security personnel crossed the border to seek refuge in Tajikistan. There were also reports that the Turkish and Russian missions in Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of northern Balkh province, have been closed.In Photos: Afghan forces move in to Kabul’s Bagram Air BaseAmid the uncertainty, the Indian embassy in Kabul ruled out the immediate closure of the Indian missions in Afghanistan. “Media reports on #India closing its Embassy & Consulates in [Afghanistan] are incorrect. @IndianEmbKabul, Consulates in Kandahar & Mazar are open, functioning. We DO HOWEVER continue to closely monitor the evolving security situation particularly around Kandahar & Mazar cities,” the embassy tweeted. The people cited above said officials were continuously monitoring the situation to ensure the safety of Indian officials and nationals. “As of now, the embassy and consulates are functioning and everything is connected to the evolving situation,” a person said. Also Read: Afghanistan situation to be focus on Indian foreign minister’s visit to RussiaThe Indian side is keen to not do anything that would send a wrong signal to the Afghan government or elements that have sought to use Afghanistan for anti-India actions, the people said, adding New Delhi would also keep a watch on the actions of other key players such as the US. In a separate development, Afghan ambassador Mamundzay briefed foreign secretary Shringla during a meeting in South Block. This was the first one-to-one meeting between the two officials since the envoy assumed office in New Delhi. Joint secretary JP Singh, the external affairs ministry’s pointperson for Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran, was also present at the meeting. “Ambassador briefed FS on the security situation in Afghanistan. FS assured our Afghan friends of India’s long term commitment towards peace and prosperity in Afghanistan,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted after the meeting but didn’t give details. The people cited above said the Afghan envoy’s briefing on the situation touched upon the overall security situation, including the gains made by the Taliban and the actions taken by Afghan security forces to drive back the militants, especially over the past two days. The Afghan side sought India’s cooperation at the UN Security Council for the listing and delisting of Taliban leaders and commanders under UNSC Resolution 1267, the people said. There is a perception on the Afghan side that far too much leeway has been given to sanctioned Taliban leaders in easing restrictions on their movements. The Afghan side also sought India’s help in addressing a shortage in food supplies, especially wheat, the people said. Last year, India shipped 75,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan through Iran’s Chabahar port as humanitarian assistance to overcome food insecurity amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Afghanistan has so far not sought any security assistance amid the spike in Taliban violence, and this remains a sensitive issue for India. New Delhi has in the past assisted Kabul by providing a limited number of helicopter gunships and spare parts for Russian-origin military hardware. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure during external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s visit to Russia during July 7-9. Russia has its own concerns about instability in Afghanistan spilling over into several Central Asian states and is keen to mount a coordinated response along with India. The Taliban have taken over Sher Khan Bandar crossing, the main trade gateway to Tajikistan that is located north of Kunduz city, over the past fortnight. Another border town, Bandar-e-Hairatan in Balkh province, which is the main trade gateway to Uzbekistan, has been under threat from the Taliban. On June 29, India issued a detailed and specific security advisory for its nationals in Afghanistan following an escalation in terrorist attacks, warning that they should exercise utmost vigilance as they faced a “serious threat of kidnapping”. Indian nationals were strongly advised to avoid all non-essential movements. According to the external affairs ministry’s data, there are around 3,100 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. A majority of them are engineers and staff working on hundreds of development projects being implemented across the country. India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan, with pledges of around $3 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-not-closing-missions-in-afghanistan-says-mea-as-taliban-expands-footprint-101625586075951.html
06-07-2021||India||After Shimla, tourists flock Mussoorie after Uttarakhand eased Covid-19 norms||After Himachal Pradesh, its neighbouring hill state, Uttarakhand, has been witnessing a rapid rise in the inflow of tourists after it eased Covid-19 induced curbs in the state. Tourists have been gathering in Mussoorie, the popular hill station of the state, also called 'Queen of Hills', to beat the summer in north India.The Uttarakhand government relaxed the restrictions imposed in the state to contain the spread of the viral infection. The state government also allowed gyms and coaching centres to function at 50% capacity, and allowed the markets to stay open every day except Sunday.Also read: Manali flooded with tourists, social media erupts with 3rd wave warning & memesHowever, as per a revised order issued in June last week, markets will remain open on Sunday in Mussoorie and Nainital and will be shut on Tuesday.Despite the limitation of carrying a negative RT-PCR report for entering the state, tourists are flooding Mussoorie and Nainital, the popular hill stations of Uttarakhand."Weather is very good here. I came here with my joint family. We are vaccinated and taking Covid-19 precautions," ANI quoted Navdeep Kaur, a tourist from Amritsar as saying.In the images released by the ANI, tourists can be seen roaming around Mall Road, one of the famous tourist destinations of the hill station. In the images, most of the tourists are seen flouting Covid-19 appropriate guidelines as they can be seen without masks.Meanwhile, highlighting the violations of the protocol in hill stations, ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday said pictures (from hill stations) are "frightening". People must comply with Covid appropriate guidelines. Stressing on the presence of the pandemic, the Union health ministry said violations of the protocols can nullify the progress made so far.Himachal Pradesh recorded traffic of around 6-7 lakh tourists in the state in less than a month starting from June, according to an ANI report. Rush of tourists has been reported in popular destinations of the state like Shimla, Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie, Narkanda among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-shimla-tourists-flock-mussoorie-after-uttarakhand-eased-covid-19-norms-101625580869639.html
06-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Opposition leaders write to President seeking justice for Stan Swamy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ask Centre to act against those responsible for false cases against Stan Swamy: Opposition leaders urge PresidentA day after the death of 84-year-old tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, 10 opposition leaders urged President Ram Nath Kovind to direct the Union government to act against those responsible for false cases on him. Read moreCommon eligibility test for Central govt jobs from 2022The first common eligibility test (CET) to recruit non-technical group B and C government staff has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and is unlikely to be held by the end of this year. Read moreJaishankar calls for greater cooperation between Indo-Pacific countries to tackle Covid-19India is coming out of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will witness a strong economic recovery, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. Read morePunjab: Two Indian army sepoys held for spying for ISIThe Punjab Police have busted a cross-border espionage network with the arrest of two army sepoys, who are accused of providing classified documents to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Read moreRashid Khan appointed Afghanistan's T20I captainAfghanistan's star leg-spinner Rashid Khan has been named the national side' T20 captain, with the forthcoming T20 World Cup in mind. Read moreMadhuri Dixit says she's 'concerned' as son Arin leaves for the US for higher studiesMadhuri Dixit on Monday shared a video where she talked about her feelings as her older son Arin Nene leaves for the US to pursue his higher studies. Arin recently passed out of school. Read moreThis bug can disable your Apple iPhone Wi-Fi; Here’s how it works and what you can do to stop itApple iPhones are well known for their stability and reliable software experience, but even iOS occasionally suffers from bugs that can somewhat impair functionality of their pricey fhandsets. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-opposition-leaders-write-to-president-kovind-after-stan-swamy-s-death-and-all-the-latest-news-101625584302938.html
06-07-2021||India||Amazon lists AC worth ₹96,000 for ₹5,900. Corrects mistake hours later||E-commerce giant Amazon on Tuesday made an error while listing a Toshiba 2021 range split system air-conditioner as it mistakenly quoted its selling price at ₹5,900 instead of ₹90,800. The air-conditioner originally cost ₹96,700 but Amazon mistakenly offered 94% discount on the item, according to a report by BGR India.Amazon India was supposed to sell the AC for ₹90,800 after offering a discount of ₹5,900 but listed the item for sale at ₹5,900. The e-commerce giant did not comment whether the customers who booked the item for ₹5,900 will receive the item at the quoted rate. Amazon after realising its mistake changed the selling price, offers and discount on the item in its India website.Amazon last month made another mistake of sending packages to a woman in the US that she didn’t order and the e-commerce platform initially even refused to retrieve those items. The woman from New York even contacted Amazon but even after tracing the owner Amazon said that she would have to keep the items already delivered along with over 1,000 boxes that were already in transit. Amazon finally took the items back after a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-lists-ac-worth-rs-96-000-for-rs-5-900-corrects-mistake-hours-later-101625584731138.html
06-07-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for greater cooperation between Indo-Pacific countries to tackle Covid-19||India is coming out of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will witness a strong economic recovery, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. He also called for greater cooperation between countries in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and assured that India would be an “engine of growth” for the global economy.The minister made the remarks during his address to the inaugural session of the Indo-Pacific Business Summit, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with the ministry of external affairs.“India is coming out of the second wave and will witness a strong economic recovery. It will be a more dynamic and friendlier business destination. We will contribute to being an engine of growth for the global economy and we will be very much a part of the more reliable and resilient supply chains that the post Covid world requires,” Jaishankar said.In his address, Jaishankar also said that the pandemic disrupted supply chains across the globe, negatively impacted manufacturing and has also made international trade unpredictable.Also read | Quad summit in October, rising China on agenda“Globalised production networks remain vulnerable and fragile, with global merchandise trade falling by 5.6% in 2020, compared to 2019, and the predicted trade and services declining by as much as 15.4% in the same duration. This decline in merchandise trade is the sharpest since 2009, whereas the decline in services trade is the biggest since 1990,” he said.Stressing on the need for international collaboration to improve public health, the minister said that the collaboration between not just governments but businesses and medical and scientific professions is needed.“Prime Minister Modi has called for adopting ‘one earth, one health’ approach at the recent G7 summit, where India was a guest. We need meaningful partnerships, sharing of advanced technologies, collaboration in vaccine and pharma production, cap building and transparency in health information and in all of this, the role of our private sectors is critical,” he further said.He also said that Covid-19 has made people much more digital and along with it the risks too have magnified. “The strengthening of digital connectivity, both within and between the countries of the Indo-Pacific, is an essential condition for our economic prosperity and development. Like-minded countries must work together for data driven digital dev partnerships,” the minister said.“High speed internet, cyber security, enhanced digital literacy, deeper technical cooperation, regional e-commerce and efficient e-governance will have a more salient place in the conversations of the coming days,” he added.The pandemic, he said, brought three major issues to the fore namely, the salience of health, the power of the digital and the importance of building or rebuilding greener. He also said this is a time to introspect on how to build greener, as the pandemic has slowed down the global economy.“Physical and digital connectivity remain important for supporting shorter, efficient and diversified supply chains, risk mitigation, enhanced trade facilitation and reduction in the cost of intra-regional trade,” Jaishankar said.He also assured that the Indian government has taken many measures to improve public health, infrastructure, agriculture and manufacturing sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-calls-for-greater-cooperation-between-indo-pacific-countries-to-tackle-covid19-101625585027653.html
06-07-2021||India||Domestic air traffic grew by nearly 40% in June: Report||Domestic air passenger traffic grew by 41-42% with an estimated 2.9 to 3 million passengers flying in June as compared to 1.98 million passengers in May as the rate of Covid- 19 infections dipped after peaking during the second wave, according to credit rating agency ICRA.Airlines’ capacity deployment for June 2021 was around 46% higher than June 2020 with 31,700 departures in June 2021, against 21,696 departures in June 2020, the report noted. On a sequential basis, the number of departures in June 2021 was higher by 14-15%, as Covid-19 infections demonstrated a downward trajectory.“For June 2021, the average daily departures were at ~1100, significantly higher than average daily departures of 700 in June 2020, and higher than ~900 in May 2021, though [it] remains significantly lower than ~2000 in April 2021. The average number of passengers per flight during June 2021 was 94, against an average of 77 passengers per flight in May 2021. Though there is some recovery observed in June 2021, there exists continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, while both leisure and business travel have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions, despite the decline in infections,” Kinjal Shah, vice president & Co-group head, ICRA said.The aviation ministry in May 2020 increased capacity deployment on domestic routes gradually from 33%, with effect from May 25, 2020, to 80%, with effect from December 03, 2020. However, it reduced the permissible capacity deployment to 50% of pre-Covid levels with effect from June, 2021 due to the resurgence of the second wave of the pandemic. On Monday it permitted increasing the capacity to 65% with effect from July 5, 2021, applicable up to July 31, 2021.The Airport Authority of India tweeted on Tuesday to say that the Indian airspace was witnessing a rise in the domestic & international flight operations and the air traffic graph over Indian air space was also showing the same. “...AAI Airports across all five regions are operating in full swing, keeping up with safety precautions against Covid-19,” it said.Earlier this month the finance ministry announced a scheme providing financial support in the form of working capital/personal loans to 10,700 regional level tourist guides recognised under the tourism ministry and tourist guides recognised by the state governments and travel and tourism stakeholders (TTS) recognised by the Ministry of Tourism.Additionally, to provide an impetus to the tourism industry, the finance ministry announced a scheme to issue one-month tourist visas free of charge to first 500,000 customers, validity of which is until March 31, 2022.“This is a right step towards demand push for the airlines sector, primarily directed at inbound international travel. However, impact of the same is expected to be realised only once scheduled international operations are permitted by the government on a regular basis and the global fear psychosis related to travel to India subsides,” the report added.While the scheduled international operations have been suspended further till July 31, 2021, under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) for evacuation of Indian citizens from foreign countries and air bubbles, which started from May 07, 2020, the international passenger traffic (inbound and outbound) for Indian carriers stood at 3.7 million for the period between May 7, 2020 to June 30, 2021.For June 2021, the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under the VBM was estimated at 147,000, a sequential growth of ~4% as flights to/from India remained suspended in June 2021 by many countries, citing the new variant of Covid-19 and high infection levels, the report noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-air-traffic-grew-by-nearly-40-in-june-report-101625584275757.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhi HC instructs National Board of Examinations to delete question of FMGE||The Delhi High Court has directed the National Board of Examinations to treat the disputed question of the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (December 2020) as deleted and to award one extra mark to those candidates who were assessed as having answered it incorrectly."The respondent is directed to treat the disputed question (set out in paragraph 4 above) as deleted from the FMGE (December 2020), and to award one extra mark to those candidates who were assessed as having answered it incorrectly. In the event any candidate thus achieves the passing score of 150 marks, they would be treated as having passed the FMGE (December 2020). The directions be complied with within four weeks from today," a bench of Justice Prateek Jalan said.The present petition was filed by Association of MD Physicians, which were concerned over the FMGE conducted on December 4, 2020.The Association of MD Physicians was represented by advocates Adit S Pujari and Kajal Dalal.The petitioner has sought in the present petition to the grant of one additional mark to the candidates who took the FMGE (December 2020) claiming one extra mark is based on the contention that one of the questions in the examination had no correct answer and was therefore a patently erroneous question.The petitioner-association consists of Indian citizens who hold degrees in Medicine from foreign universities. In order to register themselves with the Medical Council of India (now National Medical Commission), foreign medical graduates are required to take a screening test called the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (FMGE), which is conducted by the respondent National Board of Examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-instructs-national-board-of-examinations-to-delete-question-of-fmge-101625572402352.html
06-07-2021||India||UN human rights chief, USCIRF chair express concern at Stan Swamy’s death||UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet and human rights officials of the US and European Union (EU) have expressed concern at the death of octogenarian Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, with some of them even saying that he had been imprisoned on “false” terrorism charges. The external affairs ministry responded to the criticism on Tuesday by saying “due process under law” was followed in Swamy’s case, and that India remains committed to promoting and protecting the human rights of all citizens. The UN high commissioner for human rights and other United Nations independent experts had repeatedly raised the cases of Swamy and 15 other human rights defenders associated with the Bhima Koregaon case with the Indian government over the past three years and sought their release from pre-trial detention,Bachelet’s spokesperson for Liz Throssell said. “In light of the continued, severe impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is even more urgent that States, including India, release every person detained without a sufficient legal basis, including those detained simply for expressing critical or dissenting views,” the spokesperson said in a statement. “We stress, once again, the high commissioner’s call on the Government of India to ensure that no one is detained for exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of expression, of peaceful assembly and of association,” Throssell said. Swamy, 84, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a raid at his non-governmental organisation Bagaicha, on the outskirts of Ranchi, on October 9 last year and charged with being a member of the banned Communist Party of India-Maoist and involvement in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018. Swamy denied the charges. In its response, the external affairs ministry said Swamy was arrested and detained by NIA “following due process under law”, and his bail applications were rejected by courts because of the “specific nature of charges against him”. Authorities “act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights”, and all such “actions are strictly in accordance with the law”, the ministry said. In view of Swamy’s poor health, Bombay high court allowed his treatment at a private hospital, where he received “all possible medical attention” since May 28. His health and treatment were closely monitored by courts, the ministry added. “India’s democratic and constitutional polity is complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state level human rights commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society. India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens,” the ministry added. Both Mary Lawlor, the UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders, and Nadine Maenza, chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), contended that Swamy had been held on “false” charges of terrorism. They were joined by Eamon Gilmore, the EU special representative for human rights, in expressing concern at Swamy’s death. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the criticism by the UN, US and EU officials. The statement from the UN human rights chief said: “We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India’s Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).” It noted that Swamy had been held in pre-trial detention without bail since his arrest and charged with terror-related offences in relation to demonstrations dating back to 2018. “He was a long-standing activist, particularly on the rights of indigenous peoples and other marginalised groups. While in Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail, his health deteriorated and he reportedly contracted Covid-19. His repeated applications for bail were rejected. He died as the Bombay high court was considering an appeal against the rejection of his bail application,” the statement added. Bachelet has also raised concerns over the use of UAPA in relation to human rights defenders, a law Swamy had challenged in Indian courts days before he died. Lawlor expressed concern at Swamy’s death in a tweet, saying: “The news from #India today is devastating. Human Rights Defender & Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy has died in custody, nine months after his arrest on false charges of terrorism. Jailing HRDs is inexcusable.” Gilmore tweeted, “India: I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities.” Maenza too raised the issue of Swamy’s death on Twitter, saying: “Heartbreaking: death of Indian prisoner Father Stan Swamy after he got COVID. He was elderly priest & human rights activist imprisoned on false terrorism charges. @USCIRF spoke out against his arrest & when he was denied bail as his health deteriorated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-human-rights-chief-uscirf-chair-express-concern-at-stan-swamy-s-death-101625582055577.html
06-07-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari to promote Khadi Prakritik, India's first paint made from Cow Dung||Union MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said he would be the brand ambassador of Khadi Prakritik Paint and would promote it across the country so as to encourage young entrepreneurs to take up the manufacturing of the cow dung paint.Inaugurating the new automated manufacturing unit of this paint in Jaipur, he said this would go a long way in empowering the rural and agro-based economy in the country.It is India's first and only paint made from cow dung, the ministry said in a statement."Even inaugurating infrastructure projects worth lakhs of crores of rupees is not as pleasing and satisfying as inaugurating this manufacturing unit."Khadi Prakritik Paint has immense potential of creating sustainable development for the benefit of the poorest of the poor and the target should be setting up a parkritik paint unit in each and every village," the ministry said quoting Gadkari.The new plant has been set up in the campus of Kumarappa National Handmade Paper Institute, Jaipur. Commissioning of the new unit will double the production capacity of the paint.Currently, the daily production of the paint is 500 litres which will go up to 1,000 litres per day, it said."Available in two variants, Distemper and Emulsion; Khadi Prakritik Paint contains 'AshtaLaabh' — eight benefits like anti-bacterial, anti-fungal and natural thermal insulation properties. This paint is eco-friendly, non-toxic, odorless and cost-effective," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-to-promote-khadi-prakritik-india-s-first-paint-made-from-cow-dung-101625576945303.html
06-07-2021||India||Centre seeks transfer of pleas challenging IT Rules from high courts to Supreme Court||The Union government on Tuesday filed an application in the Supreme Court seeking transfer to the top court of all the petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, filed in high courts across the country.In its transfer petition in the Supreme Court, the Centre said petitions against the IT Rules have been moved in high courts like Delhi, Bombay, Madras and Kerala, adding that only the apex court should adjudicate the issue. In the Madras high court, for example, petitions have been filed by the Digital News Publishers Association (DNP), comprising 13 media outlets, along with senior journalist Mukund Padmanabhan seeking that the court declare that the rules are in violation of fundamental rights granted by the Constitution.Also Read: Twitter has not complied with IT rules as of July 1, Govt tells HCThe IT rules were notified on February 5 and social media platforms, online publishers, as well over the top (OTT) platforms were given three months, or till May 25, to comply with various norms under the rules. These include a quicker takedown of contentious content, appointing a local grievance officer to deal with content flagged by authorities etc.The government is engaged in a faceoff with Twitter, which, it alleges, has failed to comply with the IT Rules, filing an affidavit in the Delhi high court on July 5 in this regard. "Despite three months being granted to all the significant social media intermediaries, Twitter has failed to fully comply," the Centre mentioned in the affidavit.Also Read: Delhi HC slams Twitter over non compliance of IT rulesIn a hearing on Tuesday, the Delhi high court took Twitter to task for not appointing a resident grievance officer, directing it to inform the court in two days regarding its compliance with the requirements.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-transfer-of-pleas-challenging-it-rules-from-high-courts-to-supreme-court-101625574084325.html
06-07-2021||India||Common eligibility test for Central govt jobs from 2022||The first common eligibility test (CET) to recruit non-technical group B and C government staff has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and is unlikely to be held by the end of this year, a senior Union minister said on Tuesday.The CET will be conducted by the newly constituted National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to screen/shortlist candidates for above mentioned government jobs, selections for which were earlier done through the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS), union minister for personnel, pensions and grievances Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday.“This unique initiative undertaken with the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to screen and shortlist candidates for recruitment to Central government jobs was scheduled to take off with the first such test before the end of this year, but is likely to get delayed on account of the Covid pandemic, he said,” Singh said at the launch of e-Book Civil List-2021 of IAS officers.He said the CET will bring “ease of recruitment” to young job aspirants and be a “great boon” to those that live in remote areas. “The NRA will be a multi-agency body which will conduct the common test to screen and shortlist candidates for Group-‘B’ and ‘C’ (non-technical) posts,” he said. “The most significant feature of this reform is that every district in the country will have at least one examination centre which would greatly enhance access to the candidates living in far-flung areas.”Singh also highlighted other reforms under taken by the government since 2014, such as doing away with the practice of getting documents attested by a gazetted officer and replacing it with self-attestation and mandatory three-month stint for Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers as assistant secretaries with the Central government in the beginning of their career.The government has also launched ‘Mission Karamyogi’ to streamline training and competency building of civil servants through an HR council comprising select union ministers, chief ministers, international leaders and civil servants who will choose the ‘right person for the right role’.It is likely to be a major transition for the bureaucracy, as civil servants training will become a ‘continuous process’ and a dashboard will monitor and audit the capacity building scheme, and a report will be submitted annually to ascertain its success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-eligibility-test-for-central-govt-jobs-from-2022-101625580375654.html
06-07-2021||India||Ask Centre to act against those responsible for false cases against Stan Swamy: Opposition leaders urge President||A day after the death of 84-year-old tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, who was booked under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, 10 opposition leaders urged President Ram Nath Kovind to direct "your government" to act against those responsible for false cases on him. The opposition party leaders requested the President to direct the Centre to take action against those responsible for his continued detention and inhuman treatment.The leaders in a letter to the President also demanded the release of all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition etc.Also read: BJP targets Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren for backing ‘Maoist’ Stan Swamy"We are urging your immediate intervention as the President of India to direct “your government” to act against those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention in jail and inhuman treatment. They must be held accountable," the letter read.The letter was undersigned by the leaders of the major opposition parties of the country including Congress' Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar of NCP, HD Deve Gowda of JD-S, TMC's Mamata Banerjee, RJD's Tejaswi Yadav, DMK's MK Stalin, D Raja of CPI, Heman Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Farooq Abdullah of JKPA and CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury.The death of the Jesuit priest and activist amid fighting for bail on the grounds of medical conditions stirred a nationwide outcry on Monday. The octogenarian, who was suffering from multiple health issues one of which was Parkinson's, was denied basic necessities like straw and a sipper. It was after a countrywide campaign that a sipper was made available to the champion of tribal rights.Activists across the country expressed anguish on his demise and called it an "institutional murder" and demanded the government be held accountable.The country's possibly oldest accused died in custody after suffering a cardiac arrest on Monday. After the Bombay high court's intervention, Swamy was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started worsening due to Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-centre-to-act-against-those-responsible-for-false-cases-against-stan-swamy-opposition-leaders-urge-president-101625577267965.html
06-07-2021||India||BJP targets Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren for backing ‘Maoist’ Stan Swamy||Jharkhand Bharatiya Janata Party chief and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash on Tuesday alleged that 84-years old Jesuit priest Stan Swamy was a Maoist who died a natural death in a Mumbai hospital on Monday and that chief minister Hemant Soren was indulging in dirty politics by supporting him while ignoring the pain of tribal victims in the state.“Soon after Hemant Soren government came to power, a group of tribals were massacred in Chaibasa. Till now thousands of women have been brutalised but the CM continued to remain mum. He kept quite on Rupa Tirkey case for months, but the CM started doing politics soon after the death of a Maoist,” said Prakash in a tweet in Hindi.Hemant Soren has been vocal against Stan Swamy’s arrest on terror charges by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in October 2020 in connection with Bhima Koregaon violence case. Swamy died in a Mumbai Hospital on Monday, where he was admitted in March on Bombay high court’s instruction after his health deteriorated at Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. Soren blamed the Centre for the death of the man, who is widely seen as a tribal rights activist.“Shocked to learn about the demise of Father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration. The Union government should be answerable for absolute apathy and non provision of timely medical services, leading to his death,” chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday.Deepak Prakash claimed that Soren’s sympathy was misplaced as he may not have been “provided with the complete information”. “It’s the court that kept Stan Swamy in jail over allegations of anti-national activities and the jail is administered by the Maharashtra government. Why such a hue and cry over a natural death, just to clean the stain of Stan?” Prakash said in another tweet.Stan Swamy was born in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirapalli town in 1937 and travelled the world as a Jesuit priest before settling down and building a centre outside Ranchi to work for tribal rights. He helped tribal people fight illegal capture of their lands, filing claims and records and worked for the release of young tribal people from prison.He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in an early morning raid at his non-governmental organisation (NGO) Bagaicha, on the outskirts of Ranchi, on October 9 last year and charged with being a member of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and involvement in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in the Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018. Swamy denied the charges.Swamy’s death has evoked outrage in the Indian public sphere and political leaders cutting across party lines have condemned the Central government’s handling of his case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-targets-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-for-backing-maoist-stan-swam-101625576955821.html
06-07-2021||India||Dextrodiwas: PM Modi 'names' day after doctor on her birthday||A doctor’s wish to receive a birthday greeting from the Prime Minister came true on Tuesday as Narendra Modi wished her on Twitter.A Twitter user who goes by the username Dextrocardiac1 received the message from the Prime Minister after the doctor asked another Twitter user whose handle the Prime Minister follows to ask him to wish her on her birthday.Happy Birthday...or as you are describing it - Dextrodiwas... :) Have a great year ahead. https://t.co/X0Z5DrdMQ1“Happy Birthday...or as you are describing it - Dextrodiwas... :). Have a great year ahead,” PM Modi quoted the tweet of Dextrocardiac1 in his post. The Twitter conversation began when the founder of the website ‘The Frustrated Indian’ wished the Twitter user Dextrocardiac1 and used the term Dextrodiwas - coining a term for the person’s birthday.Thankyou ajit. Dextrodiwas par please ask pm to wish me as you follows you both 🤭“Thank you Ajit. Dextrodiwas par please ask pm to wish me as you (he) follows you both,” Dextrocardiac replied, whose response was quickly noticed by PM Modi. PM Modi, too, used the term and wished the medical professional a great year ahead.I'm the luckiest human alive guys ✨✨✨✨https://t.co/cXtVskTzx5Following the birthday wish, Dextrocardiac1 thanked PM Modi by saying that they are ‘the luckiest person alive’. “I'm the luckiest human alive, guys,” Dextrocardiac1 tweeted. The tweet by the Prime Minister garnered 1,584 retweets, 323 quote tweets and more than 11,000 likes. Ajit Datta who was the first to wish the doctor also responded, “Thank you so much PM @narendramodi. Humbled, honoured and happy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dextrodiwas-pm-modi-names-day-after-doctor-on-her-birthday-101625575126348.html
06-07-2021||India||'Mother summoned by ED over unknown charges': PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti alleged on Tuesday that her mother has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) over "unknown charges," adding that investigating agencies have become "tools" in the central government's hands to "settle scores."Also Read: Delimitation commission to arrive in Srinagar today"On the day PDP chose not to meet the Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempt to intimidate political opponents, the government of India doesn't even spare senior citizens. Agencies like the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and ED are now its tools to settle scores," the People’s Democratic Party president wrote on Twitter.On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents,GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores pic.twitter.com/pVw2uYMAorMufti's allegations come on a day the delimitation commission, headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, arrived in Srinagar to hold talks over the next four days with various stakeholders on the ongoing process of carving out new constituencies in the region. Earlier in the day, the PDP wrote to Desai stating they won't attend the exercise which, the party alleged, was "pre-planned" and aimed at "disempowering" the people of Jammu and Kashmir.Also Read: Disappointed at outcome of Delhi meet, says PAGDOn June 24, Mufti, who is being probed by the ED in connection with an alleged money laundering case, was a part of a delegation of political leaders from the Valley who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi for the first dialogue between the Union government and Jammu and Kashmir politicians since the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti appears before ED in SrinagarIn the meeting, Prime Minister Modi is believed to have assured the leaders that the Centre is "committed" to granting statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, which, in 2019, was bifurcated into the Union territories of J&K, and Ladakh. The restoration of statehood, however, is likely to take place at an "appropriate" time after assembly elections are organised in the erstwhile state following the completion of the delimitation exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-summoned-by-ed-over-unknown-charges-pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-101625574755404.html
06-07-2021||India||Domestic air passenger traffic sees growth in June amid dipping Covid-19 cases: Report||Domestic air passenger traffic was back on the growth trajectory in June amid a declining trend in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country with around three million passengers flying on local routes in the last month in contrast to around two million in May, according to a report by credit rating agency ICRA, reported PTI.The domestic passenger traffic saw sequential growth of 41-42% in June over its previous month. The domestic passenger volume, however, increased 51% on a year-on-year basis, the report said on Tuesday. June 2020 was fully operational after domestic commercial flights operations resumed on May 25 following a nearly two-month ban owing to the nationwide lockdown.Also read| Pilots land Boeing 737 in ocean near Honolulu. Here’s how they were rescuedThe civil aviation ministry recently increased the capacity to 65% with effect from July 5 from the previous 50%, this will remain applicable till July 31."For June 2021, the average daily departures were at around 1,100, significantly higher than average daily departures of around 700 in June 2020, and higher than around 900 in May 2021, though remains significantly lower than around 2,000 in April 2021," said Kinjal Shah, vice-president and co-group head at ICRA.The average number of passengers per flight during the month was 94, up as against the average of 77 passengers per flight in May, Shah said, according to PTI.Though there was some recovery in June, the continued stress on demand still exists, largely due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, PTI quoted Shah as saying.She noted that leisure and business travels have been restricted owing to various state-wide Covid curbs, despite the dip in the daily infections.The government's recent announcement of a scheme aimed to provide financial support in the form of working capital/personal loans to around 0,700 recognised regional-level tourist guides is predicted to offer much-needed liquidity support to tourism and travel stakeholders (TTS), as per ICRA.Meanwhile, the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) was estimated to be at around 1.47 lakh, a sequential rise of around 4%, as flights to and from India remained suspended in June by many countries due to the emergence of the new variant of the virus.International flight operations are functional under the VBM for evacuation of Indian citizens from foreign countries, since May last year, as scheduled international flights have been suspended further till July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-air-passenger-traffic-sees-growth-in-june-amid-dipping-covid-19-cases-report-101625571649600.html
06-07-2021||India||Chirag Paswan says he may go to court if any LJP ‘rebel’ gets cabinet berth||Chirag Paswan said on Tuesday that he might go to court if any rebel Lok Janshakti Party MP including his estranged uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras was included in a Union cabinet expansion, widely expected to take place soon.The Jamui MP insisted that he was the legitimate president of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and he had not been consulted for induction of any party member into the Union cabinet as is required under the coalition norms.“If any of them gets included in the cabinet from the party’s quota, I will certainly have an objection to it and may have to take legal recourse. If anyone is made minister as an independent or [a member of] some other party, I have no issue, as it is entirely the prerogative of the party. But as far as LJP is concerned, the party constitution allows me to be the president and the matter is before the election commission as well as the Lok Sabha speaker,” he said in Patna.It is being speculated that LJP MP from Hajipur, Pashupati Kumar Paras-- who was recognised as the leader of the party in Lok Sabha after he claimed to have removed Chirag from the position with the help of four other party MPs-- could be included in the impending cabinet expansion- the first in the second term of Narendra Modi government.Chirag said he has told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he had suspended the rebel MPs in accordance with the party’s constitution and they don’t qualify for a cabinet berth from party quota.“I have already written to PM Narendra Modi as well as the EC in this regard. A common practice is that the party president is consulted if anyone from the party has to be included in the cabinet,” he added.PM Narendra Modi is expected to induct new ministers into his cabinet sometime this week and reshuffle a few existing ones while also accommodating allies such as the Janata Dal United and Apna Dal apart from others. While the LJP continues to be part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre, it currently has no representation in the Union cabinet after the death of Chirag’s father late Ram Vilas Paswan, founder of LJP, before Bihar elections in 2020.Chirag also said that his uncle engineered the split in the LJP to become minister at the behest of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. “It is ironic that Nitish Kumar always tried to insult my father, but my uncle chose to sit in his lap even at the cost of the family and party, which gave him everything,” he added.Chirag alleged that Nitish Kumar was “known” for attempts to not only split the LJP, but also cause a rift among the Dalits, the socially backward community LJP represents.Chirag said, “I am not eager to become a minister, as my first objective is to build the party as a viable alternative in Bihar”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-says-he-may-go-to-court-if-any-ljp-rebel-gets-union-cabinet-berth-101625574737134.html
06-07-2021||India||TMC leader tries to enter Solicitor General’s house to ‘find gaps’ in his statement||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Kunal Ghosh tried to enter Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta’s residence in New Delhi on Tuesday without a prior appointment to “find gaps” in the latter’s statement last week denying meeting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari at the law officer’s house. On July 1, TMC alleged Mehta and Adhikari met even as both rubbished the charges. In his statement issued after the alleged meeting, Mehta said Adhikari came to his residence-cum-office unannounced, but he did not meet the BJP leader.Ghosh said the security guards at Mehta’s house did not allow him to enter saying he did not have an appointment to do so. “This is the norm. So how could Adhikari enter the residence with his armed guards when he is an accused in a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) case? This means he had a prior appointment. This proves that he was trying to influence the case,” said Ghosh.Also Watch | ‘Act of impropriety’: TMC delegation meets President over Tushar Mehta’s removalAdhikari is accused in the 2016 Narada sting tapes case that the CBI has been investigating. The case pertains to series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.Mehta is representing the CBI in the case in the Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court. The prime accused in the multi-crore Saradha Ponzi scam has accused Adhikari of accepting money even though the BJP leader has refuted such allegations. The TMC has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Mehta’s removal for alleged “misconduct and impropriety” over his alleged meeting with Adhikari. On Monday, a two-member delegation of TMC parliamentarians met President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted a memorandum for the removal.Mehta denied the charges in a statement last week. “...Adhikari did come to my residence cum office yesterday at around 3 pm, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea. When my meeting was over and my staff informed me about his arrival, I requested my staff to convey to Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait,” Mehta said in the statement.TMC lawmaker Abhishek Banerjee asked Mehta to make public the CCTV footage of his residence to substantiate his claims.BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar accused the TMC of trying to divert attention from major issues. “The SG (Solicitor General) knows his job and his jurisdictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-tries-to-enter-tushar-mehta-s-house-to-find-gaps-in-his-statement-101625574735667.html
06-07-2021||India||Yogi visits former UP CM Kalyan Singh at Lucknow's SGPGI||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday visited Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow to meet former CM Kalyan Singh, who is admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the hospital.The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister, who was also governor of Rajasthan, developed an inflammation in the parotid gland and was also diagnosed with irregularities in his kidney function.Earlier in the day, Yogi Adityanatha took to the Twitter to pray for the recovery of the former chief minister. “I pray to Lord Ram that he returns to good health soon.”A team of senior doctors is supervising Singh's treatment, and his vital parameters were reported to be under control.A release on Kalyan Singh's health condition by the hospital read, "There is a slight improvement in his sensorium today as he opened his eyes and gave a very mild response when CM enquired about his well-being."It added, "A panel of 10 doctors, including director Dr RK Dhiman, was supervising Singh's treatment, and his vital parameters were reported to be under control."On Sunday evening, Sanjay Gandhi PGI in an official statement informed, "Kalyan Singh had been feeling unwell for almost two weeks. His blood pressure and pulse rate are normal but he is not fully conscious. Keeping in mind his many existing ailments, he has been kept in the Intensive Care Unit of Critical Care Medicine."Singh had been unwell for the past two weeks and was hospitalised on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-visits-former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-at-lucknow-s-sgpgi-101625570580172.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Frightening’: ICMR, health ministry on overcrowding in hill stations||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday warned against complacency amid the waning second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, referring in particular to the "frightening" images of crowded hill stations, with people rushing to places like Manali, Kullu, Shimla and Dharamsala to beat the heat.Also Read: "No bed in hospitals to no bed in hotels," netizens mock viral Manali images"Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is absolutely essential. The pictures that we have seen today are frightening and we have to be very careful, very responsible and very cautious," ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said at the health ministry's press conference on the current Covid-19 situation in the country.Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the health ministry, also spoke on the issue of people becoming complacent due to the waning second wave of Covid-19. "I would like to highlight media coverage of revenge travel. People, fed up of sitting at home due to restrictions, now seem to believe that if restrictions have been lifted, it means that the virus has ended. The infectious disease is still among us. We need to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Even a small mistake could prove costly," Agarwal said. He further warned that the second wave is still existent in a "limited way" in some areas.As the second wave declines, overcrowding has been seen at markets in various cities of the country. On Monday, authorities in Delhi ordered the closure of the famous Lajpat Nagar market over alleged violation of Covid-19 norms. Several other markets in the Capital, too, have been warned against overcrowding.Also Read: Sarojini Nagar, Sadar Bazar among prominent markets warned over crowdingIn the last 24 hours, India reported 34,703 new Covid-19 cases and 553 deaths due to the viral disease, according to the health ministry's data. In the 24-hour period before that, the country saw 39,796 fresh infections and a daily toll of 723.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frightening-icmr-health-ministry-on-overcrowding-in-hill-stations-101625568819591.html
06-07-2021||India||IMD alerts: Monsoon to bring heavy rainfall in these states from July 8||IMD has said that several states and Union territories will receive heavy rainfall from July 8 onwards under the influence of the southwest monsoon (SW). According to the predictions by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday, early winds from Bay of Bengal would establish over parts of east India from July 8 onwards. The department reiterated in its alerts that these winds would then spread into northwestern India; hence southwest monsoon is expected to advance over some parts of western Uttar Pradesh, and Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi around July 10.This southwest monsoon condition will lead to heavy rainfall in almost all corners of India – starting from north to northwest and south.Here is a list of key IMD alerts on how the southwest monsoon will affect some states and UTs:1. Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh in central India will receive scattered to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls from July 8 onwards. Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh are very likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall on July 8.2. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Uttarakhand from July 8 onwards; over Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh from July 9 onwards, and over east Rajasthan from July 10 onwards.3. Owing to the strengthening of the southwest monsoon over the Arabian Sea, heavy rainfall is likely along the west coast from July 9 onwards.4. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is expected over Konkan, Goa, coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe in Puducherry from July 9 onwards.5. As southwest monsoon will be revived from July 8 onwards, rainfall and its distribution will very likely reduce over northeast Indian states, including Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Tripura from July 9 onwards.According to IMD’s mid-day bulletin, heavy rainfall was observed from 8.30pm on Monday to 8.30am on Tuesday in isolated places over Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and coastal Karnataka. Besides these regions, rain and thundershowers were noticed in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep.Thundershowers were also observed during the same time period in Odisha, east Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, west Rajasthan, and Kerala, among others, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-monsoon-to-bring-heavy-rainfall-in-these-states-from-july-8-101625571587670.html
06-07-2021||India||Protests outside Parliament will start on July 22, say farm unions||Farmers protesting three agricultural laws say they would begin demonstrating outside Parliament on July 22, part of a new push to force the government to scrap a set of legislation enacted last year. Farm unions have been holding long meetings to work out logistics and finalise strategies to intensify their agitation and coordinate movement of farmers from various states. According to a plan announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests since November last year against the three laws, nearly 200 farmers will protest outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha also said farm organisations and like-minded groups would also hold countrywide protests against rising fuel prices on July 8. Parliament is set to convene on July 19 for its upcoming monsoon session. Farm unions say they would soon dispatch a letter to all Opposition parties and lawmakers, urging them to raise the issue of the three farm laws during the entire session. Also Read | L-G, Delhi govt spar again, this time over advocates for Jan 26 casesFarmers on tractors are likely to file into the Capital on July 21 evening. Accommodation arrangements have been beefed up at all current protest sites. Thousands of farmers pitched tents at five sites near Delhi’s borders -- Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border) -- from where they have been carrying on their protests. The farmers have constructed a permanent weather-proof shelter for farmers arriving at the Tikri site, said Dharmendra Singh, a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. The farmers’ march towards Parliament is sure to be resisted by police, because demonstrations near Parliament are not allowed, setting the stage for a potential standoff. “It will be a peaceful protest. Nearly 200 protesters will demonstrate every day outside Parliament. The government is not interested in talking to farmers because the government isn’t being run by any party but by companies,” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said. Cultivators from various towns and villages in Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have joined those already protesting in many of sites. A large convoy arrived from Pilibhit inUttar Pradesh before moving to various sites on Monday, Singh said. “These farm laws are black laws. They must be taken back. Farmers will be very peaceful while protesting. The violence that broke out during the Republic Day in Delhi was a conspiracy to defame farmers,” said Joginder Singh Urgrahan of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan group, which represents a large section of farmers in Punjab. The farmers want three agricultural laws repealed, claiming that the legislation will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and jeopardise their livelihoods. The laws, broadly, seek to minimise regulations in trade of farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of commodities for future sales and set new national rules for contract farming. The government has said the laws would bring competition and widen farmers’ access to markets. Allowing firms to stock large quantities of food commodities will incentivise them to invest in supply and storage, the government has argued. Farmers say the laws will force them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining powers at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices for cereals. Unregulated markets will ultimately lead to a collapse of regulated markets that offer minimum support prices (MSPs), farmers say, although Prime Minister Narendra Modi has denied this will ever happen. MSPs are benchmark prices the government offers for farm produce, aimed at signalling a floor rate for private traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-outside-parliament-will-start-on-july-22-say-farm-unions-101625571255103.html
06-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi HC tells Centre that it is not protecting Twitter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘If they’re in defiance, you’re free to take action’: HC tells govt after giving Twitter new deadline for appointing RGOJustice Rekha Palli said that the court is not granting Twitter any protection. “I have already told them that they have to comply with the rules. I am not giving them any protection. If they are in defiance, you are free to take action. Read more here.The central hysteria behind Central VistaSafety and functionality dictate the need for a new Parliament building. It is simply de rigeur to oppose anything that Prime Minister (PM) Modi says or does, no matter what its merits, nor the logic or rationale behind it, and even if you have to contradict your own earlier stand on the subject. Read more here. Virus outbreak forces England to name 9 uncapped cricketers in ODI squad for Pakistan series, Ben Stokes to leadEngland's revised, hastily assembled ODI squad will be coached by Chris Silverwood, who had earlier decided to take some time off during the white-ball series but has been pressed back into action. Read more here. Filhaal 2 Mohabbat: Akshay Kumar and Nupur Sanon's doomed romance continues in tragic love story. WatchFilhaal 2: Mohabbat, the sequel to the hit music video starring Akshay Kumar and Nupur Sanon, has been released. Watch here.All-electric Rolls-Royce plane set to take flight, to get I-Pace ground supportRolls-Royce's electric aircraft will make a world-record attempt for the fastest all-electric plane with a target speed of 300+ mph. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-hc-tells-centre-that-it-is-not-protecting-twitter-and-all-the-latest-news-101625570129372.html
06-07-2021||India||Ramesh Bais replaces Jharkhand's 1st woman governor Draupadi Murmu||Ramesh Bais was on Tuesday appointed as the new governor of Jharkhand. Bais, who is currently the governor of Tripura will succeed Draupadi Murmu in Jharkhand. Murmu was distinguished not only because of being the first governor from the tribal community but also for being the first woman governor of Jharkhand since the birth of the state in 2000.Draupadi Murmu represented the Odisha legislative assembly as an MLA from Rairangpur. A native of Chhattisgarh, Murmu was appointed the governor of Jharkhand in May 2015. However, she began to lose her popularity among the top brass of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government after it lost the assembly election in 2019. She was also reported to be the probable face of the 2017 presidential election.Also read: Thawarchand Gehlot is new Karnataka Governor, says will live up to expectationsThe two-time member of the Odisha assembly, Murmu's political career began in 1997, when she was elected as a councilor and then became the vice chairperson of Rairangpur notified area council. In the same year, Murmu also became the vice president of BJP’s Odisha ST Morcha and later became its president. In 2013, Murmu became the national executive member of the party's ST Morcha. Murmu is also the recipient of the "Nilakantha Award" for the best MLA of the year in 2007 by the Odisha government. She has played an active role in the upliftment of the tribal community in Odisha during her political career.Bais, who is presently the governor of Tripura, will replace Murmu and become the 10th governor of the state. A native of Chhattisgarh, too, Bais has been a Lok Sabha member of Raipur and is known for creating a record of becoming an MP from the state for seven straight terms.Born on August 2, 1947, Bais has been the governor of the northeastern state since 2019 and was also part of the Union cabinet. He was the minister of state for environment and forests in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government.President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday appointed new governors in eight states of the country, ahead of the much-anticipated reshuffle of the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramesh-bais-replaces-jharkhand-s-1st-woman-governor-draupadi-murmu-101625563664963.html
06-07-2021||India||Kerala to ramp up Covid testing in 6 districts as positivity rate remains high||As Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) continues to remain high in six districts in Kerala despite the lockdown and other restrictions, the state government on Tuesday said that testing, quarantine and contact tracing would be increased in these districts, according to the state health minister Veena George. The districts where the TPR remains high are Thrissur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod.The government’s decision to increase testing in these districts follow an emergency meeting of health officials and the district collectors called by Veena George according to the instructions of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.In a Facebook post, the health minister said that all the six districts had achieved their Covid-19 testing targets. However, it will be maximised in these places where the number of infections is high to ensure stricter quarantine rules and contact tracing.Also read | India reports 34,703 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in nearly four monthsAccording to the state’s daily bulletin, on Monday, 922 new cases were reported in Thrissur, 894 cases in Malappuram, 758 cases in Kozhikode, 560 cases in Kannur, 360 cases in Kasargod and 138 cases in Wayanad. Also, Malappuram with 13,722 cases and Kozhikode with 13,112 cases remained the worst affected districts in the state in terms of active caseload. As many as 9,123 active cases are present in Thrissur and in Wayanad, the count is 3,191. Both Kannur (5,289) and Kasargod (5,713) have more than 5,000 active cases.Preparations for the third wave of infections were also mentioned in the meeting, the health minister said. Among the measures, spreading more awareness about the disease and strengthening the vaccination drive were discussed, as officials were instructed to increase the number of people given the jabs. State health secretary Rajan Khobragade and director of health department V Raju were among top officials who attended the meeting.On Monday, more than 8,000 people (8,037 exactly) tested positive for the disease in Kerala and 102 people succumbed to the infection. So far, 2,981,721 people have been infected in the state while the death toll stood at 13,818, as per latest data. As many as 100,626 active cases of the disease were reported in the state, as of 2pm on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-in-6-districts-as-positivity-rate-remains-high-101625566994067.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Finance ministry, Infosys resolving glitches’: Anurag Thakur on new tax portal||Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on Tuesday said the Centre flagged concerns in the new income tax filing portal with officials of IT major Infosys and urged them to address the shortcomings.Thakur said that Union minister for finance Nirmala Sitharaman held a meeting with the officials of Infosys where she told them to repair the glitches with the new IT portal as soon as possible. “Income tax officials are in regular touch with the Infosys team to work on all shortcomings,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He further added that income tax officials have sat with the Infosys team to address the issues faced by the taxpayers.Thakur’s response comes after Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said that the government failed to achieve the objective of giving citizens a new income tax portal even after spending ₹4,200 crore. Tharoor took to Twitter and said that the new income tax portal is a ‘mess’ due to its glitches.The parliamentarian from Thiruvananthapuram said that the Chartered Accountants in All India Professionals Congress (AIPC) apprised him that due to the glitches they faced a ‘longer than usual login time’ and also called the portal ‘disastrous’.Sitharaman last month flagged concerns about the new IT portal to Infosys officials and told them to solve the issues as soon as possible asking them to make the portal ‘more humane and user-friendly.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-infosys-resolving-glitches-anurag-thakur-on-new-tax-portal-101625567134523.html
06-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle soon. Sonowal, Rane may get berths||Amid indications of the much-awaited cabinet expansion, several leaders from different political parties are travelling to Delhi. Among them are Sarbananda Sonowal of the BJP and leaders of the Janata Dal(United) RCP Singh and Lallan Singh. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi expands his cabinet for the first time in his second term, he is likely to factor in polls in five states next year, including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, and the general elections in 2024. West Bengal is also likely to get a greater representation. The Union cabinet, which can have 81 members, currently has 53 ministers.After a series of meetings between PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda, the buzz around cabinet expansion has gathered steam in recent days. Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot's appointment is also being seen as another indication of the cabinet expansion. Thawarchand Gehlot was named as Karnataka Governor ahead of the cabinet reshuffle expected to take place soon.Also read | Thawarchand Gehlot is new Karnataka Governor, says will live up to expectationsHere are the leaders who could be accommodated in the cabinet expansion:1. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March 2020, said he will take a flight to Delhi this afternoon from Indore after offering morning prayers at Ujjain's famous Mahakal temple.2. Former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal arrived in the Capital on Tuesday ahead of the much-awaited cabinet expansion.3. RCP Singh and Lallan Singh of the JD (U), an ally of the BJP which did not have any representation in the Union council of ministers so far, are also expected to get berths in the cabinet reshuffle.Also read | President clears key appointments, 8 states get new governors4. Shantanu Thakur, from the Matua community that was wooed by the BJP ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections 2021, is also expected to be named as a minister in cabinet reshuffle. Thakur, a lawmaker from West Bengal, accompanied Narendra Modi on his Bangladesh visit ahead of the polls.5. Nisith Pramanik, another member of Parliament from West Bengal, is also expected to make it into the Union cabinet. Pramanik is from the Rajbanshi community and he figures in the Bharatiya Janata Party's scheme of things. He was a member of Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress before joining the BJP in March 2019.Also read | Eight states get new governors. Thawarchand Gehlot in the list6. Anupriya Patel, who has held the position of a Union minister before, comes from the Apna Dal an important ally of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, which is scheduled to hold assembly elections next year. The Apna Dal has considerable support among the Kurmis in Uttar Pradesh.7. Narayan Rane is also among the leaders likely to fly to Delhi ahead of cabinet expansion. He joined the BJP in October last year. Rane switched to the Congress after he was expelled from the Shiv Sena for anti-party activities. He then floated the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-soon-sonowal-rane-may-get-berths-101625565281023.html
06-07-2021||India||Assam extends total lockdown to 4 more districts to contain Covid-19||Assam government on Tuesday imposed total lockdown in four districts, in addition to the three that were already under similar restrictions, to contain the second wave of Covid-19, which has, on an average, led to 2,500 new cases and 25-30 deaths daily since the past two weeks with the test positivity rate in some districts hovering between 5% and 10%, above the mark considered within control. Lakhimpur, Golaghat, Jorhat and Sonitpur join Biswanath, Goalpara and Morigaon districts that will remain under total lockdown from 5 am on July 7 until further orders, resulting in closure of offices, educational institutions, shops and business establishments except for grocery, fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy businesses that will be allowed to operate from 5 am till 5 pm daily. Delivery of essential goods through e-commerce and pharmacies, hospitals, animal care centres and veterinary clinics will be allowed to operate round the clock in the districts under total lockdown. “The state government has decided to put all 35 districts in three categories—those under total containment (lockdown), those with partial curfew and those with relaxed curfew,” said health minister Keshab Mahanta. Sixteen districts have been placed under partial curfew. Shops, business establishments, offices will have to shut down one hour prior to the curfew timings set between 2 pm and 5 am. Eleven districts including Kamrup (Metropolitan), which includes Guwahati, will have greater relaxation from curfew between 5 am and 5 pm daily. Shops, business establishments and offices in these districts will also have to shut down an hour prior to the start of curfew. “The cases in Kamrup (Metropolitan) had come down significantly in recent weeks, but saw a gradual increase in the district in the past few days. We request residents to continue maintaining the safety protocols so that we don’t have to enforce stricter measures,” said Mahanta. As per the new standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the state disaster management authority, odd-even formula for plying private vehicles and ban on inter-district movement will continue in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-extends-total-lockdown-to-4-more-districts-to-contain-covid19-101625566814824.html
06-07-2021||India||‘If they’re in defiance, you’re free to take action’: HC tells govt after giving Twitter new deadline for appointing RGO||The Delhi high court directed Twitter to inform the court by Thursday regarding the appointment of a resident grievance officer in compliance with the new IT rules -- Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 -- after the social media giant informed the court that it was in the process of doing so.The court took exception to the fact that the court was not informed that the resident grievance officer (RGO) appointed earlier was an interim one and he has already resigned. Justice Rekha Palli pointed out that only an interim RGO was appointed by Twitter and a wrong impression was given to the court on May 31 by not informing that it was an interim appointment.“If he went away on June 21, the least Twitter could do was to appoint another officer in these 15 days since you knew that this matter was coming up for hearing on July 6. If Twitter thinks it can take as long as it wants in my country, I will not allow that,” the judge pointed out.Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya who is representing the social media giant said that Twitter is still in the process of making the appointment. He said that it was true that there is no chief compliance officer, RGO and nodal contact person until now.“It is in the process of appointing the officer. When an intermediary is not in compliance with rules, it loses safe harbour protection. It is indeed that Twitter should and Twitter will comply with the rules. Please grant a reasonable time,” Poovayya said according to a report by news agency PTI.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma who represented the Centre said the rules were notified on February 25 and a three-month window was extended to the intermediaries to comply with the rules. The window expired on May 25.“It is a 42-day complete non-compliance. They are most welcome to do business in India. But this attitude cocks a snook at the digital sovereignty of this country,” additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma argued.Justice Rekha Palli said that the court is not granting Twitter any protection. “I have already told them that they have to comply with the rules. I am not giving them any protection. If they are in defiance, you are free to take action. I have already made it clear. If they want to work, they have to follow rules,” the judge said.During the hearing the court passed over the matter for a while and asked Twitter’s counsel to take instructions on the amount of time it will take to complete the appointment process. When the matter was called up again, Poovayya said it was due to the time difference between Delhi and San Francisco he was unable to take instructions and sought a short accommodation. Twitter’s main office is located in San Francisco in the US.After granting it time till July 8, the court said that on the next date of hearing Twitter is expected to be ready with its stand regarding compliance with all other requirements. “Come up with clear instructions, otherwise you will be in trouble. Let the government and everybody else know your stand,” the court told Twitter’s counsel. The court pointed out that on May 31 when the petition claiming non-compliance with the new IT rules laid out by the Centre by Twitter came up for hearing it was informed that Twitter already appointed a RGO on May 28.The court said that following the statement it was permitted to file a short reply. The court also said that after perusing the affidavit it became aware that on May 31 that Twitter appointed an interim grievance officer and this fact was not brought to the court’s notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-rules-if-you-want-to-work-delhi-hc-raps-twitter-over-non-compliance-if-they-re-in-defiance-you-re-free-to-take-action-hc-gives-twitter-new-deadline-over-rgo-appointment-101625566264024.html
06-07-2021||India||Tweeting against Rahul Gandhi only criterion for Cabinet berths: Congress||Amid reports of a reshuffle in the Union Cabinet, the Congress on Tuesday said the only criterion for allotting ministerial berths is the ability to tweet against Rahul Gandhi. “Ability to tweet against Rahul Gandhi is the only eligibility criterion for anyone to get a berth in the Union Cabinet. Nothing else matters,” said Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera. “It does not matter what they are doing for their country, for their government, or even their mandate.”Khera made the comments while addressing a press conference on Congress’s corruption allegations against a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader.The Congress last month presented video and audio recordings and claimed they show the involvement of Nimba Ram, the RSS leader, in Jaipur and Rajaram Gurjar, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, negotiating a commission with a company. The company was given the contract of waste management when the BJP ruled Rajasthan. Khera on Tuesday said after investigating the audio and video recordings, Rajasthan’s Anti-Corruption Bureau has lodged a case against Nimba Ram and Gurjar under the Prevention of Corruption and Indian Penal Code’s Section 120 B (conspiracy). Gurjar was arrested last week.Khera questioned RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat about what action will be taken against Ram. “The country is waiting and watching you.” Khera asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether the company involved in the case has done some work for his office or other offices of this government. He added whether the same kind of arm-twisting is done with other such companies to “enrich the pockets of the BJP”.Khera wondered whether all the offices of the BJP and RSS being built in different parts of the country are being funded by “corrupt money”.The RSS has denied any involvement of its leader in the alleged corruption case. “These kind of fake allegations are like an attempt of character assassination of a reputed person and all options are open to us to take legal action,” said RSS in a statement last week.Rajasthan BJP media-in-charge Vimal Katiyar last month accused Congress of making the allegations based on fake video and audio recordings to defame the BJP and its ideological fountainhead, the RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tweeting-against-rahul-gandhi-only-criterion-for-cabinet-berthscongress-101625566454721.html
06-07-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy’s family to watch his funeral online||Father Stan Swamy’s family in Viragalur village in Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district will watch his funeral live on the YouTube page of St Peter’s Church Bandra at 4pm on Tuesday. The house where Father Swamy grew up was built in 1890. His 89-year-old older brother, Irudayaswamy, and his wife live there with their children and grandchildren now. Father Swamy’s 26-year-old grandnephew Benito Prabhu said that the family would watch his funeral at 4pm online. Following his funeral, the family will hold a special mass at the local church in the village in his memory. They were denied permission to hold a procession due to Covid-19 norms. Also Watch | Stan Swamy’s death: ‘Custodial murder’ alleges Opposition, Congress to protest“His wish was that his last rites should be in Ranchi,” said Prabhu. “He informed us so when he visited us in 2016. He wasn’t sure how long he would live because of his age and ill health. So, his ashes will go to Ranchi but his body will not be handed over to us due to the pandemic.” The family is coordinating with Joseph Xavier, the current director of Bengaluru-based Indian Social Institute, a Jesuit centre, for his last rites. They have been in touch with Xavier since Father Swamy’s arrest in October 2020 by the National Investigation Agency under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for his alleged role in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence. “We hope they allow for his things from his Ranchi home to be sent to us,” Prabhu said. “He didn’t have too many things anyway.”Swamy, 84, who had Parkinson’s, among other health issues, died at a hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. “One of our relatives saw Sun News (a Tamil news channel) and called us. That’s when we switched on the TV and found out before we received official information,” said Prabhu. Relatives and villagers have been coming to their ancestral home since the news of his death, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-stan-swamy-s-family-to-watch-his-funeral-online-101625565794694.html
06-07-2021||India||PM Modi wishes Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter on Tuesday to wish the Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday, with the public messaging being seen in some quarters as a signal to China amid the dragging standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life,” Modi tweeted. The Dalai Lama’s office confirmed the phone call but both sides didn’t offer details of the conversation. Several Union ministers, including Hardeep Singh Puri, Nitin Gadkari, and chief ministers, including Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, tweeted birthday greetings to the Tibetan spiritual leader who lives in Dharamshala. Khandu, whose state is claimed by China, said in a tweet: On the joyous occasion of His Holiness the 14th #DalaiLama’s birthday, my warmest wishes to the apostle of peace, beacon of hope & light to the world. I pray with deepest reverence for your excellent health & long life. May we all continue to be blessed by your love & affection.”Also Read | President clears key appointments, 8 states get new governorsIn a video message issued to mark his birthday, the Dalai Lama acknowledged the love and genuine friendship shown towards him by many people. “I want to express my deep appreciation [to] all of my friends who have really shown me love, respect and trust...For myself, I can assure you that for the rest of my life, I’m committed to serving humanity and working to protect the climate condition,” he said. The Dalai Lama said that since he became a refugee and settled in India in 1959, he had “taken full advantage of India’s freedom and religious harmony”. He added, “I want to assure you that for the rest of my life, I’ll be fully committed to this work. I fully appreciate the Indian concept of secular values, not dependent on religion, such as honesty, karuna (compassion), and ahimsa (non-violence).” He also called on all people to make non-violence and compassion a part of their lives. Last year, when tensions between India and China were at an all-time high following the June 15 clash in Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, there was no public messaging by the top Indian leadership on the Dalai Lama’s birthday. The standoff on the LAC, which emerged in the open in May last year, has continued for more than a year, taking bilateral ties to a fresh low. Though both sides carried out a limited withdrawal of troops and armoured formations from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February, they have been unable to make headway in diplomatic and military talks on disengagement at other friction points. The Chinese side usually bristles at any public acknowledgement of the Dalai Lama and his role as a Tibetan role by the Indian government, and has in the past even protested when the spiritual leader was allowed to travel to Arunachal Pradesh, a state with a sizeable Buddhist population. However, Modi has tweeted birthday greetings to the Tibetan leader in the past, including in 2015. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with Chinas to the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas along the LAC. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has repeated said the mobilisation of Chinese troops on the LAC had violated several agreements between the two sides and Beijing’s actions had seriously disturbed the overall relationship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-wishes-dalai-lama-on-his-86th-birthday-101625565014573.html
06-07-2021||India||Morepen produces 1st test batch of Russia's Sputnik V Covid vaccine in Himachal Pradesh||Domestic drug manufacturer Morepen Laboratories began the production of the Russian vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-Sputnik V, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), responsible for international marketing of the vaccine said on Tuesday.The first test batch produced by the indigenous drug manufacturer in an exclusive facility in Himachal Pradesh will be shipped to Gamaleya, the Moscow institute, which developed the Russian vaccine, for quality controls, according to RDIF.Also read: Panacea Bio gets DCGI nod to make Sputnik V“We are delighted to partner with RDIF for the prestigious project of Sputnik V production in India. This would be our privilege to work jointly on expanding the production base in India," Sushil Suri, chairman and managing director of Morepen Laboratories Limited said on Tuesday.Sputnik V was granted emergency use authorisation in India on April 12 and the country is one of the leading production hubs of the Russian shot. RDIF has earlier reached deals with other leading pharmaceutical companies in India namely, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech.We take this partnership as the starting point for a long-term relationship with RDIF and its partner companies as we look forward to many more areas of common interest. Morepen’s commitment towards this project is a step forward towards entry into biosimilars and other biologicals," Suri added.RDIF and Morepen have signed a cooperation agreement in June 2021 and are actively implementing the technology transfer for the vaccine."As the pandemic is yet far from over and new, more dangerous variants of coronavirus are being detected in various regions of the world, RDIF is increasing capacities for production of Sputnik V in India, one of the key hubs. Agreement with Morepen Laboratories provides for a larger amount of Sputnik V to be available both for India and our partners globally to speed up the vaccination with one of the best vaccines in the world," Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of RDIF said on Tuesday.The agreements with partners in India provide for the production of more than 850 million doses of Sputnik V per year, according to an official statement. The vaccine has claimed to have an efficacy rate of 97.6% against coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/morepen-produces-1st-test-batch-of-russia-s-sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-in-himachal-pradesh-101625562008030.html
06-07-2021||India||Telangana plants 1 million saplings in Adilabad district, sets world record||In its attempt to make it to the Guinness Book of World Records, 'Green India Challenge' (GIC)-- one of the major green initiatives in the country, on Sunday organised a mammoth event by planting "one million saplings in one hour" in Adilabad district of Telangana, GIC organisers said.The event was organised to mark the 58th birthday of former minister and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Adilabad MLA Jogu Ramanna.Telangana Minister for Forests, Environment and Science and Technology Allola Indra Karan Reddy and TRS Rajya Sabha MP Joginipally Santosh Kumar, founder of GIC were among those who attended the event which saw active participation from public, TRS party members, MLAs, political leaders among others, a release said here.During the event, five lakh saplings were planted through the Miyawaki model (using the renowned Miyawaki afforestation method) in the degenerated forest area spreading over 200 acres in Durganagar of Adilabad rural region, it said.Similarly, two lakh plantations were done in Bela mandal, 1,80,000 saplings were planted in over 45,000 houses in the urban region.Volunteers ensured planting of 1,20,000 saplings on either side of R&B (Roads & Buildings) roads, the release said.The programme was planned and successfully executed by dividing the entire region into ten sectors where more than 30,000 TRS members and locals participated.The GIC organisers said with this new challenge GIC is all set to break the record of planting 3 lakh, 3 thousand saplings in Turkey in 2019 which found space in Guinness Book World Records.The event has been video recorded as per the norms and will be sent to Guinness Book of World Records, the organisers said.Indra Karan Reddy said that the pandemic made everyone realise the importance of safeguarding the environment and climate.Santosh Kumar urged everyone to take care of the saplings.Jogu Ramanna thanked everyone for taking part in Green India Challenge and donated two ambulances, the release added.Santosh Kumar had launched the Green India Challenge, a green campaign, which has now stepped into its fourth year and as part of it crores of saplings have been planted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-plants-1-million-saplings-in-adilabad-district-sets-world-record-101625562116654.html
06-07-2021||India||Union minister Thaawarchand Gehlot appointed Karnataka Governor, says will live up to expectations||Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot said on Tuesday he will try to resolve issues within constitutional limits and by discussing them soon after he was appointed as Karnataka Governor. "President Kovind and PM Modi have shown faith in me and have appointed me as the Karnataka Governor. I will live up to their expectation and do my job faithfully. I will try to resolve the issues within constitutional limits and with discussions," Thawarchand Gehlot said, according to ANI. "I will be submitting my resignation from all the three positions including as the Rajya Sabha MP and Union minister of social justice and empowerment tomorrow in person," Thawarchand Gehlot added.The 73-year-old Gehlot, a Rajya Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh, was among the eight new governors appointed by President Ram Nath Kovind, ahead of the much-anticipated cabinet reshuffle, an official release from Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Tuesday. Thawarchand Gehlot was on Tuesday appointed Governor of Karnataka in place of Vajubhai Vala.Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, a BJP leader from Gujarat, will be the Governor of Madhya Pradesh, the release said. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel was holding an additional charge of Madhya Pradesh. President Ram Nath Kovind has also approved the appointments of Hari Babu Kambhampati and Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as Governors of Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh respectively, it said.Also read | Amid cabinet expansion buzz, PM Modi holds meeting with Shah, SanthoshArlekar, BJP’s leader from Goa and former Speaker, replaces Bandaru Dattatraya who has been transferred and appointed as Haryana Governor, it said. Arlekar is the first Goan to be made a Governor. “Hearty congratulations to our senior leader, Ex Speaker of Goa Assembly & Ex Minister of Goa Government Rajendra Arlekar ji on being appointed as the Governor of Himachal Pradesh. It's a proud moment for all Goans as Arlekar ji is the first Goan to be appointed to this position,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted.Kambhampati, BJP leader from Andhra Pradesh, will take over from PS Sreedharan Pillai, who has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Goa, the communiqué said. Satyadev Narayan Arya, the Governor of Haryana, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Tripura, the statement said.According to the communique, Tripura Governor Ramesh Bais has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Jharkhand, succeeding Droupadi Murmu.These appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thawarchand-gehlot-is-new-karnataka-governor-says-will-live-up-to-expectations-101625561722621.html
06-07-2021||India||New Himachal governor Rajendra Arlekar is 1st Goan to occupy the post||Former Goa assembly speaker and a member of the founding team of the state Bharatiya Janata Party, Rajendra Arlekar, has been appointed the governor of Himachal Pradesh, becoming the first Goan to occupy the constitutional post.Arlekar was with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) before he moved to the BJP and he was one of the contenders for the Goa chief minister’s post after late Manohar Parrikar moved to Delhi as Union defence minister, but the party ultimately opted for Laxmikant Parsekar.In the 2017 assembly polls, Arlekar was defeated by Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party candidate Manohar Ajgaonkar, who has since joined the BJP and is currently deputy chief minister to Pramod Sawant.“Hearty congratulations to our senior leader, ex-speaker of Goa assembly & ex-minister of Goa government, Rajendra Arlekar ji on being appointed the governor of Himachal Pradesh. It’s a proud moment for all Goans as Arlekar ji is the first Goan to be appointed to this position,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted soon after the news of his elevation emerged. Arlekar’s appointment is part of the Tuesday reshuffle involving eight gubernatorial positions.Among other things, the two time MLA is remembered for making the Goa assembly paperless and his calm demeanour in running the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-himachal-governor-rajendra-arlekar-is-1st-goan-to-occupy-the-post-101625562314406.html
06-07-2021||India||PDP to stay away from J&K’s delimitation exercise||People’s Democratic Party (PDP) led by Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said that they will stay away from the delimitation process as the Delimitation Commission arrives here on Tuesday on a four-day visit to talk to political parties and officials for chalking out new constituencies.The party has written to the head of the commission justice Ranjana Prakash Desai stating that they won’t be part of the exercise, which they believed was "pre-planned", aimed at disempowering the people of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and realising the "political vision of a particular political party".In the letter, PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said that with the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A on August 5, 2019 "unconstitutionally" , the people of J&K were "humiliated and demeaned" by downgrading and bifurcation of an almost 200-year-old state."The Reorganisation Act being a product of the same process, we are of the considered opinion that the Delimitation Commission lacks legal and constitution mandate in the first place," he said.Also Read | Delimitation Commission to arrive in Srinagar todayThe Delimitation Commission for the UT was formed by the Union government on March 6 last year, just six months after special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked and the region split into two Union Territories – J&K with a legislative assembly, and Ladakh without one. Earlier, the delimitation of the constituencies in J&K was scheduled to be held in 2026. However following the Central government’s changes in J&K after August 5, 2019, the J&K Reorganisation Act increased the number of voting constituencies for J&K from 87 to 90.The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir.The PDP letter said that there are apprehensions that the exercise is part of the overall process of the "political disempowerment" of the people of J&K that the government of India has embarked upon."There are apprehensions that the process is aimed at realizing the political vision of a particular political party in J&K wherein, like other things, the views and wishes of the people of J&K would be considered least. It is a widespread belief…the exercise is a mere formality. The very intent is under question," it said. The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there.The commission arrives in Srinagar a day after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of political major parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) formed to fight for J&K’s special status, said they were disappointed over the outcome of the all-party meeting with Modi. The grouping has demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections are held there.It also criticised the lack of "confidence building measures" after the meeting.The PDP said that they are disappointed to see that nothing has been done to "ease lives of the people" after suggesting specific confidence building measures at Modi’s all party meeting."…The government of India has continued with its daily dictates to the people of J&K including recent orders and amendments including those making every person a suspect (Govt employees antecedents verification order) and deepening the divide between two regions of the J&K (the order related to Darbar move)," Hanjura said.Other member parties of the PAGD like NC and CPI (M) will meet the commission. Besides, Jammu & Kashmir Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party are also scheduled to participate in the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-to-stay-away-from-j-k-s-delimitation-exercise-101625560694398.html
06-07-2021||India||Assam declares lockdown, round the clock curfew in 7 districts||Assam on Tuesday declared a complete lockdown in seven districts of the state from July 7, Wednesday, till further notice, as the government issued a revised and consolidated directive for both rural and urban areas, a report said. There will be around the clock curfew and commercial setups, restaurants, shops will remain shut in Goalpara, Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Biswanath and Morigaon, according to news agency ANI. Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply and inter-state movement has also been suspended by the Assam government."There will be total containment in 7 districts showing high positivity rate in recent days and these are Goalpara, Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Biswanath and Morignon district," ANI tweeted an Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) order as saying.Also read | Covid cases in Northeast declining but pockets of concern remain, says CentreOther restrictions, including the odd-even formula for plying of vehicles, declaration of containment zones etc, and exemptions as notified in the order of June 26 will continue to remain in force except those specifically modified by the Assam government order.Here's what you need to know:1. The curfew in these seven districts will be round the clock but Sivasagar, Dibrugarh, Kokrajhar, Barpeta. Nalbari, Baksa, Bajali, Kamrup, Darang, Nagaon, Hojai, Tinsukia, Dhemaji, Cachar, Karimganj and Karbi Anglong, which are showing moderate positivity rate, will be under from 2pm to 5pm.2. Dhubri, Kamrup (M), South Salmara, Majuli, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Udalguri. West Karbi Anglong. Dima Hasao, Charaidco and Hailakandi will be under from 5pm to 5am. The districts have been showing improvement in positivity caseload.3. Sivasagar and Dibrugarh districts will be kept under close watch for a week, the order said.4. All workplaces, business and commercial establishments, shops dealing with groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, animal fodder, restaurants, roadside eateries and other eateries, sale counters, showrooms etc of cold storages and warehouses will be closed till further order in districts showing high positivity rate.5. They will be open up to 1pm in districts showing moderate positivity rate and up to 4pm in districts showing improvement in positivity rate.6. The Assam government has imposed a total ban on the movement of all public and private transport in the total containment districts. However, the movement of goods shall continue, the order said.7. All public transport authorities will have to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and seating inside the vehicles, carrier containers etc in other districts.8. According to the order, all inter-district passenger transport services and movement of people to and from other districts will remain suspended.9 Public gathering is banned in total containment districts and up to 10 people can attend weddings and funerals in other districts.10. Wearing of face mask will remain compulsory in all public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-declares-lockdown-round-the-clock-curfew-in-7-districts-101625558644244.html
06-07-2021||India||'Wish him long, healthy life': PM Modi greets Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday||In a development with political and diplomatic ramifications, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the 14th Dalai Lama over phone and greeted him on his 86th birthday on Tuesday. He wished him long and healthy life.Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life.According to source in Dharamshala, the Prime Minister spoke to the 14th Dalai Lama for nearly 20 minutes this morning and His Holiness, who is right now in Dharamshala, was delighted to receive the call.On his birthday, the Tibetan spiritual leader said that he has taken full advantage of India's freedom and religious harmony and is committed to reviving ancient Indian knowledge.In a virtual address from his residence in Dharamshala, the Dalai Lama thanked people from across the globe who greeted him on his birthday and said he would continue to serve humanity and combat climate change.“Since I became a refugee and settled in India, I have taken full advantage of India's freedom and religious harmony. I want to assure you that for the rest of my life I am committed to reviving ancient Indian knowledge,” said the Dalai Lama, whose real name is Tenzin Gyatso.“I really appreciate the Indian concept of secular values, not dependent on religion, such as honesty, karuna (compassion) and ahimsa (non-violence),” he added.In exile now for 62 years, the 14th Dalai Lama has been a symbol of struggle for the Tibetan people to the entire world. Perhaps his only desire is to go on a pilgrimage to China to visit the Wutai Shan, the sacred five peak mountain in Shamxi province which is the earthly abode of the Bodhisatva Manjusri.In an interview with Hindustan Times at Bodh Gaya in 2018, he said: "Way back in 1954, I had expressed my desire to Chinese government to visit Wutai Shan but was told that there was no road. I still have that desire but it is upto the Chinese government. Historically, the Wutai Shan is seat of Deva of wisdom. Whether I am there or not, that wisdom of the Deva is already in my brain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-dalai-lama-speaks-on-his-86th-birthday-101625557411195.html
06-07-2021||India||President clears key appointments, 8 states get new governors||Union social justice minister Thawar Chand Gehlot, also a prominent Dalit face in the Narendra Modi government, has been appointed as the new governor of Karnataka in the latest reshuffle involving eight gubernatorial positions. Gehlot, 73, who had been the social justice minister since the beginning of the Narendra Modi government was also the leader of the House in Rajya Sabha. His new innings would also see a change of guard in the ruling bench of the Rajya Sabha days before the monsoon session. Gehlot’s transfer also comes ahead of the imminent reshuffle of the Union cabinet, which is expected to take place sometime this week. Also Read | Cabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi’s crucial meeting likely todayPresident of India Ram Nath Kovind has made these appointments. A Rashtrapati Bhavan communication added that the appointments “will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices.” Former Bharatiya Janata Party state president of Andhra Pradesh, Hari Babu Kambhampati, will be the new governor of Mizoram. Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, a former minister in Gujarat, has been appointed as governor of Madhya Pradesh, while Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, former Speaker of the Goa assembly, will be the new governor of Himachal Pradesh. PS Sreedharan Pillai, governor of Mizoram, has been transferred and appointed as governor of Goa. Satyadev Narayan Arya, governor of Haryana, has been transferred and appointed as governor of Tripura. Ramesh Bais, governor of Tripura has been transferred and appointed as governor of Jharkhand. Bandaru Dattatraya, former Union labour minister and governor of Himachal Pradesh has now been transferred and appointed as governor of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-clears-key-appointments-8-states-get-new-governors-101625557214511.html
06-07-2021||India||Germany to begin easing Covid-19 travel restrictions for India and 4 other countries||Germany has begun easing strict Covid-19-related restrictions on travellers from India, Nepal, Portugal, Russia and the UK after the country’s public health institute declared these five nations are no longer areas of “variant of concern”. The stiff restrictions had been imposed on the five countries because of the more infectious Delta variant of the Coronavirus. The Robert Koch Institute, responsible for monitoring the Covid-19 situation, announced on Monday that these five countries had been downgraded to “high incidence areas”. Reduced travel restrictions for travellers from India and the four other countries will be applicable from July 7, and their citizens can now travel to Germany and home quarantine on arrival for 10 days. Also Read | Germany suggests mix and match of Covid vaccines for better immune responseTravellers entering Germany by air must present a negative test result or proof of vaccination or proof of recovery to their carrier prior to departure, the Robert Koch Institute said. The quarantine period can be cut to five days if people test negative for Covid-19, or avoided altogether if travellers prove they have been fully vaccinated or have recovered from Covid-19. On Tuesday, German ambassador Walter Lindner tweeted about the changes in travel restrictions. “Promised to work hard on easing travel restrictions for travellers from [India] and update you immediately. And voila: from tomorrow on [Germany] is removing entry ban and easing travel rules for 5 countries where the Delta variant is widespread, including [India]! Details soon on website.....” A large number of Indian students and professionals are currently planning to travel to Germany to resume classes or work. The number of Indian students in Germany in 2020 increased by 20.85% over the past year and stood at more than 25,000.“High incidence areas” form the second highest risk category in the classification of the Robert Koch Institute. The institute said this classification is based on a two-step assessment – determining the countries where there were more than 200 new infections per 100,000 inhabitants in the previous seven days, and determining whether an especially high risk of infection exists, regardless of whether the incidence has been exceeded. India had been classified by Germany as an “area of variant of concern” from April 26 to July 6, before being downgraded to a “high incidence area”. There have been questions about the ability of Indian nationals to travel to European Union (EU) states following the implementation of the EU Digital Covid Certificate or “green pass” from July 1. The green pass framework only recognises four vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) but they don’t include Covishield or Covaxin, the two main doses being used for India’s immunisation programme. However, individual EU states have the option of recognising vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) or national authorities. India has asked EU states to exercise this option for Indian citizens travelling to Europe and said it will follow a policy of reciprocity in exempting EU nationals possessing the “green pass” from mandatory quarantine. India has also said it expects its vaccinated citizens to be treated at par with those inoculated in EU states, and the recognition of its digital CoWIN vaccination certificates by the 27-member bloc on a reciprocal basis. EU members Austria, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Slovenia and Spain, and Iceland and Switzerland, which aren’t in the bloc but are part of the Schengen visa regime, recognise Covishield for travel purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/germany-to-begin-easing-covid-19-travel-restrictions-for-india-and-4-other-countries-101625555863727.html
06-07-2021||India||Eight states get new governors. Thawarchand Gehlot in the list||Eight states, including Karnataka and Haryana among others, on Tuesday, got new governers as President Ram Nath Kovind made several appointments and changes. The appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices. Union minister and the BJP's Rajya Sabha leader Thawarchand Gehlot has been appointed as the Governor of Karnataka.These appointments and changes come amid buzz that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to cabinet his cabinet soon.Here is a list of new governors in eight states:1. PS Sreedharan Pillai, Governor of Mizoram, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Goa.2. Satyadev Narayan Arya, Governor of Haryana, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Tripura.3. Ramesh Bais, Governor of Tripura, has betransferred and appointed as Governor of Jharkhand.4. Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot has been appointed as the Governor of Karnataka.5. Bandaru Dattatraya, Governor of Himachal Pradesh, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Haryana.6. Hari Babu Kambhampati has been appointed as the Governor of Mizoram.7. Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel has been appointed as the Governor of Madhya Pradesh.8. Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar is now the Governor of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-states-get-new-governors-thawarchand-gehlot-in-the-list-101625555386290.html
06-07-2021||NA||Highlights: New ministry carved out ahead of PM Modi's cabinet reshuffle||The national capital is abuzz with speculation of a reshuffle in the Union cabinet.On Tuesday, multiple media reports said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a crucial meeting at his residence, most likely to be related to the cabinet rejig. The meeting, however, has been cancelled.Several leaders, who are speculated to have been intimated about a possible berth in the council of ministers, have begun arriving in the national capital. Senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia will take a flight to Delhi this afternoon from Indore. Scindia, a former Union minister, is expected to be part of the council of ministers. He joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March 2020.Another key contender, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is also arriving in the capital on Tuesday ahead of the much-awaited cabinet expansion. Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) leaders RCP Singh and Lallan Singh are also travelling to the capital. The JD (U), an ally of the BJP, did not have any representation in the Council of ministers so far.Follow all the updates here:Ministry of Cooperation carved outAhead of PM Modi's cabinet reshuffle a new ministry - Ministry of Cooperation - has been launched. Cabinet reshuffle likely on July 7 eveningPM Modi's much awaited cabinet reshuffle could happen tomorrow evening, news agency ANI reported. Manipur MP gets calls from BJP chief ahead of reshuffleRK Ranjan Singh, a BJP MP from Manipur, is likely to be another new entrant. HT has learnt that he has got a call from BJP President JP Nadda asking Singh to come to Delhi. Manipur is one of the states that will go to the polls next year. Singh, 69, is a retired government officer and is also a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee On Environment and Forests.Bengal MP who accompanied Modi to Bangladesh tour could be inductedShantanu Thakur, another MP from West Bengal, is also expected to be inducted. He belongs to the Matua community that was wooed by the BJP ahead of the assembly polls in the state. Thakur accompanied Narendra Modi on his Bangladesh visit ahead of the polls.Changes focus on Karnataka amid infighting in state unitA lot of changes appear specifically directed at Karnataka even though the elections there are at least two years away. Part of the reason is that the state has been tackling infighting with many MLAs and ministers speaking openly against Chief Minister BS Yeddyurappa. As Gehlot moves there to be governor, HT learns that the Prime Minister may induct the Chief Minister's son BY Raghevendra into his council of ministers. Raghvendra is currently an MP and said to be much more low profile than his brother, Vijayendra. The BJP knows that they have to settle matters in the state.Cabinet reshuffle likely to take place on July 8The announcement of Thawar Chand Gehlot being shifted out of the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry is another indication of the cabinet expansion. He was named as Karnataka governor ahead of the cabinet reshuffle that many expected to be on Wednesday but is now likely to take place a day later.Bengal MP Nisith Pramanik could be among new entrants in Union cabinetNisith Pramanik, a member of Parliament from West Bengal, is set to be one of the new entrants into the Union cabinet. HT has learnt that he has been sounded off and has been stationed in Delhi for the past few days awaiting the call for the swearing-in ceremony. According to a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, the ceremony is expected to be held tomorrow evening. But there is no confirmation from Rashtrapati Bhawan. Pramanik’s entry is said to signal the growing importance of the region to the BJP’s plans. Pramanik represents the Rajbanshi community.Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel expected to find place in Union council of ministersApna Dal, another ally of the BJP, is also expected to find a place in the Union council of ministers. Anupriya Patel of the Apna Dal was earlier a Union minister. The party is a crucial ally of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, where it holds sway over the Kurmis.Former Maharashtra CM Narayan Rane to fly to DelhiFormer Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane is also expected to fly to Delhi amid the expected expansion in the Union council of ministers. Rane, who was expelled for anti-party activities from the Shiv Sena, joined the Congress before floating the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha. He joined the BJP in October last year.President approves appointments of new governors for Karnataka, MP, Haryana> PS Sreedharan Pillai, Governor of Mizoram is transferred and appointed as Governor of Goa.> Satyadev Narayan Arya, Governor of Haryana is transferred and appointed as Governor of Tripura.> Ramesh Bais, Governor of Tripura is transferred and appointed as Governor of Jharkhand.> Thaawarchand Gehlot as Governor of Karnataka.> Bandaru Dattatraya, Governor of Himachal Pradesh is transferred and appointed as Governor of Haryana.> Dr. Hari Babu Kambhampati as Governor of Mizoram.> Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel as Governor of Madhya Pradesh.> Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as Governor of Himachal Pradesh.The above appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices.PM Modi to drop at least 3-4 leaders from the cabinetAmid the keenly awaited expansion of the Union council of ministers, at least one senior leader told HT that 3-4 ministers may be dropped. When reporters asked defence minister Rajnath Singha about it, he said that his lips were sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-cabinet-reshuffle-live-updates-july-6-2021-101625554917219.html
06-07-2021||India||Lost your PAN card? Here are 10 steps to follow to download an e-PAN instantly||Similar to the Aadhaar card, driving license, passport, and voter ID card, another vital document that every Indian citizen requires is a Permanent Account Number (PAN), which is a 10-character alphanumeric authentication number that every taxpayer in the country is allocated. A PAN card is a mandate when it comes to opening bank accounts, facilitating KYC, availing of provident fund schemes, and several other day-to-day services.However, what happens if one ends up losing their PAN card? Is there a way to get a new one?There is a way for Indian citizens to get a digital PAN card almost instantly by following a few simple steps laid down by the income tax department. This digital version of the PAN card holds is of equal importance, and can be used for official purposes.Here are the steps to download an e-PAN card:Step 1: Go to the official website of the Income Tax e-filing. It can be accessed from here.Step 2: Look for the section ‘Our Services’ where the option ‘Instant e-PAN’ will be available.Step 3: Since these steps are for those who have misplaced their original PAN card, and haven’t download an e-PAN in the past, they need to click on the ‘Get new e-PAN’ option. Those who did download the digital PAN card earlier, can, however, click on the ‘Check Status/Download PAN’ option.Step 4: Once clicking on the ‘Get new e-PAN’ option, select the fields as per the requirement and then click on continue.Step 5: A new page will open asking for the 12-digit Aadhaar number, which needs to be entered in the required field.Step 6: Once the Aadhaar number is entered, the page will display a new declaration that needs to be clicked to continue further.Step 7: Following this, a one-time password (OTP) will be sent to the registered mobile number or one that is linked to the Aadhaar card.Step 8: After this, the OTP that was sent to the registered mobile number has to be entered in the input field.Step 9: The page will then show all the details that have been put, and after checking the entered information carefully, the email address needs to be entered in the required field.Step 10: The e-PAN will soon be mailed, and it can also be printed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-your-pan-card-here-are-10-steps-to-follow-to-download-an-e-pan-instantly-101625554102393.html
06-07-2021||India||'Can't take as long as you want': Delhi HC slams Twitter over non compliance of IT rules||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday gave an earful to the social media giant Twitter over non-compliance with the new information and technology guidelines of the government. "If Twitter thinks that they can take as much time as it wants in our country, then I will not permit that. You should have taken some firm steps to appoint the officer," the high court said.Justice Rekha Palli said that Twitter, represented by senior counsel Sajjan Poovaya, has misled the court and given the wrong impression that it has appointed a resident grievance officer mandated under the new IT rules. "This is a very serious, interesting position. You did not tell the court that you appointed an interim officer. The rules are binding on you," the court said."You have misled the court and gave a wrong impression. Be that as it may, the least Twitter can do was appoint another officer after June 21. We are concerned with the compliance," it said.This came in response to the affidavit by Twitter which had said that it had appointed an interim Resident Grievance Officer on May 29, however, he resigned on June 21.The Centre on Monday accused Twitter of failing to comply with the IT rules, which it described as the "law of the land." "In spite of three months' time granted to all significant social media intermediaries to comply with the IT Rules, 2021, Twitter Inc has failed to comply with the same," the Centre said in its affidavit in the high court.During the proceedings, Sajjan Poovaya, a senior advocate appearing for Twitter, said that he could not contact the company's officials in San Francisco due to the difference in the time zone. Following this, the court gave Twitter time till Thursday to inform as to by when they can appoint the grievance officers.The judge also asked Twitter to take instructions on the compliance of the other guidelines of the IT rules saying that at least the progress and steps should be known to everyone. "Get clear instructions or you will be in trouble," she said.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma told the court that the attitude of Twitter in not complying with the IT rules cocks a snook in the digital sovereignty of the country. "Forty-two days and no compliance and we have done nothing. Facebook has removed three crore content. Twitter could have done better," Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-take-as-long-as-you-want-delhi-hc-slams-twitter-over-non-compliance-of-it-rules-101625552981375.html
06-07-2021||India||Dalai Lama turns 86, still longs for Wutai Shan pilgrimage in China||At the first India-China senior military commanders meeting after the Indian Army captured strategic heights on Rezang La-Rechin La on Kailash Range between August 29-31 last year on south banks of Pangong Tso, the PLA commander insisted that India removed the Special Frontier Forces (SFF) from the frontlines in East Ladakh. Comprising of Tibetan expats, the highly secretive SFF was deployed all along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) by the Modi government and its commandos played a special role in capturing the mountain heights dominating Chinese Moldo garrison next to Spanggur Tso in Chushul Sector. The fact is that one SFF JCO lost his life in the operation and was subsequently decorated posthumously by the government for his bravery.The Chinese army was most upset at the SFF deployment as they are seen to be supporters of the 14th Dalai Lama, who turned 86 today. While the Dalai Lama meditates in McLeodganj in Himachal Pradesh now, the Xi Jinping regime has already plotted the post-14th Dalai Lama scenario and will announce Chinese Communist Party (CCP) approved successor from Tibet once the biological life of the head of Gelugpa (Yellow Hat) sect of Tibetan Buddhism gets over. The 14th Dalai Lama, however, finds the Chinese interest in his reincarnation not only illogical till such time the CCP recognizes the reincarnation of its leaders Moa Zedong and Deng Xiaoping.Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the Dalai Lama on his birthday. "Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life," he said on Twitter.Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life.In exile now for 62 years, the 14th Dalai Lama has been a symbol of struggle for the Tibetan people to the entire world. Perhaps his only desire is to go on a pilgrimage to China to visit the Wutai Shan, the sacred five peak mountain in Shamxi province which is the earthly abode of the Bodhisatva Manjusri. In an interview to this author at Bodh Gaya in 2018, he said: "Way back in 1954, I had expressed my desire to Chinese government to visit Wutai Shan but was told that there was no road. I still have that desire but it is upto the Chinese government. Historically, the Wutai Shan is seat of Deva of wisdom. Whether I am there or not, that wisdom of the Deva is already in my brain.”But in his heart the Dalai Lama knows that he will never be able to return to Tibet with the Chinese calling him names like "splittist" or even a "terrorist". He is perhaps the only one who stands between President Xi Jinping and his dream of Sinicization of Tibet. Last August, President Xi spelt out his three-step plan for Fortress Tibet at a high-level meeting. Step one was to promote Sinicization of Tibetan Buddhism or what has been euphemistically called Buddhism with Chinese characterstics. Step two is to strengthen political and ideological education in Tibet or was is another word for re-education in communist parlance. Step three is building an impregnable fortress around Tibet by strengthening border defences and frontier security of Tibet.Fact is that the PLA has used the on-going military stand-off with India to bolster defences in both Tibet and Xinjiang, where the Muslim Uyghurs are at odds with Han China. The troop, rocket, missile and fighter deployment in Tibet and Xinjiang has been increased manifolds with blast pens being strengthened at airbases in Kashgar, Hotan, Gar-Gunsa, Lhasa and Nyingchi, all aimed at India, and Han consolidation of Tibet and Xinjiang.Xi Jinping’s Sinicization of Tibet plan was also reflected in his speech on July 1 to celebrate the 100 years of CCP. He said: “We have never bullied, oppressed, or subjugated the people of any country, and we never will. By the same token, we will never allow any foreign force to bully, oppress or subjugate us. Anyone who will attempt to do so will find themselves on a collision course with a great wall of steel forged by over 1.4 billion Chinese people.”Much as China tries to subjugate the Tibetans and Buddhism in the name of Middle Kingdom, the 14th Dalai Lama and 150,000 Tibetans in exile all over the world represent the aspirations of those who are not allowed to speak within Fortress Tibet. That is why the CCP hates the Dalai Lama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalai-lama-turns-86-still-longs-for-wutai-shan-pilgrimage-in-china-101625553246990.html
06-07-2021||India||Aadhaar update: How many times changes in details can be made? Explained||People can now easily change or update details of their Aadhaar card online through the official website of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). Changes can be made with regard to name, address, date of birth, gender and language.Often, there are errors committed when people register themselves to get an Aadhaar Card. At times, the operators who are doing the registration tend to make errors in spellings, phone numbers etc, which creates further problems in future when people open bank accounts or avail any government or private sector service which requires Aadhaar as an identification proof.As the central government has made it mandatory to link Aadhaar with Pan Card, the deadline for which has been extended, a mismatch in the details of these two identification proofs leads to failure of linking them together.How many times can the changes be made?The UIDAI website shows that users can change their names twice in a lifetime. Their gender can only be changed once. The date of birth (DOB), can also be changed once in a lifetime subject to the condition that present status of the D0B is declared/approximate. (Change in Date of Birth can be updated only for unverified DoB.What documents will be required?According to the UIDAI website, in case of name, users will have to submit a scanned copy of the proof of identity (POI) documents which include Passport, Driving License, Voter ID card etc. In case of address, proof of address documents (POA) such as Bank statement/passbook, Ration Card, Water bill etc. However, no documents are needed in case of updating genderThe list of valid documents needed for name, address, date of birth can be found here. Here is how you can change or updates on your Aadhaar card online1. Visit the UIDAI website- https://uidai.gov.in/2. Choose My Aadhaar tab.3. From there, select Update Your Aadhaar section and click on Update demographics data online4. You will be led to a new page. Click on Proceed to Update Aadhaar.5. Here, users will have to feed in their Aadhaar number and the Captcha verification.6. Click on send OTP. A one time password (OTP) will be sent to your registered mobile number through SMS. Enter the OTP and login.7. From there, choose Update demographics data. Add all relevant details and upload the required documents.8. Once everything is done, users will be required to make a payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhar-update-how-many-times-changes-in-details-can-be-made-explained-101625552128299.html
06-07-2021||India||Fuel prices skyrocket in Chennai, petrol thieves have a field day||With fuel prices skyrocketing, residents of Chennai are now witnessing a worrying trend of fuel theft as miscreants siphoning off petrol from the parked vehicles, Tamil language newspaper Dina Thanthi reported on Tuesday. Petrol price has touched ₹100.75 and diesel was selling for ₹93.91 on Tuesday morning. Fuel prices were not revised on Tuesday, though petrol gained ₹35 paise on Monday while diesel price remained intact.With a hike almost every day to the already soaring fuel prices, petrol thieves are having a field day mainly targeting apartment buildings where many two-wheelers are parked at the same spot.Recently, residents of an apartment complex at Ambattur found that the fuel tanks of two-wheelers were empty all of a sudden. The residents association scanned CCTV footage and found a youngster stealing petrol from all the two-wheelers at the parking lot around 3am. However, the association has not filed any police complaint as yet.In most of these fuel theft cases, people avoid registering police complaints at nearby stations considering the lengthy legal procedures involved, the newspaper noted. With fuel thefts on the rise, people have urged the police to tighten their vigil and increase night patrol.Meanwhile, major political parties in the state are staging protests against the fuel price hike. Opposition parties condemned state and central government for not reducing their tax component on the fuel price, burdening the public who are already strained by the Covid-19 related economic slowdown. Dinamalar reported that DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakanth rode a bicycle in front of the Chennai collector's office in protest as the party organised demonstrations across the state on Sunday. Addressing the protest, Premalatha Vijayakanth said that the livelihood of people was at stake due to the phenomenal hike in petrol and diesel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-prices-skyrocket-in-chennai-petrol-thieves-have-a-field-day-101625550939852.html
06-07-2021||India||When a demolition drive destroys a village||When bulldozers roared into Khori village last September to raze a cluster of illegally built brick houses, 40-year-old Lakshmi Devi rushed to salvage her belongings. A few weeks later, thanks to some borrowed money, she got her house restored to nearly its original self.The story was similar for roughly 10,000 residents whose houses were demolished in that drive. The 30-year-old settlement built illegally on forest land at the Delhi-Haryana border had battled seven such drives before, and never been wiped out.But when the bulldozers returned on April 2, they not only reduced the houses to a pile of bricks again but also dashed Devi’s hopes of a recovery. She was already neck-deep in debt but the Supreme Court (SC) order last month to demolish the entire village has left her in despair.The court and the village On June 7, the apex court ordered all encroachment on forest land in the area to be cleared within six weeks. A week later, 3,000 policemen arrived at the village. By June 12, electricity connections were cut and water tankers stopped from entering the village. And finally, on June 17, the apex court refused to review its decision.Devi and her family of four now live in a tent next to their house. Some neighbours have tried to arrange bricks to build a semblance of a house. Only a handful are still trying to rebuild their homes. Most residents of Khori always knew they were residing illegally but, for the first time in three decades, there is a fear that their time is up.“When plots were being divided and sold all these years, no one came to tell us that our homes would be demolished one day. This is how we poor people settle down anywhere in India,” said Devi.Perched on the Aravalli hills on the southern fringes of the Capital, Khori is a village of dusty narrow streets sandwiched between upmarket neighbourhoods in Faridabad and the Okhla landfill. Similar unauthorised neighbourhoods of Sangam Vihar, Pul Prahladpur, Lal Kuan, Vishwakarma Colony and Prem Nagar ring the village where people started illegally clearing forest to settle down in the early 90s.There is no official estimate of Khori’s population. The Supreme Court case mentioned 10,000 houses. Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar studying the settlement, estimated 6,500 houses. Mohammad Mohsin, an active leader of the residents, pegged the population at 40,000.But Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner of Faridabad, dismissed those figures as “gross exaggeration”. “A precise survey by drones show there are 5,100 residential structures here. There are less than 10,000 residents in the village at any particular time,” he said.Since the apex court’s decision, most residents spend their days and evenings under the few remaining kikar, neem and sheesham trees. Most of the day goes in around arranging water. “People are willing to pay extra to buy water from me, but I am catering only to my regular customers,” said Kapil, a water supplier who managed to sneak in 4,000 litres of water for Khori village shops, which he sells to the parched residents.The snapped power supply meant that local shopkeepers aren’t ordering perishable items like dairy anymore. “I am selling goods at prices lower than MRP. I am trying to limit my damages,” said Lal Singh, a shopkeeper. His 20-year-old daughter, Sandhya, said she is on the verge of giving up on her medical education.Due to the uncertainty, many residents have stopped working. “What work? Saving our homes is our work right now,” said Irshad Ali, a painter.Hope and hopelessness Many residents of Khori are caught between hope and hopelessness. They believe that the government will not bulldoze thousands of homes, the SC order notwithstanding. “Who will snatch my home? Jaan jaaye, par ghar na jaaye (We may lose our lives, but not our homes),” said a resident, justifying his decision to buy a used refrigerator and some furniture at a time when power supply to the village is snapped and there is exodus from the village.Others are defiant.Kalpana Devi, a 32-year-old woman from Munger in Bihar, spent her life’s savings in buying a 30 square yard plot 12 years ago and constructed a one-room house four years ago. She doesn’t intend to leave. “My husband has not found work over the last year due to the pandemic. I have three young daughters. Where should I go? We are going nowhere. This uncertainty is like a death sentence, and I will die here,” said the woman.Rumours fly in the village that four residents have died by suicide in recent weeks. “We have heard of four suicides so far. People are panicking as the demolition appears a reality,” said Dinesh, who works as a supervisor at a Delhi hospital. But police confirm only one incident, a 70-year-old man who died on June 15. “We have booked a builder who sold him a piece of land for ₹ 3 lakh,” said Sube Singh, spokesperson for Faridabad Police.Another 22-year-old local woman fell to her death on June 16 from the second floor of a house in Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, a day after she moved from Khori with her husband under the shadow of the demolition.The woman’s death confirmed what the police and district administration have been insisting — that residents are slowly vacating their homes.Sube Singh said that by mid-June, 30-40% people left their homes. “The residents are going to lose their homes. We don’t want any confrontation, which only ends in injuries to the police and the public, and legal troubles for the public,” he added.The deputy commissioner pegged the number of those who have left the village at 40%. “Those living on rent have left,” said Yadav. Local residents acknowledged the phenomena, which indicates their resistance is weakening, but insisted it was mostly limited to the tenants. “It is the tenants who are leaving. Some others are only shifting their expensive belongings,” says Sailesh Kumar, a painter who hails from Gorakhpur.They also point out that moving out isn’t easy. “House owners in surrounding neighbourhoods know our desperation. Rooms worth ₹2,000 were being rented to me for ₹5,000. We are looked at with contempt,” said Lal Singh. A room in Khori village costs between ₹500 and 1,000 in rent.Going back to their native villages, in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or Bengal, is not an option because most families have sold their properties back home.The environment-community debate By various accounts, this portion of the Aravalli Range was the site for bauxite mining in the 1980s, and outstation labourers here first began occupying the land in the 1990s. According to government officials and activists, bauxite mining in the area stopped in the 1990s following court orders. According to Chatterjee, the village is spread over a 120-150 acre of forest land.“By late 1990s, there were already a few hundred homes constructed on the forest land. Local strongmen facilitated this illegal sale of land,” said Jitender Bhadana, who runs an NGO, Save Aravalli Trust.Sube Singh said that local property dealers were to blame for this illegal settlement. “They fooled people into buying the forest land. They handed the buyers some documents, making them believe they were buying legal property. More and more buyers followed after that and soon there was an entire settlement here,” said Singh.“I worked in the mines in the 1980s and 1990s. In those times, someone could simply throw a stone and own the land up to the point where the stone fell,” said Mohd Saleem Khan, a village leader who was among those jailed recently for his role in an alleged violent protest.Khan doesn’t believe that he hurt the environment by occupying the land but Bhadana contradicts him. “The extent of encroachment over the last 15 years can be seen by comparing the satellite images of the same place from the late 2000. The lungs of the national capital were being eaten day by day,” he said.Some residents here have voter identity, ration and aadhaar cards but few houses are registered. Many residents accused builders of lying to them that the plot fell on the Delhi side of the border, a major draw for buyers. Until the SC order, a single storey house constructed on a 50 square yard in Khori could cost as high as ₹20 lakh, without any official property documents. Sube Singh said that some buyers were lured in with the promise of land under the power of attorney, but none of these sales were legal.Few houses have a government electricity metre. Most are provided by private builders who usually charge upwards of ₹14 per unit.The future Mostly legally, and sometimes by their sheer population, villagers have been resisting the impending demolition since 2010. They have been petitioning the courts time and again, seeking repeated stay. While the first demolition happened in the 1990s itself because the authorities noticed forest being cleared to make residential plots, the villagers approached the court in 2010, igniting a 11-year legal battle.Since the SC order, villagers have held protests, some of which turned violent, and even a mahapanchayat, prompting multiple police cases. The police have gone on to book over 550 known and unknown persons and arrested about 20 of them.Many lawyers and activists have also reached the village. “We are not against the SC order. Our fight is for the rehabilitation of tens of thousands of people being displaced,” said Nirmal Gorana, general secretary of Bandhua Mukri Morcha.Under Haryana law, displaced people are eligible for rehabilitation, but there is a catch. “The cut-off year for those eligible for rehabilitation is 2003, thus making most residents ineligible,” said Anupradha Singh, an advocate working for the Khori villagers.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, who is representing the villagers in the SC, believes that the solution is “simple”. “These people are not squatters and land grabbers. Every resident paid for the land and they have no commercial gains from it. Every state has adequate urban land. The government can quickly solve the problem by identifying a land close by and settling these people,” said Gonsalves.The administration says demolition is only a matter of time. “The demolition is a SC order and it will certainly be carried out. We are just giving the villagers time to move out so that their damage is limited,” said Yashpal Yadav. He added that almost no resident had evidence of living here before 2003.Seema Trikha, the local MLA from Badhkal constituency, said that no one could interfere with the SC order. “Though the Khattar government is not responsible for the demolition exercise, we are forming committees to look into affordable housing for the displaced,” said Trikha.For weeks now, residents have keenly followed each scrap of news related to Khori, hoping to understand what the future may hold. “Has the government really announced the regularisation of 1,200 illegal colonies? Will our village also be spared?” said an anxious young man to his friend, sitting on a street darkened by lack of electricity. “Our village falls on forest land,” was the stark reminder from his friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-a-demolition-drive-destroys-a-village-101625550974095.html
06-07-2021||India||Bangladesh PM sends 300 kg of Haribhanga mangoes to Tripura CM||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Monday sent 300 kilogram of Haribhanga mangoes as a gift to Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, the country's assistant high commissioner in Agartala announced on Twitter. "The chief minister cordially thanked the Prime Minister for the gift," he further stated in the tweet.The Asst High Commissioner handed over 300 KGs of Haribhanga mangoes sent from the Hon’ble Prime Minister of Bangladesh for the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tripura to the latter at his office this afternoon. The Hon’ble CM cordially thanked the Hon’ble Prime Minister for the gift. pic.twitter.com/9q8wJZlb2nThis comes a day after the leader sent mangoes to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Bangladesh prime minister had also sent mangoes to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The Haribhanga variety of Mangoes were transported through the land border via the Benapole checkpoint. According to local media reports, the shipment arrived at the Benapole-Petrapole check post on the India-Bangladesh border last Sunday.The Haribhanga variety of mango is grown in Bangladesh's Rangpur district. The other notable varieties of Bangladesh mangoes include Gopalbogh, Khirsapat, Himsagar, Mohonbhog, Amropali.Reports in the Bangladeshi media said Hasina plans to send mangoes to the chief ministers of the northeastern states of Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura, all of which share borders with Bangladesh.Last year, Bangladesh had given its traders special permission to export nearly 1,500 tonnes of Hilsa fish, a favourite with people on both sides of the border, to India on the occasion of Durga Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-pm-sends-300-kg-of-haribhanga-mangoes-to-tripura-cm-101625549674501.html
06-07-2021||India||Jammu attack: Air Force plans to buy anti-drone systems with laser weapons||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has initiated a process of acquiring 10 anti-drone systems, news agency ANI reported. The IAF will deploy these systems at different airbases and has asked vendors to provide a multi-sensor, multi-kill solution to enforce effectively, the ANI report further said.The decision comes days after a drone attack on the IAF base in Jammu. Pakistan based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is believed to be behind the attack on June 27.The IAF has said in its Request for Information (RFI) that the indigenous anti-drone system should be Laser-based Directed Energy Weapon. The IAF further has mandated that all the 10 counter unmanned aircraft systems (CUAS) are required in mobile configuration mounted on indigenous vehicles with cross-country capability. They should be able to mount on rooftop/open ground.Hindustan Times had reported earlier this month that India needs to acquire latest anti-drone technologies as terrorists and Maoists have started using stand-off weapons.Since 2020, the Border Security Force (BSF) has recorded no less than 99 drone sightings on the western borders - from Jammu and Kashmir to Gujarat.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said last week that drones have emerged as clear and present danger. He said that easy availability of drones allowed both state and non-state actors to use them, increasing the challenges faced by the security forces.“Drones will increasingly be used in all sorts of combat in future by state and non-state actors. We will have to factor it in our future planning,” the army chief said at a seminar organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council, a think tank.He said that building drones was akin to a “DIY project that could be tackled at home”.Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat also echoed similar sentiments. “You have to be prepared for all this and yet at the same time send a strong message that if anything of this nature, whether in grey zone or in the hybrid domain, damages our assets and affects our national security, we should reserve the right to respond at a place and time of our choosing and in a manner in which we wish to respond,” Rawat said at the same seminar.The Jammu attack was the first instance of a drone being used to carry out such an operation in the country by terrorists from across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-attack-air-force-plans-to-buy-anti-drone-systems-with-laser-weapons-101625548788024.html
06-07-2021||India||Dalai Lama's birthday: Facts about the Tibetan spiritual leader||The Tibetan Buddhist community is celebrating the birthday of the Dalai Lama on Tuesday. The 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, turned 86 today.He was born on July 6, 1935, in Tibet and came to India in 1959. He calls himself the "son of India".Many leaders in India, including Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Madhya Pradesh counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan, have wished the Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday. Sand artist Sudarshan Pattnaik shared one of his arts on the occasion on Twitter.However, the Dalai Lama's coming to India was not taken well by leaders in China who frowned at India for giving him shelter.Why is the Dalai Lama so important to China?In 1950, the Chinese government invaded Tibet to peacefully liberate it. But the process was brutal and violent, after which there was an uprising of Tibetans in 1959 and the current Dalai Lama fled to India to set up a government in exile.Dalai Lama is a highly influential figure of Tibetan culture, and his escape to India sparked major outrage in the region. China wants to control the appointment of the next spiritual leader of Tibet in order to firm up its grip on the Tibetan monastic order and in turn, control the region.However, the Tibetans believe that China is attempting to manipulate the selection process as a way to strengthen its grip over Tibetan people.How do Tibetans identify the next Dalai Lama?Tibetans believe the Dalai Lama has control over his re-birth and he can choose the body into which he is reincarnated.There are usually predictions about where and when a Dalai Lama will be reborn, but further tests and signs are required to ensure the proper child is found.In the case of the 13th Dalai Lama, after his death, his body lay facing south. However, after a few days his head had tilted to the east and a fungus, viewed as unusual, appeared on the north-eastern side of the shrine, where his body was kept.This was interpreted to mean that the next Dalai Lama could have been born somewhere in the north-eastern part of Tibet, reported Asia Times.Disciples also checked Lhamo La-tso, a lake that is traditionally used to see visions of the location of the Dalai Lama's rebirth.The district of Dokham, which is in the northeast of Tibet, matched all of these signs. A 2-year-old boy named Lhamo Dhondup was found to be at the right age for a reincarnation of the 13th Dalai Lama, based on the time of his death. After further investigations, the search party identified the boy as the 14th Dalai Lama, who after taking over as the Tibetan spiritual leader changed his name to Tenzin Gyatso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalai-lama-s-birthday-facts-about-the-tibetan-spiritual-leader-101625546469956.html
06-07-2021||India||Odisha man held for killing woman before attempting to kill himself||A man has been arrested in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar for allegedly killing a 26-year-old woman before trying to kill himself by cutting his wrist, police said. The woman’s body was recovered from a rented house and the man was found lying unconscious next to her with injury marks on his wrist.Police said the two were in a relationship even as the woman got married to someone else in 2014 and had a three-year-old son. “We suspect the man killed the woman and later attempted suicide by consuming poison,” said Bhubaneswar’s deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Dash.Police have found a handwritten note allegedly written by the man saying he will kill the woman and her son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-held-for-killing-woman-before-attempting-to-kill-himself-101625545695280.html
06-07-2021||India||'His lofty ideals motivate millions': PM Modi pays tributes to Syama Prasad Mookerjee on birth anniversary||Paying tributes to Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who had founded the Bharatiya Jana Sangh in 1951, on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said he devoted his life to India's unity and progress, and his lofty ideals motivate millions across the nation.Mookerjee led a campaign against Article 370, which gave special powers to Jammu and Kashmir, and died under detention in the erstwhile state in 1953.He was born in Kolkata in 1901.The Jana Sangh was the progenitor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which was founded in 1980.I bow to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Jayanti. His lofty ideals motivate millions across our nation. Dr. Mookerjee devoted his life towards India’s unity and progress. He also distinguished himself as a remarkable scholar and intellectual.The Modi government nullified Article 370 in 2019, fulfilling a foundational agenda of the BJP.In a tweet, Modi said, "I bow to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Jayanti. His lofty ideals motivate millions across our nation. Dr. Mookerjee devoted his life towards India's unity and progress. He also distinguished himself as a remarkable scholar and intellectual."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-syama-prasad-mookerjee-on-birth-anniversary-101625545136028.html
06-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to meet Bihar Congress leaders tomorrow||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is expected to meet senior party leaders from Bihar in New Delhi on Wednesday, people aware of the matter said. The meet has been scheduled ahead of a likely reshuffle in the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC).BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha said all prominent leaders, including Members of Parliament and assembly, former presidents, and former legislature party leaders have been asked to be in New Delhi for the meeting.Earlier, the All-India Congress Committee in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das said the process for nomination of the new BPCC chief would be initiated after their meeting with Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-meet-bihar-congress-leaders-tomorrow-101625545453497.html
06-07-2021||India||Punjab Congress infighting: CM Amarinder Singh to meet Sonia Gandhi today||Punjab chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh will meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday amid efforts to end the factionalism within the party's state unit ahead of the assembly elections. This is the third time that Singh is travelling to the national capital over the crisis. Singh will likely leave for Delhi in the morning.Tuesday's meeting comes days after disgruntled ex-minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is at loggerheads with the chief minister, met Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi.The tug of war between the prominent leaders of the Punjab Congress became public after Sidhu resignaed from the cabinet in 2019. Since then, the two leaders have been trading barbs.In May, Sidhu called the Punjab chief minister a "liar" and accused him of not doing enough about issues like loan waivers.The flashpoint came when Singh gave government jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs -- Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey-- on "compassionate" grounds. It triggered a storm in the Punjab Congress, while Sidhu accused him of giving jobs to "elitist".Party president Sonia Gandhi has also set up a three-member panel to look at the crisis in Punjab. On June 22, Singh appeared before the three-member AICC panel headed by the leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, but did not get an audience with the Gandhis.He had sought time from the Congress president who has now called him for a discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-congress-infighting-cm-amarinder-singh-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-today-101625545354365.html
06-07-2021||India||Delimitation commission to arrive in Srinagar today||The Delimitation Commission will arrive in Jammu & Kashmir for a four-day visit on Tuesday for talks with political parties, district officials, and other stakeholders on the ongoing process of carving out new constituencies in the region.Former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir.Also Read | NCPCR asks J&K Police to file case against TwitterThe delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there.The commission will arrive in Srinagar a day after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of political major parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said they were disappointed over the outcome of an all-party meeting with Modi. The grouping has demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections are held there. It also criticised the lack of “confidence-building measures”.A five-member NC delegation will meet the commission, said the party Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi even as it earlier refused to engage with the panel.Jammu & Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah addressed their apprehensions about the delimitation. He will meet the commission along with leaders of other recognised parties. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP remained tight-lipped whether it will be meeting the commission.On Wednesday, the commission will visit Pahalgam to hold meetings with officials and delegations from four districts of South Kashmir--Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam, and Shopian. In Srinagar, the panel will hold meetings related to Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Bandipore, Baramulla, and Kupwara districts.The commission will travel to Kishtwar to hold discussions with officials of the Doda, Kishtwar, and Ramban districts. On July 9, the commission will meet delegations from Jammu, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba and Reasi districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-commission-to-arrive-in-srinagar-today-101625544673670.html
06-07-2021||India||Sensex opens 55 points higher to 52,935.46 in opening session; Nifty at 15,858||Equity benchmark Sensex inched higher by 55 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Infosys amid sustained foreign fund outflows.The 30-share BSE index was trading 55.46 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 52,935.46 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.05 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,858.40.UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.69 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Maruti, Tata Steel, Titan and Bajaj Auto, HDFC, M&M, L&T and Bajaj Finance. Infosys was up 0.06 per cent in early deals.On the other hand, Sun Pharma, TCS, HUL, and Reliance Industries were among the laggards.In the previous session, the BSE Sensex closed 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,880. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15,834.35.Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth ₹338.43 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data."Domestic equities look to be muted as of now. Notably, sharp rise in crude prices and strengthening dollar index weighed on sentiments in the last couple of days. Further, expectations of further rise in crude prices with no agreement on ease of production in the OPEC meeting can weigh on sentiments further," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.However, we continue to believe any meaningful correction in the market should be offering opportunity to investors to get in quality stocks, Modi said.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 0.32 per cent to USD 77.41 per barrel.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo gained, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading in the red in mid-session deals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-opens-55-points-higher-to-52-935-46-in-opening-session-nifty-at-15858-101625544395714.html
06-07-2021||India||India reports 34,703 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in nearly four months; daily fatalities fall to 553||India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 30,619,932 on Tuesday, after 34,703 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8 am. Tuesday's cases have been the lowest since March 18 this year, when 35,781 infections were recorded.As many as 553 succumbed to the viral disease while 51,864 recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 403,281 and 29,752,294 respectively. This is the 54th consecutive day where the daily recoveries are greater than the new cases.The active cases in the country have further declined to 464,357 and constitute 1.58 per cent of the caseload.Tuesday’s Covid-19 tally is 5,093 less than that of Monday’s when 39,796 people were detected positive for the viral disease. On the other hand, the toll on Tuesday is 170 less than that of Monday’s when 723 deaths were reported.According to the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 421,424,881 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,647,424 were tested in the last 24 hours.As India continues to battle the second wave of the pandemic, which had taken its worst shape in April and early May this year, a report by the State Bank of India stated the third wave is expected to hit the country by August and it will reach its peak in September. The report named “Covid-19: the race to finishing line,” added its projections were based “historical trends.”The daily cases have not spiked since May 7 and many states and Union Territories (UTs) have started easing lockdown-like restrictions allowing a majority of commercial and economic activities to resume by following Covid appropriate behaviour.However, it has been observed that people are still flouting Covid-related protocols such as social distancing and wearing of masks which aggravates the risk of daily cases spiking again.In the national capital Delhi, as the unlock phase progressed, scores of customers have been rushing to prominent market areas for shopping, which prompted government authorities to order their temporary closure. Traders and shopkeepers have been urged to ensure all Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed. But the traders’ body has pointed out that it is impossible to control crowds outside shops and the responsibility of controlling them lies with the administration.Similar scenes were witnessed Himachal Pradesh’s tourist town Manali. Tourists, majority of them without masks, thronged Manali's streets with netizens pointing out on social media that the country might go back to the situation of “No beds available in hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-34-703-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-nearly-four-months-101625539154593.html
06-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking recognition of same-sex couples and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking legal recognition of same-sex couplesThe Delhi high court is scheduled to hear a batch of petitions on Tuesday seeking legal recognition of same-sex couples. Read MoreCabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi's crucial meeting likely todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold a crucial meeting at his residence on Tuesday amid reports of a cabinet reshuffle. Read More4% rain deficiency over northwest India, monsoon likely to revive soon: IMDMonsoon is likely to revive in northwest India around July 10, according to India Meteorological Department. There is 4% rain deficiency over northwest India and 0% excess over the country since June 1. Read MoreTanishaa Mukerji says she froze her eggs at 39, doctor advised it only when she has ‘no hope of conceiving a baby’Actor Tanishaa Mukerji revealed that she froze her eggs at the age of 39, in case she wants to have children someday. Read MoreFan asks about Dhoni's future if CSK don't retain him in IPL 2022, Brad Hogg makes huge predictionTwo names are synonymous in franchise cricket - MS Dhoni and Chennai Super Kings. In 2008, CSK bought Dhoni in the auctions and named him the captain of the side. Read MoreNora Fatehi pairs sexy neon yellow bodycon dress with ₹3 lakh bag for shootDancer turned actor Nora Fatehi may have made a name for herself in the industry with her bomb dance moves, but her sartorial choices also need an honourable mention. Read MoreInstagram working on ‘Exclusive Stories’ for subscribers, similar to Twitter’s Super Follow featureInstagram is reportedly working on the ability to allow creators to monetise their Instagram stories with ‘exclusive’ content, which could work in a similar way that Twitter’s Super Follow feature works. Read MoreWatch: Tourists celebrate birthday at ghat & misbehave with cops, arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-high-court-to-hear-petitions-seeking-recognition-of-same-sex-couples-and-all-the-latest-news-101625542754482.html
06-07-2021||India||Maharashtra active Covid cases come down significantly, tally at 116,827||The number of active cases in Maharashtra has gone down significantly in the past two months. The state recorded 6,740 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 116,827. Just a month ago, on June 5, it was 188,027 and on May 5, it was 641,596.Pune continued to lead this month as well with 16,960 active cases, followed by Thane at 16,742. Kolhapur occupied the third spot with 12,716 active cases.In June also, Pune led with 22,280 cases, followed by Kolhapur with 18,130 and Mumbai with 18,118 cases.On May 5, which marked the peak of the Covid-19 second wave, the number of active cases was a whopping 641,596, and again, Pune led with 114,254 cases, followed by Nagpur with 58,944 and Mumbai with 56,153 cases.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said the decline was due to the proactive steps taken by the state government. “We ramped up the number of tests and isolated patients, thus limiting the spread. Lockdown played an important role in cutting down transmission rates and consequently interrupt the surge of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-active-covid-cases-tally-at-116827-101625542933697.html
06-07-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy’s death: Political leaders express outrage||The death of 84-year-old tribal activist Father Stan Swamy, an undertrial in the Bhima Koregaon case, has evoked outrage in the Indian public sphere. Cutting across party lines, political leaders condemned his death.Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were the among politicians and intellectuals to condole his death.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi offered his condolences, saying “he deserved justice and humaneness” in a tweet. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “A humble tribute to Father Stan Swamy. How unfortunate that a person who served the poor and tribals throughout his life and became the voice of human rights, he was denied justice and human rights even in the hour of death.”Also Read | ‘Stan Swamy’s death a custodial killing’, claims Goa Cong; to hold protest todayCongress MP and senior advocate Kapil Sibal said in a tweet that he passed away without getting bail and there was “little hope of early trial”. He said others were languishing in jail too. “...Lawyers, Academics, Social Activists....raise their voices for the voiceless They too are now ‘voiceless’. The State calls them ‘terrorists’,” he tweeted.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren in a tweet said that the Central government should be held accountable for the absolute apathy towards Fther Stan Swamy, adding he was shocked to learn of the priest’s demise.CPI (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said he was “deeply pained and outraged”. “...A jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody,” he said in a tweet.Political leaders from Kerala also expressed their condolences over the death of Father Stan Swamy. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said such “travesty of justice should have no place in our democracy”, former chief minister and Congress leader Oommen Chandy said Swamy would remain a “painful memory” in the conscience of India, the largest democracy in the world.Congress leader and MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted, “Sad to learn of Fr #StanSwamy‘s passing. A humanitarian & man of God whom our government could not treat with humanity. Deeply saddened as an Indian. RIP”.Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti mourned the death of the late activist and said, “Deeply disturbed by the passing away of 84 year old tribal activist Stan Swamy. A ruthless & callous government that deprived him of dignity even while he was alive has blood on its hands. Absolutely shocked & appalled. May his soul rest in peace”.“Criminal charges should be filed against all responsible for Stan Swamy’s tragic and unfortunate death including the jail authorities for failure to provide proper medical support and against NIA officials for neglecting his deteriorating health,” Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi said in an interview on Monday.Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, died after suffering a cardiac arrest on Monday. His lawyers had moved the Bombay high court on Monday morning, seeking an urgent hearing on his medical bail plea, after his health deteriorated on Sunday and he was put on ventilator support after he had difficulty breathing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-stan-swamy-s-death-political-leaders-express-outrage-101625542753339.html
06-07-2021||India||AAI employees on nationwide protest today against reduced allowances||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) Employees Joint Forum Association and Unions is set to launch a nationwide protest today against the reduced allowance of the employees across the country. The forum served a notice to AAI management saying that if the board meeting scheduled for July 7 to defer perks and allowances of these employees is not cancelled, all the union employees will hold lunch hour demonstrations.Also Read | Cabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi’s crucial meeting likely today“Joint Forum of AAI shall refrain from holding lunch hour demonstrations if management defers the Board meeting which is going to be held on July 7, 2021, to take a decision on perks and allowances deferment,” Balraj Singh Ahlawat, general secretary of Airports Authority Employee Union, said.Nearly 17,000 employees across the country come under these associations and unions.ANI quoted an AAI human resource general manager as saying that it was “unfortunate to observe that the leadership of the joint forum has served upon AAI the notice” for “holding lunch hour demonstration”.The manager said the demands of employees are “already under consideration.”Meanwhile, the forum hit out at management earlier, saying what the management calls a “round of discussions” was “a session arranged to inform the intention of the management”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aai-employees-on-nationwide-protest-today-against-reduced-allowances-101625542213282.html
06-07-2021||India||4% rain deficiency over northwest India, monsoon likely to revive soon: IMD||Monsoon is likely to revive in northwest India around July 10, according to India Meteorological Department. There is 4% rain deficiency over northwest India and 0% excess over the country since June 1.Rainfall deficiency is likely to increase over northwest India before it’s met gradually after July 10.The northern limit of southwest monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar for over 15 days. According to latest numerical weather prediction model guidance, the southwest monsoon likely to revive gradually over the south peninsula, including the west coast and adjoining eastcentral India from July 8. A low pressure area is likely to form over westcentral and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 12.Also Read | Delhi weather: Mercury to soar this week as monsoon evades cityMoist easterly winds in the lower level from Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. They are likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 19. Accordingly, southwest monsoon likely to advance over remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10. The above weather systems are very likely to cause increased rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10.Fairly widespread rainfall activity is likely over east and northeast India during the next five days. Isolated heavy falls are likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand during next five days. Scattered to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls very likely over south peninsular India during next five days. Isolated very heavy rainfall is also likely over coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe on July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-rain-deficiency-over-northwest-india-monsoon-likely-to-revive-soon-imd-101625540593238.html
06-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi's crucial meeting likely today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold a crucial meeting at his residence on Tuesday amid reports of a cabinet reshuffle. The cabinet rejig is expected to take place later this week, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda and many other ministers are expected to attend the meeting, Live Hindustan reported.The meeting may take place at 5pm.At least 18 new ministers are expected to be inducted in the Union Cabinet, according to Live Hindustan report. The expansion will be done keeping in view the upcoming state elections next year.The expansion is expected to take place after July 7, according to Live Hindustan.This comes a day after PM Modi held meeting with Shah and BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh, news agency PTI reported. The Monday's marathon meeting was called to give final touches to the details of a likely expansion of the Union Cabinet, according to PTI.If the prime minister goes ahead with the exercise, he will be expanding his Council of Ministers for the first time since assuming the charge in May 2019 for his second innings.BJP leaders Sarbananda Sonowal, the former Assam chief minister who made way for Himanta Biswa Sarma in the state, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sushil Modi are seen as strong ministerial probables amid indications that some allies of the saffron party may also get berths.PM Modi met Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar last month where the two leaders believed to have discussed the accommodation of Janata Dal (United) leaders in the Union Cabinet. The JD(U) had rejected the "symbolic" representation in 2019, and has now expected to get a good bargain.PM Modi also met Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath a few weeks ago, giving rise to speculation that the state going to polls next year may figure high in the list of new inductees.The current strength of the Council of Ministers is 53, besides Modi, and its maximum number can be 79.There are many ministers, like Piyush Gyoal and Hardeep Puri, who are holding additional charges. The cabinet reshuffle is expected to take some load off these ministers. In 2019, there were 57 ministers - 24 cabinet rank, nine ministers of state with independent charge and 24 ministers of state. After Shiv Sena severed ties with the BJP and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder Ram Vilas Paswan passed away, the strength of cabinet ministers has been reduced to 21.PM Modi was expected to expand the cabinet earlier, but the exercise was postponed due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-expected-this-week-pm-modi-s-crucial-meeting-likely-today-101625538636398.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking legal recognition of same-sex couples||The Delhi high court is scheduled to hear a batch of petitions on Tuesday seeking legal recognition of same-sex couples. The matter was last heard in the court on May 24, when Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought an adjournment due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation at that time.A division Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice C Hari Shankar, who was hearing the case, adjourned the matter for July 6.The petitioners say that the LGBT community members are forced to suppress their feelings of getting married to the person of their own choice. In the pleas, they have also pointed out that denying the LGBT community the option to marry is discriminatory and creates them a second class of citizens.The Centre has been opposing the matter saying that petitions are unsustainable, untenable and misplaced, and sought their dismissal. The "marriage" is essentially a socially recognised union of two individuals which is governed either by uncodified personal laws or codified statutory laws, it has argued.The acceptance of the institution of marriage between two individuals of the same gender is neither recognised nor accepted in any uncodified personal laws or any codified statutory laws, it told the Delhi high court earlier in response to the petitions.The petitioners are seeking recognition under the Hindu Marriage Act, the Special Marriage Act and the Foreign Marriage Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-to-hear-petitions-seeking-legal-recognition-of-same-sex-couples-101625537580928.html
06-07-2021||India||Heat wave: 10 hottest places in India where sun gets scorching||July is turning out to be a scorcher, just like June. Not just India, the month is exceptionally hot for several other countries. A Pacific Northwest heat wave has killed at least 95 people in Oregon in the United States, a number that state's governor called “absolutely unacceptable."In India, hot weather conditions continued in the northern parts of the country. The temperatures are expected to further rise in the region during the next 2-3 days according to India meteorological department (IMD).The IMD has said that the southwest monsoon will reach Delhi around July 10, making it the most-delayed in the last 15 years.After hitting parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 13, the southwest monsoon has stopped its advance resulting in dry spells in many states across the region.The weather departmenr further said in its forecast on July 5 that heat wave conditions are expected in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and West Rajasthan on Tuesday.Here are the 10 hottest place in India according to IMD:Fatehgarh (Uttar Pradesh): 42.5 degrees CelsiusGurugram (Haryana): 41.8 degrees CelsiusGanganagar (Rajasthan): 41.8 degrees CelsiusHisar (Haryana): 41.7 degrees CelsiusSawai Madhopur (Rajasthan): 41.4 degrees CelsiusBathinda (Punjab): 40 degrees CelsiusDelhi: 39.5 degrees CelsiusUna (Himachal Pradesh): 39.4 degrees CelsiusChandigarh: 38.2 degrees CelsiusKathua (Jammu and Kashmir): 38 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-10-hottest-places-in-india-where-sun-gets-scorching-101625536010447.html
06-07-2021||India||Delimitation Commission to arrive in Jammu and Kashmir today, to meet leaders||The Delimitation Commission will arrive in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday to meet political parties, district officials and other stakeholders and gather “first-hand information” on the ongoing process of redrawing the boundaries there. The members will begin the four-day visit from Pahalgam, where they will meet officials of the four districts of South Kashmir -- Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian.Later in the evening, the delegation will travel to Srinagar where they are scheduled to meet local officials and political leaders. The visit will conclude on July 9.Barring the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), all other major political parties including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the CPI(M) and the National Panthers Party (NPP) are indecisive about meeting the commission's members.On Monday, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an alliance of six parties including the NC and the PDP, said no joint decision has been taken on taking part in the proceedings of the commission. The alliance also said that it was up to individual parties to decide whether they want to meet the delegation of the Delimitation Commission or not."As far as the PAGD is concerned, our stand is that these are autonomous bodies and the respective political parties will decide about it (participating in the commission's meeting). Whatever the parties think is suitable for them, they will take steps accordingly," PAGD spokesperson and CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami said in a statement.The visit comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an all-party meeting in the national capital to discuss the next course of action for the erstwhile state. It was the first high-level interaction between the central government and Kashmir's political leadership since 2019, when the former scrapped Article 370 and 35A, which gave special status to J&K and its people.During the June 24 meeting with 14 leaders from eight parties of J&K, PM Modi said the delimitation exercise has to happen quickly so that polls can be held to install an elected government in the union territory that will give strength to its development trajectory.The three-member commission was constituted in March last year by the Centre to carve out new constituencies in the union territory. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir are expected to go up from 83 to 90. Twenty-four seats of the assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-commission-to-arrive-in-jammu-and-kashmir-today-to-meet-leaders-101625532762675.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Stan Swamy’s death a custodial killing’, claims Goa Cong; to hold protest today||The Goa unit of the Congress party on Monday alleged that the demise of activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy was a ‘custodial killing’ and said it will hold a protest at the Azad Maidan in the capital city of Panaji at 11am on Tuesday.Taking to Twitter, Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar said that Swamy was imprisoned and deprived of basic amenities. “@INCGoa strongly condemns the custodial killing of Fr #StanSwamy the HR activist who worked for d rights of indigenous Ppl. 84y old Fr was imprisoned & deprived of basic amenities.This is a concrete eg of the brutality of this repressive govt. Will protest @11am,” Chodankar wrote on the microblogging site.Stan Swamy, one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad case, also referred to as the Bhima Koregaon violence, passed away on Monday. Swamy had suffered a cardiac arrest at 4am, Dr Ian D’souza of the Holy Family Hospital told the Bombay high court on Monday during a hearing on his bail plea, adding that he was declared dead at 1.30pm. “It is with a very heavy heart I have to inform you that father Stan Swamy has passed away,” Dr D’Souza said.The high court then instructed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and prison authorities to hand over Swamy’s body to Father Frazer Mascarenhes for his last rites.The Elgar Parishad case is related to the alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, which was held in Pune on December 31, 2017. The police claimed the speeches triggered violence the very next day near the Koregaon Bhima war memorial.The 84-year-old Swamy was arrested by the NIA on October 8 last year and was lodged at the Taloja jail. The central agency alleged he had links with Maoists and he was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.On May 29, Swamy was shifted to the Holy Family hospital in Mumbai after he had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was also suffering from Parkinson’s disease.Several prominent leaders of opposition parties on Monday condoled the death of Stan Swamy and said the central government should be held accountable for the “ruthless” and “inhuman treatment” meted out to him. The leaders also said the central government and the judges who, time and again, denied bail to Swamy had blood on their hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stan-swamy-s-death-a-custodial-killing-claims-goa-cong-to-hold-protest-today-101625532605263.html
06-07-2021||India||Indian student with kidney disorder airlifted from Melbourne, family thanks govt||In a humanitarian gesture, the Indian and Australian governments facilitated the repatriation of 25-year-old Arshdeep Singh, who is suffering from chronic renal failure, on Monday. Singh moved to Australia from India in 2018 for higher education.He landed at Delhi airport on Monday evening and taken to Gurugram's Medanta hospital. Flight no 111 from Darwin, used to airlift Singh, was operated by Qantas."I would like to thank Indian and Australian governments for bringing me back to my home country safely," Arshdeep told news agency ANI after landing at Delhi airport.The members of his family thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and minister of external affairs S Jaishankar for their efforts."I'm speechless, I want to thank the Indian government, Prime Minister Modi, the Australian government, Australian doctors who started the dialysis treatment. Almighty's grace was there. I'm thankful to all those who helped bring my child to me," Singh's mother Inderjeet Kaur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Singh, who was studying in Melbourne, went to a local hospital on June 8 after which the family got to know that there was a renal failure, and his kidneys were not functioning, said Sikh leader Manjit Singh GK."His heart is only 20 per cent with an ejection fraction. The family were in a state of shock and we have no place to go because there was Covid going on. Hospital also suggested an organ transplant. This is a very serious case," he added.The video shared by Manjit Singh GK shows Arshdeep travelling alone in the flight along with his medical equipment.Glad to learn that Arshdeep 25Yr #Indian #student in #Australia diagnosed with chronic renal failure has been airlifted from #Melbourne & en route to #Delhi.Thanks to @dfat @MEAIndia & @PSCINDIAN for facilitating his repatriation thru a special flight of @Qantas dedicated for him pic.twitter.com/KfE1d3ito9"Our government was kind enough to approach the Australian Government, the mother was given a visa on June 17th, but there were no flights operating. Arshdeep's condition was deteriorating every day. Then we requested the Australian government to send Arshdeep back to India so that he can get the treatment," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-student-with-kidney-disorder-airlifted-from-melbourne-family-thanks-govt-101625530348965.html
06-07-2021||India||FIR filed by mining officer against 6 reporters after questions on illegal mining||Bhopal: A First Information Report (FIR) filed against six journalists in Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone was provoked by their insistence for a statement from the mining officer on illegal sand mining in the district, president of the district journalists association Sunil Sharma said on Monday after a video of the back-and-forth between the journalists and the officer emerged.The six journalists have been charged with rioting, use of obscene language, criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, criminal intimidation and the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister Kamal Patel, who is also the state’s minister incharge of Khargone, tweeted after the video was released that he had spoken to the district superintendent of police and told him to hold an impartial probe into the charges.The FIR was registered on July 2 afternoon by the Khargone police against Asif Khan, Praveen Pal, Wahid Khan, Pawan Kumar Solanki, Pradeep Gangle and Dharmendra Chouhan, who work for different national and local media outlets.Sunl Sharma said the video released on Monday shows that the FIR was based on a fake complaint from the mining officer Sawan Singh Chouhan. “In the video, the journalists were seen repeatedly seeking a statement from the district mining officer on violations of the NGT’s (National Green Tribunal) order banning sand mining. But they didn’t abuse him or stop him from doing his work. The officer was offended as he supports the illegal mining mafia and owners of two mining companies, who are involved in the illegal sand excavation.”In a video message that was retweeted by the Khargone administration’s public relations officer, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lok Sabha member Gajendra Singh Patel promised justice. “As the fourth pillar of democracy, it is the job of journalists to ask questions and the duty of the officers to respond to them. I assure you that I will discuss the case with senior officials in the administration and get justice for the journalists,” said Patel, who represents Khargone in the Lok Sabha.Khargone mining officer Sawan Singh Chouhan said the journalists kept arguing with him and created a ruckus. “I called the journalists to my office to answer their questions. But I received an email from the head office seeking some details on mining in the district. I had to reply within a few minutes. I asked them to wait for some time, but they kept arguing with me.” “Even in the video, I was seen asking them to wait outside for a few minutes. But they kept talking aggressively. Later, they stopped making the video and abused me. They also said that I became an officer due to reservation in government jobs and made a comment on my caste. Some outsiders and my staff members are eyewitnesses of this incident,” said Chouhan.“It was shocking for me. I discussed the matter with senior officers before filing the complaint,” he added.District superintendent of police Shailendra Singh Chouhan said the case was registered on the complaint of the officer. “Now, we are investigating the matter. Further action will be taken after investigation,” he said, declining to get into the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-filed-by-mp-s-khargone-mining-officer-against-6-reporters-after-questions-on-illegal-mining-101625516113828.html
06-07-2021||India||Return of India’s poverty challenge||When Narendra Modi guided the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to a parliamentary majority in 2014 – the first time a party received a majority in the Lok Sabha in 30 years – the word “aspiration” entered the political economy lexicon with a bang. The larger idea was simple. The first two decades of economic reforms delivered gains in terms of poverty reduction front. But the fruits of economic reforms had not been shared equally across class and region. The new regime believed that the time was ripe to improve living standards with a two-pronged policy approach: higher growth and enhanced welfare endowments. The idea could have worked if the first part of the plan had delivered. A pre-Covid slowdown followed by the pandemic’s economic shock is likely to have derailed even the gains on poverty front and triggered a sharp increase in inequality. Business as usual is not an option anymore. Here are three charts that explain this.1. Regional inequalities have worsened during the post-reform periodThe Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of Bihar was almost the same as that of Gujarat in 1990-91. By 2018-19, the latest period for which we have Gujarat data, the state’s GDP was two times the combined GSDP of Bihar and Jharkhand. This trend holds even when a larger comparison of India’s southern and western states’ GSDP is made with the traditional laggard states, often clubbed together as BIMARU (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh). The increasing divergence in GSDP has translated itself into diverging living standards as well. Per capita GSDP estimates capture this inequality well. Per capita GSDP of industrialised states such as Gujarat or Tamil Nadu is three to five times more than that of laggards such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.2. Growing demands on the budgets of the poorWhat the per capita GSDP type numbers do not capture well is the aspiration-driven sense of deprivation in the economy today. Thanks to the removal of restrictions on private production and consumption in the post-reform period, there are no limits to private consumption today. This was not the case before 1991. For example, foreign exchange restrictions put a limit on the number of foreign holidays even a rich family could take. Similarly, there was only a limited pool to choose from when it came to buying vehicles. None of that holds today. The ‘have-nots’ increasingly aspire to consume like the ‘haves’, thanks to what is termed as demonstration effect by economists. To be sure, liberalisation also has ushered in some sort of equality. Only a handful of Indians had telephones at the beginning of the 1990s. Today, even smartphones are hardly a preserve of the rich. While the rich spend more on procuring better gadgets, there is no class divide in the quality of service being provided. This also means that the budgetary burden could be disproportionately higher on the poor at times. Extra consumption of mobile data for home-based learning (more so when there is more than one child) is a good example of this. Official statistics of household expenditure, which are now a decade old, might not capture these realities and their implications for the poor. While the basic challenge of food, shelter and clothing still remain important for a lot of Indians, the ability or the lack of it, to partake in what can be referred to as the “aspiration economy” is bound to be an important driver of both consumer and political psychology going forward.3. Has India seen retrogression on poverty front?The first warning bell on this count came much before the Covid-19 pandemic. In November 2019, findings of the 2017-18 Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES), the first large sample round after 2011-12, were leaked in the media. Because official statistical agencies in India do not publish income data, CES is the basis of ascertaining poverty and inequality levels. The leaked findings suggested that average monthly per capita consumption expenditure (MPCE) levels had fallen between 2011-12 and 2017-18 in real terms, something which had never happened in four decades. The government scrapped the report citing data quality issues, also a first in the country’s history. A reduction in MPCE levels entailed a rise in poverty levels. The subsequent slowdown in the economy — GDP growth went down from 8.3% in 2016-17 to 4% in 2019-20 — even before the pandemic hit, is bound to have made matters worse. A report released by the Azim Premji University has estimated that the number of people who earned below .375 per day (one measure of poverty) increased by 231 million compared to the pre-pandemic period. While the official poverty numbers will only be available once a fresh CES is conducted, and that may not happen anytime soon, evidence from other sources confirms that things might have gone downhill. For example, the indicators of malnutrition worsened between the last two rounds of the National Family and Healthy Survey (NFHS) in several states/UTs. Out of the 22 state/UTs for which results have been published, the share of stunted children (low height for their age) increased in 13, the share of wasted children (low weight for their height) increased in 12, and the share of underweight children (low weight for their age) increased in 16. Growing aspirations at a time when a significant section of society has experienced deterioration in well-being levels is going to be a difficult challenge going forward.This is the second of a four-part data journalism series on three decades of economic reforms in India. The first part looked at the question of economic growth in the post reform period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/return-of-india-s-poverty-challenge-101625515742659.html
06-07-2021||India||Twitter has not complied with IT rules as of July 1: Govt to HC||The Union government informed the Delhi high court on Monday that Twitter has lost its immunity from criminal prosecution for content on its site due to the failure to appoint grievance redressal officers as required under the new Information Technology rules.Submitting an affidavit in response to a petition by a lawyer, the government said that Twitter and other social media intermediaries were given a “sufficient” period of three months from February 25, when the guidelines were announced (they came into effect on May 25) to comply with the due diligence norm in order to avail of protection from prosecutions in cases of obnoxious and offensive content posted by a third party.The Union government said Twitter has failed to comply with the IT Rules, 2021 as of July 1 for not appointing a Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer and a Nodal Contact Person (even on an interim basis).Also Read | 'Will pick officer, timeline not binding': Twitter to HC“….the IT Rules, 2021 are the law of the land and Respondent No 2 (Twitter) is mandatorily required to comply with the same. Any non-compliance amounts to breach of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021 thereby leading to Twitter losing its immunity conferred under section 79(1) of the IT Act, 2000,” the Information and Technology ministry said in an affidavit filed in the court.To be sure, this is the IT ministry’s perspective and it remains to be seen whether Twitter loses the so-called safe harbour or intermediary immunity for its failure to comply with the rules.Twitter told the high court on Saturday that the three months timeline fixed by the Centre to appoint such officers under the new IT Rules is “directory” but “not mandatory”. The social media intermediary also told the court that it is in the “final stage” of appointing officers for grievance redressal.On May 29, Twitter did announce the appointment of an officer but this person resigned on June 21. Subsequently, Twitter has made one of its US-based executives responsible for this.Separately, Twitter has been criticised by the BJP for labelling tweets by its leader “manipulated media” and has been questioned by the Delhi Police on the basis for doing so. The tweet in question pointed to a media outreach and social campaign document (a toolkit) that was purportedly put together by the Congress to target the government for its handling of Covid and the Central Vista project. The Congress claimed the toolkit was forged.Twitter has also been summoned by the Ghaziabad police over its role in amplifying a video that allegedly misrepresented an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime. Under the new digital rules introduced on February 25, social media companies such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have been asked to place a three-tier grievance redressal system and appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer by May 25.The new rules also require these companies to identify within 36 hours the originator of a flagged message , appoint grievance officers , and adopt measures such as tracing of individual messages and voluntary user verification.“...a sufficient period of three months from Feb 26 was granted to all Significant Social Media Intermediaries (SSMIs) to comply with the additional due diligence set out under Rule 4 of the IT Rules, 2021. Thus, from May 26 onwards, all SSMIs are mandatorily required to comply with the obligations set out in Rule 4 of the IT Rules, 2021,” the Centre said.Under section 79(1) of the IT Rules, all intermediaries are protected from any criminal prosecution for the content uploaded by the third party. However, Rule 7 states that when an intermediary fails to observe the IT Rules, the provisions of section 79 (1) will not be available and it shall be liable for any punishment under any law for the time being in force in respect of the offending content.The Centre told the HC that the immunity conferred on intermediaries under section 79(1) is a “conditional immunity” subject to them satisfying the other conditions. “In spite of the three months’ time granted to all (SSMIs)... having expired on May 26, Respondent No 2 (Twitter) has failed to comply with the same,” it added The matter will be heard on July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-has-not-complied-with-it-rules-as-of-july-1-govt-to-hc-101625514416832.html
06-07-2021||India||Ration scheme in all states soon: Centre||The Union government’s One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) digital platform that allows mobility of in-kind benefits, such as subsidised food, will “very soon” be implemented in the whole of the country, including in Delhi, Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Monday.West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Assam are yet to implement the programme now active in 32 states and Union territories while Delhi has implemented it partially.The ONORC programme is a digitised version of the country’s public distribution system (PDS) through which cheap grains are offered to about 739 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, 2013.The digitisation of the PDS, which is a network of nearly 500,000 fair-price shops, allows a beneficiary, such as a migrant worker, to access his/her share of subsidised ration from anywhere in the country regardless of the place where the ration card is registered to. In other words, it allows full mobility of food entitlements.“Delhi will start the scheme very soon. Trials and testing are currently on,” Pandey said.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment.The state government on June 11 informed the Supreme Court it commenced implementing the scheme.West Bengal will soon complete the installation of necessary infrastructure to roll out the platform, an official said. Chhattisgarh, too, will complete the purchase of 4,000 e-PoS machines for its PDS system in July when it will be in a position to start the ONORC system. Assam has finished seeding 60% of Aadhaar information of beneficiaries for the rollout.Experts say a digitised PDS system, while improving accountability, has been found wanting on many counts. “Data connectivity issues often lead to failures in authenticating biometrics,” said Dipa Sinha, who teaches in Ambedkar University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ration-scheme-in-all-states-soon-centre-101625512887251.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Shoot criminals in leg if they try to escape from custody’: Assam CM to police||Guwahati: Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday asked the state police to take tough action against criminals, telling police personnel to shoot criminals in the leg if they try to escape from custody.“Someone asked me today if police shooting at persons who try to escape from custody has become a pattern. This should be the pattern if someone who is a rapist tries to flee after snatching arms from police or someone who tries to escape while recreating a scene of crime,” Sarma said amid an increase in incidents of police shooting suspects while allegedly trying to escape from custody.“Police shouldn’t shoot them in the chest, but law permits shooting them in the leg. The police in Assam shouldn’t be scared of taking such action (against criminals) but no such action should be taken against innocent persons,” the chief minister, who holds the portfolio for the state’s home department, said at an interaction with officers in-charge of police stations across the state.According to police records, 10 persons have been injured in firing by the police since 1 June. While 3 alleged cattle thieves sustained injuries in a police shootout, seven others - two men accused of rape, a man arrested for drug peddling and two men arrested for abduction - were injured when police fired at them for allegedly trying to escape from custody. “If the police don’t retaliate, then they themselves would die. But before we take such action, which is permitted by law, our conscience should be clear that whatever tough action we are taking, it is for the public good and not for our own interest,” chief minister Sarma said.The chief minister’s comments provoked sharp reactions from the opposition and human rights activists who said that it might encourage police personnel to shoot alleged criminals instead of conducting proper investigations to solve cases. They also underlined that the court, and not the police, could sit in judgment of the crimes the suspects are accused of committing.“It seems the police have become trigger happy. We condemn the chief minister’s comments. How can the police say a person is criminal or not?... It is for the court to decide. If criminals try to escape from police custody, it shows laxity on the part of police,” said leader of Congress legislature party Debabrata Saikia. Noted human rights activist Dibyajyoti Saikia wondered how a chief minister could tell police how to shoot at alleged criminals. “Tough action against criminals is needed, but shooting at accused persons is not the solution to control crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shoot-criminals-in-leg-if-they-try-to-escape-from-custody-assam-cm-to-police-101625511251430.html
06-07-2021||India||No place for those who kill kin for choosing partner: Allahabad HC||While refusing bail to a Mainpuri man for his role in an alleged hate crime, the Allahabad high court observed that there is no place in society for citizens that murder a family member for choosing a life partner against their choice.“There is no place for citizens in our society who act in derogation of the much cherished constitutional values of individual liberty, and, instead, repose faith in archaic social values of family honour to an extent that they would go to eliminate a family member choosing a life partner for herself,” the court observed.Justice J J Munir on July 2 was hearing a bail plea of the applicant, Gulshan, who along with his family, allegedly killed his sister Jyoti for marrying a man belonging to another caste and also shot her husband to “punish” him.Taking note of the case, the court said, prima facie, if these allegations were established at the time of trial, there is no place for such citizens in the society.The prosecution called it a case of hate crime even though the defence pleaded that the role assigned to the applicant was of assaulting one of the witnesses and that the couple was killed by another co-accused.“The assault, as a whole, was a brazen act of honour killing and the woman’s family, going by the eyewitness’ account, had eliminated her to redeem their false notions of family honour and shot her husband to punish him,” the government’s counsel argued. After hearing both parties, the court concluded: “Prima facie, it is a brazen case of honour killing where family members, including the deceased’s father, uncle, cousin and her brother have all participated to put an end to a young life on account of a false sense of family pride, which they have prima facie sought to redeem through this crime.”While denying the bail to the applicant, the court observed, “He was certainly an active participant in the entire episode, though he may not have wielded the gun or inflicted the fatal injury.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-place-for-those-who-kill-kin-for-choosing-partner-allahabad-hc-101625510832987.html
06-07-2021||India||CM Amarinder to meet Sonia today amid Punjab infighting||Chandigarh: Punjab chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is to meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday amid efforts by the party’s central leadership to resolve factionalism in the party’s state unit ahead of the assembly polls due early next year. Singh is to leave for Delhi from Chandigarh in the morning and call on the Congress president late in the afternoon, people familiar with the matter said. The chief minister was in Delhi twice last month to meet the three-member central panel constituted under Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge to review at the crisis in Punjab, but did not get to meet any of the Gandhis. He had sought time from the Congress president who has now called him for a discussion, according to the people cited above. The panel met lawmakers from Punjab, including the chief minister’s bete noire Navjot Singh Sindhu, who resigned as minister in Singh’s cabinet in XXXXXX and has since emerged a vocal critic of the chief minister. The CM’s meeting with Sonia comes days after Sidhu, who has been openly critical and dismissive of Singh, met former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Sidhu has been counting on the two Gandhis for support in his standoff with the two-time chief minister. The fact that Sidhu got to meet the Gandhis raised some eyebrows; the three-member panel is believed to have given Singh a to-do list, which includes implementing poll promises from 2017. “Tuesday’s meeting is an indication that discussions on resolving the rift in Punjab Congress have entered the phase of final decision-making on how to accommodate Sidhu,” said a senior state leader who did not want to be identified. While Sidhu wants to head the Punjab Congress, the chief minister is opposed to having him in that role. Sidhu resigned from the BJP in 2016 and after almost joining the Aam Aadmi Party, moved to the Congress. He is believed to be close to Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi, a proximity he has not been shy about advertising. All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, on June 24, stated that the Congress president would take a decision on the issues by July 8-10. While Sidhu is back in Patiala, his continued attacks on the chief minister and the state government on the ongoing power crisis and power purchase agreements (PPAs) have left some of his party colleagues confounded and some of them are apprehensive about the rift worsening in case there is no quick decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-amarinder-to-meet-sonia-today-amid-punjab-infighting-101625510830680.html
06-07-2021||India||Govt paves way for ecotourism in forest areas; experts remain wary||The National Board for Wildlife has approved ‘Guidelines on Ecotourism in Forest and Wildlife Areas 2021’ in its latest meeting held on June 11 making way for ecotourism projects inside notified forest areas.Minutes of the NBWL meeting published on the union environment ministry’s Parivesh website last week stated that the ministry had held all consultations regarding the guidelines following which it had been finalised. A list of protected areas where ecotourism can be developed has also been appended to the guidelines. The guidelines are however not in public domain yet.After listening to the salient features of the ecotourism guidelines, NBWL approved them. In a NBWL meeting dated March 8, 2021 the ministry had briefed NBWL that these guidelines are aimed at promoting better understanding of nature and wildlife conservation while generating income and opportunities for the local communities in an “ecologically, culturally and economically sustainable manner.”The objectives of the guidelines include promotion of low impact nature tourism, traditional ecological knowledge and heritage values of India’s wilderness, engagement of local communities in nature tourism, partnerships amongst various stakeholders and finally enhancing the potential of India as a “global eco-tourism destination.”The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee during one of its meetings in February eased norms for ecotourism projects by allowing them to build “non-permanent” structures in protected areas without permission from the central government. This was also to facilitate eco-tourism opportunities in notified forest and wildlife reserves. The FAC had decided that only construction of permanent structures will be considered to be “non-forestry” activity and require prior approval of the central government but no central government approval is required for other ecotourism activities involving non-permanent constructions.Environmental and wildlife experts had raised several concerns with a boost to ecotourism in sensitive forest areas. Ecotourism activities can include creation of temporary or permanent infrastructure which can cause fragmentation of forest areas as well as can disturb both livelihood use and areas important for wildlife, they had said. There has been no public consultation on these guidelines yet.“These guidelines have been in the pipeline for three years now. What has come out after consulting various legal and wildlife experts is not as radical as we had expected. But what we can say for now is that the guidelines are to benefit locals. There is likely to be some provisions of benefit sharing with forest management committees. It will help their economic condition and generate revenue as well,” said a senior environment ministry official who declined to be quoted.Meanwhile the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change have jointly decided to give more powers to the tribal communities in managing the forest resources, a statement from MoEFCC said. A joint statement to this effect will be released on Tuesday. Tribal Affairs minister, Arjun Munda and environment minister, Prakash Javadekar will make the statement on effective implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006.An ecotourism policy should not create the justification to fragment ecologically sensitive habitats and extinguish existing use rights. It also cannot be designed to merely monetise nature for exclusionary, extractive and elite tourism. We live in a post covid, climate change compromised world, which no policy affecting natural resource use, including for tourism and recreation, can ignore,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-paves-way-for-ecotourism-in-forest-areas-experts-remain-wary-101625510770660.html
06-07-2021||India||Afghanistan to top agenda as Jaishankar visits Moscow||The rapidly deteriorating situation in Afghanistan and several upcoming high-level meetings, including the annual India-Russia Summit, are expected to top the agenda when external affairs minister S Jaishankar visits Moscow this week. Russia sees India as an important player for formulating a coordinated response to the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have significantly stepped up attacks in recent weeks and captured key districts in different parts of the country. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Though there has been no formal announcement about Jaishankar’s visit, he is expected to be in Moscow later this week, the people said. Jaishankar had visited Russia in September last year to attend a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). In addition to the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan, Jaishankar’s meetings with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov and other interlocutors are expected to focus on upcoming meetings between the two sides, including the annual India-Russia Summit, a meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation in Delhi in August, and a meeting of the inter-governmental commission on military and military-technical cooperation in Moscow in November. Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow is a follow-up to the trip by Lavrov to New Delhi in April. The two sides are also expected to discuss cooperation in areas such as trade, defence, hydrocarbons, nuclear energy and India’s participation in the development of Russia’s Far East region.The annual summit, which couldn’t be held last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to be held in the second half of 2021, the people said. “The two sides will discuss all bilateral and international developments, including the most vital and current issues such as Afghanistan. The developments in Afghanistan are being seen as huge concerns,” said one of the people cited above. “There is scope for India and Russia to cooperate both bilaterally and through multilateral platforms. The situation in Afghanistan is a concern for everyone and Russia sees India as an important partner on the Afghan issue,” the person added. Russia is particularly concerned about an increase in instability in Afghanistan and the fallout on the Central Asian states, especially Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, which share borders with the war-torn country. “Instability in Afghanistan would be dangerous for the region and there is also the fear of a surge in refugees. This would pose an immediate security challenge to the Central Asian countries,” the person cited above said. Amid reports on Monday of more than 1,000 Afghan troops fleeing into Tajikistan following clashes with the Taliban, Russia is also looking at mounting a coordinated and joint response with the Central Asian states through the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), a collective security arrangement that includes Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. The Taliban have stepped up violence and targeted attacks against the backdrop of the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan. India has repeatedly expressed concern at the surge in violence and called for a comprehensive ceasefire and the preservation of the democratic system built up in Afghanistan over the past two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-to-top-agenda-as-jaishankar-visits-moscow-101625510710654.html
06-07-2021||India||SC expresses anguish over failure to follow disability law||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its “anguish” over what it called attempts by “all governments and institutions” to deprive people with disabilities of their rights under the disability law.“This has been our experience for decades as judges. Irrespective of dispensation, all governments, and all authorities have always tried their best to defeat the objective of the disability law. Nobody wants to make ways for the disabled,” regretted the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta.The bench was hearing an appeal by a consortium of Catholic school management and Catholic institutions of higher education in Kerala against the high court decision to appoint disabled candidates as teachers in their schools under the disability law.In February this year, the high court told the management to calculate posts for the disabled candidates since 1996 and earmark four posts for each year.The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 provides that all government educational institutions and other educational institutions receiving aid from the government shall reserve at least 3% seats for persons with disabilities.Senior advocate V Giri, appearing for a group of Catholic educational institutions, expressed “practical” difficulties in complying with the judgment of the high court and said that apart from the fiscal liability, the creation of these many posts was also not possible.But the bench was unmoved by these submissions. “We are anguished by your submissions. You are an educational institution and you are still doing this. Don’t you receive funds from the government? The government must stop giving you money if you cannot comply with the law,” it retorted.The court added: “First, the Centre and states tried to defeat the law by saying there are no promotional posts. Then they create some posts in grade 3 and grade 4 and argue there are no posts in the upper grades. Now, even in teaching jobs, you don’t want to accommodate them. This is very unfair. Why it is so much difficult to accommodate people with disabilities?”On his part, Giri reiterated that the high court’s direction was to fill up the vacancies since 1996. “We don’t have these many posts. There have to be four posts for each year as per the high court order. We have also moved our representation with the state government,” the senior counsel said.The bench, however, told Giri that had the management been complying with the requirement of the disabilities law from the beginning, such a situation could have been averted. “This is all your mistake. You did not want to accommodate them. We are not going to interfere with the high court order. We are going to pass a detailed order rejecting your petition,” it said.With the writing on the wall, Giri opted to withdraw the petition, saying the consortium would rather approach the state government.At this, the bench recorded in its order that it was “disappointed and anguished” at the appeal filed by the petitioner, who has chosen to withdraw the appeal since the Supreme Court was not inclined to entertain the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-expresses-anguish-over-failure-to-follow-disability-law-101625510651335.html
06-07-2021||India||‘If you don’t like toolkit, ignore it’: SC junks plea for probe||ReutersThe Supreme Court on Monday rejected a demand for a probe into the alleged “toolkit”, labelling such material as propaganda by a political party that can be ignored by those who disagree with it.“This is part of political chaff, the political propaganda of a political party. If you do not like the toolkit, ignore it,” observed a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah, declining to entertain a petition filed by a lawyer, Shashank Shekhar Jha.The controversy over a toolkit, essentially a media outreach and social campaign document, erupted in May when Bharatiya Janata Party leaders tweeted a copy of the document, which the party said, was prepared by the Congress to build a biased narrative against the Narendra Modi government for its handling of Covid and the Central Vista project. The Congress claimed the toolkit was forged.Jha wanted a federal investigating agency such as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the role of the Congress and ascertain whether offences under sedition, criminal conspiracy or offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act were made out by the release of the alleged toolkit. If the charges were established, the petition wanted the Election Commission to suspend Congress’ registration.In his public interest litigation (PIL), Jha also wanted the top court to restrain political parties from putting up hoardings that show the country or the government in poor light, ban the use of images of funerals, dead bodies and calling out one religion for the spread of the coronavirus disease in the country.The bench found the petition to be vague and the prayers in it “frivolous”.“India is a democracy. Such kind of general orders cannot be passed. People who are aggrieved have other remedies (to lodge criminal cases) under law,” observed the bench. Jha eventually withdrew the petition.“These are general directions you are seeking. The time of the Supreme Court is taken away by these frivolous petitions. You come with some specific case,” the bench said, referring to Jha’s request to pass a general order that barred hoardings that affect the image of India or the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-don-t-like-toolkit-ignore-it-sc-junks-plea-for-probe-101625510650698.html
06-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy: Champion of tribal rights who spent his last months in prison||Stan Swamy was born in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirapalli town in 1937 and travelled the world as a Jesuit priest before settling down and building a centre outside Ranchi to work for tribal rights.Swamy, 84, first travelled to Jharkhand in 1956 as a trainee cleric but got more involved in working with the local tribespeople in 1991. He helped tribal people fight illegal capture of their lands, filing claims and records and worked for the release of young tribal people from prison.“Stan worked to light the world and do away with injustice,” Jerome Stanislaus D’souza, the president of Jesuits in India, said in a statement.The 84-year-old Swamy died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in an early morning raid at his non-governmental organisation (NGO) Bagaicha, on the outskirts of Ranchi, on October 9 last year.He was charged with being a member of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and being involved in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in the Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018. Swamy denied the charges.“Father Stan was a silent campaigner for poor tribals,” recalled his old associate and human right activist Xavier Dias. His close friend and colleague PM Tony said, “I know he was a very strong man from within and would have lived for another 15 years had he not been arrested.”Bagaicha was established by Swamy in 2006 to conduct research to improve tribal lives and ensure welfare of the youth.“His idea of life was so inspirational. He has worked tirelessly for tribals and youths in Jharkhand for several decades. I have come across very few people like him,” said Siraj Dutta, an activist who worked with Swamy.“Bagaicha transformed into an institution of research for the causes of tribals and youth. His study on undertrials in jails of Jharkhand was one of the major highlights,” added Siraj. The study, a 2016 publication, showed that the percentage of tribals in jail was far higher than their share of the population.Former chief information commissioner of India, Wajahat Habibullah, condoled Swamy.“He was a man, who was simple and without ambition. Perhaps, it is liberation as he has to suffer travails of indignity and humiliation. All of this he stood up to.”Noted economist Jean Dreze, who worked in close association with Swamy, said it was a sad day. “He was a symbol of injustice being done to undertrials in the country. Sadly, he himself become an under trial,” Dreze said. “Stan was a wonderful human being and an exemplary citizen. His death is the culmination of a series of acts of abominable cruelty,” he added.Political leaders paid tribute to the activist. “Shocked to learn about the demise of father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration,” Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted.“I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights,” said European Union special representative for human rights, Eamon Gilmore.“Heartbreaking: Death of Indian prisoner Father Stan Swamy after he got COVID,” said Nadine Maenza, chair of US Commission on International Religious Freedom.“The news from India today is devastating. Human rights defender & Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy has died in custody,” said Mary Lawlor, United Nations special rapporteur for human rights defenders.(With inputs from New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stan-swamy-champion-of-tribal-rights-who-spent-his-last-months-in-prison-101625510590691.html
06-07-2021||India||18 children die of post-Covid complications in Rajasthan in 2 months||Jaipur: Eighteen children have died in the past two months because of post-Covid complications in Rajasthan because of a rare inflammatory disease whose cause is not yet very clear, doctors have said.Seventeen of these deaths occurred at J K Lone hospital in Jaipur due to multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). The hospital, which is the biggest in Rajasthan for children, received 155 such cases.Dr Ashok Gupta, in charge of the Centre of Rare Disease, Department of Pediatrics, SMS Medical College, Jaipur, said MIS-C is a rare complication characterised by fever, inflammation, and multi-organ dysfunction that typically manifests two weeks after a child has been cured of Covid-19.He said in the second wave, many children got exposed to Covid-19 and all were mostly asymptomatic. “The parents aren’t aware of this disease and delay in timely treatment intensifies it,” he said.According to the US’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the cause of MIS-C is not known but it is believed to be an excessive immune response to Covid-19. “However, we know that many children with MIS-C had the virus that causes Covid-19, or had been around someone with Covid-19. MIS-C can be serious, even deadly, but most children who were diagnosed with this condition have gotten better with medical care,” a CDC advisory to parents read.Gupta said the symptoms include high fever for over 24 hours, skin rashes, stomachache, faster heart rate, breathing difficulty, and swelling on hands, lips, and face, etc.He also said that most of those affected by MIS-C had Covid antibodies, which meant that the children were Covid-19 infected. The disease is diagnosed through antibody tests, inflammatory markers, and clinical presentation. “Early diagnosis and treatment are the only cure of MIS-C,” Gupta added.At AIIMS, Jodhpur, around two dozen cases of MIS-C and a death have been reported.Dr Kuldeep Singh, the head of the paediatric department at Jodhpur Medical College, said MIS-C is happening in the age-group of 1-18 years. “When the immunity level increases, the antibodies that develop after Covid-19 infection start attacking blood vessels and tissues,” Singh said, adding that the impact of MIS-C is seen after three to six weeks.Pointing out similarities between MIS-C and Kawasaki, another inflammatory disease in children that attacks coronary arteries, Singh said it is easily treatable if diagnosed early.Other experts say that the probability of children getting MIS-C in the second wave of the pandemic is higher.According to a sero survey conducted in Pune, 70% of the children in the age-group of 6-12 years had Covid antibodies, which showed that they had been infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-children-die-of-post-covid-complications-in-raj-in-2-months-101625510533853.html
06-07-2021||India||Several examples of 66(A) being used despite being struck down||In 2013, Mohd Sakir was booked under section 66(A) of the Information Technology Act, which states that electronically sent offensive messages may be punished with upto three years in jail. Two years later, the Supreme Court struck down the section for being “draconian” but Sakir’s case continued to be heard in the Tis Hazari court in Delhi. He would go on to deposit ₹2,000 against the cancellation of a non-bailable warrant, even as the law he was booked under was deemed unconstitutional.In Karnataka, an even more interesting case was unfolding. Not only was Dilip Shetty charged under 66(A), he was also acquitted. The final order was issued in February this year, six years after the trial began. “As a result, the accused, though enlarged on bail and ultimately acquitted, underwent a trial for over six years, at a significant personal cost to their liberty and cost to the state in terms of judicial time and resources,” a petition by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), a human rights and civil liberties organisation along with digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation notes.For Shekhar Rahul Nikam in Nashik Maharashtra, section 66(A) was invoked for “offensive messages” sent in 2010. The charges were framed in 2020. The case is at the evidence stage.Sakir’s case is pending before the Tis Hazari court, even though the state appellant submitted that the provision has been struck down. “More shockingly, it is clear from order dated 03.09.2019 that the Ld. APP for the State himself submitted that such provision had been struck down by this Hon’ble Court. However, the Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate nevertheless issued a nonbailable warrant against the accused on the basis that it appeared that the accused was deliberately not appearing before the Court,” the PUCL petition adds. The case was listed for hearing as recently as January 28.Even six years after it was scrapped by the apex court for being “draconian and unconstitutional”, section 66(A) of the information technology continues to be used by law enforcement agencies to charge people for “offensive messages”, data collated by digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation and Civic Data Labs shows.The most number of cases under it were registered in Maharashtra (381), followed by Jharkhand (291), Uttar Pradesh (245) and Rajasthan (192). A total of 1307 cases have been registered under the section since 2015 , despite it being declared void. The data has been gathered using the online E-Courts portal alone, as no government agency such as the National Crime Records Bureau collects data in this regard, according to IFF. Section 66(A) criminalized messages sent in form of text, audio, video, images or any other electronic record that were considered “grossly offensive” or had a “menacing character”. It was punishable with up to three years imprisonment.Even though the section was struck down in March 2015, 332 cases were filed the same year. In 2016, 216 cases were registered. This became 290 in 2017, 318 in 2018, 253 in 2019 and 34 until February 2020. The data has been collected for Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal .A Supreme Court bench comprising of Justice RF Nariman, Justice KM Joseph and Justice BR Gavai on Monday came down heavily on the Centre for allowing cases be filed under the section. Appearing for the union government attorney general KK Venugopal sought to explain why Section 66A is still being used. “On perusal of the IT act, it can be seen that Section 66A features in it but in the footnote, it is written that the section has been scrapped. So, now when a police officer has to register a case, he sees the section and registers the case without going through the footnote,” he explained. The government has been given two weeks to respond.Tanmay Singh, Associate Litigation Counsel at the Internet Freedom Foundation said that the problem is fairly widespread. “It has been suggested that the section can be deleted entirely, to reinforce (the fact) in the minds of the police and prosecuting authority,” Singh said. “Another way to ensure the section is not used is to reach out to the last authority. It is clear is that is a widespread problem. The data gathering exercise was expensive and time consuming.”He added that even after the 2015 judgment, the number of cases has soared. “The data gathering exercise was conducted for only 11 states. We have also asked for data.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3several-examples-of-66-a-being-used-despite-being-struck-down-101625510533292.html
06-07-2021||India||CBI files fresh case in project started by SP govt, raids 40 places||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday carried out raids at 40 locations in Uttar Pradesh after registering its second case to probe alleged irregularities in Lucknow’s Gomti riverfront development project initiated in 2015 by the then Samajwadi Party (SP) government led by Akhilesh Yadav, people familiar with the development said.The fresh First Information Report (FIR) named 16 public servants, including former chief engineers, superintending engineers, and other public servants of UP’s irrigation department, and 173 private persons and companies.A CBI official said searches were carried out at 40 locations across 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh including Lucknow, Agra, Ghaziabad apart from one place each in Rajasthan’s Alwar and West Bengal capital Kolkata after registering the FIR on 2 July.The project involved the construction of a rubber dam to maintain its water level, a stadium, an amphitheatre for 2,000 people, cycle and jogging tracks, a play area for children, and a musical fountain.Once completed, the SP government promised that the project with its 33-acre green belt on both banks would place the Gomti riverfront on par with River Singapore. The project, counted by Akhilesh Yadav as one of the big-ticket projects of his administration back then, also envisaged a light-water-sound show, like the one outside Bellagio in Las Vegas.To be sure, CBI has not named former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav or any other politician in the FIR.Akhilesh Yadav has not reacted to the second FIR.But his party questioned the timing of the FIR, describing the investigation “as a facade to malign the image of the previous SP government” ahead of the assembly elections early next year.“...the question remains why this hullabaloo when UP Vidhan Sabha elections are fast approaching. Investigation cannot be used as a political ploy to divert the attention of people from pressing issues. We want free and fair investigation but this government is only interested in political vendetta,” said SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi.UP minister and government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said the CBI searches indicate “misdeeds” of the previous Samajwadi Party government. “We requested CBI earlier to speed up its probe in such scams. CBI is a central agency and works in its style,” the minister said, according to the news agency PTI.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath first recommended the CBI probe in July 2017 after a three-member panel headed by retired high court judge Alok Kumar Singh appointed soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s spectacular win in March 2017 detected several alleged irregularities. This panel found that only 60% of work had been carried out despite an expenditure of ₹1,435 crore (95% of project cost) on the project.The first case was registered by the central agency in November 2017, in which a charge sheet was filed in February this year. In this, the agency probed 12 works worth ₹1,031 crore.The new FIR filed by CBI focuses on a total of 661 works/contracts worth ₹407 crore awarded under the development project. The Enforcement Directorate too is investigating money laundering charges in the project.“Maximum expenditure i.e. ₹1,350 crore out of ₹1,437 (spent so far) have been incurred on works awarded against the tenders issued by superintending engineer level and executive engineer level. These works include 208 agreements/works against 37 Notice Inviting Tenders (NITs). Out of these 37 NITs, the payment for agreements against 2 NITs was not made from the Gomti riverfront project and no agreement was done,” the FIR said, citing findings of its preliminary inquiry.HT has reviewed the FIR.According to the FIR, there were 25 instances where irrigation department officials forged documentation in the files to claim that the notice inviting tenders (NIT) were published in newspapers and that bids were received. CBI found that firms that were, according to the records, supposed to have sent their bids, insisted they did not send any.“In 5 NITs, which were published in newspapers, alleged competitive bidders L2/L3 have denied purchase/submission of tender documents. In 27 direct supply orders and 2 selection bonds, the tender norms were not followed and supply orders/selection bonds were issued to suspect beneficiary firms/companies,” the FIR said.Among those named by CBI in the FIR are former executive engineer Roop Singh Yadav, former superintending Engineer Mangal Yadav, ex-chief engineers Siddh Narayan Sharma and Om Verma, and then executive engineer Arvind Singh Yadav.The new FIR also names a French company based in Strasbourg, which was given the contract for supply and design of an international standard musical fountain water show at the riverfront in Lucknow. The FIR says the contract was given on a quotation basis though documents were forged in the department’s records to claim that a tender was floated. Officials also issued the supply order without getting the requisite approvals. The FIR says the firm has already been paid 5.59 lakh Euros ( ₹4.62 crore).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fresh-case-in-project-started-by-sp-govt-raids-40-places-101625510410653.html
06-07-2021||India||TMC team meets President seeking S-G’s removal||A two-member Trinamool Congress (TMC) delegation met President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday in New Delhi and sought the removal of solicitor general Tushar Mehta for alleged misconduct and impropriety, the party announced at a press conference. TMC had earlier sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the same reason in which it had alleged that Mehta, the Union government’s second highest law officer, met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Nandigram in West Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari, who is also an accused in the 2016 Narada sting tapes case that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been investigating. Mehta is representing CBI in the case in Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court. “The meeting was not only biased and there was a conflict of interest, but the SG also allowed an accused to come to his residence and have a meeting. The TMC has demanded the immediate resignation of the SG on grounds of gross misconduct and impropriety, failing which we hope the President will investigate and take action,” said Mahua Moitra, TMC’s Lok Sabha MP who was part of the delegation that also had MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. They presented a memorandum to the President demanding Mehta’s removal. While both Mehta and Adhikari have denied meeting each other at the SG’s residence in Delhi on July 1, TMC upped the ante on Monday and said that the SG should reveal CCTV footage to support his claim. “Even after 72 hours, Mr Tushar Mehta, Hon’ble SG of India, has failed to release the 20 mins of CCTV footage of his OWN HOUSE to corroborate his OWN STATEMENT. Mr SG, with such weak defence you can continue serving as @BJP4India’s SECRET GENERAL, not INDIA’S SOLICITOR GENERAL,” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. Mehta had said on Friday that Adhikari, the leader of opposition in West Bengal, came to his residence-cum-office in Delhi at 3pm on July 1, but left without meeting him as he was preoccupied. “The SG in his statements said he was busy and hence could not meet Adhikari. Adhikari went there without prior appointment. How did he enter the SG’s house and sit there for 30 minutes without the SG’s approval? This means any accused in a CBI case can enter the SG’s residence unannounced and have tea for 30 minutes,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, TMC’s chief whip in Rajya Sabha. BJP hit back at TMC, saying that chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not reading the people’s verdict right. The party’s West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh said the people of the state want Banerjee to be removed. “TMC’s slogan in the assembly election was ‘Bengal wants its own daughter’. But Mamata Banerjee lost the polls, and it is now proved that Bengal doesn’t want her. But she still became the CM through the back door,” Ghosh said, adding that the state government should instead talk about holding civic elections that are pending. The solicitor general is appointed for a period of three years by the Appointment Committee of Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister. SG’s office and duties are governed by Law Officers (Conditions of Service) Rules, 1987, and it is thus a statutory post. An SG can resign before the end of tenure and upon acceptance of his/her resignation, the ACC can appoint a new SG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-team-meets-president-seeking-s-g-s-removal-101625510292002.html
06-07-2021||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s son joins TMC, lauds Mamata for ‘stopping BJP’||Abhijit Mukherjee, a former Congress Lok Sabha member from West Bengal and son of late President Pranab Mukherjee, joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Kolkata on Monday. “Mamata Banerjee stopped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bengal. I feel that under her leadership this may become possible in India. I am joining the TMC as a primary member. Had I done so earlier (before state assembly polls), people would have thought that I have an eye on some prime position. They cannot do so now. Let the TMC utilise me in whatever way it wants. I am still active,” Mukherjee, 61, said at the TMC headquarters after joining the party on Monday afternoon. He was welcomed into the TMC by state minister Partha Chatterjee and party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandopadhyay. Chatterjee said Mukherjee had approached the chief minister through her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. “I am grateful to Mamata Didi and Abhishek Babu for letting me in,” said Mukherjee. Though Mukherjee was not a leader of high stature in the Congress, his leaving was seen as a blow to the party. However, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “It is not a question about the Congress getting strong or weak. He is the son of the great Pranab Mukherjee. He must have thought that joining another party is the right thing to do. I don’t want to comment on his decision.” Mukherjee said, “I left my job and joined the Congress in 2011. My father never asked me to join politics. He left the decision to me. I was not holding any post in the Congress. I don’t even know whether my membership in the party has been renewed.” Before 2011, Mukherjee worked for Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Maruti Udyog Limited and the Steel Authority of India as a corporate executive. He became an MLA from Nalhati in Birbhum district in 2011 when the TMC came to power by ending the Left Front’s 34-year-long regime. The TMC and Congress had contested the elections as allies. “My victory from Nalhati became possible entirely because of the anti-Left storm Mamata Banerjee raised in 2011. I had no role to play in that,” said Mukherjee. He subsequently won the Jangipur Lok Sabha seat in Murshidabad district in the 2012 by-poll after his father vacated the seat. He won the seat again in 2014 general elections. Mukherjee lost the Jangipur seat in 2019 to TMC’s Khalilur Rahaman. On Monday, he thanked some TMC leaders in Murshidabad for inspiring him to join the ruling party. Mukherjee’s sister, Sharmistha, is a Congress leader in Delhi. He did not want to comment on her.Sharmistha, however, expressed her disapproval by tweeting one word, “SAD!!!” at 4.34 pm. The siblings made their differences public in December last year when publishing house Rupa wanted to publish the late President’s final volume of memoirs. While Abhijit Mukherjee demanded that the publication be stopped until he approves the final manuscript, his sister took to Twitter to declare that not only was the book approved by their father but also that Abhijeet should refrain from “cheap publicity”. Pranab Mukherjee was admitted to a hospital on August 10 last year for a surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he fell down at his Rajaji Marg residence in Delhi. The senior Congress leader, who served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017, also tested positive for Covid-19 at the same time. Mukherjee died on August 31 at the age of 84.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-son-joins-tmc-lauds-mamata-for-stopping-bjp-101625510230662.html
06-07-2021||India||Govt procures record 43.3mn tonne of wheat in a year||The Union government has procured a record 43.3 million tonne of winter-sown wheat this year, the highest ever, compared to 38.9 million tonne in the previous season, covering 4.5 million farmers, food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Monday.Procurement refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at minimum support prices, or MSP, from growers. Procured grains are then held as federally owned stocks before being distributed through the public distribution system to beneficiaries of subsidised food under the National Food Security Act, 2013.In all, farmers were paid a total MSP of ₹84,369 crore, the top official said, adding that both the quantity procured and MSP paid stood at an all-time highs.MSP is a federally determined floor price aimed at avoiding distress sale and signalling a benchmark price for private traders. MSPs are mostly effective in the case of rice and wheat crops as these commodities are procured by the government in sufficiently large quantities.According to data from food ministry, higher quantities were bought from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and hill states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand in the current season.Farmers in Punjab gained the most, having been paid ₹26,103 crore, followed by Madhya Pradesh at ₹25,205 crore and Haryana at ₹16,706 crore.The previous record in wheat procurement was 38.9 million tonne during the 2020-21 procurement season that runs from April to March.Procurement of paddy also stood at a record 86.2 million tonne. “Total paddy procurement should reach 90 million tonne,’’ said Food Corporation of India chairman Atish Chandra.The 70th round of National Sample Survey 2012-13 had showed that only 32.2% of paddy farmers and 39.2% of wheat growers in the country were aware of MSPs. The survey also showed that only 13.5% of paddy farmers actually benefited from MSP, while only 16.2% growers sold their produce to government procurement agencies at MSP prices.“Procurement and the reach of procurement drives have surely gone up since the 2012-13 survey. However, in many states, procurement is still not robust. The government should expand to areas where it traditionally doesn’t procure much to benefit more and more farmers,” said economist RS Mani, who was formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.According to latest available agriculture ministry data reviewed by HT, the progress in kharif sowing till June 25 lags last year’s levels. On June 25 this year, the total summer-sown area stood at 20.2 million hectares. This is 21% lower than last year’s 25.8 million hectare during the corresponding period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-procures-record-43-3mn-tonne-of-wheat-in-a-year-101625510111284.html
06-07-2021||India||NCPCR asks J&K Police to file case against Twitter||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday asked Jammu and Kashmir director general of police Dilbag Singh to file a case against Twitter on charges of “encouraging people to involve children into terrorism”, citing a video on the micro-blogging platform that shows a child firing in the air.In a letter, the commission also asked the police to identify the 4-5 men seen encouraging the child to use the gun in the video and trace its origin. The panel alleged the video was posted by “terrorist supporters”.NCPCR chief Priyank Kanoongo’s letter said such videos were designed “to instigate and encourage people to involve children in terrorist activities and make them child soldiers”.It added that the commission has been informed that Twitter is allowing organizations like Ansar Ghazwat-Ul-Hind, a militant group operating in Kashmir, to operate against India and “carry out recruitment activities by using children”.HT has reviewed Priyank Kanoongo’s letter.“The posting of such videos on Twitter is also a matter of concern due to the fact that Twitter’s policy permits children … to use and access Twitter and the commission is under the apprehension that such posts would have an adverse impact on children,” the NCPCR chief said, seeking strict action against the company. Twitter requires people using the service to be at least 13 years of age.Twitter did not respond to a request for its reaction to the letter.Kanoongo said Twitter’s “tolerance to such content” is in violation of the rules and asked for an FIR to be registered against the company’s top executives including Manish Maheshwari.There was no word from the J&K Police on its next steps in this case.Twitter has already been summoned by the Ghaziabad police over its role in amplifying a video that allegedly misrepresented an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime, and faces a bunch of police complaints about a wrong map of India on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-asks-j-k-police-to-file-case-against-twitter-101625510050619.html
06-07-2021||India||Six-year-old girl raped, killed by minor in MP: Police||A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by a minor boy in Ambha town of Morena district, 440 km north of Bhopal, police said on Monday.Police are trying to apprehend the 16-year-old boy, a Class 10 student, said Lalit Shakywar, superintendent of police, Morena.“On Monday afternoon, the girl’s family filed a complaint with police that she went to purchase bread from a nearby shop and had not returned till afternoon. Police checked CCTV cameras installed near the shop. In one of the footage, the girl was seen going to the house of the accused, where he used to live alone,” the SP added.“In the CCTV footage, the accused was seen going out on a bicycle. When (the girl’s) family members and police reached the home of the accused, they found it locked. Police called the accused’s grandfather, who lives in a nearby village. The grandfather opened the lock with a duplicate key. The girl was found wrapped in a piece of cloth,” Shakywar said.A team of forensic experts and doctors confirmed that the girl was raped, the SP added.Heavy police force has been deployed in the area as family members of the girl along with people from their community were staging protests, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sixyearold-girl-raped-killed-by-minor-in-mp-police-101625509992211.html
06-07-2021||India||Acts of indiscipline inside Parliament, state assemblies can’t be condoned: SC||New Delhi: Acts of indiscipline inside Parliament and the state assemblies cannot be condoned, the Supreme Court on Monday said, taking a strict view of a March 2015 incident in which four former and two current members of the Kerala legislative assembly created a ruckus while protesting the presentation of the annual finance budget.“This kind of behaviour is unacceptable,” said a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah, pointing to the unruly behaviour by the legislators, including climbing on to the Speaker’s dais, throwing microphones, and destroying public property worth over ₹2.2 lakh. “Such kinds of incidents are increasing, and they are happening even in Parliament. We can’t condone the behaviour of MLAs who disrupt the House by throwing the mic and destroying public property,” the bench observed.The court was hearing separate appeals filed by the six current and former legislators and the state against a Match 12 order of the Kerala high Court, which refused to go with the decision taken by the public prosecutor to withdraw the cases against the six current and former MLAs – KT Jaleel, V Sivankutty, CK Sadasivan, EP Jayarajan, K Ajith and Kunjammadu Master, all members of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) alliance.The comments by the top court could lead to trouble for Jaleel and Sivankutty, who are members of the Kerala assembly, and Sivankutty is also the state’s Education Minister. The case against them was lodged under sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (causing mischief) of the Indian Penal Code. They were also booked under Section 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984which is punishable with a maximum sentence of five years. If they are convicted, and the sentence awarded is more than two years, the MLAs would have to undergo disqualification proceedings under the Representation of Peoples Act.Holding a prima facie view in favour of the high court, the top court said, “We must ensure some modicum of decorum is maintained in legislative bodies. These are sentinels of democracy. They are MLAs, and they represent the people. What is the message being given that my MLA is behaving in this manner? They have to face trial. There cannot be any deference to such kind of behaviour.”The incident in question took place on March 13, 2015. The case was investigated by Kerala Police, and a report submitted to the chief judicial magistrate, Thiruvananthapuram. After the trial court took cognisance of the charges, in 2019, Left Front government sought withdrawal of cases through the public prosecutor under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The chief judicial magistrate refused the withdrawal, a view that the Kerala high court later concurred with.The Kerala government, through senior advocate Ranjit Kumar relied on the privileges of MLAs and the immunity granted against criminal prosecution, for proceedings inside the House. “The MLAs in question were suspended for seven days. They have a right to protest and they protested against the tabling of Budget by the then finance Minister, who was corrupt,” said Kumar.The finance minister at the time was KM Mani, whose party, Kerala Congress (Mani), is a part of the present Left Democratic Front (LDF) government led by Pinarayi Vijayan.The Supreme Court bench asked the state: “What is the larger public interest in shielding MLAs who have disrupted the House proceedings and avoided presentation of Budget by the finance minister? Budget presentation is of utmost importance irrespective of the personality who is submitting it.” On the right to protest, the court refused to approve such manner of protest as it said, “Prima facie, we have to take a strict view of this kind of behaviour.” The matter has been posted to July 15 as the state requested for time to provide case laws in support of its arguments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acts-of-indiscipline-inside-parliament-state-assemblies-can-t-be-condoned-sc-101625509930613.html
06-07-2021||India||Opposition to take up fuel prices, Rafale in upcoming monsoon session||The Congress-led Opposition parties have identified a host of issues, including the economic situation and spiraling fuel prices, to demand debates in the upcoming Parliament session — the first full session since the 2019 Winter Session in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Senior leaders from the Congress and the Trinamool Congress, two key Opposition parties, told HT that the latest developments on Rafale deal, the government’s pandemic management including the vaccination strategy, and the role of Governors with an oblique reference to West Bengal, are other subjects on the Opposition list.The monsoon session, from July 19 to August 13, will function over 19 working days after previous three sessions were curtailed, and last year’s Winter session got scrapped. A vaccination drive that has covered most MPs and Parliament support staff, amid a slump in Covid cases, has raised hopes for a normal schedule.The Opposition expects two Short Duration discussions and as many Calling Attention debates. The Congress leader told HT: “Our priority would be the economic situation, job losses, price rise, and the government’s Covid management.” Another party leader added that with new developments in the Rafale deal, the Congress might be aggressive during the session to demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee inquiry.French online journal Mediapart reported on July 5 that a judge has been appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the ₹59,000 crore government-to-government Rafale deal with India for 36 fighter jets.For the Trinamool, a debate on the role of the Governor is a key priority in the context of the friction and uneasiness between its government led by Mamata Banerjee and the governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, said a senior party leader said.The Union government, too, has indicated that it will soon finalise its legislative agenda out of the 40 pending pieces of legislation and four ordinances that are in place now.Replacing the ordinances will be the top priority, but the government managers have indicated to some opposition leaders that The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) may be sent to a parliamentary panel for further review. Another ordinance, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, has already lapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-take-up-fuel-prices-rafale-in-upcoming-monsoon-session-101625509751683.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhi govt makes excise policy 2021-22 public||The state government on Monday made the city’s new excise policy public after the Delhi high court heard a petition over the government floating tenders to appoint new liquor retail licensees in the city without informing stakeholders or the general public about the details of the rules.The policy, however, made no mention about reducing the legal drinking age from 25 years to 21 years, one of the key changes that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia flagged when he announced the policy on March 22. Senior government officials said the matter, including reducing slashing the number of dry days, will be taken up separately in a special session of the Delhi Assembly.The Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22 was made public on the government’s website on Monday evening, even as the city’s liquor traders’ association, which filed the petition in the HC, questioned the delay in uploading the document.“The tenders for new retail licenses were floated on June 28 without making the excise policy public. The pre-bid meeting for all tenders was scheduled at 4pm today (Monday) and the document was still not uploaded till then. As a result, many stakeholders who were interested in bidding remained unaware of the finer details of the new policy. It was uploaded only after 6pm. The policy was ready and approved in May this year and yet the tenders were floated without letting people know of it. It took a HC hearing for them to finally upload it,” said Naresh Goyal, a retailer licensee and president of Delhi liquor traders association.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking comment.The new excise policy aims to introduce sweeping changes in the city’s liquor business, clean up malpractices, and improve user experience.It, among other things, envisages five new super-premium liquor shops for high-value products. It includes a rule that will need any liquor shop in the city to be at least 500 square feet in size. It gets rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allows buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice. For this, the shops have to be spacious, well lit and air-conditioned to allow customers a walk-in experience and must be under camera surveillance. Shop owners will have to ensure that liquor sale and pick-up takes place properly inside the shop premises and there is a proper order outside. It also allows home delivery of liquor in the Capital through websites and apps.As HT reported on July 1, the new rules will allow liquor shops in the Capital to offer discounts, enabling festive season offers of the kind that are usually seen around Diwali on vehicles, electronics, and gift items. HT reported this on July 1.In another first, the policy also introduces a new annual licence system enabling banquet halls, farmhouses, motels and other such party venues to serve liquor at events, like it is done in hotels. Also, the one-time P10 licence has now been revised from ₹5,000 to ₹10,000 for hosting in-house parties — a permit which is extensively applied for by the general public to serve alcohol in private parties hosted at home or any other non-licenced premise. HT reported this on March 24.On May 27, HT reported that the Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal cleared the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, and the draft Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, with some suggested tweaks. One of the amendments, suggested by the L-G and later approved by the Cabinet, included strengthening clauses aimed at preventing brand pushing and cartelisation by tightening checks not just on wholesalers, but also on retailers.Delhi currently has 849 liquor shops. These, however, are not equitably distributed across the city. The government, through the changes in the excise system, plans to keep the total number of vends intact, reshuffling them into 32 zones to ensure a more equitable distribution across 272 municipal wards in the city, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area and the airport.By exiting the retail liquor business and opening up the market, the Delhi government is hoping to increase its annual revenue by ₹1,500-2,000 crore from the existing ₹6,500 crore earned annually as excise income, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-makes-excise-policy-2021-22-public-101625508851110.html
06-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines could be 8 times less effective against Delta variant: Study||Delta variant of the coronavirus is eight times less sensitive to antibodies generated by vaccines against Covid-19 as compared to the original strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which was first detected in China's Wuhan, a study has found. This could mean the Covid-19 vaccines are eight times less effective on the Delta variant, or the B.1.617.2 strain which was first found in India, as compared to their effect on the original virus strain.According to news agency PTI, the study was conducted on more than 100 healthcare workers at three centres in India, including Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. The joint research, SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617.2 Delta Variant Emergence and Vaccine Breakthrough: Collective Study, was conducted by scientists from India and their counterparts from the Cambridge Institute of Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Disease. "Across all scenarios considered, our results suggest the Delta variant is both more transmissible and better able to evade prior immunity elicited by the previous infection as compared to previously circulating lineages," it said, according to PTI.The study said that a combination of evasion of neutralising antibodies in previously infected people, and increased virus infectivity resulting in the second wave is behind the dominance of the Delta variant in India, PTI reported. It also found that severe Covid-19 infection in fully vaccinated HCWs is "rare." However, the study termed as "concerning" cases of breakthrough transmission clusters in hospitals associated with the Delta variant. This, it said, means infection control measures need to stay even in a post-vaccination era.Analysing the recent data and the dominance of fresh infections due to this variant, the study concluded that the B.1.617.2 strain "appears to be more transmissible" than the B.1.617.1 found in the United Kingdom.The paper, however, also assured large-scale vaccination will likely protect against moderate to severe disease, and also reduce hospitalisations due to the Delta variant. Giving an example, it said the progression to severe disease and death was found to be "low" even in studies concerning the B.1351 strain, which, it said, is the variant with the least sensitivity to neutralising antibodies. Also known as the Beta variant, it has demonstrated lower protection for at least three Covid-19 vaccines, the paper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-could-be-8-times-less-effective-against-delta-variant-study-101625502029670.html
06-07-2021||India||CoWIN to go global, app will help fight virus: PM||on Monday offered India’s CoWIN app for Covid-19 vaccinations to countries around the world, saying technology is integral to the global fight against the pandemic. Addressing the CoWIN global conclave, during which India opened the platform to the world as a digital public good to combat Covid-19, Modi said there was no parallel to the pandemic in a hundred years, and experience had shown that no nation, no matter how powerful, could tackle a challenge such as this in isolation. “That’s why, our technology platform for Covid vaccination – the platform we call CoWIN – is being prepared to be made open source. Soon, it will be available to any and all countries,” he said. “Today’s conclave is the first step to introduce this platform to all of you. This is the platform through which India has administered 350 million doses of Covid vaccines,” he said, adding people no longer need to carry “fragile pieces of paper” as proof of vaccination. “It is all available in digital format. But best of all, the software can be customised to any country as per their local requirements,” he said. The external affairs ministry facilitated the participation of some 400 delegates from more than 140 countries in the virtual conclave. The participants included representatives from the European Commission and UN offices in India. Ministers from five countries – Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Afghanistan and Guyana – addressed the conclave, and senior international participants spoke during technical sessions. The ministers said this initiative could be useful for addressing health-related challenges in their countries and expressed interest in collaborating with India to use the CoWIN platform. Modi said the biggest lesson from the pandemic for humanity is that people have to “work together and move ahead together”, while learning from each other and guiding each other on best practices. “Right from the beginning of this pandemic, India has been committed to sharing all our experiences, expertise and resources with the global community in this battle. Despite all our constraints, we have tried to share as much as possible with the world,” he said. At the same time, India is eager to learn from global practices and “technology is integral to our fight against Covid-19”, Modi said. Software is an area in which there are no resource constraints and that is why India made Aarogya Setu, its Covid-19 tracing and tracking mobile app, open source as soon as it was technically feasible, he added. “With nearly 200 million users, this Aarogya Setu app is a readily available package for developers. Having been used in India, you can be sure that it has been tested in the real world for speed and scale,” he said. Modi described vaccination as the “best hope for humanity to emerge successfully from the pandemic”, and said India had adopted a completely digital approach while planning its vaccination strategy. “In today’s globalised world, if the post-pandemic world has to return to normalcy, such a digital approach is essential. After all, people must be able to prove that they have been vaccinated. Such proof must be safe, secure and trustworthy. People must also have a record of when, where and by whom they have been vaccinated,” he said. Governments are concerned about making sure that each dose of Covid-19 vaccines is tracked and wastage minimised, and all of this wouldn’t be possible without an “end-to-end digital approach”, he added. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, who also addressed the conclave, said the CoWIN platform can be adapted and scaled up for health interventions across the globe. “We stand ready to make the CoWIN platform available to our partner countries,” he said.RS Sharma, CEO, National Health Authority said, “With an interoperable design, CoWIN has been designed as an amalgamation of open APIs. This allows private and public organizations to build on top of the CoWIN platform, while all systems continue to talk to each other and maintain that single source.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-offers-cowin-platform-to-world-community-101625485329306.html
06-07-2021||India||Disappointed at outcome of Delhi meet, says PAGD||An alliance of mainstream political parties in Kashmir on Monday expressed disappointment at the outcome of a landmark all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi two weeks ago, and demanded that the Union government restore the region’s statehood before calling fresh elections. The five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) also criticised the lack of “confidence building measures” (CBM) by the Centre in its first reaction since the June 24 meeting in Delhi, where the Union government appeared to favour holding elections before granting statehood to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). The crucial meeting was the first outreach by the Union government since it controversially scrapped the region’s special status on August 5, 2019, bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union Territories (UT), detained mainstream political leaders for months and clamped a communications blackout. “All the members of PAGD expressed their disappointed at the outcome of the Delhi meeting, especially with the lack in CBMs, such as releasing political and other prisoners from jails, and taking steps to end the atmosphere of suppression. This would have initiated the much needed process of reaching out to the people of J&K who are the biggest stakeholders,” said PAGD spokesperson Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami in a statement. Tarigami, who attended the meeting as a representative of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) must honour its commitment -- made on the floor of Parliament on August 6 -- on granting statehood to J&K. “Any assembly election must be held only after restoration of full statehood for J&K. To this end, the PAGD has decided to reach out to other political parties in J&K with a view to take a common position on the issue,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said the PAGD has been changing its stand to keep themselves relevant in public. “Earlier, they said that unless Article 370 is restored, they won’t contest any election but they still contested the DDC polls. So this is also a ploy to keep themselves relevant after they realised that Article 370 isn’t coming back. They are now crying for statehood that has already been promised by Home Minister Amit Shah on the floor of Parliament.”The PAGD – which seeks the restoration of Article 370, which bestowed special status to J&K before being voided by the Centre -- said it will fight using constitutional, legal and political means to reverse the Centre’s decision.“The PAGD reiterated its commitment to fight together to reverse the unconstitutional and unacceptable changes foisted on the people of J&K on 5th August 2019 using all constitutional, legal and political means at its disposal. “The PAGD’s struggle for undoing these changes will continue as long as it takes while striving to achieve this objective as early as possible,” Tarigami said.The PAGD statement came after a late Sunday meeting at the residence of National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah, and attended by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, Tarigami, PDP lawmaker Hasnain Masoodi, J&K Peoples Movement chairman Javed Mustafa Mir andAwami National Conference vice-president Muzaffar Ahmed Shah. Abdullah, Mufti, Tarigami, Masoodi were among the 14 people who attended the June 24 meeting.At the three-hour event, Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah stressed on grassroots democracy and the importance of conducting elections in J&K, stating their commitment to restoring the region’s statehood, and urging mainstream leaders to participate in the ongoing delimitation exercise, a contentious process of redrawing poll constituencies. The all-party meeting – which happened after weeks of backchannel talks by national security adviser Ajit Doval and the home ministry -- represented a sharp change in the central government’s policy and was seen as an effort to break the ice with the regional parties and reset political process in the UT.But PAGD politicians indicated that crucial disagreements remained, especially on reinstating Article 370 and returning statehood before conducting assembly elections, which were last held in 2014. At the meeting, the Centre assured that the demand for full statehood will be met but Kashmiri politicians pushed for its restoration before new elections are held, said a person aware of developments. But the J&K leaders were told that elections could not precede the delimitation exercise as the 2019 Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act laid down the condition of carving out new constituencies for polls, said the person quoted above.Despite the overtures, NC and PDP were both non-committal on meeting the delimitation commission, which lands in Kashmir for a three-day visit on Wednesday. Both mainstream parties have boycotted the commission’s meetings so far. Three MPs from the region, NC’s Abdullah, PDP’s Masoodi and Akbar Lone, are members of the commission along with two BJP MPs from Jammu. The panel has until March 2022 to finish the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-happy-with-outcome-of-pm-s-all-party-meeting-on-j-k-pagd-101625470689438.html
06-07-2021||Today's||The central hysteria behind Central Vista||The resistance to the national Capital’s Central Vista redevelopment project by the anti-Narendra Modi galère exemplifies a key feature of Opposition politics and activism of the current era. It is simply de rigeur to oppose anything that Prime Minister (PM) Modi says or does, no matter what its merits, nor the logic or rationale behind it, and even if you have to contradict your own earlier stand on the subject.This has come to be the norm for several years among a certain category of Left-liberals, bereft of their decades-long grip on the levers of government. Even the last remaining Opposition members who had thus far at least attempted to sound reasonable, have now joined the mindless Modi-bashing clique over the Central Vista project.First, however, it is useful to examine the backdrop of the project. All through my 19 years in Parliament, I would see the many glaring safety deficits of the complex and wonder when tragedy would hit. Apart from safety and security concerns, it is also blindingly obvious that the complex is simply unsuitable for the functioning of any modern Parliament, let alone that of the largest democracy the world has ever seen.Also Read | Supreme Court refuses to stay HC order which allowed Central Vista work to go onTo take just one eye-popping example, this pre-Independence complex does not have offices for its members. Sure, there are a few rooms for ministers and committee chairpersons, but well over 90% of Members of Parliament (MPs) have no place to work from, let alone workspace for assistants. This is in stark contrast to all modern democracies, where legislators have offices for themselves and their often large teams, including highly qualified professionals. On each of the dozens of MP delegations I have led to other nations, every single one of my colleagues has commented on this aspect.Just three years ago, many among the Opposition complained about the lack of adequate space and individual rooms for MPs in the Indian Parliament. Even Speaker Meira Kumar had accorded approval for the need to build a new Parliament building.A big reason for our Parliament’s shortcomings was that it was not intended by the colonial rulers to be a full-fledged temple of democracy, but was rather a begrudging concession to the nationalist movement. Which is why additions had to be constructed in recent decades to accommodate pressing needs, such as the large Parliament Annexe complex, and the new Parliament library. In any event, the redevelopment of the Central Vista will preserve the grand colonial Parliament building as a symbol of our heritage.However, now the Opposition has been running a targeted campaign against the Central Vista redevelopment, resorting to logical fallacies such as claiming that funds allocated for the project should have been used for payment of the minimum support prices (MSP) for grains, for which some farmers have been agitating. Such false analogies seek to push disinformation about alleged waste during the pandemic. The two issues are not connected and, in fact, the Modi government has been ensuring MSP payment with unprecedented alacrity.Also Read | When a demolition drive destroys a villageThe reality is that funds have not been a constraint in tackling the Covid-19 crisis; the expenditure on the Central Vista during this period is only a small fraction of the project cost; and the thousands of direct and indirect jobs generated is exactly why public construction projects are needed in the current economic situation. It is for good reason that the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court described it as an “essential project of national importance” and dismissed pleas against it as “motivated” and “selective”.Some Opposition members make a concession to the need for offices for MPs, but their other demands are telling. For instance, couched in logic about the age and aesthetics of the buildings, without taking into account the overall design, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor recently opposed the planned demolition of Jawahar Bhavan, while saying he has no such compunction about the similar fate of Shastri Bhavan. Of course, the subtext of such preferences is no mystery to any observer of the Congress “darbari” culture, but, in this particular case, there is a much deeper angst among some about this project.In their claim that no one was consulted and falsely alleging that the expert opinion of architects and environmentalists has not been sought, the Opposition betrays the still scathing heartache of a dispossessed elite. It fits the classic analysis by Thomas Sowell, the nonagenarian doyen among western conservatives, that liberalism has decayed into doctrinal authoritarianism by an elite class of “the anointed”.These self-appointed elites, who consider themselves the moral, social and aesthetic high priests of society, cannot conceive that the hoi polloi might actually know what is good for themselves and for society.It is thus entirely understandable that “the anointed” among the Congress party believe that the native Modi’s marginalisation of the Lutyens’ elite will merely be a symbol of “governmentalism” and “not any great architecture of 21st century India”.They couldn’t be more wrong. All they have to do is compare the Parliament Annexe, a legacy of the Lutyens’ elite at the height of the Congress’s power, and a true symbol of their banal imagination, with the stunningly aesthetic Ahmedabad river front redevelopment by then chief minister Modi.Baijayant “Jay” Panda is national Vice-President, BJPThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-central-hysteria-behind-central-vista-101625569214795.html
06-07-2021||Today's||India’s armed services must prepare for reform||Defence reforms are tricky. With entrenched interests and bureaucratic rivalries, most nations struggle to bring in fundamental changes to their national security apparatus. India is no exception. The recent debate on the move towards theatre commands underscores the challenge that India faces as it seeks to rationalise its military assets to emerge as a more efficient fighting machine.For decades, reports have revealed the fundamental inefficiencies embedded in our military structures and processes. But when it came to taking decisions, status quo was the preferred mode of operation. And it was all blamed on a lack of political will.In the last few years, there has been a change and a slew of defence reforms have been brought in. More than at any other time in post-Independence India, there is a commitment to change the way the Indian defence forces are organised. While addressing the Combined Commanders Conference as far back as December 2015, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi underlined, “At a time when major powers are reducing their forces and rely more on technology, we are still constantly seeking to expand the size of our forces. Modernisation and expansion of forces at the same time is a difficult and unnecessary goal. We need forces that are agile, mobile and driven by technology, not just human valour.”Also Read | India’s civilian leadership must step upThe government kept its side of the bargain. It ushered in a range of reforms, including by appointing India’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and creating the department of military affairs (DMA). It gave a major push for indigenisation with a list of 101 defence items for which there is to be an import embargo.Encouraging greater private sector participation has resulted in a visible shift in India’s profile as a defence exporter. In a significant move first mooted decades ago to reform the functioning of the 41 ordnance factories across the country, the government also undertook corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board. Other reforms have ranged from energising defence research and development to the speedier enhancement of border infrastructure and opening up the gates of the Indian armed forces for women more substantively.These reforms have been undertaken at the time when the three services are also being asked to streamline their own structures and processes. The silo-driven approach to defence planning has resulted in the lack of an integrated view. The three services, as well as the civilian and defence agencies, are often seen to be working at cross purposes. Such an ad hoc approach has meant that more often than not, issues such as threat perception and force structure are not managed via a centralised and authoritative overview. Instead, individual services tend to be driving the agenda at their own levels.Since efficiency is at a premium in resource allocation, the CDS is expected to guide the government on personnel issues, training, budgetary priorities for each service and even logistical requirements for the services. A key step that the CDS has to undertake is encouraging the establishment of Integrated Theatre Commands (ITCs), which are essentially joint combatant commands. The CDS should push for this in consultation with the service chiefs, including the tri-service personnel within the CDS and the ministry of defence (MoD). They must be geared to guiding, constructing and planning.Commanders of ITCs can bring about efficiency if they have operational and some budgetary control over the forces under their command.One of the most vital changes that may come about, though, would be how the three arms of the Indian military operate with one another, not as individual services, but as the armed forces of the Union.There has been some criticism of this integration process, with suggestions that it might perpetuate the dominance of the army and give it greater operational control. The recent controversy over some of the statements of senior defence officials seems to indicate that the road forward is likely to be tough.Nowhere in the world have defence reforms come easily. Like all bureaucracies, the armed forces too have little incentive to change the status quo. The gold standard in defence reforms, the Goldwater-Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1986 of the United States (US), came about not because there was a bottom-up clamouring for reforms. Instead, the US Congress imposed this legislation on a department of defense that was riven with inter-services rivalry and had no real interest in moving towards jointness on their own. And the result of this imposition was the emergence one of the most joint militaries in the world.This landmark Act led to greater joint experience propelled by joint training and education.It is fashionable to suggest that there is a civil-military divide in India, leading to sub-optimal defence outcomes. That may very well be true. But before that can be addressed, it is important for the three services to address their own internal divide. They need to understand each other better before they can expect the civilians to understand them. And for that, our defence personnel should be trained and educated better. For far too long, our officers are being trained in their own silos, making them unable to comprehend other services and their roles.If there are any lessons to be learnt from the ongoing controversy on theatre commands, it is the urgent need for the military to introspect on how and why it got to a position where senior leaders in the services are unable to look at the nation’s challenges through a similar prism. At a time when the civilian leadership is determined to see the process of defence reforms through to its logical conclusion, it would be a pity if the problems inherent in the services end up derailing that process.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-armed-services-must-prepare-for-reform-101625567714773.html
