10-07-2021||Other||Delta variant found in 16 Covid samples from Agra||Agra Out of 40 samples sent from Agra for genome sequencing of Covid-19, the Delta variant was traced in 16. Out of these 16 samples, 10 were of those residing in Agra.. The remaining samples were of two people from Hathras, two from Firozabad, one from Mainpuri and one from Saharanpur. “Viral Diagnostic and Research Lab (VDRL), Microbiology Department of SN Medical College, Agra had sent 40 samples on June 5 and 20 samples on June 26 to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi for genome sequencing,” informed Dr Aarti Agarwal, head of Microbiology Department and nodal officer for VDRL at SN Medical College here. “We have now received the results of the 40 samples and Delta variant has been confirmed in 16 of them . Out of these,, 10 samples are from Agra, and the remaining six from Hathras, Firozabad, Mainpuri and Saharanpur. All these patients werebeing treated at the Covid Hospital of SN Medical College here,” she said. “”Eight variants of Covid-19 are declared ‘Variant of Interest’ by the World Health Organisation and include Eta, Lota, Kappa, Lambda, Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta (or Delta Plus),” said Dr Agarwal. “However, there was no confirmation of Delta Plus variant in any of the samples which is good news because Delta Plus variant has high transmissibility and causes higher death rate,,” she said.. “To protect oneself, one should wear mask and observe social distancing. More and more people should be vaccinated by increasing the pace of vaccination. One should go to public places only if very necessary,,” cautioned the microbiologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delta-variant-found-in-16-covid-samples-from-agra-101625940694621.html
10-07-2021||Other||Cinema theatre, multiplex owners seek relief in taxes||LUCKNOW: State multiplex and single screen theatre owners have demanded waiver in fixed electricity charges, house tax and water tax to meet the losses they suffered during the two-month lockdown. The UP Cinema Exhibitors’ Federation, the body of all the multiplexes and single screens across the state that has also met chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the context of their demands, said that in the recent lockdown, cinema hall owners suffered losses of around ₹1500 crore. “There is no business at all. If we talk about the recent lockdown that was more than 70-day-long, we suffered losses of more than ₹1500 crores. Also, there is no business in the market since there are so many restrictions, including weekly lockdown, late evening curfew and 50 per cent gathering cap. All these factors are making business a no-profit affair,” said Ashish Agarwal, president of the federation. Agarwal said there was also no relief from the government in terms of taxes. “Be it water tax, house tax or the fixed electricity charges, we are being charged for everything even if there is complete lockdown or no business. We had also met the UP CM in this regard who assured all possible help, but no help has reached us so far,” he added. On the re-opening of the multiplexes and single screens, he said the closure was for an indefinite period, until things get streamlined. “As of now, things are not in our favour. Hence it has been decided that the multiplexes and single screens would remain closed,” he said. The UP Government had ordered reopening of multiplexes and single screen halls from July 5 onwards. However, they remained closed. The owners cited weekend lockdown and late evening curfew behind the prolonged closure. The closure of single screen halls and multiplexes was initiated on May 1, 2021 in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave. In 2020, the closure of multiplexes was initiated on March 15, in the first corona wave and was lifted on October 15, allowing them to open but with 50 per cent gathering. The government eventually allowed the multiplexes and cinema theatres to operate with full capacity on December 16, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cinema-theatre-multiplex-owners-seek-relief-in-taxes-101625940514636.html
10-07-2021||Other||2 held for gangrape of specially-abled girl in Virar||Virar police have arrested two persons for allegedly gangraping a 19-year-old specially-abled girl in Virar.On Monday the two accused - Siddharth Pawar and Sanjay Biranje, lured the victim with eatables and took her to a house and allegedly gang-raped her, said senior inspector Suresh Varade of Virar police station. They also threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone of the incident said police. The survivor stays with her parents and two brothers in Virar. Two days later she confided the incident to her mother, who then approached the police. “We arrested the accused on Friday for gang rape and other charges,” said Varade. The accused have been remanded in police custody till July 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-for-gangrape-of-specially-abled-girl-in-virar-101625938954709.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Medical tourism in Mumbai improving, but foreign patients still face hurdles||With the flattening of the Covid-19 pandemic curve, medical tourism in Mumbai, considered the medical hub of India, is slowly recovering. However, international patients are still facing hurdles to reach the city for life-saving surgeries due to the coronavirus restrictions across the globe.Ousmane Komi, 54-year-old, a resident of Ivory Coast, with 15% heart-pumping capacity, landed in Mumbai on May 27. But the journey was a nightmare for the patient and his family members, who had to spend three days at the airports in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and Dubai, due to continuous cancellations and delays of their flights, owing to Covid-19 restrictions.“It took me three days to reach Mumbai as there was a lot of uncertainty about flights. Either the flights would get cancelled or delayed, while I was at the airport. The flight uncertainties were like life-and-death situations for me as every minute, my health was deteriorating. I had breathlessness and limb swelling and the chest showed bilateral significant pleural effusion (water on lungs),” he said.If that wasn’t enough, when he landed in Mumbai, his Covid-19 report turned out positive. He believes because of his underlying health issues, he contracted the infection during his long halts at the crowded airports. Due to his complicated health issues, he was immediately referred to Wockhardt Hospital, Mumbai Central for his treatment.His treating doctor, Dr Ravi Gupta, consultant cardiologist from the hospital, said that he was diagnosed with severely decreased heart pumping ( LVEF 15%), while the normal pumping is 60%. He was managed in Covid-19 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and his heart check-ups showed 100% old and hard blockages in two out of three of his heart arteries. He was very breathless even at rest and used to develop fluid collection in his lungs repeatedly due to severe heart failure. The fluid was drained out multiple times.“We had to perform two angioplasty procedures, which were extremely risky ,as his heart pumping rate was extremely low and his blood pressure was also low. However, his heart rate improved to 30%,” said Dr Gupta.With well-connected international airports and skilled medical staffers at super-speciality hospitals, the city receives hundreds of foreign patients every year.According to the FICCI – E&Y Report – “India: Building Best Practices in Healthcare Services Globally” released in 2019 on medical tourism, it is stated that almost 27% of medical tourists are recorded in Maharashtra.However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the footfall of international patients has fallen by 60% in the second wave. In April, when the city was witnessing the peak of the second, medical tourism almost came to a standstill.“Due to the Covid-19, several international patients have put their surgeries on hold to avoid travelling in the pandemic,” said Dr Santosh Shetty, executive director at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani hospital. In the past two months, the hospital has received about 50 international patients, most of whom have come from Uganda, Tanzania, Oman, Afghanistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Kenya, Oman, USA, UK and Canada.Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital in Powai has registered 11 foreign patients, mostly from Germany, UK, USA, South Korea, Belgium, Japan since May. They have 21 international patients from the Middle East and Africa who are waiting for their final approval to fly.Talking about the hurdles international passengers are facing, Dr Sujit Chatterjee, chief executive officer (CEO) from the hospital, said, “There are several factors involved in the drop in medical tourism. Travel and visa restrictions are the main hurdles. Medical visas are issued only for elective and emergency cases only.”Due to these restrictions, the hospitals often have to intervene to help in bringing the patients to the city as their medical visas are denied. In April, 2021, Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital had to coordinate with international embassies in China, Cameroon and Nigeria to bring a severely burnt patient to the city for treatment.Peter Esomba, a Cameroon-based resident, sustained 50% deep burn injuries on his face and 80% on his scalp in a blast at a cocoa factory. However, due to incessant local civil wars and scarce medical services, Peter couldn’t access quality healthcare for over five months. Later, he approached the hospital for his plastic surgery. However, loss of facial identification marks through extensive facial burns and scarring meant Peter failed to procure his passport. Then the hospital intervened to expedite his passport generation.Peter’s second roadblock was to procure a medical visa for India. Commonly, Cameroon residents approach the Indian embassy in Nigeria for travel or medical Indian visa. The border between Cameroon and Nigeria was shut owing to the pandemic and Peter couldn’t travel to complete visa formalities. “We appealed to the Hon’ble Indian High Commissioner in Cameroon and requested his support on compassionate grounds to bring him to the hospital for his essential treatment,” Dr Parag Vibhakar, consultant plastic and cosmetic surgeon from the hospital.It took them almost a month of struggle through documentation to reach Mumbai in May.The doctors managed his facial wounds through skin grafting. Then they treated his skull wounds and restructured the left eye and lips. In following visits of the patient, the team will perform complicated procedures such as corneal transplant and improve the nasal structure through skin grafting.“After long spells of hardship, I reached the hospital. For my other surgeries, I would have to fly again. But I am hopeful that I will be able to fight against the hurdles again,” Esomba said.The return flight of Komi, which was scheduled on June 25, has been cancelled. Now, he has booked his new tickets for July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/medical-tourism-in-mumbai-improving-but-foreign-patients-still-face-hurdles-101625938894642.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Ambiguity in rules may lead to delay in undergraduate admissions, fear colleges||Even though the confusion surrounding the Class 12 results were recently cleared by respective school education boards, the students still have little or no clarity on admissions to first-year undergraduate (UG) courses. While admissions to undergraduate professional courses depend on entrance exams conducted by the state and national exam authorities, admissions to UG courses in degree colleges depend solely on Class 12 marks, which are yet to be announced by most education boards.“To bring parity during admissions, the state has announced that admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) will be based on a common entrance test (CET) and not just the Class 10 marks. Class 12 marks are also being derived based on a formula, however, degree colleges are still unclear about admission rules. Will we be considering only the Class 12 marks, or will colleges hold entrance exams as well?” asked Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle.Last year, admissions to UG first-year courses started in September and their academic year commenced in the last week of October.Admissions to undergraduate professional courses like medical, engineering, pharmacy, architecture and law are conducted based on an entrance exam, most of which are scheduled to take place in August this year. Admissions to UG degree courses, however, for years have been based on the Class 12 scores only. This year, since the Class 12 scores will be based on students’ performance in the last three academic years, many fear students might demand a chance to appear for written examinations to better their scores.In a public event held in Nagpur on Friday, the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant said that admission criteria for Class 12 students aiming for non-technical courses will only be decided after the announcement of Class 12 results. “The decision to conduct an entrance exam or conduct admissions based on Class 12 marks will be taken only once the results are announced,” said Samant. Students, however, are unsure that results for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams will be announced anytime soon.Several college principals share the fear that with no clear admission policy in place at present, the delay will directly reflect on first-year students’ academic year. “In July we still don’t know what degree college admissions will be based on. If we go by the state government’s word, Class 12 results should be announced by July 31, following which, the government plans to announce admission criteria. This means the first year UG students will not make it to their classrooms before the first week of October,” said the principal of a college in central Mumbai. He added that once again this delay will have to be a burden shared by students and teachers who will have to work extra hours to ensure that the entire year’s portion is completed in half the time allotted for the same.This year, Covid-19 pushed all education boards to rethink their decision of conducting board exams at a time when the country was grappling with a deadly second wave. Scrapping of exams and grading students on a formula giving weightage to students’ performance of past three years was unanimously accepted. The approved mechanism for Maharashtra state board and CBSE Class 12 students includes a 30:30:40 formula, which gives equal weightage of 30% each to results of Class 10 and 11 and 40% weightage to a student’s overall performance in Class 12. In the case of CISCE, the formula will take into consideration the Class 10 ICSE board exam results, project and practical work in subjects, and best marks obtained in school exams in Class 11 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambiguity-in-rules-may-lead-to-delay-in-undergraduate-admissions-fear-colleges-101625938895253.html
10-07-2021||Patna||‘In 2019 there was discussion, in 2021 decision was made’: Lalan Singh on JD(U) joining cabinet||Internal rumblings have hit the Janata Dal (United) post-cabinet expansion at the Centre. After the JD(U) accepted to join the Union cabinet with party national president RCP Singh being sworn in as a cabinet minister, the voice of dissent has started to emerge even though senior leaders deny that there is no dispute over the choice of minister. Party MP from Munger, Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, one of the close friends of chief minister Nitish Kumar, finally broke the silence on Saturday and said that the decision to join the Union cabinet was that of RCP Singh. “In 2019, there was a discussion inside the party and this time the decision was taken. In the year 2019, Nitish Kumar was the national president of the JD(U) and the proposal that came at that time was not accepted by the party. Then the decision was taken by Nitish Kumar after discussion with all the party leaders. In 2021, the party’s national president is not Nitish Kumar but RCP Singh. RCP Singh was authorized by Nitish Kumar and the party to decide on joining the Union cabinet. RCP Singh decided on the proposal that came to him,” said Singh on Saturday while talking to media persons. Lalan Singh was one of the front runners for the post of minister in the Union cabinet. People in the party privy to the development said that in 2019 also, when one post was offered to the JD(U), RCP Singh’s name was doing the rounds. But, the party wanted Lalan Singh’s name as well. When asked whether it was discussed this time, the Munger MP said that he did not know. “We definitely heard that the party is joining the Union cabinet,” he said. He, however, added that nobody is angry with anybody joining the cabinet. Party leaders accept that uneasy calm has crept in the party “but it all will settle down.” People aware of the situation have hinted that there could be a change of guard as far as the position of JD(U) national president is concerned, which is currently held by RCP Singh. According to the people mentioned above, Upendra Kushwaha may be the contender for the president of the JD(U). Lalan Singh held a closed-door meeting with party MLC Upendra Kushwaha two days back while Kushwaha embarked on Bihar yatra of different districts from Valmiki Nagar on Saturday, hinting at a likely change at the top. If party sources are to be believed, chief Nitish Kumar has directed the colleagues of all the districts to fully support Upendra Kushwaha during the yatra so that the JD(U) can be made the number one party of Bihar again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-2019-there-was-discussion-in-2021-decision-was-made-lalan-singh-on-jd-u-joining-cabinet-101625938835186.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Indian doctor from Israel donates machines to set up pathology lab at Mumbai’s Nesco centre||The Nesco jumbo centre that has treated over 23,000 Covid-19 patients will start their pathology laboratory, the first in any Covid jumbo centre, from Monday.An Indian doctor residing in Israel, who wishes to keep his identity hidden, has donated the money to buy three essential pathology machines to start the laboratory which would make the centre more self-sufficient to fight against the anticipated third wave.The centre has got three machines— Serum electrolyte, Biochemistry and Centrifuge which would help in conducting the kidney, liver profiling along with sodium and potassium among others. The overall price of the machines is over ₹2.30 lakh, which have been donated by the doctor from Israel. Along with this, the donor has provided test tubes and other apparatus for the next month, which would have cost another ₹50,000. The money was donated directly to the vendor.The centre outsources the testing through a private laboratory—-Thyrocare but the samples are last collected till 7pm. At night, the samples are being sent to Dr RN Cooper Hospital, Juhu for emergency patients which is a time-consuming affair.“A few philanthropists approached us through a national party which wanted to donate food and provide other facilities. But I wanted to set up a laboratory, hence, they contacted the doctor who readily agreed to help us with the request to keep his identity hidden,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the NESCO jumbo centre.These tests help to decide the line of treatment in emergency Covid-19 patients admitted to intensive care units (ICU).Another donor has promised to donate a cell counter machine that helps in white blood cells, clotting time among others. The machine costs around ₹1.5 lakh.Along with this, the centre has procured a CT scan machine through a public-private partnership model which will be available next to the ICU. The patients scanned at the centre with the BMC’s price rate which is ₹1,200. “Till now, we have been sending patients to Cooper Hospital. We are given a time slot between 5pm-7pm to test from the centre. But transporting the patient is an issue. So, the reports are given only to the family members,” she added.Now, the centre has a CT Scan and an in-house emergency pathology laboratory, the centre has 10 dialysis machines, a USG facility, portable chest x-ray machines, ECG machines, ventilators, dura cells, oxygen pipeline supply, liquid medical oxygen tanks, oxygen concentrators.“We have all the required speciality facilities which would help us a lot if we have to face thied third wave. We are completely prepared for it. Also, we are adding more beds,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-doctor-from-israel-donates-machines-to-set-up-pathology-lab-at-mumbai-s-nesco-centre-101625938774557.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Dry spell in Mumbai: BMC in a watch mode as water levels in lakes freeze to 18%||In the past 10 days, there has not been a significant increase in the water levels at seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s data, the water level is 18% in the seven lakes that will be sufficient for the next 70 days. However, this is less than the last two years. At this time, the city had around 80 days of water stock in 2020 and 100 days in 2019. The lake levels have not gone up significantly owing to less rainfall in July.According to BMC’s data, Vihar Lake that is located inside Mumbai was over 61% full followed by another lake inside the city- Tulsi Lake was 74% full. Last year at this time, both Tulsi and Vihar had a mere 67% and 41% of water level.Further, Bhatsa, which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement, the water level is 18 down from 22% last year at this time. In Tansa, the water level is 30%, which was 20% last year at this time followed by Modak Sagar having 31% of the water stock that was 33% last year at this time. In the case of Upper Vaitarna, the water level is 0%, as of Tuesday. Last year at this time too, there was no water left in the Upper Vaitarna dam. Lastly, Middle Vaitarna has 11% of water stock that was 18% last year at this time.On the other hand, Powai Lake that supplies water to the civic body for non-potable purposes overflowed on June 12 this year. Last year, Powai lake was full on July 5. The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems, the Vaitarna system supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts.The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres. To meet the shortfall, the BMC has been exploring several ways to increase the water supply to the city. Two weeks ago, the BMC signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the BMC and an Israel-based firm for the city’s first desalination project at Manori in Malad. Under this project, BMC plans to turn seawater into drinking water, and the pilot project is expected to be ready by 2025.On the lake levels, a BMC official from the hydraulics department said, “We are yet to get the rainfall for the month of July. Hence, any decision on water cuts will now depend on how much rainfall we will get in the month of July. However, the forecast of rainfall for this year is good, and a decision will be taken in the coming days based on how the rainfall patterns are there in the month of July.”Meanwhile, the city had experienced a 20% water cut last year in August 2020 amid the covid outbreak owing to the low level of water storage in the lakes. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had also prepared a backup plan to bring water to Mumbai from Bhandardara dam in Ahmednagar if required. Before 2020, no water cut was imposed in 2019, owing to good rainfall in catchment areas. But BMC had imposed a 10% water cut in 2018, a 20% cut in 2016 and a 25% cut in 2014.Box:Upper VaitarnaJuly 09, 2021: 592.61July 09, 2020: 594.67Middle VaitarnaJuly 09, 2021: 240.28July 09, 2020: 248.77Modak SagarJuly 09, 2021: 150.98July 09, 2020: 151.44BhatsaJuly 09, 2020: 114.44July 09, 2020: 116.50TulsiJuly 09, 2021: 137.59July 09, 202: 137.09VeharJuly 09, 2021: 78.05July 09, 2020: 76.81TansaJune 09, 2021: 122.56June 09, 2020: 121.41Water storage capacity: 1,447,363 million litresLivestock on July 09, 2021: 261,644 million litresLivestock on June 09, 2020: 289,157 million litresLivestock on July 09, 2019: 417,943 million litresBMC daily supplies: 3,850 million litres drinking water against demand of over 4,000 million litres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dry-spell-in-mumbai-bmc-in-a-watch-mode-as-water-levels-in-lakes-freeze-to-18-101625938654608.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive at 300 centres to resume from Monday in Mumbai||After a gap of three days, Covid vaccination will resume at over 300 civic and state government-run centres from Monday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday received over 85,000 doses of Covidshield and around 8,000 doses of Covaxin. The BMC has also written to pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila for conducting its vaccine trials on 50 children between the age group of 12 to 18 years.The vaccination drive at over 300 centres was suspended since Friday owing to a shortage of doses. Earlier, the drive was suspended on July 1 due to the same reason. However, the drive will resume from Monday. According to BMC officials, the stock that it has received will last for around two days. There are a total of 401 vaccination centres in the city, of which, 98 are private vaccination centres where the drive is being conducted without any disruption.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have got a fresh stock of around 85,000 Covishield and 8,000 Covaxin doses. This will last for around two days and further Wednesday onwards; the drive will be dependent on the stock we get. However, we have been informed that we will get a good number of doses in the coming days.”Kakani added, “We have also written to Zydus to provide us with their vaccine to conduct a trial on 50 children between the age of 12 and 18 years. We have intimated and are awaiting their reply on the same.” Earlier, the BMC had also written to the Central government showing its interest to conduct trials of Covaxin on children between the age group of 12 and 18 years. However, there was no further communication on the same from the Centre.Further, from Monday onwards, vaccination will be undertaken in the same formula wherein 50% slots will be reserved for walk-ins and the rest will be via online booking.On Saturday, 48,393 citizens were vaccinated at private hospitals. Overall, six million citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16. As of Saturday, 6,009,025 citizens have been vaccinated in the city with at least one dose. A total of 1,273,484 citizens are fully vaccinated with both doses in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-at-300-centres-to-resume-from-monday-in-mumbai-101625938594662.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mega block: Train services to be affected for 5 hours on Sunday. All you need to know||There will be a major block of five hours starting from 10.35am to 3.35pm on Sunday on Up and Down harbour lines, between Mahim and Andheri, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Mumbai division of Western Railways informed on Friday. Both Central and Western Railways will be on a five-hour jumbo block on Sunday to carry out engineering and maintenance work, as per the IRCTC help portal.During the block, all harbour services towards Central Railways and some services between Churchgate and Goregaon will remain cancelled, as per the authorities.Also read| Covid-19: Maharashtra may see a few relaxations soon"On Sunday dt-11/07/21, a major block of 5 hours from 10:35hrs to 15:35hrs on UP and DN Harbour lines, between Mahim and Andheri will be taken. During the block all Harbour services towards Central Railway, and some services between Churchgate and Goregaon will remain cancelled," the DRM, Mumbai central, Western Railways tweeted.All you need to know:Down slow/semi-fast services leaving Mulund from 10.43am to 3.46pm will be diverted on Down fast line between Mulund and Kalyan starting, stopping at Thane, Diva, Dombivali stations. These will arrive at the destination 10 minutes behind the schedule, according to IRCTC.Up slow/semi-fast services that will leave Kalyan from 10.37am to 3.51pm will be diverted on Up fast line between Kalyan and Mulund, these will also halt at Thane, Diva, Dombivali stations and will then be re-diverted on Up slow line at Mulund. The trains will be 10 minutes behind the schedule.All Up and Down slow services leaving/arriving at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminal between 11am to 5pm will also be 10 minutes behind schedule in its operations.Down Harbour line services to Vashi/Belapur/Panvel leaving Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai from 11.34am to 4.47pm and Down Harbour line services to Bandra/Goregaon leaving Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai from 9.02am to 4.43pm will remain suspended.Up Harbour services for Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai leaving Panvel/Belapur/Vashi from 9.53am to 3.20pm and same services for Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai leaving Goregaon/Bandra from 10.10am to 4.58pm will also be suspended.During the block, special services will operate between Panvel and Kurla (Platform No. 8).Harbour line passengers can travel through Main Line and Western Railways from 10am to 6pm during the block duration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mega-block-train-services-to-be-affected-for-5-hours-on-sunday-all-you-need-to-know-101625933110010.html
10-07-2021||Other||First pandemic, now lack of coaches play spoilsport for sportspersons in UP’s Prayagraj||It has been a double whammy for local budding sportspersons as for the last year-and-a-half they were deprived of training because of the Covid-induced lockdowns and now it is the lack of coaches that is further affecting their practice. Although sports courts and grounds in the state have opened from July 5 and players have also started arriving but lack of coaches has raised many a concern among the sporting fraternity. The condition can be gauged from the fact that at Madan Mohan Malviya stadium there is just one coach who imparts training for athletics while the remaining sports have no coaches as of now. Similar is the condition at Amitabh Bachchan Sports Complex where there are no coaches for many sports. Officials said most of the coaches posted at Madan Mohan Malviya stadium and Amitabh Bachchan Sports Complex were on ad-hoc basis and their services were terminated in March last year after the first lockdown. Since then, there have been no appointments, officials said. The problem has further increased as the appointments of trainers have to be made through the GeM (Government e-Market Place) portal. Many trainers have openly opposed the process and the matter is pending in the courts, they added. The trainers, who are ready to work through GeM portal, are being posted in other districts. Satyendra Singh, who has been working in Madan Mohan Malviya stadium for years, has been posted to Varanasi and cricket coach Kaushik Pal has been sent to Kaushambi. As a result there are no coaches for cricket, hockey, football, badminton, kabaddi, weightlifting, judo, taekwondo, volleyball, handball, boxing, kho-kho, wrestling, squash and gymnastics in these two sports facilities in the district. Sportspersons claim that against two dozen coaches that were working earlier at these two facilities, now there are merely four including one for athletcis at MMM Stadium and three-- one each for volleyball, basketball and softball-- at Amitabh Bachchan Sports Complex. “Absence of a coach is a major drawback as then you don’t have anyone to guide and help improve your game. A coach is very much needed,” said Ragini, a young badminton player. When contacted regional sports officer (RSO), Prayagraj, Anil Tiwari said the matter was being looked into. “Players have started coming and are practicing at Madan Mohan Malviya stadium and Amitabh Bachchan Sports Complex. Coaches of many sports are to be appointed soon. So far only soft tennis coach has come and other are also expected to arrive soon,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-pandemic-now-lack-of-coaches-play-spoilsport-for-sportspersons-in-up-s-prayagraj-101625937455260.html
10-07-2021||Ranchi||52 new cases push Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally to 346,223||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 346,223 on Saturday as 52 more people tested positive for the infection, a health bulletin said.The state's coronavirus death toll remained unchanged at 5,119 as no fresh fatality was registered, it said.Ranchi district recorded the highest number of new cases at 95, followed by 10 in East Singhbhum.The state now has 449 active cases, while 3,40,655 people have recovered from the disease thus far.A total of 50,190 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/52-new-cases-push-jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-to-346223-101625936838009.html
10-07-2021||Other||Assam approves formation of dept to protect, preserve indigenous faiths and culture||The Assam cabinet on Saturday approved the formation of a separate department to protect and preserve the faiths, languages and culture of indigenous communities in the state. The decision to form the ‘indigenous faiths and culture’ department was taken at a special cabinet meeting held to mark the completion of two months of the new government and ahead of next week’s budget session of the assembly. “Our indigenous populations have their own language, culture and religious beliefs but due to lack of official help from the government, several of these groups were economically weak,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said at a press conference in Guwahati. “This new department will work to protect and preserve their unique cultures, languages and beliefs. Since it’s a new department and will require a lot of work, the cabinet has requested the finance minister to allot a substantial sum in the next budget for it,” he added. There are eight major scheduled tribes in Assam but there are many other smaller groups and sub-groups. A proposal to grant ST status to 6 more communities in the state is pending with the Centre. Sarma informed that the new department would work independently and focus specifically on issues relating to the faith, language and culture of the indigenous communities.Development work and other schemes meant for these communities will be handled by other existing departments. Saturday’s cabinet meeting also took decisions in key financial and administrative reforms changing the existing long-winded process of sanctioning schemes and allocation of funds routed through different departments. “From now, the decision on all schemes of up to ₹2 crore will be approved by a departmental committee headed by the commissioner of each department and based on approval of the minister these works will be executed,” said Sarma. Works between ₹2-5 crore will be decided by a committee headed by the chief secretary, projects between ₹5-100 crore will be decided upon by the finance minister and schemes above ₹100 crore will be approved by the state cabinet, the CM informed. “This change is being incorporated to end so-called red-tape and bureaucratic hurdles in sanctioning of projects and their funding. This will reduce the time taken in the movement of files from one department to another, for approval and officers will be able to give more time in monitoring schemes,” said Sarma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-approves-formation-of-dept-to-protect-preserve-indigenous-faiths-and-culture-101625935896029.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||BJP wins Uttar Pradesh block panchayat chief polls; PM Modi lauds party workers||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday registered an emphatic victory in elections for the posts of block panchayat chief in Uttar Pradesh, winning 635 out of 825 seats for which block panchayat chiefs were to be elected. However, there were also reports of widespread violence during the polling process, which took place from 11am to 3pm.“Almost 85% seats went in favour of the BJP. The victory was due to the guidance and inspiration from prime minister Narendra Modi, as work was done without any discrimination for all sections of the society. People’s inclination was towards us, and I’m happy to say that the party’s strategy has yielded results,” Adityanath said in a press conference held at the state BJP headquarters in Capital Lucknow.The chief minister also lauded the state election commission for “peaceful and fair” polls. “Conducting such a massive election process peacefully, in a state full of professional criminals and mafia, and where democracy was mortgaged on the basis of caste, religion and sect, is praiseworthy,” Adityanath told media persons.Meanwhile, PM Modi took to Twitter to congratulate the chief minister and the UP BJP. “The Uttar Pradesh BJP has been victorious in elections for the posts of block panchayat chiefs as well. This big victory is a reflection of the benefits people have received due to the policies of the Yogi Adityanath government, as well as its pro-poor schemes. All workers of the party deserve to be congratulated for this victory,” a rough translation of Prime Minister Modi’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.उत्तर प्रदेश में ब्लॉक प्रमुखों के चुनाव में भी @BJP4UP ने अपना परचम लहराया है। @myogiadityanath सरकार की नीतियों और जनहित की योजनाओं से जनता को जो लाभ मिला है, वो पार्टी की भारी जीत में परिलक्षित हुआ है। इस विजय के लिए पार्टी के सभी कार्यकर्ता बधाई के पात्र हैं। https://t.co/QZP6u1kjVTSaturday’s polling was held for 476 seats as 349 candidates were declared elected “unopposed” on Friday.Uttar Pradesh is likely to go to polls in early 2022 as the Adityanath-led BJP government looks to secure a second consecutive five-year term in office. In the 2017 elections, the party won more than 300 seats in the 403-seat assembly, displacing the Samajwadi Party (SP) from power.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-claims-win-in-up-block-panchayat-chief-polls-pm-modi-lauds-party-workers-101625931564891.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Opens Up: Gen Z welcomes back office life!||For those who missed working from office, there was a ray of hope, when the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, announced some relaxations to unlock after Covid-19 induced restrictions. In a virtual press conference he said, that both government and private offices can open in the city, with conditions. For many working professionals, this move has brought in relief. Feeling happy about working from office, Mohit Tomar, a digital marketing professional says, “I am glad to be back in office. Atleast the time after work is solely mine.” As working from home came with a set of challenges. “First of all, there is no time schedule. Colleagues or managers would call you anytime, you can’t even say anything, because where else could you possibly be busy. Then there’s family disturbing, wi-fi issues –which are often perceived as excuses. There was no escape,” he says.Many GenZ working professionals agree with having work and personal timings blurring owing to the work from home. Like Udit Guleria, a Gurugram based IT professional who is ecstatic at the thought of going back to office, feels, “The lack of schedule has people working for long hours. We think we are working on our own time, but as a result, working hours are being dragged more than usual. Work used to fun at the office, but at home, it has become very mundane.” Working from office comes with other perks and advantages that were totally missing while working from home. From team meetings to taking a break, everything was different at home. Vivek Prashar, a sales and marketing professional, feels, “Sharing a cup of coffee or interacting during lunch, can go a long way in building concrete relationships at work. Face-to-face communication is still the most effective and preferred method among employees. Many believe that a video con-call is not as effective as a round table conference. Working from office also opens up immense opportunities for networking,” he shares.Similarly, travelling to work every day also brings a lot of inspiration and keep you following routine, feels, creative head for an event company, Anil Sharma. He says, “Creativity cannot be contained in four walls. It is difficult to feel inspired working from home. While working from office, you meet other people, you travel to work every day, and you see things other than your own home. That instils some kind of motivation that can’t be compared to working from home.”For many working from home has been tough. However, some had adjusted to it pretty well, take for example, Sameer Saroha, a food technologist who is working from office but feels that work from home is a blessing in disguise. “While working from home you have time at your disposal, you get the luxury to design your day, while adhering to deadlines. Not only that, you also save so much time and money that otherwise goes in travelling and other expenses,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-opens-up-gen-z-welcomes-back-office-life-101625934455971.html
10-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh called to Delhi to discuss organisational issues||The Bharatiya Janata Party’S West Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh is likely to meet the party’s National president JP Nadda in New Delhi on Sunday to discuss a range of issues, a party leader said. A senior BJP leader said that while the party is thinking of imposing some kind of penalty on those who have been openly criticising the party and its leaders after the assembly elections, there could also be some structural changes in the coming days. “All these issues, including how to boost the morale of party workers who are bearing the direct brunt of post-poll violence, could be discussed in the meeting,” said a senior leader.Asked whether the party is going to impose any penalty against leaders who have spoken against the BJP, Ghosh said that the issues were being discussed. “The issues were being discussed. The decision would be taken by the party’s policymakers,” he told the media. While the party’s national vice president, Mukul Roy, has already sided with the Trinamool Congress, a section of leaders has openly criticised the party and its state leaders. A few others, who had abandoned the TMC to join the BJP ahead of the 2021 assembly polls have expressed their intention to return to the TMC. “Sometimes, a bark of one tree can be fixed on another tree. We had done some experiments. They didn’t work. Those who joined the BJP know its ideologies. The problem crops up when someone thinks that he is above the party,” said Ghosh. The TMC, however, took a jibe at the BJP saying that good sense prevailed even though it was late. “It is good that they have understood and accepted that their experiment with barks has failed. They tried to nurture one tree with the bark of another tree. But instead of growing, the tree became shorter. They have lost seats compared to 2019,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister. In the recent Union cabinet reshuffle while four BJP MPs were inducted into the cabinet as ministers of state, two erstwhile ministers in the cabinet, Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, had to bow out. “The party may also give them and some other leaders some responsibilities in the state unit and to strengthen the party,” said another BJP leader. While elections in more than 100 civic bodies are pending, panchayat elections are also scheduled in 2023. Even though the BJP had set a target to win more than 200 seats in the recently held assembly elections and form the government in West Bengal, the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory winning 213 out of the 292 seats where elections were held. The BJP could manage only 77 seats. “Since then, several of our party workers have been killed and many injured. Thousands had to abandon their homes due to violence. The party needs to stand beside them and boost their morale before the civic and panchayat polls,” said a BJP leader. On Friday, election strategist Prashant Kishor and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met in Kolkata to discuss organisational changes in the TMC and the alliance of regional forces the party plans to form against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-chief-dilip-ghosh-called-to-delhi-to-discuss-organisational-issues-101625934336628.html
10-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Have briefed Guv designate on TAC rules, says Droupadi Murmu||In an apparent critique of the Hemant Soren government that recently amended rules of the Tribes Advisory Council (TAC), outgoing Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu said she has briefed Governor-designate Ramesh Bais over the issue even as she underlined that the Constitution provides special powers to the Governor on certain issues and everyone should follow and act accordingly.Reacting to a specific question on the contentious TAC Rules, 2021 during an interaction with journalists at Raj Bhawan on Saturday, Murmu said, “I had summoned the files (related to TAC). They (Hemant Soren government) are good people, but they delayed sending the file. I was seeking legal opinion on the matter when the new orders (of appointment of a new Governor) came.”“I have briefed the new Governor about it. Now, he would take a call on it. However, Article 244 of the Constitution gives special powers to the Governor. The Constitution is a sacred book like Gita. So everyone should follow the Constitution and act accordingly,” she added.The Hemant Soren government recently amended the TAC (an advisory body that deliberates and helps government about issues related to tribes and their development in states that have areas classified under the fifth schedule of the Constitution), transferring the power of constituting the TAC from the office of the Governor to the chief minister, who is also the ex-officio chairman of the council.The outgoing Governor, who is all set to relinquish office after a tenure of over six years in Raj Bhawan---the longest for any Governor in Jharkhand--on Monday also pitched for few amendments in the special pre-independence land tenancy laws in tune with the present times. “Some of these laws are old. Some changes are required. For example, the restriction of police station (of sale purchase of tribal land) should be amended. Earlier, the size of the police stations used to be huge. Now, it is not the case. However, any amendment in such laws needs to be in consonance with their spirit,” said Murmu, the only female Governor of the state till date. The Chhotanagpur Tenancy Act and Santhal Parganas Tenancy Act are two pre-independence tenancy laws which prevent non-tribals from buying the land of tribals. Even tribals can’t buy land owned by the same community outside the jurisdiction of the police station they belong to. These two laws, besides the land acquisition law, have often led to political controversy in Jharkhand, where tribals make over 26% of the 3.29 crore state’s population.Having worked for so long in the state and being a tribal herself, Murmu recommended that both the government and the society at large need to work on imparting quality education to tribals, besides focusing on training and implementing modern techniques to uplift the agriculture sector in the state. “Tribals are very simple people. They need to be educated, as they are not even aware of the Constitution and their rights,” she said. Governor designate Ramesh Bais is set to take oath early next week, sources said, and the incumbent Governor is likely to leave the Raj Bhawan on Monday. Sources said the chief minister will host a lunch as farewell for the outgoing Governor at his residence on Sunday, before Murmu leaves for her village Rairangpur in Mayurbhanj district in neighbouring Odisha on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-have-briefed-guv-designate-on-tac-rules-says-droupadi-murmu-101625932894367.html
10-07-2021||Other||Bihar: Pakaridayal first Nagar Panchayat to give first dose to all eligibles||East Champaran’s Pakaridayal has become the state’s first Nagar Panchayat where all eligible people have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while fighting against alleged reluctance by various groups, officials said on Saturday. This comes few days after Bankatwa, Raxaul and Motihari--all in East Champaran--became Bihar’s first block, municipal council and municipal corporation, respectively, to achieve the target.Confirming the same, East Champaran district magistrate Shrisat Kapil Ashok attributed the success to all stake holders, including health agencies such as WHO and UNICEF, besides the state government. “We did face hesitancy from few sections of the society. However, if countries like Iran and Spain can achieve total vaccination, there is hardly any reason as to why we could not. This was the motivator for our team here, besides the state government’s assistance in allocation of vaccines,” said the district magistrate. The district’s vaccination team enlisted support from religious leaders, influential persons, and all sections of the societies aided by political parties to build up a popular opinion for vaccines, the DM said.The team of vaccinators comprising UNICEF personnel and local health workers and professionals inoculated 14,902 people of the 15,000 eligible population (above the age of 18 ) dwelling in 15 wards of Pakaridayal Nagar Panchayat. The Panchayat has a total eligible population of 18,447, including migrant workers who are currently not living in the area, as per 2020 electoral roll. “The remaining 98 are pregnant women. They will be administered the vaccine later. Over 3,000 of the total eligible population are non-residents of Nagar Panchayat. They will be administered the shot whenever they return and if found not inoculated,” said Kumar Ravindra, sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Pakaridayal. However, the vaccination team faced challenges in carrying out the drive, officials said. Maulana Md Noorullah, Imam of Amana Masjid, said he had to resort to announcement from the mosque twice to encourage participation from his community. “There was a distinct hesitancy owing to sheer lack of knowledge and rumours. However, the mindset changed after I took the shot in front of the public in a bid to motivate people,” he said. The district administration, however, had to take to some tricks as well in inoculating all eligible people. “In the first place, we administered vaccines to all Public Distribution System (PDS) officials and their family members. Later, pressure was brought upon some reluctant people to either get vaccinated or be denied ration,” said the SDM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-pakaridayal-first-nagar-panchayat-to-give-first-dose-to-all-eligibles-101625932834329.html
10-07-2021||Other||Floods affect train movement on Darbhanga-Samastipur section||Train movement on Darbhanga-Samastipur section was partially affected after rail traffic on the downline was suspended on Saturday as a precautionary measure due to water flowing above the danger level at bridge number 1 between Muktapur-Samastipur, a senior ECR official said.According to Saraswati Chandra, senior divisional commercial manager at Samastipur, the decision was taken to ensure safe train operations due to floods. Meanwhile, Jaynagar-Bhagalpur special train, which was supposed to commence its journey on July 10, has been cancelled. Likewise, as many as four trains have been diverted, whereas one train was short terminated and another short originated due to suspension of traffic movement on the downline. Jaynagar- Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (Special Journey), Jaynagar- Sealdah (Special Journey) and Raxaul-Howrah (Special Journey) will be diverted via Darbhanga-Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur instead of Darbhanga-Samastipur.Similarly, Darbhanga-Amritsar (Special Journey) will be diverted via Darbhanga-Sitamarhi-Sikta-Narkatiyaganj instead of Darbhanga-Samastipur-Muzaffarpur-Narkatiyaganj. Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Jaynagar (Special Journey) will be short terminated at Samastipur instead of Jaynagar while Jaynagar-Rajendra Nagar Terminal (Special Journey) will short originate from Samastipur instead of Jaynagar.It is the third consecutive year when the train movement had to be suspended on this section due to floodwaters crossing the danger mark at one or the other bridges, revealed an informed source.Meanwhile, the flood situation in this part of the region continues to affect the increasing population with the inundation of low-lying localities in different pockets.Darbhanga DM Thiyagarajan SM, who conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit area in the district on Friday, said that all the panchayats in Kusheshwar Asthan (East) and Hanuman Nagar blocks were affected by floods. Similarly, some parts of the Kusheshwar Asthan (West) and Hayaghat blocks were inundated, while nine panchayats in the Keoti block were affected. The district agriculture officer has been asked to assess the damage of crops due to flooding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/floods-affect-train-movement-on-darbhanga-samastipur-section-101625932774389.html
10-07-2021||Patna||Pending juvenile liquor cases: Board asks police to furnish details||Taking exception to delayed filing of chargesheets in some select cases under Prohibition Act by more than a year and a half, the juvenile justice board (JJB) of Biharsharif on Saturday directed Nalanda police to furnish details of all chargesheets filed over past two years. According to officials, more than 50 cases under Prohibition Act are pending for want of chargesheets and case diary in 21 police stations of Nalanda district. The highest seven cases are pending in Bihar police station, while other cases are pending with eight police stations, including Chandi, Noorsarai, Laheri, Karaiparsurai, Parwalpur and Sarmera. Principal Magistrate Mavendra Mishra directed the Nalanda superintendent of police (SP) Hariprasth S to prepare a list of all chargesheets between 2018 and ­2021. He also asked him to seek the status of filing of chargesheet from the investigating officers (IO) concerned. “It is the duty of police to complete investigation within a reasonable time, submit relevant reports and produce witness before the board within the time frame,” the board observed. According to JJB’s counsel Pramod Kumar, slow investigations by police are not only prolonging trails but also overcrowding jails and putting undue burden on parties. In case of minors, it also leads to trauma, he said. “Often police delay filing of chargesheets. Forensic reports too are delayed. Even though, as per Juvenile Justice (Care and protection of children) Act, every inquiry into the cases relating to juveniles has to be complete within four months, as many as 50 cases related to Prohibition Act are pending in JJB. Due to the serious nature of the case, the JJB cannot not terminate the case despite non-submission of chargesheets”. Earlier, monitoring bench of juvenile justice comprising Justice Ashwani Kumar Singh, Justice Ahsanuddin Amanullah and Justice Arvind Srivastava, through video conferencing with the Principal Magistrates of JJBs in Bihar, expressed concern over slow disposal of cases across the state. Following this, the Principal Magistrates were directed to write to chief judicial magistrates (CJMs) and district judges (DJs) concerned with the such cases for appropriate direction. The Nalanda SP said such old cases under Prohibition Act should not be pending for filing of chargesheet. “If old cases are still pending, I will look into the matter and get them disposed of by filing chargesheet as soon as possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pending-juvenile-liquor-cases-board-asks-police-to-furnish-details-101625932775040.html
10-07-2021||Patna||All is well in JD(U): Lalan Singh||JD(U) MP from Munger Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, said to be close to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and one of the contenders for a berth in the union cabinet, on Saturday broke his silence on the induction of R C P Singh from his party as a union minister, saying “nobody was angry with anybody in the party”.After the recent expansion of union cabinet, there have been reports of heartburn within the JD(U), which was reportedly expecting a greater representation. “In 2021, our party’s national president is not Nitish Kumar, but RCP Singh who was authorized by the CM and the party to take a decision on joining the Union cabinet. He decided on the proposal that came to him,” Singh said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/all-is-well-in-jd-u-lalan-singh-101625932714276.html
10-07-2021||Patna||Oppn leaders sympathise with Sushil Modi, say he deserved a berth in union cabinet||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former deputy chief minister of Bihar, Sushil Kumar Modi, is drawing sympathy and praise from his political adversaries, including those from the Rashtriya Janata Dal and Congress, who said he deserved a berth in the Union cabinet that was recently expanded.“Sushil Modi is among the most experienced leaders and he deserved to be included in the Central government. It was because of his understanding about taxation and finance that the then UPA government had included him in the GST Council,” said Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra.Though the RJD took potshot on Modi for targeting party chief Lalu Prasad and his family, party spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said late Karpoori Thakur and he (Modi) were among the most deserving lot to represent Bihar for its development. “His (Modi’s) unrestrained bashing of Lalu Prasad and his family, which earned him some political success, could not help him get blessings of Narendra Modi,” Tiwari said.“Sushil Modi missed the bus owing to his known proximity with the Bihar CM. He had in the past declared Nitish Kumar as PM material, much to the chagrin of Narendra Modi. Inclusion of JD(U) national president RCP Singh in the cabinet has already triggered an intense squabbling within the party,” Mishra said.CPI(ML) legislator Amarjeet Kushwaha said that Bihar was a loser in what he said was a battle of nerves between Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar. “Many senior leaders, including Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh, Ramnath Thakur and Santosh Kushwaha, were eying their inclusion in the Union cabinet. Instead, Patna Saheb MP Ravi Shankar Prasad was booted out unceremoniously,” said the MLA.A senior JD(U) leader, pleading anonymity, said induction of non-political leader as minister in the central government had put a question mark over stability of the government in Bihar. “Lalan Singh’s statement that party seniors were not taken into confidence for nomination of the minister speaks a lot about growing dissent in the JD(U) on the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/oppn-leaders-sympathise-with-sushil-modi-say-he-deserved-a-berth-in-union-cabinet-101625932654396.html
10-07-2021||Patna||No ill will towards Jagdanand, says Tej Pratap||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav on Saturday he had no rancour against the party’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh and dismissed reports that the latter had resigned. On Friday evening, Singh too had shot down reports of his resignation that did the rounds through the day in a section of media.“What is my status that Singh should be annoyed with me? I spoke to my father and he has refuted reports that the state president has resigned. All is well in the party,” Yadav said before leaving for his assembly constituency of Hasanpur in Samastipur. Singh told reporters on Saturday that reports of his resignation were mischievous and an attempt to defame the party. “Had I resigned , why would I be sitting here?” he said the party office. Asked about his alleged tiff with Tej Pratap, Singh said had no reason to be annoyed with him. On RJD’s 25th foundation day on July 5, Tej Pratap Yadav had said Singh was annoyed with him. He had also complained in the past that he was not being heard in organisational decisions.Singh’s predecessor Ram Chandra Purbe too had faced embarrassment from the elder Yadav, who attacked him for not accommodating youth leaders of his choice in party’s various cells. Singh took over as state RJD president in November 2019.Earlier this year, Tej Pratap Yadav had accused Singh of not extending support to him in his campaign for release of RJD president from jail by sending postcards to the President of India, which was launched in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-ill-will-towards-jagdanand-says-tej-pratap-101625932594440.html
10-07-2021||Patna||Bihar DSP’s picnic in Jharkhand ends with his arrest after friend ‘gets shot’||A deputy superintendent of police (DSP), who had joined the Bihar Police earlier this year and was still on probation, has been arrested along with two of his associates by the Jharkahnd Police after a friend of his was killed on Friday by a bullet fired from his service revolver while they were picnicking near Tilaiya Dam in Koderma district, the police said.The deceased, Nikhil Ranjan, is son of police sub-inspector Rishideo Singh, who has filed an FIR (first information report) alleging he was killed by probationer DSP Ashutosh Kumar over a money dispute. Singh is currently posted in Gaya.According to Koderma police, Ashutosh Kumar, currently posted with Brahmpur police station in Buxar district of Bihar, along with two of his friends from Patna, Nikhil Ranjan and Sourabh Kumar, had gone to Tilaiya Dam, where he was joined by one Suraj Yadav (from Koderma). Soni Pratap, station house officer (SHO) of Chandwara police station under whose jurisdiction the incident took place, said Ashutosh has claimed Sourabh took his service revolver to shoot a photo when the gun went off and the bullet hit Nikhil Ranjan in chest. He was rushed to a private clinic in nearby town of Jhumri Tilaiya where he was pronounced dead. On Saturday, a police team led by Koderma superintendent of police Dr Ehtesham Waquarib visited the spot and recovered an empty liquor bottle, the police said, adding that blood samples of all three arrested have been sent for tests for alcohol consumption. DSP Sanjeev Kumar Singh of Koderma police said they were probing if the accused fired the bullet at the victim or it was an accident. The pistol has been sent for forensic tests, he said. Police said preliminary investigations showed that Ashutosh, while showing his revolver to his friends, accidentally pulled the trigger. They said he then tried to cover up the incident, but a police team brought the body to Koderma Sadar Hospital from the private clinic. Meanwhile Buxar superintendent of police Niraj Kumar Singh said the probationer DSP is a resident of Rohtas and was attached with Brahmpur circle inspector for training. He said they are probing how he went outside the state carrying with service revolver. “If any official is on leave, he or she has to deposit the service revolver in armoury,” he said.Ashutosh is the DSP of 56-59 batch of Bihar Public Service Commission and joined in Bihar Police after completing his training in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-dsp-s-picnic-in-jharkhand-ends-with-his-arrest-after-friend-gets-shot-101625932534345.html
10-07-2021||Other||First genome sequencing facility in Northeast inaugurated in Manipur||For the first time in the Northeast, an Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) Sequencing Facility was formally inaugurated for the detection of Covid-19 variants in Imphal on Saturday, officials said.“Inaugurated the ‘Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortium facility’ at the IBSD, Imphal today through video conferencing. For the first time in this part of the country, testing/monitoring of SARS-COV-2 samples from all the NE States can be done in this facility in Imphal,” chief minister N Biren Singh tweeted.Samples can now be tested at the INSACOG sequencing facility at the Institute of Bio-resources and Sustainable Development (IBSD) Campus at Takyelpat in the outskirt of Imphal where genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 will be performed not only for Manipur but also for other states of Northeast India.INSACOG aims to focus on sequencing clinical samples to understand the disease dynamics and severity.Inaugurating the facility at the chief minister’s secretariat in Imphal on Saturday, chief minister N Biren Singh expressed happiness on ISBD, Imphal becoming one of the regional sequencing laboratories approved as part of the consortium of 28 national laboratories to monitor the genomic variations in SARS-CoV-2, according to a press release from the chief minister’s secretariat.Stating that Viral Genome Sequencing has become very critical in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, as new variants of concern have emerged as dominant strains across the world, he said that sequencing would facilitate in identifying hotspots with variants of concern and provide critical information to aid appropriate public health response.The analysis of data collected would also help in studying whether the mutation influences transmission, clinical outcomes, and severity and impact the efficacy of public health intervention and vaccines, he added. He was also hopeful that the inclusion of IBSD, Imphal as part of the consortium of 28 national laboratories would be of immense help in the ongoing efforts of the state government’s fight against Covid-19. Advisor to chief minister (health), Dr Sapam Ranjan; chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar; principal secretary (health and family welfare), V Vumlunmang; Director (IBSD) Professor Pulok Kumar Mukherjee, and other officials attended the inaugural function of the facility.IBSD, Manipur, which is under the department of biotechnology, ministry of science and technology, Government of India, established the INSACOG facility - the first time when such an effort had been made in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-genome-sequencing-facility-in-northeast-inaugurated-in-manipur-101625930554825.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Farmers clash with police in Yamunanagar||As the impasse between farmers and the government continues over the three contentious agricultural laws, protesters under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha faced off with police while trying to disrupt a Bharatiya Janata Party meeting in Yamunanagar on Saturday, leading to minor injuries on both sides.Meanwhile, farmers showed black flags to BJP state chief OP Dhankar during the party’s “chintan shivir” (brainstorming session) in Hisar while women and child development minister Kamlesh Dhanda and Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal faced the protesters’ wrath in Jind.The party’s district executive meeting in Yamunanagar was chaired by transport minister Moolchand Sharma at a marriage palace near Matka Chowk, and had education minister Kanwar Pal and other party functionaries in attendance.Despite a three-layer security, some farmers tried to run over the barricades with their tractors, making way for other protestors to climb over them.A major confrontation was averted after superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal urged senior union leaders to call back their men, and they yielded. However, some of the protesters and half a dozen cops received minor injuries during the melee, confirmed the union leaders and police.As police started rounding up protesters, the farmers failed to show black flags to BJP leaders or disrupt the meeting.“We had announced to stage a dharna till the end of the meeting, but police forcibly took away a few of us in buses. We asked them to release our men or face consequences, and they did,” said Sanju Gudiana, district president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni).Aashish Chaudhary, deputy superintendent of police, said seven to eight cops received minor injuries and it will be ascertained if a legal action is required. “A few men were detained as a precautionary measure, and were released after the meeting ended peacefully,” he said. BJP leaders face farmers’ wrath in Jind, HisarIn Hisar, farmer leader Vikas Sisar lashed out at the authorities of Guru Jambeshwar University for allowing the meeting of BJP state chief OP Dhankar even after cancelling its booking on Friday evening.“It is evident that the BJP government has been using educational institutes to conduct its party meetings and the varsity officials are following its each and every direction,” he said.Later, farmers blocked the Hisar-Delhi highway near Ramayana toll plaza after some women protesters alleged that a man accompanying BJP’s Hansi MLA Vinod Bhayana made derogatory gestures at them. Bhayana was not available for comment.In Jind, Kamlesh Dhanda managed to leave the meeting being conducted at the BJP office after getting news about farmers reaching the venue in large numbers to protest. However, Sunita Duggal and Jind MLA Krishan Middha got stuck in the office, and were later taken away in a police vehicle amid heavy security.“The administration is helping BJP leaders in conducting meetings against the people’s sentiments. We will continue to protest against them until the farm laws are repealed,” said BKU’s Jind district president Azad Palwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-bjp-meeting-farmers-police-face-off-in-yamunanagar-101625930314979.html
10-07-2021||Dehradun||Tourists now flock Uttarakhand’s Dhanaulti; locals say they’re scared||After tourists were seen flocking Mussoorie and Nainital, visuals of crowds have emerged from Uttarakhand ‘Dhanaulti', which is another popular tourist destination in Uttarakhand ‘Dhanaulti’. Instances of revenge travel to Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh have recently taken over social media where travellers can be seen violating coronavirus (Covid-19) appropriate behaviour like social distancing and wearing of masks.The latest report of overcrowding in Dhanaulti comes soon after shocking images of hundreds of travellers gathered at Kempty Falls in Mussoorie took social media by storm. A day later, the Uttarakhand administration ordered that only 50 people can gather at the Kempty Falls and only remain there for not more than 30 minutes.Apart from Kempty Falls, travellers were seen at the Mall Road in Mussoorie as well, with a majority of them roaming around while maintaining social distance and wearing masks. On Friday, visuals shared by news agency ANI showed several people gathered in Haridwar – another popular tourist spot in Uttarakhand, for Har ki Pauri. Speaking to ANI, a tourist said that she is “not scared of Covid-19” because they visited the place “before the third wave” had even hit the country.Meanwhile, amid overcrowding in Dhanaulti, a resident, Dhiraj Unival told ANI, “Such situations of overcrowding in different parts of the state are scaring the people of the state. Due to the fear of a third [Covid-19] wave, the tourists in Uttarakhand are ringing alarm bells for us.”Another resident, Somvari Gaur said that travellers are roaming around without masks, and without maintaining social distance, although they “continue to reprimand them”, ANI reported. “We are also scared as even vaccination hasn’t been done here in Dhanaulti,” Gaur added to ANI.DIG, spokesperson PHQ Uttarakhand Nilesh Bharan said that the state administration is “trying [their] best” to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are being followed in Uttarakhand.This development comes after Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami ordered a capping of 50 per cent occupancy in Nainital and Dehradun hotels. “Challans are being issued to those who aren’t wearing masks. We are making efforts and will follow guidelines to contain the spread of the virus,” he told ANI.Moreover, the state administration has also made the negative RT-PCR test mandatory for all tourists entering Mussoorie from outside states. Travellers can make online reservations for accommodation after getting their negative RT-PCR report, but without one, they won't be allowed entry beyond Kolhukhet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/tourists-now-flock-uttarakhand-s-dhanaulti-locals-say-they-re-scared-101625929313395.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Fadnavis asks BJP office bearers to speed up river rejuvenation project||Former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis instructed ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office bearers to speed up the river rejuvenation project which is getting executed with the help of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Fadnavis was in the city on Friday to launch the bus service at Rs10 per day. In the same programme and later speaking with BJP’s office bearers, he instructed to speed up the JICA and HCMTR project. Fadnavis said, “Pune should be India’s first sustainable city. It is moving towards that direction. Along with public transport, we would also need to concentrate on river rejuvenation. The project got much delayed and it is still in the tendering process.” JICA had approved Rs1,000 crore river rejuvenation project for Mula and Mutha river. Fadnavis said, “It is true that JICA’s projects are very critical. Even for small problems, proposals used to go to Japan and after getting a nod it moves ahead. I did a lot of work with JICA but PMC should now speed up this work.” He said, “Pune is taking many good steps during BJP’s tenure. Pune purchased the highest electric buses. Even these buses are running on the same fare which applies for other buses in the city. The Metro project is getting ready and will be launched very soon. Even the integrated ticket system for buses and metro will be launched very soon.” But while doing this, there is a need to speed up the JICA project, it is true that it got delayed due to various reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fadnavis-asks-bjp-office-bearers-to-speed-up-river-rejuvenation-project-101625929414202.html
10-07-2021||Other||Amritsar GMC staffer suspended after new-born dies for want of blood||Amritsar A blood bank staffer at the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Government Medical College has been suspended after a five-day-old girl died due to lack of blood and alleged negligence in the hospital on Friday late evening. The premature new-born was daughter of Jatinder Singh, and had been brought to the hospital four days ago. The employee in question, Gurpreet Singh, was a blood bank technician, who was on deputation with the hospital for the past few months. Medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “Gurpreet Singh is being terminated from his services for negligence. He is in police custody and legal proceedings will also be initiated against him.”The child’s family hailing from Verka locality alleged that Gurpreet, who was the only staff member available in the blood bank at that time, seemed to be under the influence of drugs. “We visited the blood bank about 6:30pm, and there was no else there except him. We told him we have a donor, but he told us that blood would be made available after 8pm; my daughter died at 7:30pm,” Jatinder claimed, adding that his child was in respiratory distress, but could have been saved. Visitors to the hospital alleged that getting blood on time was a major challenge for patients, with the staff negligent towards their duty. “The blood bank at the hospital arranges adequate blood through donation camps etc, but still could not streamline a system, where patients are not harassed,” a visitor alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-gmc-staffer-suspended-after-new-born-dies-for-want-of-blood-101625929295326.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Couple duped of ₹2 lakh in mobile fraud||An elderly couple in Pune was duped of ₹2 lakh by men who sent them an SMS saying their number will shut down if they do not recharge their phone. The cybercrime cell police officials are looking for the person who duped the 53-year-old woman.The man made the woman download two mobile applications in order for him to be able to recharge her phone number. When the woman did so, the man gained access to the woman’s phone and could access it remotely.Her husband had received an SMS that your number was going to shut down unless he recharges that BSNL number. The people said that the recharge needs to be done in a specific manner and made him download applications that transferred the control of his phone to the people on the other side. Four transactions were done,” said assistant police inspector Sachin Gavate of Cyber police station.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Cyber police station of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-duped-of-rs-2-lakh-in-mobile-fraud-101625929294175.html
10-07-2021||Pune||66 criminals held in combing operation||The city crime branch in a major drive apprehended over 66 hardcore criminals during its combing operation carried out in the city in the wake of orders from the Pune commissioner of police to take strict action against organized crime. The operation took place in different parts of the city where 249 criminals on record were checked and out of them 66 were detained. According to the crime branch, a pistol worth ₹27,000 was seized from a criminal while 66 accused were arrested on charges of committing crime. Besides, a large cache of sharp weapons like choppers, swords, machetes and knives were recovered during the crime branch raid. Additional commissioner of police ( crime ) Ashok Morale said, “The action has been taken based on the orders of the commissioner of police to take strict action against organised crime. We will not tolerate any time of criminal activity and the criminals on record are under our surveillance. A lot of efforts have been taken by the crime branch to make the city safe and secure for its citizens.” The city police have also applied Maharashtra Control of Organised crime act (MCOCA) to more than 30 gangs operational in the city to send a stern message to the criminals that no nonsense would be tolerated. A large number of hardcore criminals are behind the bar at Yerawada jail due to the strong action taken by the crime branch under the guidance of police commissioner Amitabh Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/66-criminals-held-in-combing-operation-101625929174233.html
10-07-2021||Other||DRI names two more in 293-kg heroin haul from Mumbai port||Tarn Taran The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has named two more persons from Punjab in connection with the seizure of 293-kg heroin from a Mumbai port last week. The two, however, are absconding.The DRI, in coordination with the Customs, had examined two containers at Nhava Sheva Port in Mumbai, imported by Tarn Taran-based firm M/s Sandhu Exports, from Afghanistan via Iran. These containers found to contain the contraband.After the seizure, firm owner Prabhjit Singh, 25, of Chohla Sahib village, was arrested on July 1. Subsequently, two Tarn Taran-based accomplices of Prabhjit were nabbed from a godown in Shivpuri district of Madhya Pradesh. On Saturday, a team of Tarn Taran police that superintendent of police (SP-narcotics) Jagjit Singh Walia led returned from Mumbai. The team had gone there to question Prabhjit and assist the DRI. “We can’t disclose the duo’s names, as it may hamper DRI investigation into this high-profile smuggling case. One of the two accused is from Tarn Taran. We suspect the two men had links with Pakistan or Afghanistan-based smugglers,” said a senior Punjab Police official, not wanting to be named.“Two associates of Prabhjit who were arrested from MP by the DRI had been living there since 2012. DRI officials say the two arrested men have claimed that they were unaware that heroin was to be smuggled in guise of talc stones. Prior to this seizure, five consignments of gypsum and talc stones were delivered to Prabhjit from Afghanistan or Pakistan. The DRI is probing if heroin was smuggled in these five consignments as well,” he added. Prabhjit is on remand with DRI Mumbai till July 12. The state police are also likely to bring him on transit remand for interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dri-names-two-more-in-293-kg-heroin-haul-from-mumbai-port-101625928995647.html
10-07-2021||Pune||60-year-old pillion rider killed by speeding dumper||A 60-year-old woman riding pillion on a two-wheeler was killed after a truck hit their vehicle from behind in Hinjewadi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Friday morning. The driver of the truck was arrested by the police. The deceased woman was identified as Lakshmi Vitthal Shinde (60), a resident of Kasarsai area of Mulshi, Pune, according to the police.The arrested driver was identified as Avinash Yadav (28) who was driving the truck and lives a few meters from the spot where the accident happened. Yadav fled from the spot and was arrested later by the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Akash Shahji Shinde (25), a resident of Kasarsai area of Mulshi who was riding the two-wheeler.The two were riding an Activa registered in Chinchwad in the name of the rider’s maternal uncle.The dumper truck came speeding from behind the two-wheeler and hit them when they were in front of Vinod Corner in Hinjewadi around 9:30am on Friday.The rider sustained injuries on his arm and leg while the woman could not survive the collision even though she was rushed to a nearby hospital.A case under Sections 279, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with sEctions 184, 119/177, 132(1)(c) of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station against Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/60yearold-pillion-rider-killed-by-speeding-dumper-101625928814218.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Gutkha worth ₹44 lakh seized, three in police custody||Three men were remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police after they were arrested for smuggling gutkha worth ₹44 lakh on Wednesday, police commissioner Krishna Prakash said on Saturday. The three arrested men were identified as Ganesh Vabji Sable (29), Sandeep Gulab Thackeray (27), both residents of Sakri in Dhule, and Vishal Pandurang Lavale (22) a resident of Uravade in Mulshi, Pune, according to the police. The three men were remanded to police custody until July 13 by a local court.“Staff members Vikram Kudal and PRashant Gilbile received information that blue coloured tin sheets carrying copper coloured Tata tempo was smuggling gutkha and pan masala for sale,” read a statement from the Pimpri Chinchwad police’s Wakad police station.When the tempo crossed the Hanging Bridge and headed towards Dange Chowk, the police intercepted the vehicle around 11:35pm and found blue tins, as informed by the source.The tempo was found filled with 100 sacks of Vimal Panmasala worth ₹39,60,000, and 100 sacks of V1 tobacco worth ₹4,40,000, according to the police. The tempo itself was found to be worth ₹8,00,000. The three men were carrying four mobile phones collectively worth ₹20,000, according to the police.The tempo was displaying a number plate with Dhule registration but the vehicle was found to be originally registered in Vasai.A case under Sections 328, 272, 273, 465, 467, 468, 471, 188, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with SEctions 26(2)(i), 26(2)(iv) of Food Safety and Standard Act, 2006; Section 3 of Epidemic diseases Ac, 1897; and Section 50(b) of National Disaster Management Act, along with Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations, 2020 was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gutkha-worth-rs-44-lakh-seized-three-in-police-custody-101625927494113.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Stolen heavy vehicles worth ₹80 lakh recovered, six arrested||A gang of six men was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police and stolen heavy vehicles worth over ₹80.25 lakh were recovered from them. The six men were identified as as Ganesh Arjun Puri (28), Prakash Narayan Giri (31), Mujub Mahammad Shaikh (38) all residents of Latur, Kushal Abhimanyu Jadhav (32), a resident of Male in Mulshi, Pune; Jitendra Krushnakumar Yadav (22) a resident of Sangvi, Pimpri Chinchwad, and Jamshed alias Firoz Yunus Khan Pathan (38) a resident of Galibnagar in Osmanabad, according to the police.The Hinjewadi police station officials started investigating a case of theft of a truck from the highway area by men who arrived in an Innova car, according to the police. In the meanwhile, two more similar cases from Paud and Dehuroad police station were reported.The police traced the owner of the Innova car and learned that the men were planning to steal another truck from Warje or Hinjewadi area and a trap was set accordingly.“Early in the morning the Innova was seen in Sus and the police started following it from Sus towards Wakad bridge, Hinjewadi where it was intercepted and stopped and three men in the car were ready to make a run for it but were stopped by the police,” read a statement from the police.A large number of blades, duplicate keys, and automobile repair equipment was recovered from them during their arrest.The police have recovered 8 vehicles from them so far collectively worth ₹80,25,000 was recovered from them. They confessed to have stolen vehicles from Pune city, Pune rural, Pimpri Chinchwad, Thane, and Latur and have 11 cases in these jurisdictions. Of the recovered vehicles, one was found in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh and one in Jahirabad, Telangana.The men also have an extensive history of body offences against them including attempted murder and dacoity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stolen-heavy-vehicles-worth-rs-80-lakh-recovered-six-arrested-101625927014174.html
10-07-2021||Pune||84% parents agree to send child to offline school: SCERT survey||Around 84 per cent parents from across Maharashtra have agreed that they would like to send their ward to offline schools, according to a recent survey conducted by Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). Parents and teachers from across the state can participate in the survey until July 12 at 11:55 pm on the link http://www.maa.ac.in/survey. Speaking about the survey, Dinkar Temkar, director SCERT said that as the state government has directed to reopen schools for classes eight to 12 offline, we decided to take a survey to understand how comfortable parents are with the decision. “In a recent government resolution (GR), the state government has issued directives to start schools from classes eight to 12 in offline mode where Covid cases are negligible. Schools are directed to take all necessary precautions for the reopening like sanitization, mask and social distancing,” said Temkar. He added that schools are also advised to call students to class alternatives so that not more than 20 students are present in the classroom at one time. As the survey started, so far around 2,25,194 parents have participated in the survey. More parents can participate till July 12 late evening. “Out of these, 1,89,095 parents have given their consent to send their ward to offline school whereas 36,099 that is 16.03 percent of parents have denied their consent for offline schools,” said Temkar. He added that out of 2,25,194 parents who participated, 52.84 percent parents, that is 1,18,182 parents are from rural parts of Maharashtra. “Out of 2,25,194 parents who participated, 23,948, that is 10.63 percent, were from suburban parts of the state and 83,064, that is 36.89 per cent of parents are from cities across Maharashtra,” said Temkar. Local authorities are directed by the state government to open offline schools and allow students only if parents give their consent. This decision is not mandatory on parents and students. However, many parents have been keeping on sending their child back to school. Schools are advised to carefully monitor each student for symptoms of Covid and if any such student is seen to show any symptoms, they should be immediately moved to the nearby hospital for better care. Education experts note that the decision of offline classes will help students from rural parts as their learning loss is greater than those students who are residing in urban areas. Students from village face multiple issues of network problems during online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/84-parents-agree-to-send-child-to-offline-school-scert-survey-101625926894210.html
10-07-2021||Other||Govt will order probe into illegal mining in Mandya if documents provided||Rejecting the allegations of illegal mining activities at Baby Betta in Mandya, Karnataka, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani, in a media briefing, said the government is ready to order a thorough investigation if MP Sumalatha Ambareesh produces documentary evidence.The Kalaburagi district in charge categorically denied illegal mining activities in Mandya. “As per my information, no mining activities are taking place around KRS dam or Baby Betta area in Mandya district. I visited the spot after I was informed about the illegal mining activities. I had instructed the officials to stop stone quarrying after noticing the violation of rules. Those who violated the rules were fined and there is a ban on stone mining,” Nirani clarified.Denying the charges of Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, Minister Nirani said the government is ready to order a probe. “Let Sumalatha Ambareesh produce documents related to illegal mining activities to the government. We will order a thorough and fair investigation and take action as per the law and won’t buckle under any pressure,” Nirani assured. On Friday, Members of Parliament Sumalatha Ambareesh and the Janata Dal (Secular), led by former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, traded charges over alleged illegal mining in Karnataka’s Mandya district, about 100 kilometres from Bengaluru.The confrontation between the Mandya MP, the widow of popular actor-turned-politician Ambareesh, and the JD(S), which has its seeds in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, was reignited this time when Sumalatha alleged that illegal mining activities were affecting the structure of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam.Replying to the query on the public spat between former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy and MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, Nirani said he respected both the leaders and added that indulging in mudslinging in public would not solve any problem. “Both the leaders are intelligent and have enough experience in politics. It’s time they ended this public spat. Politicians should not indulge in mudslinging and senior leaders should intervene and end this matter,” Nirani appealed.Talking about the concerns over the safety of the KRS dam in Mandya, Murugesh Nirani denied illegal mining activities in the 20-kilometre radius of the KRS dam which is the lifeline for farmers in Mandya. “Mining activities have been banned in the 20-km radius of KRS dam. Officials have been instructed to collect information regarding any illegal activities. It is very difficult to reveal the names of any politicians involved in stone mining activities which are happening in the last 70 years,” Nirani explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-will-order-probe-into-illegal-mining-in-mandya-if-documents-provided-101625926774682.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||‘Show big heart and reduce fuel prices’: Ajit Pawar tells Centre||Amid rising fuel prices, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday appealed to the central government that they should show a “big heart” and cut down the prices of petrol and diesel.Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra and is also the guardian minister in Pune, highlighted that the MVA has not increased the state taxes on diesel and petrol since coming into power in November 2019.Referring to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis’ statement that the MVA government levies “tax on tax”, which has caused petrol retaining at nearly ₹105 per litre in Maharashtra, Pawar said it was a complete lie.“We did not increase any taxes in consecutive budgets. Whatever taxes are there, they were imposed during their (BJP’s) tenure. The central government is earning around ₹3.5 to 4 lakh crore with the fuel tax. They should show a big heart and reduce the taxes,” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said.Notably, petrol and diesel prices witnessed yet another hike on Saturday – seventh in July till date, thereby surpassing the ₹100 per litre-mark in 18 states and Union territories (UTs).In Mumbai, petrol is priced at ₹106.93 per litre, while diesel costs ₹97.46 per litre. In Delhi, one litre of petrol costs ₹100.91 per litre, while an equal quantity of diesel is priced at ₹89.88. In the southern cities of Bengaluru and Chennai, petrol is priced at ₹104.29 and ₹101.67 per litre, respectively. Diesel, on the other hand, costs ₹95.26 per litre in Bengaluru and ₹94.39 per litre in Chennai.Petrol prices in the national capital and Kolkata crossed the ₹100-mark on Wednesday. As of now, petrol prices are over ₹100 per litre in several major states and UTs, including Maharashtra, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal, Telangana, and Rajasthan, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/show-big-heart-and-reduce-fuel-prices-ajit-pawar-tells-centre-101625924954984.html
10-07-2021||Other||‘Rajasthan tops chart for crimes against women, Dalits’: Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore||A day after Congress slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh (UP) over violence with women during filing of nominations for blockhead elections, with Rahul Gandhi calling violence as a “masterstroke” in UP, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday hit out at Congress saying their own state Rajasthan is “blind” towards the rapes happening in the state. Addressing a press conference, BJP MP Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore said while the Congress has been vocal about women rights in other states, “Rajasthan tops the chart for crimes against women and Dalits in India… Those who are loyal to the chief minister of Rajasthan have been given a free hand to do whatever crimes they like.”He added that there has been a 50 per cent increase in crimes against women till 2020 in Rajasthan. “In Alwar district alone, 7 gang-rapes took place. This is a shameful reality of this state… There has been an increase of rapes by 30 per cent and 550 such cases were reported in just last 30 days,” Rathore said.He added that in the past year, 13,750 rapes were reported from the state.“It is the wrong competition that we are winning in Rajasthan all because the Congress government placed there has only one objective which is to remain in power, irrespective of what happens in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajasthan-tops-chart-for-crimes-against-women-dalits-rajyavardhan-singh-rathore-101625923656105.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Communication professional demystifies temple names in Pune||Patrya Maruti, Sotya Mhasoba, Dadhivala Datta, Bhikardas Maruti, Jilbya Maruti, Upashi Vithoba, and Khunya Murlidhar are among many such seemingly bizarre names of temples effortlessly cited as landmarks, especially by true-blue Punekars. A novel keepsake-cum-Hindu calendar (beginning from April as per the Gregorian calendar), which explains the cultural significance of these names, has been selling like hotcakes in the city. Tejas Gokhale, a visual communication professional, is the man behind this calendar, aptly titled Dev- Bhiv. The calendar features 12 distinguished temples dotted around the nooks and by lanes of old Pune (including the peth areas), and each of these has a tale to tell, about its name.“Every Punekar has known these temples since childhood. We’re also aware that the names are slightly odd, but we don’t really stop and contemplate about the history behind them. Through Dev-Biv, I have made an effort to get people to understand the city, its heritage and the Marathi culture better,” informed Tejas, who has spent more than a decade in the field of media and animation.In a free-wheeling and resourceful conversation, Tejas threw light on a couple of interesting stories and history of the temples. Patrya Maruti on Kumthekar road is the first ever temple in Pune to have been stationed under the shade of roofing panels (patra). “Actually, the panels were bought for some construction work at the city’s Sassoon hospital. But there was a surplus, and that’s when the idea of using those extra panels to build a temple was implemented, and the foundations of the Patrya Maruti temple were laid,” he explained, exclaiming how back in the day, even some things as simple as roofing panels were considered to be objects of splendour. Another rather engaging nugget of information shared by him was about the famous Dadhivala (bearded) Datta temple in Narayan peth. “The deity- Datta does not have a beard. So why would this age-old temple be called Dadhivala Datta? I wondered, and found out,” smiled Tejas. Apparently, the temple was built by a devotee called Dattatreya Ghanekar, who had a beard. “And so, the Datta’s temple he built came to be called the Dadhivala Datta Mandir,” he added.Dev-Biv is the pilot product that Tejas has launched under the aegis of his brainchild initiative called “Khalbatta,” a forum that has been formed to promote, preserve and celebrate Marathi, as a language, and culture. Khalbatta (mortar and pestle), for Tejas, represents ancient wisdom, tradition and customs. His idea is to launch videos of Marathi food recipes, in addition to spearheading a range of other stints under the canopy of Khalbatta. Speaking about why he decided to begin with launching a calendar, he stressed, “We are living in a super-fast world, where even an Instagram story becomes outdated in 24 hours and vanishes. With this kind of pace and the diminishing attention spans of people, I couldn’t think of anything better than a calendar to hold people’s attention for a year. Also, the calendar is replete with short poems and information about the temples, which is sure to serve as a piece of art after the year has passed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/communication-professional-demystifies-temple-names-in-pune-101625923654024.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Amazed to see the industry swiftly bouncing back: Ramiz||Reality TV personality Ramiz King is gearing up to be back in India and start his journey as an actor. Born in Afghanistan, the citizen of Australia is working on Hindi language to fit into the industry. Before lockdown, he has done reality shows Love School-4 and Ace of Space-2. The youngster says, “I enjoy reality shows but now I need to expand my horizon. I have decided to shift my focus towards acting and evolve further. I need to make myself relevant and can’t just depend on reality TV.” On his prep for the same he says, “I am working on my dialect and ascent. I am taking diction classes and brushing my acting skills. I am auditioning for acting projects and simultaneously working on producing shows with leading streaming platforms in which I can also do act.” Ramiz was a contestant at the Afghanistan version of Bigg Boss which he also co-produced. “I have enjoyed doing both the reality shows in India. Unfortunately, due to pandemic, I could not be a part of Mujhse Shaadi Karogi even after signing a contract with them. That would have been my next step towards Bigg Boss.” He left India in February. “As the corona cases started to resurface, I began to face visa issues and so I had to return to Australia. Since then, I am here working on my personal projects. Still the visa formalities are very stringent. So, besides acting and reality shows assignments, I have got involved with a group of people in India to produce shows. I am amazed to see the industry bouncing back in India despite the ongoing pandemic.” Telling us about his local connect, he says, “I have a very strong Indian connection. My father was a professor at the foreign languages department at Jawaharlal Nehru University and I have good memories of visiting him when he was living in Noida. That’s when my connect with India started and I dreamt of working there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amazed-to-see-the-industry-swiftly-bouncing-back-ramiz-101625923594824.html
10-07-2021||Pune||PMC estimates ₹150 crore for roads and one bridge under PPP||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has estimated a cost of ₹150 crore for eight cement concert (CC) roads and one riverside bridge under the Public Private Partnership (PPP). It is the most discussed development model in budget-2021-22 on the background of Covid-19 financial crisis situation of the PMC. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the PMC is facing a financial crunch for development work. Therefore, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar introduced a development model to take help of private players to ease out the financial burden. In the budget 2021-22, PMC commissioner reintroduced the concept and declared to develop 11 roads and two bridges in three years. After the standing committee budget, the roads added another eight roads in the PPP development concept. Under the PPP model, instead of PMC, private players such as contractor/builder/developer will spend money and PMC will give credit notes which private players can use in building construction related activities such as to pay development charges, premium charges as well as transfer credit to developers. Now, the PMC has estimated the cost of eight roads and one riverside bridge. The estimated committee has given approval for the estimate of total ₹150 crore. It has eight CC roads in the Kharadi area and Bundgarden (Koregaon Park) to Mundawa parallel to the right bank Mula-Mutha river and North main road of Koregaon. The total length of DP roads is 7.3 kilometers and width varies from minimum 18 meters to maximum 36 meters. All roads are located in Kharadi area which is one of the fast-developing eastern part of the city due to IT companies and good transport connectivity and proximity to Pune Airport. V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of road department said, “On the background of financial crunch in the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the PMC has adopted the concept of development of roads on the PPP model. In the first phase, we estimated the cost of eight roads and one riverside bridge. PMC has set a three-year deadline to complete the work. We are hoping to get a good response from the Kharadi area due to the fast development.” Amar Shinde, executive engineer of the road department said, “After approval of the estimate committee, the road department will float a tender. We will come to know how developers, builders respond to work.” “In this work, the road department has included eight roads in the Development plan (DP) located in various parts of the Kharadi area. The estimated cost of the eight roads is ₹123 crore. We have also included one riverside road which connects Bund garden road to Mundhwa bridge. The road department has calculated the estimated cost of the bridge is ₹27 crore.” he added. New bridge connects Bundgarden to Mundwa The PMC will for the first time construct a bridge under the PPP model. The PMC has proposed a bridge which connects Bundgarden to Mundhwa. It is 5.50 kilometer parallel to the right bank of Mula-Mutha river and North Main road of Koregaon Park. It is of 30-metre width of road mentioned in the development plan of the city. It will help solve traffic problems in the Koregaon park area to Mundhwa road. It will develop in two patches- Bundgarden bridge to Kalyani nagar bridge and Kalyani nagar to Mundhwa bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-estimates-rs-150-crore-for-roads-and-one-bridge-under-ppp-101625923535216.html
10-07-2021||Other||MP-based illegal weapon supply module busted; 3rd in eight months||KAPURTHALA Punjab Police have busted another Madhya Pradesh-based illegal weapon manufacturing and supply module with the arrest of its kingpin, Baljit Singh alias Sweety Singh, of district Barwani in the Central Indian state. This is the third such module that the state police have busted over the past eight months. “Sweety Singh, of Umarti village in Barwani MP, has been involved in the manufacturing and supply of high-quality illicit weapons to Punjab and other north Indian states,” said Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta.Kapurthala Police have also recovered three .32 bore pistols, along with three magazines from his possession, he added. Previously, Amritsar rural police had unearthed two such modules, including one illicit small-arms manufacturing unit in MP, with the arrest of weapon smugglers. They were supplying weapons to gangsters, criminals and radicals in Punjab. The DGP added the development came 10 days after the Kapurthala Police arrested four robbers and recovered 10 pistols and a rifle, along with ammunition, from their possession. Kapurthala police procured arrest warrants of Sweety and police team was sent to district Barwani to arrest him after coordinating with the MP Police. “Our team arrested Sweety, who unsuccessfully attempted to evade arrest, by crossing the Narmada River to enter the Maharashtra border,” the DGP added. Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said Sweety has confessed that he and his elder brother, Sumer Singh, were into weapon manufacturing and supply trade for years. “They uploaded videos of pistols on social media platforms to lure their customers,” the SSP added. In initial probe, Sweety has been found to be running a YouTube channel on name of ‘Azad Group Munger’ on which he advertised and marketed his business of illegal weapons. When customers asked for price, they shared a WhatsApp number. Police sources added that Sweety has claimed that of 40-45 households in Umarti village, over 50% (20 households) were involved in the business of manufacturing and sale of illicit weapons, especially .30 bore and .32 bore pistols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mpbased-illegal-weapon-supply-module-busted-3rd-in-eight-months-101625923054557.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress protests against fuel price hike||The Haryana Congress organised protests across the state on Saturday to demand a complete rollback of fuel price hike.All India Congress Committee in-charge for Haryana affairs Vivek Bansal and state unit chief Kumari Selja led the state-level protest at Charkhi Dadri. Moving on cycles besides carts pulled by bullocks, mules and camels, the Congress leaders and workers took out a rally from the Janata College stadium to the heart of the city.“We had never thought that the price of petrol would exceed ₹100. This is the result of the Centre’s anti-people policies. Ration cards of the poor are not being made, housewives find it difficult to run the kitchen, and the farmer is in debt,” said Selja while addressing the gathering.The Haryana Congress president said the party will become the voice of the people suffering from inflation, poverty, corruption and unemployment. Former leader of Congress legislative party and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said the government should stop imposing excise duty on petrol and diesel. “Fuel should come under the purview of Goods and Services Tax. Under the UPA regime, the tax on petrol and diesel stood at ₹9.20 and now it exceeds ₹32,” she said.Bansal said the whole country is suffering due to inflation, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving no heed to the people’s grievances. “During the second wave of the pandemic, there was no oxygen and no beds in hospitals and helpless patients were dying on the streets, but Modi’s focus was only on the tactics to grab power in Bengal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-congress-protests-against-fuel-price-hike-101625922454652.html
10-07-2021||Other||Two commandos hurt in exchange of fire with Maoists in Odisha||Two commandos of Odisha’s anti-Maoist Special Operation Group (SOG) were injured in an exchange of fire with Maoists in a forest in the Kandhamal district on Saturday.Odisha police chief Abhay, who uses one name, said they launched an operation in the area following intelligence inputs late on Friday night. During the search operation, Maoists fired and left the two commandos wounded.“With the help of CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) jawans, both the commandos were rescued and brought to safety from the operational area. The two security personnel have been airlifted to Bhubaneswar AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) and they are stable,” said Abhay. He added some Maoists may have also been injured.Police said some top Maoist leaders and cadres were part of the group that fired on the SOG personnel, and that Maoists used heavy ammunition.The exchange of fire comes after a series of recoveries of arms and ammunitions of the Maoists in the state since January.Last month, Rabindra, a member of Bolangir-Bargarh-Mahasamund Divisional Committee of Maoists, with ₹5 lakh reward money on him, was killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in Bargarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-commandos-hurt-in-exchange-of-fire-with-maoists-in-odisha-101625922036158.html
10-07-2021||Other||BJP workers throw eggs at AAP volunteers in Goa||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Wilfred D’Sa’s supporters clashed with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers in Goa and attacked them with eggs on Saturday when the latter tried to offer “anniversary” cakes to 10 former Congress legislators, who defected to the state’s ruling party exactly three years back. D’Sa was among the defectors.The clash was triggered after around a dozen AAP volunteers visited D’Sa’s residence with a cake to mark the day he defected to the BJP in 2019.D’Sa’s supporters booed, jeered, heckled them, threw eggs, and smashed the cake they tried to offer him.AAP leader Atishi Marlena, who is currently visiting Goa, launched the “defection anniversary” campaign. “The people of Goa wanted a change, and they thought the Congress represented change. Instead, Congress sold the votes of the people of Goa to the BJP. The BJP bought these votes. Together they form the Congress Janata Party,” Marlena said. “The people of Goa have not forgotten this betrayal.”Ahead of the 2022 elections in the state, the AAP has launched a “Let’s Clean Goa’s Politics” campaign.AAP leaders tried to offer cakes to other defectors including minister Jennifer Monserrate who along with her husband Atanasio Monserrate defected to the BJP. The Monserrates did not show up when the AAP volunteers arrived at their residence. Minister Filipe Rodrigues engaged with the AAP volunteers and even had a piece of cake.The cakes carried a logo showing both the Congress and the BJP symbols.AAP leader Cecille Rodrigues said, “Today is a reminder to all those people who have voted for the Congress. We have come to the legislators’ doorstep to remind them that they have betrayed the people’s vote.”BJP spokesperson Narendra Sawaikar called the campaign a “cheap political stunt to gain publicity.”Goa assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on April 20 dismissed a Congress plea to disqualify the 10 legislators for switching sides in 2019.The Congress emerged as the single-largest party in Goa in 2017 by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House. But the BJP, which won 13 seats, formed the government with the help of the Goa Forward Party and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, and independents. Two Congress lawmakers defected to the BJP in 2018 and 10 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-workers-throw-eggs-at-aap-volunteers-in-goa-101625921976499.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||'There is no law, but jungle raj': Mayawati on violence in UP during panchayat polls||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Saturday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the violence that took place during the panchayat polls. She said 'jungle raj' is prevailing under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government rule in the state as violence marred the polls and a woman in Lakhimpur district faced indecent behaviour."In the present BJP government in UP, there is no law but jungle raj, under which violence occurred in the panchayat elections and misbehaviour with a lady of Lakhimpur Kheri is also very shameful. Is this their rule of law and democracy? This is something to think about," Mayawati's tweet, in Hindi, read.1. यूपी में वर्तमान भाजपा सरकार में भी कानून का नहीं बल्कि जंगलराज चल रहा है, जिसके तहत यहाँ पंचायत चुनाव में हुई असंख्य हिंसा व लखीमपुर खीरी की एक महिला के साथ की गई बदसलूकी भी अति-शर्मनाक। क्या यही इनका कानून का राज व लोकतन्त्र है? यह सोचने की बात है।The BSP chief's comments came after other opposition parties also slammed the state government over incidents of violence in the run-up to the panchayat elections for the block president.Several parts of the state reported violence amid allegations that candidates backed by opposition parties were not permitted to file nomination papers.Also read: Samajwadi Party announces protests across Uttar Pradesh on July 15 over alleged poll irregularitiesSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP workers of misbehaving with a woman in Lakhimpur Kheri. He said that the ruling party workers misbehaved with his party candidate Ritu Singh and her proposer Anita Yadav, pulling their “sarees”.In another tweet on Saturday, Mayawati hit out at the state government for an attack on Dalits. She highlighted the destruction of Dalits' homes in a village in the Azamgarh district and questioned the silence of ministers from the communities positioned at the state and central government level."And now like in Azamgarh district, in Barthara Khurd village of Chandauli district, Dalits' homes are destroyed and oppressed by the oppressors, is this their Dalit love? And the sad thing is that still the Dalit ministers of the Central and UP government are silent, why? This is very thought-provoking," the tweet, in Hindi, read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/there-is-no-law-but-jungle-raj-mayawati-on-violence-in-up-during-panchayat-polls-101625914984507.html
10-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC launches two-day state-wide protest against hike in fuel prices||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal launched a two-day state-wide protest against hike in fuel prices on Saturday. Petrol is retailing at over ₹101 per litre and diesel at more than ₹92 in West Bengal, while domestic LPG touched ₹861 per cylinder.State ministers, MPs, legislators and other leaders of the party hit the streets, holding rallies and staging protests in innovative ways sometimes using bullock carts and cooking on the road with wood. “The centre imposed enormous taxes on petroleum products, causing a lot of hardships for the common people. Petro-product prices were unregulated, allowing oil companies to raise prices to increase their profits so that their share prices also rise,” said Frihad Hakim state transport minister. While at Girish Park in Kolkata, a scooty was loaded on a hand-cart and then dragged. At Ganga Sagar in South 24 Parganas, TMC workers cooked on the road and organised a rally with bullock carts. At Canning, local party leaders held a rally carrying LPG cylinders on their shoulders. At Kashipur in the northern fringes of Kolkata, TMC supporters tore posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier this week, state labour minister Becharam Manna had pedalled around 40 kilometres on a bicycle from his house at Singur in Hooghly district to reach Legislative Assembly in Kolkata to protest against the hike in fuel prices. On his way, he was joined by Kalyan Ghosh, TMC legislator from Domjur in Howrah, which is around 20 kilometres from the state legislative assembly. The Congress was also not left behind. Young Congress leaders staged a protest in front of Raj Bhavan in Kolkata dragging a motorcycle with ropes. “Ultimately, the citizens are facing the heat of a hike in fuel prices. I would urge the centre to roll back the process. The state government should also think about the VAT which they are imposing,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha. This comes just three days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee attacked PM Modi saying that the PM should sometimes talk about fuel prices, vaccines and dumping of bodies of Covid-19 victims in the river in his Mann ki Baat. “The centre has collected revenue of ₹3.71 lakh crores from oil and petroleum products in the financial year 2020-21. After collecting this huge sum, he is sitting silently, sometimes preaching on Mann ki Baat. Sometimes he should also talk about petrol, diesel, vaccines and dead bodies being dumped in rivers in Uttar Pradesh in his Mann ki Baat. Only then the people would be ensured that their PM is thinking about them,” Banerjee said while talking to reporters after placing the state budget on Wednesday. On July 5, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to slash taxes on fuel. The BJP, however, said that the prices of fuel is linked to the international market and won’t come down because of protests by TMC leaders in the state. “The BJP has been staging protests, both inside the state legislative assembly and on the streets, on several issues. Now, the TMC also wants to do something and have hence started protests. But fuel prices never went down because of protests. It is linked to the international market. We also want to know what the TMC has to say about post-poll violence and vaccine scams,” said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-launches-two-day-state-wide-protest-against-hike-in-fuel-prices-101625918856423.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Giving nanofibres a Covid-safe spin cycle||PUNE E Spin Nanotech is a nanotechnology manufacturing firm that pivoted in the face of Covid-19 to startup its movement towards making its R&D keep Indians safe.The uses of nano-technology are myriad. From baby products to AC vents to Covid-19 masks, nanofibers are all-encompassing. E Spin Nanotech had an indigenous antiviral, antibacterial mask ‘Swasa’, in the market months before the Covid-19 pandemic broke outThat, however, is not where the story begins.E Spin Nanotech is not a startup in the typical sense of the term – recently launched, online driven, currently boot-strapped. Its proof of concept, revenue stream and customer acquisition have all been in the works for at least a decade now.It began in 2010 and was comfortably ensconced in the B2B world of research-led, process driven manufacturing. Its primary product, a nano-fibre spinning machine, was first purchased by IIT Kanpur. IIT Kanpur is key to this company’s “startup” pivot, because the founder, Sandip Patil, is an alumni of the institute; a PhD no less.Swasa N95 Mask and Covid19 outbreakThe company pivot came without the firm realising it. “We started working on the Swasa N95 mask in 2017-18. Sunil Dhole, a PhD from IIT Kanpur, Nitin Charhate – also a student of UDCT Jalgaon – who returned to India from Europe to join our team, and Mahesh Katheria were part of our team which worked on the product. These were conceptualised before the pandemic broke out in 2019-end,” says Sandip Patil.“We designed the mask in such a way that it will be comfortable to wear and easy to breathe in. We used nanofibre technology and successfully made an anti-viral and anti-bacterial mask. It was also certified by the Nelson Labs in USA stating that 99.5 per cent bacteria and virus can be filtered through these masks,” he claims.“We had launched our mask in August 2018. The Covid-19 pandemic broke out in December 2019. We could provide masks to people during the pandemic. We were able to build trust among users, especially doctors. When we decided to scale our production, we had no means and facilities to do it. IIT Kanpur in June 2020 opened their facility to us. We started manufacturing at the facility with peak production capacity at 30,000 masks per day. Later, we also launched new designs, some designed especially for children,” Patil said.Oxygen concentratorsApart from the nanofibre spinning machine and Swasa masks, E Spin Nanotech also ventured into manufacturing of oxygen concentrators. Patil’s mother was diagnosed with Covid-19 symptoms and was admitted in a hospital in Dhule in February 2021.Patil said, “Just before the peak of second wave, we realised that there could be an oxygen shortage. I contacted a company and sourced 10 oxygen cylinders per day for my mother. The company used to supply 300 oxygen cylinders in Dhule, of which I used to get 10. I spoke with my team Sunil Dhole and Tushar Wagh, and asked them to work on a portable oxygen concentrator units. We had already procured raw materials and components when the second wave peak arrived. We got support from the central government officials and ONGC also placed an order for 5,000 oxygen concentrators in June 2021, which we are fulfilling now.”In the beginningIt’s a nano-technology story that among other differentials, illustrates the macro impact of education; from a village school to the hallowed halls of an IIT.The company is self-sustaining and has not sought any VC investment… so far. “We got offers as high as ₹50 crore from investors, but, I prefer to go slow on product development and believe that there should be an innovation component in it. Recently, we have decided to take a loan from a bank,” is how Patil explains it.The setting for this ambitious entrepreneur to enter the cut-throat world of technical and engineering inventions, all nano of course, is a small village named Pimpri (Chimthana) in Dhule district.Pimpri in Dhule is inhabited by 75 per cent Adivasi farmers.Patil comes from a family of farmers and has done his entire schooling in a Marathi-medium school. Patil says, “I spent my entire childhood in a village. I started attending school from Class 2 because there was no good school in our village. I was sent to my uncle’s village near Shahada town in Nadurbar district for schooling. We were not very sound economically and hence, I had to work in the farm besides studying.” Patil’s first taste of entrepreneurship came at a small shop besides his house in the village, where he worked as a youth. “My younger brother and father are still engaged in farming,” he adds.After clearing his HSC exams, he got admission to the University Department of Chemical Technology (UDCT) Jalgaon, North Maharashtra University (NMU), for a BTech in Chemical Engineering. “I failed most subjects in the first year and came back home crying and told my parents I am not good enough to complete engineering. I decided to work in the farm,” says Patil.With a few hours in the fields, Patil felt the “heat” of farming. “That moment I resolved to clear all subjects in my first year of engineering with distinction or first-class,” he recalls.IIT– a different world altogetherIn 2006, Patil got admission for an MTech in Polymer Technology at MS university, Baroda, and then, to IIT Mumbai for one year under a collaborative course. “I had developed interest in research while pursuing my engineering. However, my family and other villagers were not so aware about what exactly research means. I took keen interest in nanotechnology,” Patil says.Then came the PhD at IIT Kanpur. “My family was opposed to me travelling and staying in Uttar Pradesh. It was a different world and culture altogether. All professors spoke English and I could not express myself or any problem in English. I took two years to acclimatise to the culture. The study pattern I had never experienced. I almost failed to get the Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) of 7 which was mandatory for a PhD. In the first semester I got a score of 6, in the second semester I got 6.5, but in the subsequent semester, I got the 7 score and was allowed to pursue my PhD. However, four years at IIT Kanpur transformed me into an altogether different person,” Patil recalls.Research-led entrepreneurship Sandip Patil did his PhD under Professor Ashutosh Sharma, who is now secretary, department of science and technology, government of India. While doing his research work Patil realised the potential of the “indigenous product market”. Says Patil, “Many instruments required for research are imported in India. I realised that I should do something to support the research ecosystem. Since my research was on nanofibre technology, Prof Sharma tasked me with building a machine - electrospinning – a nanofibre spinning machine.”Over the next six months, Patil worked on the machine project. “We sourced all materials indigenously and managed to make a lab-scale machine which was working perfectly fine. I did not understand the business angle to it, but the material sourcing experience gave me a fair idea about how to price any product,” he says.“When I told Prof Sharma that I want to continue my research in nanofibre technology and develop a commercial product for societal benefit, he asked me to immediately start working on the idea. I said to him that I am yet to complete my PhD. He said, ‘don’t worry your PhD will be completed in time’.” E-Spin Nanotech was founded on November 24, 2010 and the company received its first order from IIT Kanpur itself. “It helped me sustain financially,” Patil adds.BootstrappingPatil says, “I used some of my earlier savings from my stipend, Prof Sharma gave me some amount and also a few friends contributed. With this financial help, I registered my company and also manufactured the machine. I earned ₹4.5 lakh from the sale of the machine at that time, but I put that amount into the startup. I had got married in 2006 while pursuing MTech. My wife Jagruti also joined the startup as director. We had nothing to lose. Whatever I have earned is much more than what I could have done otherwise. We didn’t have our own office, but still we hired our first employee. I used to pay him ₹4,000 out of the total ₹8,000 stipend I received.”IIT’s Startup Incubation and Innovation CentreThe Startup Incubation and Innovation Centre (SIIC) at IIT Kanpur played an important role in the growth of E-Spin Nanotech. The Department of Science and Industrial Research (DSIR) under the Promoting Innovations in Individuals, startups and MSMEs (PRISM) scheme granted a fund ₹4.5 lakh to E-Spin Nanotech in 2011. Says Patil, “Most of my problems were solved after receiving the PRISM fund. After commercialising the machines, I could sell them not only in India, but in US, Europe, and Russia too. All our revenue was reinvested in research and development work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-giving-nanofibres-a-covid-safe-spin-cycle-101625917116369.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Not enough vaccine doses to meet demand in Pune: Ajit Pawar||The district guardian minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that the vaccine supply by the Centre is not sufficient. He also pointed out that though Pune district achieved the milestone of 50 lakh inoculations this week, the vaccination centres were closed for two days because of a vaccine shortage.He also asserted that it is essential to follow the Covid-19 norms even after taking two vaccine doses. “Pune district has crossed the milestone of 50 lakh vaccine doses. There are a total of 814 vaccination centres in the district. For the last two days, all our centres have been closed because of the shortage of vaccines and vaccine doses may come on Saturday. The administration is well prepared for the vaccination drive, but the supply of vaccines from the Centre is not in the proportion of the requirement,” said Pawar.“They (Central government) had said that vaccine production would increase after June-end and all the states will get vaccines. But currently, this is not the situation,” said Pawar. He also added that people should not become complacent in following the Covid-19 norms after taking two doses. “People should not stop wearing a mask after taking two vaccine doses. There have been cases where fully vaccinated people have got the infection. So I would like to request all that even if you are fully vaccinated follow the norms,” he said.Pune district, as of Thursday, touched the 5 million mark for a vaccination with at least one dose, across the district. Of the coverage, 91.86 per cent is by Covishield, whereas Covaxin makes up for 8.09 per cent in the district. Sputnik V has 0.05 per cent usage in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/not-enough-vaccine-doses-to-meet-demand-in-pune-ajit-pawar-101625915313629.html
10-07-2021||Pune||New vaccination programmes help bring down child mortality in rural Pune||The introduction of new vaccines in the universal vaccination programmes has helped bring down the child mortality rate in rural areas of Pune.In the five years, infant mortality went down from 388 to 232 and under five years mortality went down from 480 to 282 deaths while the number of live births remained almost the same above 60,000 annually, according to data provided by the Pune district health department.From 480 deaths among kids aged under five years in 2015-16 the deaths have come down to 282 in the same category in 2019-10, said officials.Although kids are not yet eligible for Covid19 vaccination, the central ministry has emphasised routine immunisation among kids in anticipation of the third wave.As per the information from the Pune district health department, Zilla Parishad, the mortalities among infants, aged less than one year, and among children aged less than five have fallen in the past five years. This positive growth has been due to the various measures introduced in rural villages.Dr Sachin Edake, district immunization officer, said, “In the past five years, we have introduced pentavalent which protects against five infections, measles, rubella, rotavirus, hepatitis B and others. Under universal immunisation programme, these vaccines are administered to kids.”“Most mortalities happen under age five and even within that age group, kids under age one and infants aged less than 28 days are the most vulnerable. Vaccination at the right time protects the kids when are the most vulnerable,” he said.In addition to the introduction of vaccines, initiatives under child welfare schemes to bring down malnutrition has also added to the benefit.Dattatraya Munde, deputy chief executive officer under women and child welfare, Pune district, said, “In addition to providing necessary nutrition food packets to malnourished kids, we ensured that the supply of food to kids who are not able to attend schools due to the pandemic get their food delivered to their homes.”“Also, since past two years we have begun programs under which volunteers and govt officials ‘adopt’ a kid which provides financial aid for the nourishment of the child,” said Munde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-vaccination-programmes-help-bring-down-child-mortality-in-rural-pune-101625915194362.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Pune Metro trial run held; service likely to be operational before municipal elections||Pune Metro service will be operational before the municipal election hinted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis, on Friday.Maharashtra Metro Rail Limited (Maha-Metro) on Thursday completed a technical trial run of the metro rail on Vanaz to Garware College stretch.Fadnavis was in a city to launch the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) AC bus service at Rs10. While launching the bus service, he stressed strengthening the public transport in the city.Fadnavis said, “Metro completed a technical trail run on Thursday night. We are expecting that actual trails would start soon and in a few days the metro would be operational.”As Fadnavis stressed on the metro it is clear that the ruling BJP will plan to inaugurate it before the announcement of municipal elections which are slated in either December 2020 or January next year.One of the BJP’s office-bearers said on anonymity, “It is true that in the coming days’ many projects will be inaugurated ahead of the civic elections. Metro is one of the BJP government’s projects which was started in our tenure and got operational before ending the tenure. It will help to impress voters. PMC wants to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to launch the project.”“Two corridors, Pimpri-Chinchwad to Agricultural college and Vanaz to Garware college will become operational soon,” he said.Fadnavis said, “Pune and Nagpur metro rail projects are India’s fastest projects which are completed in record time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-trial-run-held-service-likely-to-be-operational-before-municipal-elections-101625914954587.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Pune activists welcome SC’s decision on environment clearance for HCMTR project||The city activists welcomed Supreme Court’s decision which has instructed Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to take environmental clearance for the High Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) project.Sarang Yadwadkar, original petitioner in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision and said, “NGT had asked PMC not to proceed with HCMTR work without environment clearance. The same decision was upheld by the apex court.”The HCMTR is a 24 metre, six-lane fully elevated road having a length of 36 km with two exclusive lanes for the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) one on each side. Additionally, 26 BRTS stations and 17 up ramps and 16 Downs ramps are proposed in the construction of HCMTR. Various grade roads and structures below the elevated HCMTR, as well as minor bridges, are also proposed in the project.Yadwadkar said, “HCMTR would create a huge environmental impact on the city. The rapid environmental impact assessment that had been carried out by the project proponents was unscientific.”Sujit Patwardhan of Parisar said, “The corporation has twisted the meaning of HCMTR by adding four lanes for private vehicles. The HCMTR should remain exclusive for mass transportation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-activists-welcome-sc-s-decision-on-environment-clearance-for-hcmtr-project-101625914714230.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Covid curbs to continue in Pune, stricter restrictions at tourist spots||The existing Covid-19 restrictions are set to continue next week as well. Following the weekly Covid-19 review meeting at the divisional commissioner office on Friday, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar announced that all shops, including business run by hawkers, will have to be closed at 4 pm.He also asked the police department to strictly implement curbs at the tourist spots while stating that crowding at these places is leading to a rise in Covid-19 positivity rate.“Shops and business run by hawkers can remain open till 4 pm only. I have instructed the police to make sure that everything is closed after 4 pm,” said Pawar.“Also, people are crowding at the tourist spots such as Sinhagad, Lonavla, among others. Because of this, the positivity rate is increasing. Police should strictly implement the Covid norms in such areas,” said Pawar.“The decision regarding the weekend lockdown will be taken by the state,” he added.After the Covid-19 review meeting, Pawar emphasised the preparation of the administration for Covid-19 management but asked people to strictly follow norms.“According to World Health Organisation (WHO), even after two vaccine doses, masks have to be used, and crowding should be avoided. Many countries are making decisions according to their policy but it has been observed that where curbs were eased heavy price had to be paid,” said Pawar.“Centre should give relief on fuel rates”As the fuel prices have been soaring with each passing day, Pawar demanded that the Center should give relief to common people.Pawar made it clear that the state government is already facing revenue loss due to the Covid situation, and hence the state taxes on the fuels cannot be waived off. He demanded that the central government should waive off taxes levied by it and provide relief to the people.“In the Covid-19 situation, the state revenue has reduced by Rs1.25 lakh crore. Huge funds have to be allocated to the public health department, medical education department, food supply department, and police department. We are giving priority to health. If we reduce state revenue, then it will affect these allocations. So the Union government should give relief on fuel rates,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-curbs-to-continue-in-pune-stricter-restrictions-at-tourist-spots-101625914539220.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Devendra Fadnavis bats for Neo-Metro on Pune’s HCMTR||Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has instructed the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) to give priority to High-Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) project and execute Neo-Metro on the same. On Friday, Fadnavis was in the city to launch the AC bus service in the central part of the city at the cost of Rs10.As the central government has accepted the Neo-Metro model nationwide, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will get financial help from Centre to execute the HCMTR project.HCMTR is the inner ring road, and it was planned in 1986, and PMC has not executed the project till date.Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has already given instructions to execute Neo-Metro on HCMTR and bring down its width. Fadnavis, meanwhile, has instructed to execute the hybrid Neo-Metro model.“Along, with Neo-Metro, try to keep one lane open for private vehicles,” he said.Fadnavis said, “Maha-Metro had invented the Neo-Metro model which was first planned for Nashik city. Now central government has accepted it at the national level. Now Prime Minister Narendra Modi is planning to execute it in his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi. If PMC executes Neo-Metro it will get financial aid from central and state governments. It will help to bring down civic body’s financial burden.”“Maha-Metro had invented the model, so it is better to ask then to prepare the Detailed Project Report (DPR) and allot the work to them as there would be no need to carry the tender process,” he said.While launching the bus service, Fadnavis lauded BJP for its performance in the municipal corporation for the development works undertaken in the city.“It is necessary to strengthen the public transport. During my tenure, I tried to make Pune a sustainable city and gave a nod to all transport-related projects. We purchased the electric buses and now Pune has the highest electric buses for public transport,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/devendra-fadnavis-bats-for-neo-metro-on-pune-s-hcmtr-101625913994440.html
10-07-2021||Ranchi||Outgoing Jharkhand governor says new governor to take a call on TAC row||Outgoing Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu on Saturday indicated that the end of her tenure in Raj Bhawan was unlikely to see the end of friction with the state government over Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) as she had already briefed her successor Ramesh Bais on the controversial issue. Without naming chief minister Hemant Soren, Murmu said the Constitution gives certain special powers to the governor on certain issues and it needs to be respected by all.Murmu’s comments come in the backdrop of the Hemant Soren government recently transferring the power to constitute the TAC from the governor to the chief minister. TAC advises the government on issues related to tribes and their development. The CM is also the ex-officio chairman of the council.“I had summoned the files (related to TAC). They (Hemant Soren government) are good people, but they delayed in sending the file. I was seeking legal opinion on the matter but in the meanwhile the new orders (of appointment of new governor) came,” Murmu said while interacting with journalists at Raj Bhawan in Ranchi.“I have briefed the new governor about it. Now he would take a call on it. However, Article 244 of the Constitution gives special powers to the governor. The Constitution is a sacred book like Gita. So everyone should follow the Constitution and act accordingly,” she added.Murmu will relinquish office after spending over six years in Jharkhand Raj Bhawan---the longest for any governor in the state. On Monday, she had also pitched for a few amendments in the pre-independence land tenancy laws saying they were out of tune with the requirements of the present times. “For example, the restriction of a police station (for sale and purchase of tribal land) should be amended. Earlier, the size of the [areas under] police stations used to be huge. Now that is not the case. However, any amendment in such laws needs to be in consonance with their spirit,” said Murmu, the only woman governor of the state to date. The Chotanagpur Tenancy Act and Santhal Parganas Tenancy Act are two pre-independence tenancy laws which prevent non-tribals from buying the land of tribals. Even tribals can’t buy land owned by the same community outside the jurisdiction of the police station they belong to. These two laws, besides the land acquisition law, have often lent themselves to political controversies in the state, where tribals make for over 26% of the 3.29 crore population.“The tribals are very simple people. They need to be educated as they are not even aware of the constitution and their rights,” she added. Ramesh Bais is set to take oath as the next Jharkhand governor early next week, people familiar with the developments said, and the incumbent is likely to leave the Raj Bhawan on Monday, they added.The chief minister was likely to host a farewell lunch for Murmu at his residence on Sunday before she leaves for her village Rairangpur in Mayurbhanj district in neighbouring Odisha, said the people quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/outgoing-jharkhand-governor-says-new-governor-to-take-a-call-on-tac-row-101625913094145.html
10-07-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Police raids houses of rowdies and history-sheeters, central prison||Police on Saturday morning conducted raids on the houses of rowdies and history-sheeters across the city and also at the Parappana Agrahara Central Jail here and seized lethal weapons, illegal arms, narcotic substances, among other things.The police have also detained some rowdy-sheeters for questioning."In an early morning special drive, Bengaluru City Police teams led by the jurisdictional DCPs have conducted raids on the homes of rowdies and history-sheeters across the city. The police raided more than 2,000 houses and 1,500 rowdy-sheeters have been detained for questioning," city Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said.Stating that lethal weapons, illegal arms, narcotic substances found during the raid have been seized, in a tweet, he said, besides, land documents, mobile phones, sim cards, and vehicles without valid documents have been seized for examination and verification."A detailed examination of antecedents of all the detained rowdies/ rowdy-sheeters is also being conducted. Those found indulging in illegal activities will be sent to prison. Appreciate the excellent operation conducted against rowdies by the jurisdictional police," he added.On the other hand, a team of Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials under the guidance of Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil conducted a raid on the prison and the search is still on."To monitor rowdy activities, Early morning raids conducted at Parappana Agrahara Jail by CCB team along with Dog squad...Ganja, ganja smoking pipes, mobiles, SIMS, knives seized...further action to be taken," Patil tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-police-raids-houses-of-rowdies-and-history-sheeters-central-prison-101625911426897.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Rahul and Priyanka criticize BJP over UP election violence||The Congress on Saturday slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over incidents of alleged violence and misbehaviour with women during the filing of nominations for block panchayat chiefs, with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying that violence has been renamed "masterstroke" in the state.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the BJP had "crossed" all limits to stop the nomination of a woman in the polls."A few years ago, a rape victim raised her voice against a BJP MLA and an attempt was made to kill her and her family. Today, the BJP crossed all limits to stop the nomination of a woman. Same government. Same behaviour," she said in a tweet in Hindi and also tagged a video purportedly showing a woman being stopped from filing her nomination in the polls.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said that in Uttar Pradesh, violence has been renamed "masterstroke".The brother-in-law of a block development committee member was killed in Bahraich as he resisted an alleged attempt to abduct his relative by a BJP candidate's husband and supporters ahead of the polls for the block panchayat head.In another incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, a Samajwadi Party candidate was allegedly manhandled by BJP workers, after which six policemen were suspended with the administration ordering a magisterial probe. A woman BDC member's saree was also pulled in front of police officers, alleged the Congress and sought an apology from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rahul-and-priyanka-criticize-bjp-over-up-election-violence-101625907667506.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Makeover for UP govt schools with child-friendly furniture||Floor mats in government-run upper primary schools will be replaced with brand-new comfortable desks and benches once schools across Uttar Pradesh reopen one-and-a-half-years after they were first shut down due to the pandemic, state officials said.The state government has already released ₹327 crore out of the sanctioned ₹488 crore for procurement of child-friendly furniture for 26,599 upper primary schools spread across 70 districts, said state education department.The state has a total of 45,625 government-run upper primary schools for students from class 6 to 8 and the furniture will cover 58% of these, said the officials.In 2017-18, the state government procured furniture for a section of these schools, but still a majority of them in rural areas, lack furniture. “Government believes that the furniture would help improve classroom pedagogical practices, instil self-confidence and pride among millions of students who view private schools with envy. The government also hopes that it would spur admissions in these government schools,” said a senior official of the basic education department.Divisional assistant director (basic education), Prayagraj, Ramesh Kumar Tiwari said the furniture will be procured from one stop Government e-Marketplace portal and the process will be overseen by a committee headed by respective district magistrates.“The furniture will be child-friendly and provide adequate space between the desk and the chair, keeping in mind the different age groups of the students,” Tiwari said.Officials said that the furniture will be safe, comfortable and provide adequate space for students to keep their school bags, books and notebooks besides water bottles.687,036 pieces of furniture is being procured for the 26,599 upper primary schools including 679 in Agra, 569 schools in Gorakhpur, 275 schools in Kanpur Dehat, 209 in Kanpur Nagar, 381 in Lucknow, 340 in Mathura, 359 schools of Pratapgarh, 599 in Prayagraj and 212 in Varanasi among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/makeover-for-up-govt-schools-with-child-friendly-furniture-101625910034030.html
10-07-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Section 144 to remain in place in Noida till Aug 30||Section 144 will remain in place in Noida till August 30 in view of upcoming religious festivals such as Shivratri, Bakra Eid, Rakshabandhan, Muharram etc, which authorities say can lead to an increased spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Hindustan Times’ sister publication, Livehindustan reported on Saturday.Speaking to Livehindustan, Shraddha Pandey, the additional deputy commissioner of police (Law and Order), said the order was issued not just in view of the pandemic but to also ensure that no anti-social elements disturb peace during these festivals.A strict inquiry will be ordered against those who are found violating the rules and they will be charged under section 188 (disobeying public order) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Here are the list of restrictions which will be applicable till August 30> In containment zones, only medical and essential services will be permitted. All other services will be restricted.> Prior permission will have to be taken for organising any social, political, cultural, entertainment, sports and religious gatherings.> No more than 50 people will be allowed to attend marriages.> Malls, restaurants and hotels will operate five days a week from 7am to 9pm. Only 50 per cent occupancy is allowed.> People will not be allowed to stand or sit and eat at sweet shops or fast food centres.> Metro, bus services will function with 50 per cent seating capacity.> Schools, colleges and other educational institutions will remain closed.> People are not allowed to carry any kind of procession.> In Auto rickshaws, only 2 people along with the driver will be allowed to travel. In e-rickshaws, only 3 people along with the driver will be allowed. While in four wheelers, no more than four people will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-section-144-to-remain-in-place-in-noida-till-aug-30-101625905175441.html
10-07-2021||Patna||Jeevika didis in Bihar turn crisis during Covid 2nd wave into an opportunity||45-year-old Munni Devi in Bihar’s Kishanganj made 17,000 face masks in less than two months during the second wave of the pandemic and earned ₹85,000. She is one among nearly 4,500 Jeevika didis in the Seemanchal region to have collectively earned over ₹5 crores in the last two months by manufacturing three-layered quality masks, state officials said.900 Jeevika didis in Kishanganj district have made a record by manufacturing over 30 lakh face masks within two months.“We are indeed proud of Jeevika didis in Kishanganj,” district project manager (DPM) of Kishanganj, Rajesh Kumar, said, adding, “900 Jeevika didis made 3.033 million face masks and earned over ₹1.50 crores collectively.” This means each of those Jeevika didis in Kishanganj earned in excess of ₹16,500.But those who worked harder, walked away with a lot more, officials said about 100 Jeevika didis made more than 10,000 face masks during the period and earned more than ₹50,000. Munni Devi of Bahadurganj stood out in the group by managing to stitch together 17,000 face masks to corner ₹85,000.In Purnia Jeevika didis made more than 2.972 million face masks and earned little less than ₹1.50 crores. Purnia Jeevika communication manager Rajeev Ranjan said it gave them “an opportunity in crisis”.In Katihar over 25 lakh face masks were made by Jeevika didis. “They did an excellent job of spreading awareness about Covid-19 in rural areas,” Nitesh Kumar, manager Non Farm & Micro Enterprises said, adding, “In rural areas almost all people wear masks manufactured by them.” In Araria, over 20 lakh face masks were made and distributed in rural areas. Seemanchal comprising four districts of Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia has a population of over 11.5 million and the face masks made by Jeevika didis have covered almost all families in rural areas.“We have supplied masks to Panchayati raj institutions besides to government schools,” Kishanganj DPM Rajesh Kumar said, adding, “Masks making jobs has worked as a booster for them and they have become self-reliant in crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jeevika-didis-in-bihar-turn-crisis-during-covid-2nd-wave-into-an-opportunity-101625908114340.html
10-07-2021||City||What is colour-coded plan to combat Covid-19 in Delhi?||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has given its nod to a colour-coded graded response action plan, aimed at controlling a probable third wave of the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. In this plan, the shopping malls and other types of shops that host non-essential items in the national capital will come under the ambit of an odd-even system when the alert level shoots up to ‘Yellow’ in the city.“Today, at the DDMA meeting the ‘Graded Response Action’ was passed. Now, do doubt will remain about when the lockdown will be imposed, and when it will be lifted,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi on Friday, adding that discussions on Delta plus variant of Covid-19 also took place at the meeting and that the Delhi government will take every necessary step to stop it from spreading in the city.आज DDMA बैठक में 'Graded Response Action Plan' पास किया गया। कब लॉकडाउन लगेगा और कब क्या खुलेगा, इसे लेकर अब संशय की स्थिति नहीं रहेगी।बैठक में कोरोना के Delta+ वेरिएंट को लेकर भी बात हुई, इस वेरिएंट को हमें दिल्ली में फैलने से रोकना है जिसके लिए सरकार हर ज़रूरी कदम उठा रही है।The colour-coded plan has four alerts – Yellow, Amber, Orange and Red – which will be issued based on the severity of the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Here are the details of each alert and what you need to know about them:YellowAmberOrangeRed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hl-delhi-approves-colour-coded-plan-to-combat-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-101625907089334.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Playing loudspeakers sans permission will now attract upto ₹1 lakh fine||Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Saturday revised the penalty for violation of noise rules in the national capital with hefty fines of as much as ₹10,000 to be levied for noise through loudspeakers/ public address systems.As per the order copy, ₹1 lakh fine will be imposed for Diesel Generator sets of over 1000 kilovolt-ampere (KVA); ₹50,000 for sound-emitting construction equipment without prior permission.Under the new amendment, a provision of a fine up to ₹1 lakh rupees was made on any medium causing noise pollution. Along with this, orders were also given to take action regarding noise pollution of generator sets. Apart from this, now the plant causing noise pollution will also be confiscated. This proposal of the amendment has also been accepted by the NGT.According to the new penalty rates for noise pollution, now if construction equipment makes noise more than the prescribed standards, then fines up to ₹50,000 will be imposed and equipment will also be seized.Apart from this, people found burning firecrackers in residential or commercial areas, will be fined ₹1,000. However, if the firecracker is being lit in the silent zone, then the same fine will be ₹3000.Apart from this, if firecrackers are being used in public rallies, marriage ceremonies and other religious events, then there will be a fine of up to ₹10,000 in residential and commercial zones and ₹30,000 in silent zones.On August 13, 2020, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the Delhi government, Delhi Police, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to take further steps to ensure that the noise pollution norms are enforced at the ground level for protection of public health and the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/playing-loudspeakers-sans-permission-will-now-attract-upto-rs-1-lakh-fine-101625906967327.html
10-07-2021||Bhopal||IMD forecasts 'good' rainfall in Madhya Pradesh from July 11 to 16||After a gap of around 10 days, monsoon has once again become active in Madhya Pradesh, as large parts of the state received light showers on Saturday, which pushed the mercury levels down and provided some relief to people from sultry weather conditions.Talking to PTI, senior meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department's Bhopal office, P K Saha, said the state is expected to receive good rainfall between July 11 and 16.“Monsoon is slowly becoming active in Madhya Pradesh after a break. The south-westerly winds are growing strong in the Arabian Sea, which is bringing forth moisture to the state,” he said. Besides that, a low pressure area is likely to form over north-west Bay of Bengal on Sunday which is going to further bring moisture in MP, he added.The trough at mean sea level now runs from north-west Rajasthan to east-central Bay of Bengal across Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, Saha said.According to the official, Kumbhraj town in Guna received the highest 72 mm rainfall, while Sarai area in Singrauli recorded the highest 66.4 mm showers in the last 24 hours ending 8.30 am on Saturday.Bhopal's Kolar area received 4.8 mm rainfall, while Indore's Dipalpur and Mhow areas recorded 10.5 and 6 mm rainfall, respectively, during the same period.Due to the rains, the temperature level has gone down to some extent, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/imd-forecasts-good-rainfall-in-madhya-pradesh-from-july-11-to-16-101625906796338.html
10-07-2021||Ranchi||Hemant Soren says J'khand govt ramping up efforts to encourage industrialisation||The Jharkhand government is making all efforts to ramp up facilities and provide concessions to investors in the field of industries to lure them into the state, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Friday. The chief minister said this while reviewing work of the Industries department here. He instructed officials to take measures to encourage cottage and small scaleindustries alongwith the big ones. Soren was given feedback about steps taken by the department in this regard. The chief minister said that the state has tremendous scope for agri-based industries and those related to food processing. He gave direction to implement single window system effectively to attract the prospective investors. Soren said Jharcrft is indentity of the state which has great demand but its not getting market in that proportion. He gave instructions to constitute an expert team to draw effective marketing strategy for Jharcraft items. Jharkhand Silk Textile and Handicraft Development Corporation Ltd., also known as JHARCRAFT, is a government of Jharkhand undertaking. Workers engaged in Jharcraft should get better working environment and informed about newer markets. He said the state also has enormous scope for iron and steel items which has not been harnessed effectively so far. The officials should set up research and designing team to exploit opportunities in this field. The chief minister also emphasised on encouraging processing units in the iron and steel sector. Chief Secretary Sukhdeo Singh, Principal Secretary to the CM Rajeev Arun Ekka and Secretary Industries Puja Singhal participated in the meeting with others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hemant-soren-says-j-khand-govt-ramping-up-efforts-to-encourage-industrialisation-101625903354404.html
10-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC organises protests across West Bengal over spike in fuel prices||Trinamool Congress members protested across West Bengal on Saturday against the spiralling fuel prices that are causing hardships for the common people amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Petrol is retailing at over ₹101 per litre and diesel at more than ₹92 in West Bengal, while domestic LPG touched ₹861 per cylinder.The protests were held in Dum Dum, Central Avenue and Chetla areas of Kolkata, Canning in South 24 Parganas, Chinsurah in Hooghly, and Malda, besides other parts of the state.State Transport Minister Firhad Hakim said the Centre imposed enormous taxes on petroleum products, causing a lot of hardships for the common people.Petroproduct prices were unregulated, allowing oil companies to raise prices to increase their profits so that their share prices also rise, he claimed.In turn, this will help the Centre to sell the state- run oil companies to foreign investors, he said.Hitting out at the Centre, leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury said his party has been demanding rollback of taxes to bring down the prices of petroleum products to ease the burden on the people.The West Bengal government should also consider the reduction of tax on petroleum products, he said, adding that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee came to power with a huge mandate and should review this.State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that taking to the streets will not result in a reduction of the prices of petroleum products."Prices of petroproducts are linked to the international market. When the international market stabilises, prices in the country will also be moderated," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-organises-protests-across-west-bengal-over-spike-in-fuel-prices-101625903057117.html
10-07-2021||Dehradun||Amid tourists’ rush, Dehradun, Nainital hotels to run at 50% occupancy||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami ordered 50% occupancy capping in hotels in the state’s popular tourist destinations – Nainital and Dehradun. “Challans are being issued to those who aren’t wearing masks. We are making efforts and will follow guidelines to contain the spread of the virus,” he told news agency ANI.The chief minister's orders follow after latest videos on social media showed tourists thronging the northern hill state after coronavirus (Covid-19) restrictions were eased. The Uttarakhand government relaxed the travel curbs imposed earlier to check the spread of Covid-19, and even permitted markets to stay open every day barring Sundays. However, markets in Nainital and Mussoorie can remain open on Sundays, and will be shut on Tuesdays.Visuals shared by ANI on Friday saw several people gathering in another Uttarakhand’s popular destination – Haridwar, for Har ki Pauri. “We feel like we have come out of jail after two years. There is a huge crowd. We are not scared of Covid-19. We came here before the third wave,” a tourist told ANI.This comes days after tourists were seen roaming around Mall Road in Mussoorie – most of whom were violating Covid-19 norms, including not maintaining social distance and not wearing masks.Moreover, on Thursday, a video of hundreds of maskless people gathered at Mussoorie’s Kempty Falls had gone viral. Following this, the state government on Friday announced that only 50 tourists will be allowed to gather at the Kempty Falls, and they can only stay there for not more than 30 minutes. Furthermore, a check-post for regulating tourist activity will also be set up, ANI reported.After visuals of travellers flouting Covid-19 norms, and flocking hill states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand surfaced the internet, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava termed them “frightening”.Union ministry of health and family welfare joint secretary, Luv Aggarwal said, “People, fed up of sitting at home due to restrictions, now seem to believe that if restrictions have been lifted, it means that the virus has ended. The infectious disease is still among us. We need to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Even a small mistake could prove costly.”The Uttarakhand administration has also made RT-PCR negative report mandatory for travellers entering Mussoorie from outside states. Tourists need to make online hotel reservations after getting a negative Covid-19 test report, and those without one will be denied entry beyond Kolhukhet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/amid-tourists-rush-dehradun-nainital-hotels-to-run-at-50-occupancy-101625902717207.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh draft bill proposes to bar people with over two children from getting govt jobs||A draft bill on population control prepared by Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission proposes to make people with more than two children ineligible for government jobs, disentitle those already in service to promotions, and exclude them from the benefits of 77 schemes. It also suggests incentives such as tax rebates for those with two children or less.The draft has been uploaded on the commission’s website for suggestions from the public until July 19 as chief minister Yogi Adityanath is expected to announce on Sunday a new population policy 2021-30 for Uttar Pradesh, which is due to go to the polls early next year. Uttar Pradesh is India’s most populous state with a population of around 220 million.The proposed incentives for government employees with one child include increments, promotions, and concessions in housing schemes. For those who are not government employees, the incentives listed are rebates in taxes on water, housing, home loans. In addition to this, if the parent of a single child opts for vasectomy, then the child will be entitled to free medical facilities until the age of 20. Such children are also proposed to get free education, insurance, and preference in government jobs.Justice AN Mittal, the panel’s chairman who has prepared the draft bill, said all aspects have been looked into and an exhaustive study of such laws was carried out before the proposed legislation was drafted. He underlined the need for a law to check the increasing population of the state. “Resources are already overstretched due to increasing population. Be it medical facilities, food grains, and jobs, everything is under stress due to the rising population,” said Mittal, a former Allahabad high court judge.“Imagine if the population of the state remains 22 crores (220 million) to 23 crores (230 million) even after 20 years, then what will be the state’s condition. There will be the availability of everything in abundance for the future generation. There will be no scarcity of resources.”Congress questioned the timing of the draft bill ahead of the assembly polls in the state. “The polls are due in seven to eight months. What is the urgency to bring the (draft) bill now when parties are preparing for the assembly polls?” said V N Madan, state Congress spokesman. Madan said they were studying the draft bill and added the Congress will support its positive aspects and oppose the ones the government has incorporated for its own benefits.Chief ministers of Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh and Assam have of late sought aggressive population control. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said large families will lose certain state benefits.Population control is believed to have both advantages and disadvantages. According to United Nations data, the rate of population growth is falling behind replacement rates in over half of the countries globally. The growth rate in the global population is projected to be zero by the end of the century perhaps for the first time. China has allowed two to three children per household to reverse a fall in its population after decades of the one-child policy.India is projected to overtake China as the most populous country by 2025. Statistics show that India’s population growth peaked decades ago and is on a downward trajectory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-draft-law-proposes-to-bar-people-with-over-two-children-from-getting-govt-jobs-101625903373938.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Growing tourist rush raises Covid concerns in Himachal||The rising rush of tourists to Himachal Pradesh, particularly during the weekend, has become a concern for the state government amid rampant violation of the Covid-19 protocol that could accelerate the third wave of the pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had during his address to the new Union cabinet expressed concern about the behaviour of tourists visiting hill stations in Himachal Pradesh and neighbouring Uttarakhand. Though epidemiologists have already indicated that the third wave is inevitable, they had said that it is likely to hit the country in September and October. Also read: Covid-19 in India: All you need to know about the top updates of this week“More than 13 lakh tourists have visited Himachal Pradesh since May. Of them, about 6 lakh holidayed in the state after the government eased Covid restrictions,” says state tourism director Amit Kashyap. “Hotel occupancy in Himachal Pradesh that was almost nil during the pandemic has now gone up to 80%. Our department has issued the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for hotels,” he says. Tourists looking for a breather A majority of the tourists making their way to Himachal Pradesh are from Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi-NCR, and Uttarakhand. A tourist, Anil Kapoor of Noida, says: “The lockdown time was a harrowing time for us in Delhi-NCR. We needed a break.” Ajit Kumar, a resident of Shimla town, says, “It’s fine that tourists are visiting the hills. Our economy has to run but at the same time they must follow the Covid protocol lest they risk the lives of locals. Tourists without masks and crowding will only speed up the inevitable third wave.” Govt stresses on Covid-appropriate behaviour Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday evening presided over a meeting to review the Covid situation. “The number of Covid cases is declining at a steady pace and the number of tourists visiting the state is increasing manifold. The government is not against this, but at the same time it will ensure that people follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Thakur said. He asked deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers to ensure that the tourists strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. The government directed hoteliers, travel agents and owners of the homestays to motivate tourists staying in their establishments to follow the Covid-19 guidelines. He said that NGOs would be involved in providing masks to tourists. Police must identify places where the tourist inflow is high and personnel should be deployed to ensure compliance of guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/growing-tourist-rush-raises-covid-concerns-in-himachal-101625903253886.html
10-07-2021||Patna||Bihar governor to decide on plea to set aside registrar appointments in 3 months||Patna High Court has allowed a petitioner to approach the Bihar Raj Bhawan seeking cancellation of appointment of registrars in six state universities, allegedly done in violation of rules, and also given him a free hand to approach the court if the grievance is not adequately addressed in three months’ time.The bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) by one Rohit Kumar of Madhubani, seeking permission to request the governor to declare the appointments of registrars in six universities null and void and make fresh selections as per the existing statutory provisions.“Even those facing serious corruption charges, or against whom FIRs have been lodged, have been appointed in an arbitrary and non-transparent manner. Those without experience and from affiliated colleges with questionable recognition have also found favour for the important posts. Now, the governor, who is also the chancellor of universities and the appointing authority for registrars, has to dispose of the representation from the petition within three months. The petitioner had the liberty to approach the court if not satisfied,” senior counsel PK Shahi, who is representing the petitioner said.The petitioner has alleged that the appointments of Dr Mustaque Ahmad at Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga), Dr Vijay Kumar at Magadh University (Bodh Gaya), Dr Jitendra Kumar at Patliputra University (Patna), Dr Ravindra Nath Ojha at Purnea University, Dr Pushpendra Kumar Verma at Nalanda Open University (Patna) and Dr Shiva Ranjan Chaturvedi at KSD Sanskrit University (Darbhanga) be set aside as they were not done as per the laid down provisions of the Bihar State Universities Act.The court granted the permission after the counsel for the respondents promised a response within three months. “...The authority concerned shall consider and dispose of [the petition] expeditiously and preferably within a period of three months from the date of its filing, along with a copy of this order”.The court order is significant as the chancellor’s secretariat has got involved in the appointment row, a repeat of what happened during the stint of former Bihar governor Devanand Konwar, when the Supreme Court asked the Raj Bhawan to carry out appointments only through search committee and through meaningful dialogue with the chief minister. In 2013, the Supreme Court quashed all appointments of VCs and a new process was initiated.Citing a Supreme Court ruling, the bench directed the petitioner to approach the authority within four weeks.“The authority concerned shall consider and dispose of expeditiously by a reasoned and speaking order, preferably within a period of three months from the date of its filing along with a copy of this order. While considering such representation, principles of natural justice shall be followed and due opportunity of hearing afforded to the parties,” the court observed and added that it was not expressing any opinion on merits and all issues were left open.In Bihar, appointments to key positions in higher education have often landed in controversy and led to confrontation between the state government and the Raj Bhawan.The much-hyped experiment to appoint former Brigadiers from the armed forces as the registrars of universities, initiated during former governor Satyapal Malik’s tenure, has mostly been done away with, the charge of multiple universities now going to professors, even from affiliated colleges. Earlier, professors from affiliated colleges were never made registrar.The situation is such that several vice chancellors and registrars are holding charge for multiple universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-governor-to-decide-on-plea-to-set-aside-registrar-appointments-in-3-months-101625902893801.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Pool bath to seasonal diet: How animals at Delhi Zoo are beating the summer blues!||Delhi Zoo is still closed, following the Covid-19 protocols, and for those of you who are missing out on all the lovable antics of animals inside, here’s a sneak peak of what they are up to, and how they are encountering Dilli ki garmi!While many are cooling off in the sprinklers or rolling in the mud, some like the elephants are enjoying the pool bath. And come to think of a summer appropriate diet, and the scorching heat has made them get hooked to seasonal leafy veges, cucumbers and fruits such as melons, bel, and even dishes such as kheer (for bears) and khichadi (for elephants, monkeys, bears and rhinos). Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, Delhi, says: “We are taking the best possible care of animals and meticulously following summer drills to keep them cool and comfortable. The enrichments done have also made the enclosures vibrant, which is good for both the animals and the visitors (when they arrive again). We have also arranged thatched roof, agronet sheds, serpentarium with air conditioning to maintain temperatures, coolers specially for large mammals, planks and platforms for carnivores to sit, and wooden balls to play with.”So as you stay indoors enjoying cucumbers in salad, here’s how the deers are relishing them too. And alongside some other snapshots of BTS chilling... Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pool-bath-to-seasonal-diet-how-animals-at-delhi-zoo-are-beating-the-summer-blues-101625902054794.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||OPD footfall dipped by 57%, surgeries by 43% at one of Delhi’s biggest hospitals||The number of patients at the out-patient department (OPD) of one of the biggest private hospitals in Delhi dropped almost two-thirds (57.6%) last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to an analysis of the records of Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals published in the Indian Journal of Medical Sciences. The number of surgeries dropped by 43.78%, highlighting the impact the pandemic has had on the treatment of non-Covid-19 patients.The admissions of patients also reduced, but not significantly. Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital offset the decrease in the admissions of others. The respiratory medicine department was the only specialty that reported a significant increase--314%--in admissions between April 2020 and March 2021 as compared to the previous year. It was because mostly Covid-19 patients were being treated there.“It was observed that all the medical and surgical specialties dealing more with critical and emergency care were less affected than the others. The most urgent surgical and interventional work was undertaken with due precautions. The surgical work was reduced significantly across all the specialties, with bariatric surgery (87.5%) and ophthalmology (65.45%) being affected the most, and general surgery (32.28%) and neurosurgery the least,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, Group Medical Director, Apollo Hospitals.The most significant decline in the number of patients visiting and getting admitted to the hospital was during the Covid-19 lockdown imposed in March 2020. The number of patients at outpatient clinics dropped by 89% from April to May 2020. The number of surgeries reduced by 80.7% during the period.“COVID-19 emergency had a direct and profound impact on the health-care delivery of non-COVID medical and surgical conditions. One of the worst affected groups was non-communicable diseases (NCDs), as these chronic diseases require continuous care,” the study said.The study cited the government’s move to reserve beds for Covid-19 treatment and fear among people about visiting hospitals. It added this led to a decline in the number of patients at the hospital. “The hospital was asked to reserve 20–80% of the beds and ICUs at different times, as per Delhi government orders which decreased capacity for non-COVID work. In addition, many cases had reservations about coming for treatment for the fear of acquiring the infection in a healthcare setting,” the study said.Even as the number of infections has dropped in the city, 70 to 80% of the beds in major hospitals continue to be reserved for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/opd-footfall-dropped-by-57-surgeries-by-43-at-one-of-delhi-s-biggest-hospitals-101625899593686.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Sports complexes reopen in Delhi: Denizens, coaches relieved!||There’s no better way to unwind after a hectic day than by indulging in your favourite sport! Since the sports complexes in Delhi were closed on April 19, on account of Covid-19 mandated norms, denizens were unable to head out for a game, until now. Recently, as part of the unlocking process, sports complexes have finally reopened in the Capital. And their being shut, for more than two months, has caused discomfort to not just those who love sports, but even those who earn their livelihood by teaching sports, that is, the coaches. “This is great news for us as many coaches associated with us have been going through financial trouble,” says Sachin Singh, head coach and coaching director, NCERT Adchini campus, adding: “Many coaches, started individual coaching online. However, these never took off as sports is something that needs physical training!” Babita Juneja, a homemaker in Delhi’s Raja Garden, is thrilled at the prospect of rejoining her tennis training, and says, “My kids and me were desperately looking forward to go back to the court! Due to the lockdown, we have had very little physical activity and this has been the best news till now, that we can go and play again. I feel it’s much needed right now considering the sadness that had started seeping in all of us due to being indoors for a very long time. Sports has always helped me uplift my mood.” The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has permitted sports complexes and stadiums to reopen without any spectators. And as per the new guidelines, a two-player team — a coach and a player — has been allowed on the court, for all the sports including tennis, badminton and shooting. Contact sports such as basketball, football have been allowed in semi-private groups following a two player, one coach ratio whereas swimming is still not allowed. Sharad Kumar, owner of tennis academies in Gurugram and Delhi’s Raja Garden, shares how they are taking precautions, as much possible. He says, “Masks are not allowed on the court, but we maintain proper social distancing. However, some details are not clear in the guidelines that have come from the government. Like they have said no spectators but these kids come with their parents, so are they allowed?” Abhishek Verma, Indian compound archer associated with Yamuna Sports Complex, informs that they have restricted entry for many. “We are allowing only 20 students as of now; these are students who have tournaments lined up,” says Verma, to put to rest the worries of parents who are being pestered by their young ones to let them resume their sports training. “As soon as the news of reopening came, we started getting a lot of calls. Our old students also want to come back. But to ensure that we maintain distance, we aren’t taking everyone in at the moment. We anyway have to stand five metres apart in archery, but when the students have to go to collect the arrow, we make sure they are wearing masks.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sports-complexes-reopen-in-delhi-denizens-coaches-relieved-101625898756565.html
10-07-2021||Patna||Bihar warns teachers will lose jobs if documents not uploaded in time||Bihar government has issued fresh warning to school teachers appointed between 2006 and 2015 through panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies to upload their employment documents for verification as per the order of the Patna high court by July 20, or be ready to lose their jobs and payback the salaries received so far.“If the documents are not uploaded, it will be assumed that they have nothing to say regarding the validity of their appointment and considering it prima facile irregular/illegal, the process will be initiated for their removal and recovery of salary paid through the recruiting agencies,” said a letter from director, primary education, Ranjeet Kumar Singh to all the district education officers (DEOs).A total of 3.52 lakh teachers, including 2082 librarians were appointed in Bihar, between 2006 and 2015. Of them 3.11 lakh were elementary teachers, including 1.04 lakh Shiksha Mitras appointed for ₹1500/month honorarium and later elevated to the rank of Panchayat teachers. It was later revealed that many of these appointments, especially for elementary teachers, were made on the basis of forged documents..The Patna high court ordered a vigilance probe into the matter in 2015 but it could not be finished on time. After several delays, the high court expressed disappointment over the unending probe in January this year and also threatened action. The appointment documents of close to 1.25-lakh teachers are said to be unavailable. The Bihar education department then shifted the onus of verification of documents on the teachers, who have been asked to get their mark sheets, job application and the recruitment letter uploaded on a web portal designed for the purpose.Ranjeet Kumar Singh noted the slow progress in uploading of documents despite reminders and asked the district education officers (DEOs) to carry out necessary corrections to ensure there were no errors in recording key employment details like name of applicants, date of joining etc. He also asked them to complete the uploading process by July 20.Earlier, Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary had warned the teachers that their appointment will be declared illegal if they failed to upload their documents for verification on the education department’s online portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-warns-teachers-that-they-will-lose-jobs-if-documents-not-uploaded-in-time-101625896473417.html
10-07-2021||Patna||Bihar postal circle tops the country for IPPB earnings||The Bihar postal circle has topped the country in terms of business and revenue earnings by the India post payments bank (IPPB) for the year ending March 2021, officials said.The circle has outshined others by achieving a deposit of ₹438 crore this year as compared to ₹147 crore last year. Besides, the highest number of UPI transactions was also made in the Bihar circle.As per assessment of business carried out by the IPPBs, Bihar is the only circle which is in profit, said a senior officer of India Posts familiar with the matter.Post master general (PMG) of Bihar circle Anil Kumar said that Nawada branch of IPPB had been adjudged the best performer in the country by achieving deposits of more than ₹100 crore. “More than 95% of the accounts of IPPB in Bihar are verified with Aadhaar of the customers,” said the PMG.The Bihar circle surpassed all other major circles including that of Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra in terms of absolute transfer of money to the people by way of payments via Aadhar enabled payment system (AePS). “IPPB in Bihar carried out the highest number of AePS transactions, worth over ₹679 crore to over 3 million people during the Covid pandemic,” said Kumar.There are 38 IPPB branches across the state. IPPB has a total of 650 branches all over the country. In a related development, a 1990-batch Indian Postal Service officer Jaleswar Kanhar assumed the charge of new chief post master general (CPMG) of Bihar on Friday. He took over from PMG Anil Kumar, who was holding the charge of CMPG. He has now been transferred to the West Bengal postal circle as PMG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-postal-circle-tops-the-country-for-ippb-earnings-101625893833599.html
10-07-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot urges Centre to increase vaccine quota of Rajasthan||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and requested him to increase the Covid-19 vaccine allocation for the state. He said they have created a capacity to vaccinate over 1.5 million people daily to ensure expeditious vaccination. Gehlot added their daily vaccination is limited to the extent of supplies received from the Centre. He said the daily average of vaccine doses received since the start of the vaccination drive for people over 18 has been around 20,00,00-30,00,00.“I request for your personal intervention regarding our request for enhanced allocation of vaccines for Rajasthan,” said Gehlot.Gehlot added the Covid-19 cases are declining but they were strengthening the medical infrastructure from the primary health care level in view of a possible third wave of the pandemic. “It is apparent that apart from Covid-appropriate behaviour, vaccination is the only way to effectively counter the threat of the third wave.”Gehlot wrote Rajasthan is the best performer in terms of the vaccination drive. “Over 2.59 crore (over 25 million) people have already received the first dose of vaccination, and out of these over 44 lakhs (4.4 million) have even received the second dose as well,” he wrote. “...around 65 lakh (6.5 million) people are due to get their second doses by the end of July. The Center has been allocating vaccines primarily on the basis of the target population, while greater consideration should be given to the number of people due for the second dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-urges-centre-to-increase-vaccine-quota-of-rajasthan-101625892573249.html
10-07-2021||Patna||BJP’s ‘sidelined’ barb at Tej Pratap Yadav after he opens a shop. RJD responds||Tej Pratap Yadav, the eldest son of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, has opened an outlet on the outskirts of Bihar capital Patna to sell his brand of incense sticks. Tej Pratap calls them LR, or ‘Largest Reach’."I have been doing pooja for a long time and am attached to incense sticks. I was inspired by a Delhi friend who makes incense sticks from flowers in his factory," Tej Pratap said on his new endeavour.The 33-year-old has reconciled to his role in the RJD that is led by his younger brother, Tejashwi Yadav, the political heir to Lalu Yadav who also holds the reins to the party that his father founded in 1997.Like in 2018 when Tej Pratap sought to stamp out speculation about their rivalry, referring to Tejashwi Yadav as “Arjuna’ in the epic Mahabharata and himself as Lord Krishna, his brother’s charioteer who would help deliver Bihar in the general elections in 2019. But there were indications of some friction when Tej Pratap abruptly stepped down from the leadership role of the RJD’s students wing weeks before the 2019 general election.Tej Pratap who is popular for dressing up as gods rather than his politics, did make a second attempt to relaunch his aborted acting career in 2018 with a Bollywood movie Rudra: The Avatar. The film is yet to be completed.He had earlier played the role of Bihar chief minister in a 2016 Bhojpuri film, Apaharan Udyog.The Bharatiya Janata Party said it was good that he was looking for an alternative. “Best wishes to Tej Pratap for his new business venture. The way he has been sidelined in the party, it’s good that he is looking for an alternative. Tejashwi can feel relieved because he is the worst victim of his brother’s tantrums,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary rushed to defend Tej Pratap and mount a counter-attack on Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government. "What is the harm in it? When the present government has failed to generate employment, he has set an example for the youths by starting a start-up," he said.Abhishek Chowbey, manager of the outlet, said Tej Pratap did closely track the business but rarely visited the shop. He also revealed that the Hasanpur lawmaker had started the business in March but it was shuttered soon after due to the Covid induced lockdown.Chowbey was optimistic about the business. “There have been trade queries from Mumbai and Indore and it is being supplied to all parts of Bihar,” he said.At present, he continued, they were making the incense sticks in 19 fragrances in the price range of ₹320 to ₹1020 for a 200 gm pack and ₹170 to ₹530 for 100 gm pack.“The incense sticks are made from flowers collected from temples and extracts from coconut leaves instead of bamboo. Maybe that’s why its price is high,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjps-sidelined-barb-at-tej-pratap-yadav-after-he-opens-a-shop-rjd-responds-101625861159722.html
10-07-2021||Bhopal||Freight train derails, falls off bridge in Madhya Pradesh; no casualties reported||As many as 16 coaches of a goods train carrying coal derailed and fell off a bridge over the Alan river near Anuppur in Madhya Pradesh on Friday, news agencies reported, adding that no casualties were reported in the incident. The train was travelling from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh to Katni in Madhya Pradesh after loading coal from Korba Coalfields in Kusmunda.Madhya Pradesh | A goods train accident occurred due to the fall of a carriage on a railway bridge near Nigaura railway station near Chhattisgarh border. It was travelling from Bilaspur to Katni. Rail traffic movement remains unaffected pic.twitter.com/40wsrOXWJuPhotos shared by news agency ANI on Friday showed portions of the damaged freight train floating on the river. Part of the bridge, too, collapsed from the pressure.According to reports, the bridge over the Alan river had developed cracks in its structure, which could have led to the derailment of the train. However, there was no official response yet on how such fatal cracks appeared in a route specially designed for freight trains.Senior railways officials went to the area soon after news of the accident came in to evaluate the situation. A detailed investigation is underway to ascertain the exact cause of the accident.Rail traffic remained unaffected in the meanwhile, news the agency reported, adding that rescue operations are on.The railways commissioned the third train line for freight trains two years ago. The route runs between Nigaura in the Anuppur district of Madhya Pradesh and Venkatanagar in Chhattisgarh and is specifically designed for running such trains carrying coal and other heavy goods.Freight trains played a major role during the peak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in India, when they transferred essential goods and heavy-duty raw materials across the country at a time when passenger trains remained restricted to cut off the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/freight-train-derails-falls-off-bridge-in-madhya-pradesh-no-casualties-reported-101625876786151.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi rolls out graded plan for Covid-19 curbs||Private offices, malls, weekly markets and the Metro will be shut down in Delhi if the test positivity rate (TPR) rises above 2%, and the city will be put under a curfew if the number breaches 5%, according to a new Covid-19 action plan approved by authorities that sets clear thresholds for curbs that kick in from as low as 0.5% TPR in order to scuttle an outbreak.The graded response action plan, which harks back to a similar mechanism to fight air pollution during pre-winter months, was drafted by an expert committee formed by the Delhi government and approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).It classifies outbreak severity into four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it.“In today’s DDMA meeting, ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ was approved. There will now be no confusion regarding when lockdown is to be imposed and when scaled down. In the meeting, we also had discussions on Delta+ variant. We have to protect Delhi from spread of this variant (of the virus), for which the government is taking all necessary actions,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting.The colour-coded classifications take into account three factors: the test positivity rate over two consecutive days, new cases over a seven-day period, and the average weekly hospital occupancy rate (see box).Had such rules been in place prior to the April wave of infections in the Capital, a lockdown would have been put into place 10 days sooner than it was – the city crossed the 5% threshold for what is now the red alert category on April 9. A full lockdown was announced only on April 19.To be sure, the test positivity rate in the Capital has been 0.12% over the past two days, there have been 580 cases in the last seven days and, over the last week, the number of hospital beds occupied has reduced form a little over 620 to 450 on Friday.“Now that this plan is going to be in view of the public, there will be a sense of certainty and accountability on our part towards the people of Delhi. The plan descriptively elaborates upon when the lockdown will be imposed and when it will be lifted. This kind of a graded plan should be adopted at the national level as well… We can’t let our guard down, the preparation for the road map of an impending third (nationwide) wave (of Covid-19) is being worked upon consistently by the Delhi government,” Kejriwal said in a press statement.The chief minister is the vice-chairperson of the DDMA, which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.A senior official in Baijal’s office, who asked not to be named, said: “After detailed deliberations and presentations made by the health department of the Delhi government and the Indian Council of Medical Research, it was decided to notify the graded response action plan that will objectively and transparently ensure an institutional and automatic response with regards to enforcement measures, lock downs and unlock based on criteria such as test positivity rate and quantum of cases.”According to the plan, seen by HT, the first of curbs are triggered when the positivity rate crosses 0.5%, or new cases over a week exceeds 1,500, or if there are more than 500 oxygen beds occupied on average over a seven-day period.Once any of these thresholds are breached, the city is under a yellow alert mechanism in which non-essential shops are allowed to open only on an odd-even basis, a night curfew comes into force, and offices are required to move half of their staff to a work-from-home function.If test positivity, case numbers and hospitalisations rise further, the amber alert comes into effect. In this scenario, some venues and activities are completely halted: parks need to close, barber shops cannot open, and dining in at restaurants will be prohibited (as will the opening of bars). Amber alert is when TPR rises above 1%, or if there are more than 3,500 cases over a week, or if oxygen bed occupancy surpasses 700.The next alert level, orange, takes effect if TPR breaches 2%, the number of new cases in a week goes beyond 9,000, or if the average number of oxygen beds occupied over the week goes beyond 3,000. In this scenario, private offices, malls, Metro rail services and weekly markets will be shut down.In the most severe red alert category (if TPR is above 5%, cumulative weekly case above 16,000 or hospital occupancy above 3,000), there will be a 24-hour curfew with people allowed outside only for essential services. In this scenario, all offices engaged in non-essential work need to shift to a completely work-from-home functioning.The new mechanism also makes it mandatory for incoming passengers in the national capital to produce a certificate of full vaccination (both doses) or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours if Delhi is on red alert. People coming by air from states with positivity rate higher than 5%, or if they come by any mode of transport from a state with positivity rate is of 10% or more, irrespective of the alert applicable in Delhi, too, will be subjected to the same requirements.People coming from a state where a new variant is found spreading, irrespective of the nature of alert in Delhi at that point, will also need to show vaccination certificates or a negative test, the documents said.Friday’s DDMA meeting was also attended by Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog, Dr Balram Bhargav of ICMR, Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, and Dr SK Singh of NCDC, said the official in the L-G’s office.Experts welcomed the response plan. Dr Charu Hans, the head of the department of microbiology at Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences, said: “Such anticipatory actions are likely to prevent any delays and avoid confusion, and conceivably lead to effective preventive measures in limiting the spread of Covid-19 disease. The experience gained in the last two waves of the disease and learning about mutations of the virus have enabled the government to come up with such a strategy. This strategy can play an important role in limiting the impact of a potential third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rolls-out-graded-plan-for-covid-19-curbs-101625870903580.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Man held for killing teen daughter’s friend in northeast Delhi||In a suspected case of hate crime, a 46-year-old man allegedly killed his daughter’s male friend in his house and dumped his body outside a gym in northeast Delhi’s Karawal Nagar, police said on Friday, after arresting the main accused. Police said the incident happened on Wednesday night and they are also looking for a man who allegedly helped the accused dump the body.Police said the accused was enraged after he caught the 20-year-old victim with his 17-year-old daughter at their house. He allegedly tied the victim’s limbs with a rope and assaulted him with a belt, stick and a pair of scissors.When the victim died, the accused panicked and sought the help of his friend to allegedly dispose of the body. Together they allegedly carried the body on a bike and dumped it outside a gym, which is nearly a kilometre away from the house.Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain said that the police were informed about an unidentified man’s body, with multiple stab wounds and injury marks, lying near a gym in Karawal Nagar on Thursday morning. Through local enquiry, the victim’s identity was established and it was learned that he hailed from UP’s Baghpat and was visiting his uncle in the city.“Further probe revealed that he was in a relationship with a girl living in the neighbourhood. Her father was against their relationship. On Wednesday night, he went to meet her at her home but her father saw him,” said DCP Sain.The accused, the DCP said, allegedly overpowered the victim, tied his limbs using a rope and began assaulting him with a belt, and also used a pair of scissors to inflict injuries. He allegedly continued the assault till the victim became unconscious and died, after which he called his friend who arrived on a bike. “They put the victim’s body on the bike, took it a kilometre away and dumped it outside a gym,” said Sain.Police said that the victim’s family members were unaware of his relationship with the girl. The investigating team scanned the victim’s mobile phone and traced its last location to the accused’s house.“He confessed to the crime during questioning. The stick, belt, rope and the pair of scissors used in the crime were recovered from him. Raids are on nab his friend,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-killing-teen-daughter-s-friend-in-northeast-delhi-101625870166344.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||2 passersby killed amid firing near Bara Hindu Rao||Two passersby were killed amid a firing after at least four unidentified assailants opened fire at a local builder and his nephew at a market in Filmistan near Bara Hindu Rao on Thursday night, said police. Though the builder and his nephew survived the alleged attack, tension gripped residents living in the crowded locality of north Delhi.The builder, Haji Naeem Ahmad Peer, and other locals said they heard at least half a dozen gunshots. The police said not more than three bullets were fired. One empty bullet shell and a cartridge were recovered from the incident spot, said police.One of the passersby, identified as Sanjay Rajput who was in his mid-twenties, was returning after visiting his extended family members in Shyam Gali, Azad Market. His family members said he used to visit the Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib almost daily and was presumably going there at the time of the incident.“When I met Sanjay in the evening, he told me he was going out. Around 11pm, we got a call from Sanjay’s friend who informed us about the incident. The police called us to the station and told Sanjay was dead,” said Jaipali Rajput, the victim’s aunt.The identity of the second dead man could not be ascertained till Friday evening. A case of murder and firing was registered at the Bara Hindu Rao police station. Four teams have been formed to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the firing, the motive behind it and to find the attackers, said police.Senior police officers associated with the case said preliminary investigation suggests the assailants had come to settle some scores with Peer and his nephew, identified by his first name Muneef.“We have got certain leads and our teams are working on it. As of now, we can say that there was an altercation between the assailants and the builder before the firing. We are exploring all possibilities to ascertain the exact motive behind the attack. The CCTV cameras in the vicinity of the crime scene are being scanned for clues,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.Recalling Thursday night’s horror, Peer said he was standing outside a nursing home owned by him, that is currently undergoing renovation, when a man wearing a black t-shirt stopped by and asked if the nursing home was administering Covid-19 vaccines. Peer said that he asked the man to visit Bara Hindu Rao hospital or a nearby dispensary, after which he left. Peer then sat in his Swift Dzire car and left with his nephew and his office staff Prakash.“Just a few metres ahead, the same man suddenly came in front of our car and signalled us to stop. We came out and asked him to move aside. When he refused, we pushed him aside. Suddenly, three more men joined him and got into an argument with us,” said Peer.According to Peer, some locals came to their rescue and overpowered the unidentified men. Peer and his nephew pacified the men and asked them to leave. The assailants opened fire at the uncle-nephew duo just when they were about to leave in their car. Peer said he rushed inside a local shop to save his life and saw the assailants chasing his nephew and firing at him.“My nephew somehow survived the attack. I heard five to six gunshots. After the firing stopped, I came out of the shop and found two men bleeding on the footpath,” said Peer.Police, however, could not ascertain where Prakash was at the time of the firing.Police said they received a call at 9.21pm and rushed the passersby, each of whom sustained one bullet injury, to a nearby hospital, where they were declared brought dead. Their bodies were preserved in the mortuary at the Bara Hindu Rao Hospital.The incident sparked fears among local residents who were in a state of panic even on Friday. “We are not aware of the motive, neither the circumstances in which the firing took place. However, this is certainly a matter of concern and shows that the area is not safe,” said a worker at a local garage shop without sharing his name.Police said they have learnt that Peer and Muneef were having a dispute over a 2,800 square yard property in Shahdara as they had allegedly sold half of it some years ago. There is a possibility that the attack on them was orchestrated by Peer’s rivals, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-passersby-killed-amid-firing-near-bara-hindu-rao-101625869669630.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Two Karol Bagh markets temporarily closed over violation of Covid norms||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday ordered temporary closure of Gaffar Market and Naiwala Market in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh -- popular for car accessories and electronic gadgets -- for at least two days, citing violation of Covid-19 regulations.“Shopkeepers, vendors, and the general public are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Due to large footfall, market associations and shopkeepers are not able to ensure Covid protocols over the last three days...which may cause super-spreading of the coronavirus,” said the temporary suspension order.The restrictions will come into effect at 10 pm on Friday and shall remain in force till 10 pm on Sunday, or until further orders, the notice said. However, shops dealing with essential goods and services will be allowed to open.In the last 10 days, the authorities have similarly cracked down on at least nine such popular markets in the city, including the Lajpat Nagar Central Market and Laxmi Nagar market.Earlier in the day, at a meeting of the DDMA chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, which was also attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, senior officials raised concerns over overcrowding in the city’s markets.“Grave concerns were expressed over the flouting of Covid appropriate behaviour and negligence. It was stressed that apart from enforcement efforts on the part of various agencies, the onus of ensuring and enforcing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour lay with stakeholder organisations like market welfare and resident welfare associations,” said an official who attended the meeting.The district administration on Friday directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to sanitise markets in Karol Bagh and the surrounding areas, and requested the Delhi Police to ensure “strict compliance of the order”.Currently, markets and malls in Delhi are allowed to operate between 10am and 8pm.The market associations, traders and owners of shops are expected to ensure that customers follow Covid norms such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and avoiding spitting in the open. Delhi was under a complete lockdown from April 19 due to an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. Scaling down of restrictions started in a phased manner from May 31 and markets were allowed to open from June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-karol-bagh-markets-temporarily-closed-over-violation-of-covid-norms-101625869687115.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi's third wave action plan||Pa||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-third-wave-action-plan-101625864863626.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Vasant Vihar murder: ‘As I woke up, I saw Kitty Amma dead in her room’||An eyewitness account has thrown light on the sequence of events at Vasant Vihar’s building number A 15/19 on the evening of July 7, the day three men murdered Kitty Kumarmangalam, 70, wife of former Union minister Phanindranath Rangarajan Kumarmangalam, inside her second floor apartment in the building.HT has seen the statement of crucial witness, Kitty’s domestic help, Mithila Devi (33), who was inside the house and was strangled by the three men until they thought she was dead. But Mithila, who survived the attack, woke up about an hour after the incident, and told the police in minute detail what happened that evening.It is on Mithila Devi’s statement that police were able to identify the three men — Raju Lakhan Kanojia (24), Rakesh Raj (34), and Suraj (yet to be arrested) and solve the case.The 33-year-old Devi said that around four or five days before the incident, she joined “Kitty Amma’s house”. Her job was to prepare dinner between 6pm and 9.30pm.Police have said that Raju, who was a regular at the house, expected only the elderly woman to be home. He did not know Mithila was hired at the house. The three were so confident they would find Kitty alone that they did not even carry a weapon.“I reached Kitty Amma’s house around 6.30pm and was preparing potatoes, capsicum and rotis for dinner. She specially asked me to prepare it. At around 8.30pm, when I was washing the dishes, the doorbell rang. When I opened the door, I saw laundryman Raju, who works in B and C blocks. He was holding a heap of clothes. I told Kitty Amma about it, and she asked me to collect the clothes from Raju. To take the clothes, I opened the door a little. At that moment, Raju kicked the door and threw the heap of clothes on the floor,” Mithila told police.Narrating what happened next, Mithila, who lives in the nearby servant quarters, said Raju smothered her with one hand; held her hair by another, and dragged her to a room.“At that moment, I saw two other men entering the house and directly going towards Kitty Amma’s bedroom. They started assaulting her. I tried to free myself and shout. Raju called his two friends to the room. He told them he could not restrain me. The two men then came to the room. One of them, who was of heavy build, removed his belt and strangled me. I tried to hold the belt to ensure that it did not choke me. Raju then held on to the belt from one side and the second man held it from the other side. They pulled it in opposite directions. One of them also covered my nose to stop me from breathing,” she told police.Mithila mentioned that at that moment, she heard Raju telling his accomplices she worked in B block and he could identify her.“And then I fell unconscious. When I woke up around 9.30pm, I saw Kitty Amma dead on the floor in her room. They used a pillow to smother her. The whole room was ransacked. Those men also stole my gold necklace, earrings and a nose ring. I then called my husband and told him what had happened. I could barely walk but somehow managed to go down the stairs and alerted everyone,” said her statement.On Tuesday night, about an hour after the murder, the three went to a wooded area on Nelson Mandela Marg, and shared the stolen cash and valuables. They then broke open the stolen locker. All they found was a bunch of papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vasant-vihar-murder-as-i-woke-up-i-saw-kitty-amma-dead-in-her-room-101625864674021.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to give cash prizes to athletes who win in Tokyo Olympics||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said the Delhi government will award a cash prize ranging between ₹1 crore to ₹3 crore to athletes from the Capital representing the country in the Tokyo Olympics 2020 if they win a medal. Four athletes from Delhi will participate in the prestigious tournament this year.On Friday, Sisodia held a meeting with vice-chancellor of Delhi Sports University Karnam Malleshwari to discuss the matter. “The meeting stressed on the importance of boosting enthusiasm and providing multidimensional support to athletes from Delhi participating in the coveted Tokyo Olympics 2020, and the role of the Delhi Sports University in building the next cohort of athletes who will represent India in future Olympic games,” read a statement issued by the Delhi government.The state government has announced a cash prize of ₹3 crore for athletes from Delhi who bag a gold medal in the Tokyo Olympics. “ ₹2 crores will be awarded to those who win a silver medal and ₹1 crore to those who receive a bronze medal in the Olympics,” read the statement adding that ₹10 lakhs will be awarded to the coaches of the athletes who bag medals.The four athletes from Delhi who will represent the country this year are Deepak Kumar (shooting), Manika Batra (table tennis), and sprinters Amoj Jacob and Sarthak Bhambri.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “The Delhi government will provide such a platform where there is no dearth of opportunities and facilities for athletes. These talents will win medals in the Olympic games in future and bring glory to the country.”Discussing the role of Delhi Sports University, Sisodia said, “Preparations are in full swing for Delhi to produce future Olympians. We are ensuring that no stone is left unturned to build a world-class sports university. Delhi Sports University will work to prepare sportspersons who will win medals for the country in the Olympic Games. The university will develop Delhi as a massive sports hub. In order to promote sports, the university will organize sports events all over Delhi through community sports so that an active environment for sports is created in Delhi as well as in the whole country and we can host the 2048 Olympic Games.”Malleswari said that Delhi sports University will provide “future olympians” to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-give-cash-prizes-to-athletes-who-win-in-tokyo-olympics-101625864103444.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||‘No major infirmity’ in purchase of low-floor AC buses, says LG panel||A probe committee appointed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has given a clean chit to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) over the tendering and procurement of 1,000 air-conditioned (AC) low-floor buses -- an issue that was a bone of contention between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which alleged corruption in the process.The three-member panel, however, recommended floating fresh tenders for its annual maintenance contract (AMC) over what it described as “procedural lapses” arising out of a “bona fide decision-making process”.The report submitted to the L-G this week -- HT has reviewed portions of it -- stated that the committee, prima facie, did not find criminal misconduct by any public official.“The tendering process of purchase of buses warrants no interference and suffers from no major infirmity... The committee, prima facie, did not come across any material to impute criminal misconduct attributable to any public official,” the report said.“There were only procedural lapses apparently arising out of a bona fide decision making process. However, a greater effort for understanding the market and a higher degree of due diligence in assessing reasonableness of bids was required compared to what seems to have been demonstrated,” it added.“…In light of the findings outlined above, the committee recommends that the bid for AMC of buses be scrapped,” the panel, said while giving four recommendations.These included either going for a fresh bid, asking DTC to develop and strengthen in-house capabilities to maintain these buses, suggesting that a fresh bid could be floated for a turnkey operation and maintenance contract for these buses as against a simple AMC contract, and recommending that DTC could rope in experts to design suitable variants of all the stated options.DTC comes under the Delhi government.The panel urged the government take a decision soon based on its recommendations soon, so that there was no gap between the arrival of new buses and their operations. Delhi currently has at least 6,600 buses against the requirement of 11,000 buses, as mandated under various court orders.Bone of contention In March last year, DTC floated a tender for procurement of 1,000 CNG low-floor buses, issued another tender for allotting the AMC for these buses four months later. The BJP-led opposition in the Delhi assembly, raising the issue this March, contended that the AMC should have been included in the same tender meant for procuring the buses on the grounds that it would have been cheaper.The Delhi government was spending ₹875 crore in the procurement of the 1,000, buses and the AMC, as per the second tender, was costing the DTC ₹3,500 crore. To be sure, the purchase is a one-time expense, and the maintenance contract is valid for 12 years.Eventually, BJP leaders led by Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta, filed a complaint with the city’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) and the LG.On June 11, the Delhi government put on hold its plan to procure these buses through the DTC, saying it was open to investigation.On June 16, the state vigilance department, on the direction of LG Baijal, constituted a three-member committee headed by former bureaucrat OP Aggarwal. The other two members were principal secretary (vigilance) KR Meena, and transport commissioner Ashish Kundra.The committee, in its report, said that the tender for procurement of buses “warrants no interference”.Suppliers’ marketAt the same time, it noted that there were some deviations from the process outlined in the General Financial Rules (GFR) and Manual for Procurement of Goods in tendering for the AMC. “While separate bids for purchase and AMC can be justified with a view to get greater competition and a larger number of bids, the efforts made to get more bids is not apparent. In fact, the eligibility criteria do appear restrictive and defeat the purpose of splitting the bids. The process of discounting for a longer duration contract was not undertaken and only a total cost evaluation was done.”The panel went on to explain why the DTC may have done so, saying that various court orders limit the corporation to purchasing only low-floor CNG buses. “There are very few others who use such buses, and so DTC (in fact Delhi) has been pushed into a suppliers’ market, with very few manufacturers. These limitations may compel some deviations in the procurement process. Yet, if these deviations had become necessary, DTC should have ensured that they did some kind of reasonableness test of the rates for AMC, especially since the rates were far more than what they had in earlier contracts.”It stated that this incident should be taken as an “opportune occasion” for the transport department to take a hard look at comprehensive reforms of DTC in both the short- and the long-term.Neither the Delhi government nor the LG’s office commented on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-major-infirmity-in-purchase-of-low-floor-ac-buses-says-lg-panel-101625864071382.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Long delayed, monsoon likely to arrive in Delhi on Saturday: IMD||After slowing in mid-June, and then entering a 10-day lull, the monsoon has started reviving and is set to finally advance over Delhi on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said — almost a month after its initial prediction of June 12-15.The monsoon will also cover the remaining parts of western Uttar Pradesh and parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan in the next 24 hours, IMD added.It said the conditions were becoming favourable for the advance of monsoon over the remaining parts of the country between July 11 and 12, and to intensify further in the next three or four days. “Widespread rainfall is likely over northwest India, including Delhi, over the next five days. Besides, isolated heavy rainfall is expected in Delhi and surrounding regions from July 11 -13,” IMD said in its Friday bulletin.“The showers will intensify on July 11, with good rainfall likely across Delhi, and will continue throughout the week at least,” said a senior IMD scientist who asked not to be named. Monsoon showers are expected to hit Gurugram and Noida on Saturday as well, he added.This is already the most delayed monsoon in the Capital for at least 17 years, for which the weather office has records, going back to the 2006, when the seasonal showers hit the city on July 9. Monsoon usually arrives in the city by June 27-28.The monsoon was racing through the country in early June, and the Met predicted last month that it would hit Delhi by June 15, the earliest in the period for which data is available, before it suddenly slowed down and appeared to hit a “break” phase.Since June 1, the country has received 6% less rain than it normally does. Delhi has received only 42% of the rain it receives in that time, while Haryana has got 71%, Chandigarh has received 60%, and Punjab has got 64%, IMD data showed.“During the next 24 hours, monsoon is likely to make its onset over Delhi and other parts of northwest India. Conditions are favourable because easterlies have started coming towards this region... The circulation features and expected weather support the advance of monsoon to northwest India. We saw a spell of rain on Thursday evening as well, and there is some clouding,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.A low-pressure area is likely to form over west-central and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal around July 11, and will further intensify rains over west and central India. “When the low-pressure area develops over Bay of Bengal, good rainfall is expected in its path.To begin with, India Meteorological Department (IMD)‘s May 31 forecast for monsoon onset over Kerala raised hopes of early showers across the country. But this was revised, at the last minute on May 30, to declare the onset of monsoon for June 3. IMD, on June 11, forecast that monsoon would advance to remaining parts of the country outside south Rajasthan and Kutch during the next six to seven days. But the northern limit of monsoon has been stationary. The Northern Limit of southwest monsoon has been stationary since June 19 at Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. IMD initially forecast that monsoon would make onset over Delhi by June 15, around 12 days ahead of its normal onset date. But the weather office gradually deferred it to July 10, nearly a month later than its initial prediction.Independent weather experts backed the latest Met’s prediction.“Easterly winds have started blowing in, and will completely replace the westerly winds. There is already an increase in moisture levels due to easterly winds. During the next two weeks we expect widespread rains across the country, including northwest India,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet weather, a private forecaster.He added that the showers will bring Delhi some long-awaited respite from the heatwave conditions. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2 degrees Celsius on Friday, two notches above normal, but down from 41.8°C the previous day.“The day temperature will drop to around 34°C,” Palawat said.So far, Delhi has seen heatwave conditions from June 29 to July 2 and then on July 7 and 8.Palawat also said that, according to Skymet’s forecast, Delhi is likely to have a “normal” monsoon. “The monsoon will most likely be normal with 103% of long-period average (LPA),” he said. LPA is considered the normal range of temperatures and rainfall, which helps note deviation. Monsoon rainfall in the range of 96%-104% of LPA is considered ‘normal’.Easterly winds are also likely to strengthen at lower levels over northwest India in coming three or four days. Under the influence of these conditions, widespread rainfall is very likely over northwest India in the next five days, said the weather office.Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied with frequent cloud to ground lightning is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh during next 24 hours. This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals outdoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/long-delayed-monsoon-likely-to-arrive-in-delhi-on-saturday-imd-101625863442540.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh banker duped of ₹1.06 lakh in online fraud||A Sector-42 resident was duped of ₹1.06 lakh by a person who approached her through Facebook.The victim, Netram Meena, who works for a public sector bank in Sector 8, said she received a message over Facebook from a woman, identifying herself as Stella, an NRI.In the message, Stella expressed her desire to come to India for donations and Meena offered to help her. Stella shared her air ticket to arrive in India on May 19, 2021. After a few days, she got a call from Stella, claiming that she was stopped by the customs department at the airport as she was carrying a huge sum of money. Meena got another call from a woman, identifying herself as a customs officer, who sought a deposit of ₹2.34 lakh to let Stella leave. Through two transactions, Meena deposited ₹86,000 and ₹1.48 lakh, but soon after, she could not contact any of the numbers that she got calls from. Suspecting fraud, Meena managed to reverse the payment of ₹1.28 lakh, but ended up losing ₹1.06 lakh. Following the complaint, police have registered a case under Sections 419, 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-banker-duped-of-1-06-lakh-in-online-fraud-101625862033043.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||RSS workers should help people in need if third wave of Covid comes, says Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has expressed concern over the possible impact of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.He was participating in the first day’s proceedings at the Sangh’s chintan shivir (brainstorming camp) being held in Chitrakoot.Bhagwat said the Sangh cadres should help people in need on the ground (if there is a third wave).If there were deaths, the workers should also make the arrangements for cremations of those whose families were unable to do so, said people familiar with the details.According to people privy to the matter, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda and the party’s Uttar Pradesh chief Swatantra Dev Singh, along with organisation secretaries, may attend the camp on July 10.In addition, the Sangh could review the works being done overseas by its offshoots. The heads of several Sangh ancillaries could attend the camp on July 12, they said. They include the heads of the Bharatiya Kisan Manch, the Vishva Hindu Parishad, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, Vidya Bharti and others.The Sangh has about 25 wings working at micro level. Along with them, several bodies were active in about 20 countries. The central leadership may meet the heads of these bodies after the first two days of the meeting.Before the inaugural session, Bhagwat attended the morning shakha and met RSS cadres engaged in work near Kailash Kuteer. He also went to the Mandakini river and took a bath there with several senior leaders of the Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rss-workers-should-help-people-in-need-if-third-wave-of-covid-19-comes-mohan-bhagwat-101625862031834.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC approves outdoor gyms in parks of Sectors 76 to 80||The finance and contract committee of the Mohali municipal corporation on Friday approved development works worth ₹20 crore. The panel decided that outdoor gyms will be set up in a park of every sector from Sectors 76 to 80. Apart from this, development works will be carried out in Industrial Areas, Phase 8A and Phase 8B, at a cost of ₹7 crore. This area has been taken over by the MC from the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC). A video conferencing room will be set up at the MC Building in Sector 68 and public amenities will be established at the Rose Garden in Phase 3B1. For road safety, more speed breakers will be installed. Other road works, including repair, paver blocks, street lights and horticulture, were also approved. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of city mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, with MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg and panel members, including senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Jasbir Singh Manku and Anuradha Anand, in attendance. Talking to media persons after the meeting, Sidhu said all these works will be carried out with complete transparency and all wards will be looked after.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-approves-outdoor-gyms-in-parks-of-sectors-76-to-80-101625861613389.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman looking to buy black fungus medicine duped of ₹25 lakh||The cyber cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested two persons from Bihar on charges of duping a Manimajra resident in lieu of providing injections to treat black fungus at lesser rates.The accused, identified as Pallav Kumar, 29, and Brijbhushan Verma, 28, both hailing from Bihar, were arrested from Muzaffarpur, Bihar, and were produced before a court on Friday that remanded them to 8-day police custody.A case was registered on June 28 on the complaint of one Geeta Rao of Shanti Nagar, Manimajra, who said that she was the owner of GA Healthcare Pharma Company.On May 24, 2021, she said that she received a call from a person stating that they were selling liposomal amphotericin B injection for ₹4,800 a piece, which the complainant agreed to purchase. She deposited a token amount of ₹5,000 to his SBI account. After that, the accused sent her details of Jaleshwar Pharma and also sent a receipt/docket of the said injections to be delivered by DTDC.After receiving the docket, Geeta sent the rest amount of ₹1.9 lakh to the same account. After that, the complainant sent a requirement of 600 pieces and also transferred an amount of ₹3.36 lakh to the Kotak Mahindra Bank account of the accused. In addition to this, the complainant again transferred ₹20.4 lakh to the SBI account. The accused had told her that the injections would be dispatched on May 27, 2021, but they were not received and the accused went off the grid.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.The address of the person using the accounts was traced to Bihar. The beneficiary banks were traced to Surat, Gujrat. During the investigation, it was found that the SBI account was in the name of Brijbhushan Verma in which an amount of ₹20.4 lakh had been transferred, and the Kotak Mahindra Bank account was in the name Chandan Kumar, in which an amount of ₹3.36 lakh was transferred. Both the accounts were accessed/used by accused Pallav Kumar as the OTP were delivered on his phone number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-looking-to-buy-black-fungus-medicine-duped-of-25-lakh-101625861612167.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pickup truck damages 15 vehicles in Manimajra||A Mahindra pickup damaged 15 vehicles parked on the road in Manimajra in the wee hours of Friday. The driver also hit an electricity pole near the Kheda Baba Temple in main market and damaged it. Police have scanned CCTV footage, but were unable to get the registration number of the vehicle as the headlights were in full beam. Police suspect that the driver was intoxicated and it could be a case of drunk driving. They said that further action will be taken after written complaints are received from the owners of the damaged vehicles. A case has been registered under Section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of Indian Penal Code at Manimajra police station against the unidentified driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pickup-truck-damages-15-vehicles-in-manimajra-101625861251901.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Heatwave subsides in Chandigarh, Sunday may ring in monsoon rain||While the easterly winds have started blowing in the city, its wait for monsoon’s revival has grown longer.According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast, rain is not expected before Sunday and Saturday will see only a partly cloudy sky.On the bright side, after reeling under the heatwave for two days, Chandigarh saw the maximum temperature going down from 40.5°C on Thursday to 36.8°C on Friday, but it was still two degrees above normal. The minimum temperature also decreased from 30.6°C to 28.6°C, four degrees above normal.The temperature is likely to reduce further after monsoon’s return on Sunday.“Chances of rain are higher on Sunday, while on Saturday some precipitation may occur due to local systems. Monsoon is likely to pick up from Sunday when light to moderate rain up to 30 mm is expected. Chances of heavy rain, along with gusty winds up to 40km/h, are also there,” said an IMD official.Over the next three days, the heatwave is expected to remain at bay as the maximum temperature will be between 32°C and 37°C, and the minimum temperature will stay around 28°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heatwave-subsides-in-chandigarh-sunday-may-ring-in-monsoon-rain-101625861193285.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Retired Panjab University official loses ₹48 lakh to fraudsters promising insurance bonus||Eyeing a ₹38-lakh bonus against a matured insurance company has left a retired Panjab University assistant registrar poorer by ₹48.46 lakh.Given the runaround since 2013 by multiple callers, who made him invest different amounts of money to get the bonus, Tarsem Lal, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, Nayagaon, contacted the police in February 2017 after realising that he had been defrauded.After a four-year probe, the Sector-11 police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code. Lal had told the police that he retired from PU in January 2013. He had an LIC policy that matured in December 2012 and he received the insured amount in April 2013. In June 2013, employees of Davis Club company contacted him via phone, informing him that LIC had declared a bonus of ₹38 lakh in his favour. He was informed that the bonus will be sent to Davis Club and to receive it he will have to become a member by depositing ₹25,000, which he did. They asked him not to get in touch with LIC, as he will lose 40% of the bonus money.After three months, they asked him to invest ₹15 lakh in the company, but they could not be contacted thereafter. In March 2014, one Jyoti Bhagat and Ganpati Dass called him and claimed that they were working with RBI, Mumbai, and will help him get the money back within 45 days. They asked him to pay ₹11.30 lakh for this. After delaying the matter, they also switched off their mobile phones. Then, one Riya Gupta called and told him that his bonus file had been received, but before release of payment, he needed to deposit ₹4.80 lakh as advance tax in the bank account of one Vikram Singh. Thereafter, Shweta Tewari called him and asked him to transfer another ₹4.70 lakh in the account of one Rajesh Kumar Khatri. But they could not be contacted after October 2014. Similarly, he was made to pay ₹75,000 in the account of Perimero Club Holiday, and ₹67,000 and ₹65,000 to different insurance companies. Later another person got him to transfer ₹21000 in the bank account of Care India Services. All these callers had lured him to get his money back from Davis Club, Lal told the police.On February 25, 2016, he got a message saying his file had been cleared and through one Om Prakash, he was made to invest ₹9.5 lakh in Prime Land Corporation for release of money, but they kept delaying the release date. Later, one Mohan Kumar Walia informed him via phone that in November 2016, after demonetisation, the income tax department had raided Davis Club company and found that it was working illegally. Lal was informed that the money he invested had been sent to SBI for repayment, but was told to pay ₹5,500 as cost of forms. However, he never received any bonus or his payments back, following which he contacted the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/retired-panjab-university-official-loses-48-lakh-to-fraudsters-promising-insurance-bonus-101625861192207.html
10-07-2021||Other||Three held for stabbing neighbour to death at Panchkula colony||A 55-year-old man was stabbed to death by his neighbour after he refused to move his bicycle to let the former’s scooter pass at Indira Colony in Panchkula on Thursday night.Police have arrested three accused, identified as Satish Kumar and his sons, Sunny and Vicky.The victim, Binder, worked as a contractual sanitation worker with the Panchkula MC. His son Rinku, 21, an eyewitness of the murder, told the police that their neighbour Satish arrived home on his Honda Activa around 8.30pm on Thursday.As his father’s bicycle was parked in the street, Satish asked him to move it to allow him to pass. When Binder refused, an enraged Satish hit Binder with the bicycle and left while hurling abuses. He returned soon after with his sons, Vicky and Sunny, and neighbours Mahipal and Mohit. They were all carrying sticks and iron rods. As Satish attacked his father, Vicky suddenly stabbed him in the chest.Rinku alleged that when he, his brother and mother rushed to help his father, the accused attacked them as well.An injured Binder was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 on a neighbour’s motorcycle, but was declared brought dead. The accused have been booked under Sections 148, 149, 323, 302 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-14 police station. They will be produced before a court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-stabbing-neighbour-to-death-at-panchkula-colony-101625860891831.html
10-07-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy made PAC chairman in Bengal assembly, BJP walks out||Mukul Roy, who has joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) but is still officially a legislator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was made chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal assembly on Friday as the budget session came to an end.BJP lawmakers staged a walkout in protest, saying the convention of an opposition MLA appointed as head of the PAC was violated. The party had nominated Ashok Lahiri, former chief economic adviser to the Centre and lawmaker from Balurghat, for the post.“We did not nominate Roy for inclusion in the PAC. The ruling party wants to spend government funds and keep the accounts as well. This is autocracy. The speaker violated convention,” said Suvendu Adhikari, BJP legislator and leader of the opposition in the assembly.Defending the decision of speaker Biman Banerjee, TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “There is no rule which says an opposition leader has to be made the PAC chairman. It is only a convention. The speaker is the sole authority to select the chairman. He has done the right thing.”The speaker told the House that Roy was selected because of his experience.That Roy could be made the PAC chairman had become somehow apparent on June 24 when chief minister Mamata Banerjee stoked speculations.“Anybody can file nomination papers for inclusion in the PAC. He (Roy) is a BJP member. He has been supported by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. If required, we will support him too. We will win if there is an election. Let people see who is more powerful. The speaker takes these decisions,” Banerjee had told the reporters during a press conference.However, no election was held on Friday since the BJP had nominated six MLAs for inclusion in the PAC, which can have a maximum of 20 members. The TMC had named 14 MLAs, said Adhikari.According to rules, it is the discretion of the speaker to select the chairpersons of the various committees in the assembly. The Bengal assembly has 41 committees, of which PAC is considered the most important one.Earlier, the BJP and TMC got into a tussle on June 25 when 67-year-old Roy, who left the saffron camp and returned to the ruling party on June 11, filed his nomination for induction in the PAC.On June 18, the BJP submitted a petition before assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, saying Roy, the legislator from Krishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law as he did not resign from the BJP before switching sides.On June 26, the BJP submitted a letter to the speaker saying Roy’s nomination should be cancelled because the party did not nominate him. Stating that the BJP may seek legal action, the letter added that Roy should be disqualified under anti-defection law.The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process, which involves inquiry and setting up of a committee.Adhikari, Mamata Banerjee’s protege-turned-adversary, joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her from Nandigram constituency in the recently concluded assembly polls. He filed the application for Roy’s disqualification. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC along with his son Subhranshu, but did not officially resign from the BJP, said opposition leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-made-pac-chairman-in-bengal-assembly-bjp-walks-out-101625860057860.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh waste plant’s upgrade: Adviser warns MC against further delay||If the municipal corporation continues to drag its feet with regards to upgrade of the city’s only solid waste processing plant, the UT administration will take over the project, warned UT adviser Dharam Pal on Friday.In June last year, the civic body had taken over the plant from the Jaypee Group, as it could process only a fraction of the city’s daily waste that runs into 450 million tonnes.But since then, MC has neither improved the plant’s working nor upgraded the technology and most of the city’s daily waste is still being dumped at the Dadumajra landfill. “We can no longer allow the city’s waste to be dumped like this. We have to take up the issue with greater urgency,” said Pal, during his visit to the waste processing plant on Friday.Pal instructed MC commissioner KK Yadav to speed up the upgrade process, else UT will have to intervene in the matter.IIT Roorkee recommended new plantOn MC’s request, IIT Roorkee had compiled a report last year and advised that the best way was to set up a new modern 500 TPD (tonnes per day) plant for dry and wet waste treatment in the given plot.The report had stated that even after the existing machinery was repaired, the plant can at best run at only 40% of its total capacity.Nearly 10 months on, MC has not been able to decide which technology to use to upgrade the plant, constructed by the Jaypee group in 2008 as per the Municipal Solid Waste, 2000, guidelines.Thirteen companies even submitted their expressions of interest (EOI) in January this year. But in the last four General House meetings, the councillors only postponed taking a decision on the technology. This, after asking for presentations from firms, and touring waste processing plants in Ambala and Delhi. In the last meeting, they yet again decided to visit more plants.“A technology has been recommended by an expert committee of MC, but has been pending with the MC General House for some time now,” said Pal.“If they don’t decide on the technology immediately, we (UT), after the approval of the UT administrator, will take it in our hands,” said Pal after he was informed that a special session of the MC House will be called in mid-July to deal with the issue.Even after finalisation of the technology, it will take at least 18 months for the plant to work at its optimum efficiency, Pal said, so decision on the matter was immediately required.“We cannot afford to wait anymore. We want to process 100% of all the waste being processed in the city per day. This will be a very unique achievement in the country,” the adviser said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-waste-plant-s-upgrade-adviser-warns-mc-against-further-delay-101625860413121.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Four snatchers held, 101 phones recovered||Police have arrested four snatchers, including a juvenile, and recovered 101 mobile phones from their possession.The accused have been identified as Rahul, a resident of Sector 65; Pankaj, a resident of Sector 64; and Nandan, a resident of Sohana. Rahul and Pankaj were arrested near Peer Baba Dargah in Phase 1 following a tip-off. Three mobile phones were recovered from them. During their police remand, two more stolen phones were discovered. Further interrogation led to the arrest of the juvenile and Nandan, and recovery of 96 phones. “Nandan was running a shop of mobile phones in Sohana village and his accomplices would hand over the stolen phones to him to dismantle the parts,” said DSP Gursher Singh, while addressing the media on Friday. “They mostly targeted labourers and were active for the past couple of months. Another gang member, identified as Sanjay Arora, is at large,” he added. A case has been registered against the accused at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-snatchers-held-101-phones-recovered-101625860052317.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||₹144 crore inter-state bogus GST billing racket busted||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Ludhiana zone, claimed to have busted an inter-state ₹144 crore bogus billing racket, wherein the accused had availed input tax credit (ITC) of over ₹26 crore by creating fictitious firms.Simultaneous raids were conducted at 16 locations in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab on Thursday with local teams being part of the operation. No arrest has yet been made in the case and investigation is going on. The teams recovered ₹80 lakh during the raids.According to information, the accused used to transfer fake bills to two trading firms in Mandi Gobindgarh (Punjab) by creating eight fictitious firms in Delhi and three in Haryana. The firms were shown to be dealing in iron and steel scrap.An official said eight fictitious firms based out of Delhi were found to be involved in circular trading and were passing on ITC fraudulently to another set of three shell firms shown to be operating from Haryana. The Delhi-based firms showed fake supply of goods valued at more than ₹144 crore involving ITC of over ₹26 crore. The firms in Haryana were further passing on ITC to two trading firms in Mandi Gobindgarh. The Punjab firms availed ITC amounting to ₹18.5 crore from three Haryana firms and are further passing on the same to various furnaces in the state. The officials suspect that more firms are involved in the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/144-crore-inter-state-bogus-gst-billing-racket-busted-101625859873153.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||NGT monitoring panel directs Moga admn to expedite installation work of STPs||The National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s monitoring committee for Punjab has directed the Moga deputy commissioner to expedite the ongoing work of installing the Seechewal model-based sewage treatment plants (STPs) at Nihal Singh Wala, Bhadni Kalan, Kot Isse Khan and Fatehgarh Panjtoor towns in the district to prevent groundwater contamination due to discharge of untreated waste into water bodies.The committee led by tribunal chairman Justice Jasbir Singh (retired) and member Balbir Singh Seechewal on Friday inspected all STPs, complete or incomplete, in seven towns of the district. The committee during the inspection found that untreated waste water and sewage from four towns is being discharged into ponds and drains due to the failure of the Moga administration and local civic bodies to complete the installation work of STPs.Municipal officials said there are 6 ponds in Fatehgarh Panjtoor, 1 in Kot Ise Khan, 3 in Badni Kalan and 2 in Nihal Singh Wala.The NGT in its order on May 21, 2020, had directed all civic bodies in the Malwa region to ensure setting up of STPs and work on connecting all the drains and other sources of sewage with them to prevent groundwater contamination.Justice Jasbir Singh (retired) said, “The work of installing STPs at Nihal Singh Wala, Bhadni Kalan, Kot Isse Khan and Fatehgarh Panjtoor is in slow progress and untreated waste water of these towns is falling into water bodies. Only the STPs at Moga and Dharamkot towns are functional while installation work of STP at Baghapurana has been completed. Even it is yet to get operational.”“We have directed the Moga deputy commissioner to expedite and complete work before the deadline or be ready to face environmental compensation. If they fail to complete the work on time, the compensation will be imposed on civic bodies concerned,” he added.According to the monitoring committee, some of STPs have deadlines till July 31 while others are given time till September 30.Seechewal, said, “An inspection report will be prepared and then submitted to the NGT for further action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-monitoring-panel-directs-moga-admn-to-expedite-installation-work-of-stps-101625859871761.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC restrains SIT from filing challan in derogatory poster case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the sacrilege cases from submitting chargesheet (challan) against an accused in a desecration incident wherein derogatory posters were pasted near the gurudwaras of Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in Faridkot district on the intervening night of September 24 and 25 in 2015. The HC bench of Justice HNS Gill acted on the plea of Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, a Dera Sacha Sauda follower, who had demanded that the SIT be stopped from re-examining his handwriting samples for matching them with those on the posters. “Till the next date of hearing, the state is restrained from filing the challan in this case,” the HC ordered fixing July 15 as the next date of hearing. Sukhjinder had argued that the SIT is competent only to further investigate the matter and not reinvestigate it. “Once the CBI had got the petitioner’s handwriting samples compared from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) and found the same not matching with those on the incriminating posters, it is not open to the SIT again to send the samples for comparison,” his counsel had argued in the court. Sukhjinder is among four accused in the case besides Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh and Baljeet Singh. On June 1 this year, the SIT collected samples of Sukhjinder to match them with the writing on the derogatory posters claiming that one of the posters was written by him. The SIT led by then deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra in 2018 had claimed that the handwriting of the accused dera followers had matched with the ones on the posters. But the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in its closure report filed in a Mohali court in July 2019 said the handwriting samples of the accused dera followers it had sent to the CFSL in Delhi did not match with the ones on the posters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-restrains-sit-from-filing-challan-in-derogatory-poster-case-101625859812871.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab lifts night, weekend curfew from July 12; bars, cinema halls to open with rider||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered lifting of night and weekend curfew and allowed gatherings of 100 persons indoor and 200 outdoor in Punjab from Monday ( (July 12). Bars, cinema halls, restaurants, spas, swimming pools, gyms, malls, sports complexes, museums and zoos etc in the state will open provided the staff members and visitors have taken at least one dose of the vaccine, he said. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state through video-conferencing, he directed director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta to challan all political leaders violating the Covid rules while holding rallies and protest meetings. “The situation will again be reviewed on July 20. Strict use of masks must be ensured at all times,” he said. Though schools will continue to remain closed, colleges, coaching centres and all other institutions of higher learning shall be allowed to open by the deputy commissioners concerned, subject to a certificate having been submitted that all teaching, non-teaching staff and students have been given at least one dose of vaccination at least 2 weeks ago. Heath secretary Hussan Lal said four districts had shown positivity rate of 1% or less, but they still needed to be vigilant in case of Ludhiana, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Firozepur and Rupnagar districts. Referring to the cases of mucormycosis, or back fungus, which has been reported among 623 people as of July 8, the CM asked the health department to prepare a proposal for supporting and helping in the treatment of such patients. Of the 623 cases, 67 are from outside the state, the health secretary said, adding that 337 patients were under treatment, 154 had been discharged while 51 persons had died. Amarinder noted that due to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place and the level of Covid and post-Covid care, Punjab has had fewer black fungus cases and deaths than most other states, including Haryana and Delhi. Against 623 cases and 51 confirmed deaths so far in Punjab, both Haryana and Delhi have seen over 1,600 cases each, and 193 and 236 deaths respectively, he added. CM okays ₹380 crore for third wave preparationThe Punjab government on Friday approved ₹380 crore to set up more oxygen plants and other necessary health infrastructure to deal with an anticipated third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The amount approved by the CM shall be spent on PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen plants, cryogenic liquid medical oxygen tanks, ambulances, among others.The CM approved ₹380 crore to be spent by the health, and medical education departments in preparing for a possible third wave of the Covid pandemic, an official release said.The CM said funds have never been allowed to become a constraint in the state government’s response to Covid and they will continue to be made available even in the future, according to requirement.At a virtual Covid-19 review meeting, the CM also gave a go ahead for filling of posts of medical specialists, nurses along with 330 faculty posts in the Patiala and Amritsar medical colleges.He also asked the departments to bring the proposal for any additional posts needed to the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-lifts-night-weekend-curfew-from-july-12-bars-cinema-halls-to-open-with-rider-101625859811771.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||SIT files chargesheet against 6 Dera Sacha Sauda followers in Bargari sacrilege case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents in Punjab on Friday filed a chargesheet in a Faridkot court against six Dera Sacha Sauda followers in the Bargari desecration case. The 500-page chargesheet was filed in the court of judicial magistrate Tarjani against Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all residents of Kotkapura; Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in Faridkot district. The challan was filed under sections 295 (destroying, damaging or defiling any place of worship, or any object held sacred), 295-A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information), 120-B (being party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) and 153-A (promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence or language etc) of Indian Penal Code. On May 16 this year, the SIT led by inspector general of police (border range) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar had arrested the six sect followers in connection with the Bargari sacrilege episode. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of a bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara, were found scattered near a shrine at Bargari. Later, Sukhjinder, Shakti, Ranjit and Baljeet were named as accused in another sacrilege incident wherein two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24 and 25 in 2015. The SIT probe has found that the accused had scattered the torn pages of ‘bir’ stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala Gurdwara on October 12, 2015 at Bargari. The SIT has also named three absconding members of the Sirsa-based dera’s national committee as conspirators in both cases. They are Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kaler and Harsh Dhuri, all Haryana residents. The probe team has also filed an application along with the chargesheet for initiating proceedings to declare the three as proclaimed offenders (POs). In November 2015, the Akali-BJP government had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the CBI. But the Punjab Police’s SIT probing other desecration cases claimed to have traced all the three incidents in 2018. The CBI did not agree with the SIT probe findings and filed a closure report in the three cases in July 2019. The Congress government, led by Captain Amarinder Singh, took back the cases from the CBI and handed over the probe to the SIT led by IG (now retired) Ranbir Singh Khatra. In July last year, the SIT named jailed Sirsa-based dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, three national committee members as accused and filed a chargesheet against seven sect followers in the case of theft of ‘bir’ from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015. However, the SIT has not named the dera chief in Bargari sacrilege case so far. In January this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the CBI to hand over the diaries and papers relating to the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the Punjab Police and asked the state government to replace the then SIT head IG Khatra. In February, IG Parmar replaced Khatra as the new SIT head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-files-chargesheet-against-6-dera-sacha-sauda-followers-in-bargari-sacrilege-case-101625859695614.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Same Covid guidelines not applicable on entire state: Himachal high court||Observing that same set of guidelines cannot be applied for the entire state due to variance of corona-related issues in different districts, the high court of Himachal Pradesh on Friday directed to constitute a district monitoring committee in the state. The division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo motu by the court as public interest litigation and another writ petition highlighting the inadequate facilities in the state for the treatment of Covid patients. The court directed that the committee will consist of the deputy commissioner of each district, secretary of the district legal services authority and president of the bar association at the district headquarter.In case, the president of the district bar association is a senior citizen and not willing to participate in the committee, he may nominate another person on his behalf, to do so, said the court.The DC will be the chairperson of the committee.The HC directed that the panel will visit the towns, cities and villages in the respective districts to ascertain the Covid situation and whether the assistance from the government is adequate to meet the challenges thereon. The court said that the committee will also ascertain as to what is required to be done to contain the virus spread and to ensure preparedness for the third wave.The committee will also visit the primary health care centres, the areas where the medical facilities are provided and it may seek the assistance of any other person in the performance of their duties and all the activities of the committee will be in tune with the prevalent SOPs and guidelines regarding Covid, the HC directed.The panel will submit a weekly report to the registry of the court on or before the Tuesday of every week by e-mail and the bench would interact with the committee on July 14 through videoconferencing.The court directed that the committee’s first meeting will be held on July 10 and it may meet as many times as required.During the course of hearing, the advocate general apprised the court of the efforts made by the state in order to control the spread of Covid-19. The court observed that it is aware of the work done by the state, but more is required to be done as the issues pertaining to each district vary and there cannot be a same set of guidelines for the entire state and thus a local monitoring committee would be more useful in such circumstances.The court directed that the related matters will be taken up by the court every Wednesday at 2pm to consider the reports that would be filed on Tuesday.The case will be next heard on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/same-covid-guidelines-not-applicable-on-entire-state-himachal-high-court-101625859575465.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases dip in J&K, but health experts warn against complacency||Though Covid count is down in J&K, doctors and health experts have cautioned that if people continue to violate the safety protocols, the caseload may surge in the weeks to come. Since June 25, the UT has recorded below-10 daily fatalities with two deaths each on July 3, 4 and 6. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,10,630 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.59%.Currently in J&K, active cases have dropped to 3,300 from more than 50,000 in May. However, with Covid-appropriate behaviour going for a toss, there is a slight rise in infections at some places in the UT, though officials said it’s premature to call it a surge as the recovery rate is improving daily.Professor and head of community medicine at Srinagar GMC, Dr Mohammad Saleem Khan, said the drop in Covid cases and deaths is an encouraging indication of winning the fight against second wave. “But this has resulted in casualness among people towards Covid-appropriate behaviour and adherence to SOPs, which poses serious threat,” he said, adding that the third wave of Covid would be highly dangerous and fatal. Dr Khan suggested that in order to keep the impact of the third wave under control, people need to follow previously fixed guidelines. “Crowding the markets, health resorts and marriage ceremonies without wearing masks and no regard for social distancing is unsolicited and unbecoming behaviour,” he said.“People may go out, but strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is needed to avoid possible third wave,” he added,while recommending and emphasising on vaccination and terming it a strong tool to fight against the pandemic. Dr Javid Iqbal, senior consultant at Baramulla Medical College, said they receive very few patients nowadays. “The way people have started neglecting SOPs, cases could again go up. People should behave responsibly as virus is still out there,” he added. Dr Masraat, block medical officer, Bandipore, said the war against Covid hasn’t been won yet. “Third wave is still pending, for which we should be ready. If Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed, then only we can win this war, but people have lowered their guards.” Advocate Musdasir Naqshbandi, who arranges oxygen machines and cylinders for people in need, said despite the lowest number of cases, their group has to help patients with oxygen at home on daily basis. “Many people believe that war against this deadly virus has been won which is still not true as cases come everyday and any misstep could prove dangerous.”Officials have claimed that the vaccination is on target and more than 50.46 lakh doses have been administered in the UT. People above 45 years in nine out of 20 districts have been 100% inoculated, they added. However, experts said only 5% people in J&K have received both the doses and over 30% one dose. They said the process needs to be accelerated to prevent the third wave. 262 fresh infections reported in UTMeanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded one Covid-related death, lowest in the past 88 days, and 262 fresh infections, which took the overall caseload to 3,18,284. The death toll stands at 4,354.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 304. The officials said that 60,562 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-dip-in-j-k-but-health-experts-warn-against-complacency-101625859092882.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||No vaccination of 18-45 age group in Himachal till July 14||A Himachal government spokesperson on Friday said that people in age group 18-45 will not be vaccinated till July 14.Only the beneficiaries of category A (45+ years) eligible for first and second dose of Covishield will get the jab.Besides, healthcare workers, frontline workers and all priority groups as designated by the Centre will be inoculated. “There will be no session for category B (18-45 age group),” he said. He further appealed that the beneficiaries of category A should come forward to get their vaccination doses. Meanwhile, Himachal on Friday recorded 180 fresh Covid cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,03,425 while death toll mounted to 3,471 after one more patient died of the contagion. Of the new cases, 38 were reported in Mandi, 37 in Una, 36 in Chamba, 21 in Kangra, 13 in Shimla, 10 in Bilaspur, eight each in Hamirpur and Kullu, six in Una and three in Kinnaur. The recoveries reached 1,98,441 after 127 people recuperated. Active cases have slightly gone up to 1,359 Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,033 cases followed by Mandi (27,360), Shimla (25,356), Solan (22,327), Sirmaur (15,348), Hamirpur (14,438), Una (13,358), Bilaspur (12,763), Chamba (11,470), Kullu (8,968), Kinnaur (3,273) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,733).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-vaccination-of-18-45-age-group-in-himachal-till-july-14-101625859033138.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party announces protests across Uttar Pradesh on July 15 over alleged poll irregularities||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Friday announced it would hold statewide demonstrations on July 15 against what it called the “rigging of zila panchayat chairpersons’ and block pramukh polls” in Uttar Pradesh even as SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said his party was “preparing a list of all those district administration and police officials who conducted themselves like BJP workers” in these elections. The SP chief also said: “On return to power in the 2022 assembly polls, the government will act on all such officers. The Samajwadi Party will never forget the atrocities that were perpetrated first to win the zila panchayat (chairpersons’) and then the block pramukh polls. The BJP engaged in hooliganism and the district administration, police officers worked as BJP cadre. The party is preparing a list of all such officers.” While the district panchayat chief polls were held on July 3, the block pramukh elections in the state are scheduled on Saturday (July 10). The SP chief was addressing a party workers’ meeting at the party’s state headquarters here on Friday afternoon. The announcement about the protests on July 15 was made through a statement issued by the party on the eve of the block pramukh elections. “The state election commission (SEC) did not do its duty. The government should say who allowed all this hooliganism statewide?” he asked. In the recent zila panchayat chairperson’ polls, BJP won 65 of the 75 seats while SP could win only five. On the nomination day on Thursday, the SP chief had accused the BJP and the district administration and police officers of preventing many candidates from filing their nominations. “The BJP’s mask has fallen. Samajwadi Party workers and leaders are being harassed and cases are being filed against them,” he said. He also said the people would bring the Samajwadi Party to power in the 2022 UP assembly polls. In a statement, the SP said its party workers, kshetra panchayat members, zila panchayat, gram panchayat members and heads, apart from all the frontal organizations, will participate in the protest. “The SP cadre will protest at the tehsils and blocks. The protestors will submit memorandums addressed to the governor,” said the SP statement. The memorandum will also try to attract the governor’s attention to price rise, the law and order situation, unemployment, three new central farm laws, misbehaviour with women, crumbling health services, fake cases against SP workers and misuse of power by the BJP government, said Rajendra Chaudhary, the SP spokesperson, in the statement. Chaudhary said that the party had asked its workers to follow Covid safety norms during the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-announces-protests-across-u-p-on-july-15-over-alleged-poll-irregularities-101625858851082.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Medical staff boycott work for two hours in UP, demand no-transfer policy for 2021||The medical staff in Uttar Pradesh resorted to a two-hour work-boycott on Friday, demanding “no transfers” during the current year for all the health employees working in government-run facilities.The statewide call for the work-boycott was given by the Chikitsa Swasthya Mahasangh (Health Federation). The protest began at 8am.“All the hospital staff have worked since March 2020 without any leave. Even at present, we are preparing for the probable third wave of Covid-19 and working day and night, as required. There is no reason why transfers can’t be postponed as there are many health workers who have either recovered from Covid or have family members struggling with post-Covid complications,” said Ashok Kumar of the Rajkiya Nurses Sangh, an organisation of nurses working in government hospitals.The protestors said that instead of shifting the staff and issuing a fresh list, the pending applications of those employees who themselves are seeking transfers can be entertained. This would come to more than the target decided by the health department for the transfer of 20% of the total staff, they said.“Of the total of about 8000 staff nurses working in Uttar Pradesh, the health department needs to transfer 1100 and the applications submitted by staff nurses (personal requests for transfer) is 1500. Similar applications are pending from lab technicians, pharmacists, doctors and other staff members,” said Ashok Kumar.“Such applications may be filtered and those found fit under the criteria laid down for transfer shall be acted upon to make sure transfers are done without actually disturbing the staff or putting them at risk,” said Dr Amit Singh, general secretary of the Provincial medical Services Association (PMSA), a body of about 14000 government doctors in Uttar Pradesh.“Whenever you make a phone call, the voice message first says stay home and come out only if very necessary. Are the transfers so necessary that even the risk of life appears small before it?” asked Sunil Yadav, head of the Pharmacist Federation Uttar Pradesh.“We have already given representations to senior health officials and now we will hold a massive protest at the health directorate on July 12, if our demands are not met,” said Dr Amit Singh.The state has 167 district level hospitals, 855 community health centres, 3621 primary health centres, 129 mother and child hospitals and 42 trauma centres that have a total of about one lakh staff.“As many as 20% of these were to be transferred, but this can be deferred this year. And we are ready for the transfers in 2022 once the Covid pandemic is over,” said Ashok Kumar.Patient-care hit in Lucknow, stir to continue on Saturday as wellPatient care services were hit here on Friday when health care workers under the banner of the Chikitsa Swasthya Mahasangh observed a two-hour work boycott opposing the transfer policy. They will continue the work-boycott on Saturday as well.Since 8am, the staff gathered at the main entrance of the Civil Hospital in the state capital, raising slogans while people in queue waited to get OPD (outpatient department) tickets made. The staff staged protest at all major government-run hospitals in the state capital, including BRD Hospital, Balrampur Hospital, Lok Bandhu Raj Narain Hospital and Rani Laxmibai (RLB) Hospital.“I had to give my fasting and PP (post prandial) samples for checking blood sugar levels. The sampling will start only after 10am. Hence, I am going back and will be here again next week. I can’t visit the hospital thrice. PP sample has to be given after meal. That requires me to go back home after giving the fasting blood sample,” said an elderly patient who had come to give blood sample.Many patients who came for sampling, x-rays, ultrasound tests, CT scans, and other pathological tests kept waiting, while a few went back. Barring emergency services, doctors and nurses, ward boys and technicians didn’t work till 10am.The patients who went to government hospitals had a tough time. Some of these hospitals included Balrampur Hospital, Dufferin, RLB Hospital, and community healthcare centres (CHCs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/medical-staff-boycott-work-for-two-hours-in-uttar-pradesh-demand-no-transfer-policy-for-2021-101625858191913.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra may see a few relaxations soon||Amid stabilisation of the daily caseload and pressure from citizens for more relaxations, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to review the Covid-19 situation in the next few days. Although experts have advised against blanket relaxations, the state may consider easing a few curbs in districts with low test positivity rate (TPR) and high vaccination cover.Thackeray on Friday chaired a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA), which was attended by top government officials and experts from the state’s Covid task force.While a decision on relaxation of ongoing curbs was not taken in the meeting, the CM informed officials they will consider them after the review meeting with the task force.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the task force, said the government could think of the relaxations in a graded manner from July 15. “The relaxations could be on a case-by-case basis and in phases. The districts with TPR below 5% for consecutive two weeks, vaccine cover of more than 70% may get relaxations. We have a long way to achieve 70% vaccination, the mandatory public health yardstick,” said Dr Joshi.“We are considering doing away with the tests for fully vaccinated domestic fliers. Apart from it, a few more relaxations are likely to be considered in operation of shops and commercial establishments. The task force members are still against opening up of the trains for general public and any relaxation in commuting is unlikely at least for a few more weeks,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.Dr Joshi, however, has a word of caution on opening up of local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “Till then, we could adhere to rapid, spot testing and mass screening to enable calibrated relaxations. People will have to strictly follow the restrictions of Covid-appropriate behaviour, so the second wave does not lead into the third wave,” said Dr Joshi.“Rather than easing curbs in haste, it is better to be on the cautious side, otherwise it could land us in the third wave early. We should not repeat the mistake we committed between the first and second wave. The opening up of trains led to initiation of the second wave which hit Mumbai in the second week of March, six weeks after the decision of allowing general people from first week of February. It was the time gap required for the spread of the virus. The opening up of trains has direct correlation with the wave and thus we have to be very careful while allowing activities,” said Dr Joshi.Another officer said that the state government is under tremendous pressure from the people for relaxations, and opening up of trains for public. “The genome sequencing of Delta-plus strain has proved that it is not highly transmissible than the other variants. Except for eight districts, other parts of the state have not been witnessing high number of cases. In such districts, there is no point continuing with the curbs,” he said, requesting anonymity.The districts – Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Sangli, Satara, Raigad, Palghar, Kolhapur, Rural Pune – have been reporting high TPR of more than 5% causing a concern for the state administration. The administration is more concerned about Kolhapur as despite 65% of the vaccination the district is witnessing high positivity rate. The local administration has been directed to increase testing, contact tracing and aggressively monitoring micro containment policy.The CM has expressed his concern over people being infected even after getting fully vaccinated and has asked the administration to check with the Centre if the booster of an additional dose would work in such cases.Dr Suhas Joshi, who heads state-appointed the task force of paediatrics surgeons, has suggested the government come up with standard operating procedures for schools before their opening. He suggested the government, which has announced opening up schools for above Class 8 in the districts with fewer cases, to go on cautiously.Meanwhile, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said the colleges would not open at least for a month. “Opening up of colleges will lead to students crowding at one place which could lead to the spread among them. They could further infect their parents and people around leading to the early third wave. We have not made any arrangement to open colleges at least for a month,” he said.The State Election Commission too announced to put the local body bye-elections in five districts on hold in the wake of the high case of Covid-19. The bypolls were slated on July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-see-a-few-relaxations-soon-101625858071082.html
10-07-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan teen abducted by 4, then raped in moving car: Cops||JAIPUR: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly abducted by four men when she went to fetch water from a borewell and raped by them in Alwar district of Rajasthan on Monday, police said on Friday.The rape survivor’s father told the police that his daughter had gone to fetch water from the borewell when she was taken away by the suspects in a vehicle. They kept driving around in the area while they first took turns to rape her in the vehicle. Later they took her to the forest where she was again raped .Police said the villagers caught hold of three persons but they were able to escape in the commotion that followed. The father also alleged that the accused threatened him.On Sunday, a 19-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by seven people at three places and later dumped by the roadside. Her father told the police that she was initially abducted by three men who raped her and later took her around to two other villages where their four friends also raped her.The police are yet to make an arrest in the two cases.On June 29, a 12-year-old was abducted and gang-raped by three people on June 29 when she went to feed the cattle. Two people have been arrested in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-teen-abducted-by-4-then-raped-in-moving-carcops-101625858012844.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC panel bats for establishment of ‘waste to energy’ plant in city||The 12-member municipal corporation (MC) committee which was on a two-day official visit to study solid waste management at Okhla (Delhi) and Bhiwadi (Rajasthan) returned to the city on Friday. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, who was leading the committee, batted for installation of an “energy to waste” plant to deal with the 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage that is generated in the city everyday.During the visit, the committee visited the plant of a private firm in Okhla, which has been generating electricity from around 1,800 metric tonnes of garbage and isn’t charging the MC.In Okhla, the firm is using around 15 acres of MC land and 22 KW of electricity is produced from around 1,800 metric tonnes of garbage which is shifted to the plant site by the MC. Only 10% of the waste is left behind after the process and the company is earning revenue by selling off the power produced at the plant. “We are also struggling to dispose off the garbage dumped at the main dump site, where heaps of waste can be seen accumulated. The MC will soon float tenders to hire a contractor and a waste to energy plant will probably be established in the city,” said Mayor.The committee members included mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, councillors Dr Jai Prakash, Gurdeep Neetu, Harbhajan Singh Dang, Om Prakash Ratra, Swarandeep Chahal and Baljinder Bunty; superintending engineer Rajinder Singh, secretary Jasdev Sekhon, health officer Vipal Malhotra and assistant engineer Harpal Aujla. The committee also visited a unit of the same company in Bhiwadi (Rajasthan), where the company manufactures machinery like static compactors and mechanical sweeping machines.Leader of opposition in MC house, SAD councillor Dang said, “We support the proposal to establish a waste to energy plant in the city. During the visit to Rajasthan, I also urged the mayor to select quality machines for mechanical sweeping in the city.”An MC committee had also visited Chennai last month to study solid waste management model there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-panel-bats-for-establishment-of-waste-to-energy-plant-in-city-101625858012009.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily Covid count hits all-time low as 8 test +ve||In a major relief, the district’s Covid count hit an all-time low since the outbreak of the pandemic with only eight people testing positive for the disease on Friday. A 68-year-old woman of Punian village was the lone Covid patient to succumb to the virus. The single-day infections have been in single-digits for the first time this year. So far, 87,108 people have contracted the virus in Ludhiana, of which 2,088 patients have succumbed and 84,859 people have recovered. Now, there are 161 Covid patients in the district. The recovery rate is 97.42%. Warning the public against complacency, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma reiterated the need to continue following Covid protocols to prevent another surge. No fresh black fungus cases reportedNo fresh black fungus cases were diagnosed in the district on Friday. So far, 148 people have been diagnosed with the fungal infection in the district, of which 19 have succumbed to the disease. Of the confirmed cases, 83 are residents of Ludhiana, while the remaining are from other districts. Similarly, of the black fungus victims eight are locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-covid-count-hits-all-time-low-as-8-test-ve-101625857773110.html
10-07-2021||Other||State election authority puts local body bypolls in Maharashtra on hold||The state election commission (SEC) has put the local body by-elections in five districts on hold in the wake of the potential third wave of Covid-19 and the fear of the Delta Plus variant driving it. The decision was announced on Friday, after the Supreme Court (SC) directed SEC to take a call on the postponement of the bypolls by reviewing the pandemic situation in the five districts.The bypolls were necessitated after the SC scrapped the political reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local body elections in March. SEC had announced that 70 electoral divisions in five district councils and 130 electoral groups in 33 panchayat samitis would go for the by-elections on July 19. After the state government moved SC for the deferment of the bypolls citing the pandemic situation, the Apex court directed the election authority to take an appropriate decision. After a high-level meeting with state government officials on Thursday, SEC on Friday announced the deferment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-election-authority-puts-local-body-bypolls-in-maharashtra-on-hold-101625857651004.html
10-07-2021||Other||Mumbai’s suburbs to face water cut on July 13||Owing to maintenance work, areas such as Bandra, Khar, Santacruz, Vile Parle, Andheri and Jogeshwari will face water cuts or low pressure of supply on July 13. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the maintenance work of the supply valve will be undertaken on July 13 between 10am to 10pm, due to which these locations will face shortage. Hence, the civic body has requested citizens to store adequate water. BMC supplies 3,850 million litres of water to the city every day against the demand of around 4,000 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-suburbs-to-face-water-cut-on-july-13-101625857471093.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Five years after honour killing, victim’s father, uncle held in Ludhiana||Five years after a woman was murdered for marrying against her parents’ wishes, the police arrested the victim’s father and paternal uncle on Friday. Those arrested are Hardeep Singh, 52 of Muhala village, Bathinda, and his brother Gurmeet Singh, 50. The victim’s uncle Baljit Singh, mother Balwinder Kaur, aunt Harmeet Kaur and another relative Baljit Singh Gill of Ganganagar are yet to be arrested.The couple had solemnised their marriage on April 4, 2016. On May 31, 2016, the accused had kidnapped Amandeep Kaur from her husband Jaskaran Singh’s house in Jawaddi Kalan. The victim’s husband had registered a case at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police station under Sections 364 (kidnapping) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.Dugri station house officer Surinder Chopra said eight days after the kidnapping, Kaur’s decomposed body was found in Bathinda, after which a murder case was registered. The accused, who were on the run, declared proclaimed offenders on November 17, 2018.Basant Avenue police post in-charge ASI Ranjit Singh said they had arrested the accused following a tip-off and informed the Dugri police. After the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police station was demolished,.the case had been transferred to Dugri. A hunt is on for the rest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-years-after-honour-killing-victim-s-father-uncle-held-in-ludhiana-101625857352364.html
10-07-2021||Other||Bhima-Koregaon case: Panel to resume functioning from August; to ask Pawar to depose||The two-member commission probing the Bhima-Koregaon violence is set to resume its functioning from August 2 after a gap of 16 months. The commission is planning to start the probe with the deposition of witnesses, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, to complete the hearing before reaching on to a conclusion.The proceedings of the commission were stopped owing to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak last March, when it had completed the deposition of 35 witnesses in relation to the caste-based riots that had occurred in February 2018.VV Palnitkar, the secretary of the commission, said, “We have decided to start the proceedings from August 2, provided that the state government gives us facilities to conduct virtual hearings, considering the pandemic situation. We are also waiting for an extension order from the state as the tenure of the commission needs to be officially extended.”Earlier, the commission was asked to complete its inquiry by April 8, 2020. The state government is likely to grant extension to the commission till December.Lawyer Ashish Satpute, representing the commission, said, “We were deposing witnesses from Pune when the pandemic had hit the state and proceedings had to be stopped. We will start from there. Thereafter, witnesses from Mumbai will be asked to depose. The list also includes the name of NCP chief [Pawar],” he said.The panel had decided to allow the veteran leader to depose before it in response to an affidavit in which Pawar had expressed his willingness to do so. In his October 2018 affidavit, Pawar had said he was not in a position to blame any particular organisation for the violence. But on February 18, 2020, Pawar alleged that right-wing activists Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote were responsible for creating animosity among locals ahead of the 200th anniversary celebrations of the 1818 Battle of Koregaon at the war memorial in Pune district, which led to violence on January 1, 2018. To probe the riots, the previous Devendra Fadnavis government had set up a commission on January 1, 2018. Pune Police had filed cases against activists linked to the Elgar Parishad conclave held on December 31, 2017, accusing them of having Maoist links and inciting violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhimakoregaon-case-panel-to-resume-functioning-from-august-to-ask-pawar-to-depose-101625857292457.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sarpanch booked for raping Cong worker on pretext of marriage||The sarpanch of Rajoana Kalan village was booked for rape on pretext of marriage after the police investigated the allegations for two-and-a-half months on Friday. The complainant, a Congress worker who hails from Fatehgarh Sahib, has also accused, Paramjit Singh, the sarpanch of Toosa village of helping Nirmal Singh alias Gopi. The two sarpanches are also affiliated with the Congress. The 35-year-old woman, a divorcee, said she had come to Dakha to help canvass for the Congress during the 2019 general election. Paramjit Singh had introduced her to Gopi during the campaign.The complainant said Gopi had told her that her wife could not bear a child and they were headed for divorce. He promised to marry her once the proceedings were over. She said on July 3, 2020 and July 11, 2020, Gopi had taken her to different hotels and established physical relations with her without her consent. Later, the accused refused to marry her.Assistant sub-inspector Jagdish Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 376 (when a public servant commits rape), 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Gopi alleged that the woman was blackmailing him. “When I refused to give her money, she lodged a police complaint against me. This is a bogus charge as the entire region was under lockdown in July 2020. I could not possibly have taken her to hotels as she claims,” he said. The Sudhar police had booked Gopi and the Rajoana Kalan secretary for embezzlement on January 6. The FIR was lodged on the statement of block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Heera Singh.Rape allegations: MLA Bains moves high court against local court orders
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Woman who attempted suicide over alleged harassment by Ludhiana cop succumbs||A woman, who had consumed poison after allegedly being harassed by a police inspector and his family over of a property transfer dispute, succumbed at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Friday. The woman had attempted to end her life at her house on July 2. In her suicide note, she had accused 12 people, inspector Bittan Kumar, posted at Ludhiana Police Line, his father Surinder Atwal, who is the councillor of the ward 84, Bittan’s brothers Sajan Atwal and Pawan Atwal, uncle Jaspal Singh, his son-in-law Ravinder Singh and others, for forcing her to take the extreme step as they were allegedly attempting to grab her property and harassing her. The next day her family had lodged a complaint with the commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, who had asked additional deputy commissioner of police-1 Pragya Jain to hold a probe. However, as no FIR was registered, the victim’s family have lodged a fresh complaint. The victim’s brother has alleged that the inspector has threatened to implicate him in a forged case and his allies have been harassing them. The complainant said he had stopped stepping out of his house as he feared that he would be harmed or implicated in a trumped-up case. “The police are asking us to submit my sister’s original suicide note, but we have submitted a copy as the police could destroy the note. If the police keep threatening us, I will end my life as well. I have already written a suicide note and handed it over to one of my friends,” he said.The complainant said that their mother, who is illiterate, wanted to transfer the ownership of two properties in his sister’s name in 2013. But, the realtor, Jaspal, fraudulently managed to transfer a part of the property in his son-in-law Ravinder’s name, while ownership of the rest was given to Pardeep Kumar, the inspector’s uncle. The accused allegedly also made his sister sign the documents on the pretext of transferring the property in her name. Later, they started harassing her to vacate the property, which forced her to take the extreme step, her brother alleged.Inspector Bittan Kumar has refuted the allegations and has said that he does not know the woman. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-who-attempted-suicide-over-alleged-harassment-by-ludhiana-cop-succumbs-101625857232500.html
10-07-2021||Dehradun||CBI raids ex-vice chancellor in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday conducted searches at 14 premises including residences and offices of former vice chancellor (VC) of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University (HNBGU) JL Kaul, his Officer on Special Duty (OSD) DS Negi and other officials on Friday, news agency PTI said..The searches, which went on till late evening, were conducted as part of CBI’s probe into allegations of irregularities by Kaul, who was the vice chancellor from 2014 to 2016, and other accused in granting affiliations to various colleges in violation of the rules and regulations.A Press release by the investigation agency said that the “searches were conducted at 14 spots in three locations including Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal, Dehradun and Noida.”“During the searches, three bank lockers of the accused were also examined during which certain documents pertaining to the case were recovered. The then university officials were also accused of extending the affiliation of private colleges against the rules,” said the statement by CBI which added that the probe is still continuing.CBI had earlier registered cases against then V-C, his OSD, other public servants, private persons and six private institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cbiraids-ex-vice-chancellor-in-uttarakhand-101625857171636.html
10-07-2021||Other||Mira Road man held for manhandling cop||A 36-year-old Mira Road resident, Arun Ratan Singh, was arrested by Naya Nagar police on Thursday for allegedly manhandling, threatening and abusing a traffic constable posted with the Mira Bhayandar Vasai Virar Commissionerate.Senior inspector Kailash Barve said the constable, Krishna Dabade, 29, clamped Singh’s car for parking at a ‘No-Parking’ zone. When Dabade, along with the towing van went to the spot, Singh and his wife Mina, 33, who were shopping in the area, too reached the spot. “When they saw that their vehicle was clamped, Singh came charging at me and pushed me. After we started recording a video, he stepped back and began abusing me and even made snide remarks about my uniform,” Dabade said in his complaint.As Singh kept threatening and abusing him, Dabade informed the police control room and called for back-up. Singh was then taken to Naya Nagar police station. “The Thane court on Friday remanded Singh in police custody till Saturday. We are investigating if the accused has a criminal record,” said Barve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mira-road-man-held-for-manhandling-cop-101625857172144.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Ensure complete adherence to Covid norms during Kanwar Yatra, Yogi tells U.P. officials||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officials to ensure complete adherence to the Covid protocol during the Kanwar Yatra to be taken out by devotees in various districts and routes in the state later this month.There should not be any slackness regarding the safety and successful organisation of the yatra, he said.He was reviewing preparations and security arrangements for the Kanwar Yatra-2021 at a video conference with divisional commissioners and senior police officers of various police zones in Uttar Pradesh.The Kanwar Yatra will commence with the start of the Hindu month of Shravan on July 25.The Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage undertaken by the devotees of Lord Shiva. They collect water from the Ganga (usually at Haridwar in Uttarakhand) and offer it at Shiva temples in their respective states after covering hundreds of kilometres on foot. The Kanwar Yatra was not held last year due to the Covid-19 situation. All preparations for yatra should be completed on time, the chief minister said. In view of the Covid protocol, dialogue should be established with various kanwar associations across the state, he said, adding that officials should ensure that there was no unnecessary assembly of crowds.They should remain vigilant during the yatra, he said.The festival of Bakrid will also be celebrated around the beginning of Shravan and the district administration and police officers should maintain vigil during the festivity, he said.Although the state government had controlled the second wave of Covid, it was necessary to take precautions at every level, he said. The Covid-19 protocol should be implemented, along with respecting public sentiments and faith, he said.The officers should pay special attention to cleanliness in Shiva temples and yatra routes in the rural and urban areas where streetlights should be installed, the chief minister said.Officials should ensure that devotees were able to perform ‘jalabhishek’ comfortably, he said, calling for round the clock electricity supply and drinking water arrangements on all the routes. The officers should establish a dialogue with the representatives of religious and voluntary organisations, he said. He also said the yatra should be conducted in a peaceful atmosphere. He directed the divisional commissioners and police zone officers to hold meetings with district and range officers to review preparations for the yatra. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi, DGP Mukul Goyal, ACS health) Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary (to CM and information) Sanjay Prasad were also present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-complete-adherence-to-covid-norms-during-kanwar-yatra-yogi-tells-u-p-officials-101625857111763.html
10-07-2021||Other||Not me, my followers are unhappy with my sister’s Cabinet exclusion: Pankaja Munde||Days after four Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarians from Maharashtra were inducted into the Union cabinet, the dissenting voices from within the party’s state unit have started emerging.The followers of BJP’s Other Backward Class (OBC) face Pankaja Munde publicly expressed their discontent after her sister and Beed Member of Parliament (MP) Pritam Munde was not inducted into the cabinet.However, Munde said her family was not unhappy over her sister’s exclusion and that the party must have taken the decision in a “larger interest”.Party MPs Narayan Rane, Kapil Patil, Dr Bharati Pawar and Dr Bhagwat Karad were inducted as ministers on Wednesday after Narendra Modi expanded his cabinet. Three of these MPs had joined the party in the past few years, which has led to discontent among hardcore BJP leaders.Heena Gavit from North Maharashtra and Ranjitsinh Naik Nimbalkar from western part of the state are also unhappy for missing the ministerial berths. State leaders reportedly spoke to Gavit and assured her of ‘key responsibility’ in the future. According to party insiders, Gavit’s induction was believably opposed by former state ministers and north Maharashtra BJP leaders Girish Mahajan and Jaikumar Rawal.Party leaders from Vidarbha region also expressed their concerns over the exclusion of minister of state Sanjay Dhotre from the Union government. Dhotre is considered to be a close confidante of Union minister Nitin Gadkari. The Kunbi community, which is dominant in Vidarbha, is already upset after tickets were denied to community leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule in 2019 Assembly polls as well as to Anil Sole in the Council polls last year. Dhotre’s exlusion could add to the resentment further as the party now has only one minister (Gadkari) representing 11 districts of the region.Though none of the leaders have expressed their discontent openly, Munde’s supporters had gathered outside her Worli residence on Thursday. They spoke publicly against the party’s decision of not inducting Pritam, a two-term MP from Beed, the constituency represented by her late father Gopinath, who was a prominent BJP leader from Maharashtra. Several Munde supporters also expressed their anguish on social media posts. Few of them even held Maharashtra’s leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis responsible for Pritam’s exclusion from the cabinet expansion. A visibly disgruntled Munde held a press conference to clarify that her family was not unhappy. “My family and I are not unhappy with the development and it is not true that we were vying for the cabinet berth. We did not contact any leader for the ministry. We accept the decision taken by the leadership as it is likely to be in the interest of the party. The party must have thought it necessary to expand the base. Even if a single vote is added in favour of the party, the step should be welcomed. Leaders who have got the berth are part of our family and are followers of later Gopinath Mundeji. I have already extended my wishes to them,” she said.She, however, added that her and her father’s followers are unhappy. “I would not deny that followers and workers are unhappy. But I’ll try to pacify them,” she said.When asked if Fadnavis’s imprint was there on the names picked from the state and if the chosen ministers were from ‘Team Devendra’, she said, “There is no Team Devendra or Team Narendra in our party. Nobody is above the party and the nation for us. I do not think there is any plan hatched to finish me politically.”Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana in its editorial on Friday said that Pritam’s exclusion is an attempt by the BJP leadership to finish Munde politically. It also stated that choosing Dr Karad over Pritam was an attempt to divide OBCs in the state.Responding to reports of leaders being upset, Fadnavis said, “We don’t have any factionalism or differences within the party. BJP doesn’t believe in cutting short to size to any leader. In fact, Dr Karad is an ardent follower of late Gopinathji Munde and I believe that like any other worker, Pankaja Munde will be happy with the decision [of inducting Dr Karad]. Pankajatai said in BJP, the nation is the supreme most and then comes the party and self. We all believe in the same doctrine.” “Saamana’s jibe is not surprising as it has never been our well-wisher. The mouthpiece has never had any good words for BJP,” Fadnavis added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-me-my-followers-are-unhappy-with-my-sister-s-cabinet-exclusion-pankaja-munde-101625857112289.html
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cybercrime on the rise, 300-400 plaints being lodged monthly: Ludhiana police||With technology becoming smarter, there has been a corresponding increase in cyber fraud, harassments and threats, so much so that the district has been receiving around 300 to 400 complaints pertaining to cybercrime each month since 2020. This year, the cyber crime unit has disposed of at least 1,700 complaints and arrested 50 people. Around 29 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered in the last seven months and ₹40.16 lakh has been recovered and returned to victims of cyber fraud, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said. “There has been a drastic increase in cybercrimes. Criminals are using innovative methods to cheat, defraud and dupe people. However, we are equipped to tackle this evolving threat with the help of latest technology and trained police personnel,” the commissioner of police said. The cyber cell has been regularly using social media platforms to sensitise the public about different cybercrimes such as cyber bullying, blackmail, one-time password fraud, extortion, ATM frauds, credit card frauds, frauds on e-commerce sites, frauds involving misleading search engine results and child pornography so that the public can be on guard, Agrawal said. The cybercrime cell is cracking down on crimes against women, children and senior citizens, and their complaints are being dealt with on priority. Agrawal has urged the public not to share pornography or their personal and financial information with anyone. Complaints regarding cybercrimes can be lodged at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in or with the cyber cell directly.Major busts Recently, the district police had busted a multi-crore, pan-India fake call centre racket, which was targeting people in the United States of America and the United Kingdom by posing as tax and government officials. As many as 37 people were arrested. Similarly, in December 2020, the Ludhiana Cyber Cell had busted an inter-state gang of cyber criminals who had carried out multiple online frauds using fake ID cards, bank accounts and SIM cards with the arrest of 7 accused. Around ₹5.45 lakh, 10 mobile phones, eight laptops and fake documents were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cybercrime-on-the-rise-300-400-plaints-being-lodged-monthly-ludhiana-police-101625856691470.html
10-07-2021||Other||Check your facts, before making frivolous promises: Capt to Sukhbir||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday asked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to check his facts before shooting through his mouth. Trashing the Akali chief’s announcements for families of farmers who sacrificed their lives fighting against the three farm laws of the central government, the CM termed these as a last-ditch effort by Sukhbir to woo back farmers, whom his party had alienated on issue of these very laws. “Do you think Punjab’s farmers are fools to be taken in by your desperate statements?” asked the CM, adding that Sukhbir must stop cheating the people of the state with such deceitful announcements. “How do you propose to do something that has already been done?” he remarked, adding that “We had made these announcements while you were still busy conspiring with your political masters, the BJP, to destroy our farmers.” Ridiculing Sukhbir’s dream of the Akalis coming to power in Punjab, the CM added that with his frivolous promises, the SAD president had proved his total absence of any connect with the people on the ground. Pointing out that his government was already giving compensation of ₹5 lakh each to the families of such farmers, the CM said, of 237 Punjab farmers who had died so far during the ongoing agitation, the families of 191 had already got the recompense. “Compensation for the rest of the families was also under process and would be paid long before the Akalis even finalise their campaign for the elections,” he said, pointing out that he had announced jobs for the kin of deceased farmers several months ago and the revenue department was in the advanced stages of finalising candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/check-your-facts-before-making-frivolous-promises-capt-to-sukhbir-101625856331586.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||HC seeks UP DGP’s affidavit over alleged atrocities on ex-army man by cops||Hearing a plea filed by an ex-soldier of the Indian Army alleging that he was humiliated and tortured by the Uttar Pradesh Police, the Allahabad high court, after taking into account the injury reports and FIR filed by him, observed that “prima facie it shows a very sorry state of affairs and police atrocities.”“It, prima facie, indicates a breach of fundamental rights of the petitioner guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India by the accused police officers/police personnel,” said the court.Emphasising that the matter is a serious one and requires serious consideration of the court, a division bench comprising Justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Justice Gautam Chowdhary directed the director general of police (DGP), Uttar Pradesh, to file a counter affidavit by means of his personal affidavit, indicating the action taken in the matter.Hearing the writ petition filed by Resham Singh, an ex-soldier of the Indian army and victim, the court requested the Advocate General of UP to assist this court in the matter and fixed the matter for hearing as a fresh case on July 12, 2021, for further hearing.A video of the said incident was also circulated on social media.On May 2, 2021, the victim - Resham Singh, along with his mother and two sisters – was going from Pilibhit to Lakhimpur Kheri when they were stopped by police officials around 9am. The cops asked the victim and his family members as to where they were going and also asked for the papers of the car in which they were travelling.Allegedly, as it was taking some time to sort out the papers, police officials started abusing the victim and his family members, which included his mother and two sisters.The victim asked the police officials not to abuse them and also informed that he was a retired member of the armed forces of India.Thereafter, the police officials got infuriated and threatened to teach the victim and his family members a lesson and then started beating the victim with lathis.The police officials allegedly also started beating the victim’s mother and sisters and took them to the police station without taking the assistance of any woman police officer.After forcefully being taken to the police station, the victim was disrobed and then tied up on a cot and brutally beaten up by police officials for two hours, the petitioner alleged.Allegedly, the cops abused him on his Sikh identity, tied him up, tore out his turban, pulled his hair and beat him with lathis causing grave injuries on his body.It was submitted that the police officials did not stop at physical torture of the victim. To further humiliate the victim, they also threatened to cut his unshorn hair.Thereafter, he lodged an FIR against the erring officials and took treatment in the Army Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-up-dgp-s-affidavit-over-alleged-atrocities-on-ex-army-man-by-cops-101625856150948.html
10-07-2021||Other||If voted to power, will give jobs to kin of farm stir casualties: Sukhbir||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday declared that if his party’s alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) came to power in Punjab after the 2022 assembly elections, it would provide government jobs to families of those killed in the farmers’ stir. He also promised free education to their children till post-graduation. “Over 550 farmers have been martyred in the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, which has been on for over seven months. Once in power, we will look after these families,” he claimed, adding that farmers camping on the borders of Delhi were facing inclement weather and state repression.  “We are committed to ensuring the farmers get their just dues.Once we are voted to power we will implement the promises made to martyr families in the very first meeting of the state cabinet,” he said, adding that the SAD-BSP government would also ensure free medical insurance of such families. ‘Don’t victimise officers for power shortage’Responding to Punjab cooperation and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s statement, where he sought to blame officers for the current power crisis in the state, SAD claimed that this was an attempt to hide chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s failure as the state’s power minister. SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said Randhawa should call a spade a spade. “It does not behove a senior minister to act in such a meek manner and try to hide the truth which is before the people. Amarinder has failed to do his duty as the power minister first by shuttering himself in his farm house and not holding any review meeting of the state electricity utility and then by constantly trooping to Delhi to save his chair. People are suffering due to this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/if-voted-to-power-will-give-jobs-to-kin-of-farm-stir-casualties-sukhbir-101625856091656.html
10-07-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh gets first of its kind situation room for disaster management||The Madhya Pradesh government developed a first of its kind situation room from where the chief minister and other officers will be able to keep an eye on every corner of the state, level of water in dams and rivers, traffic conditions, religious places and different fairs, an officer said. The situation room has been set up in Bhopal for disaster management and to avert any untoward incident in the state. The room was set up by using existing infrastructure without any expenses, said Rajesh Rajora, additional chief secretary, home. “The situation room will get live feed of all the CCTV, which have been installed by the different department including urban administration, traffic police, rural development, health and other in a different part of the cities. Similarly, it will get a live report of the level of water in different rivers and dams of the state. Indian Meteorological department has also been connected with situation room to get all the alerts,” said Rajora. Last year in August, as many as 14 people died due to floods and incessant rainfall. More than 26 districts have been affected badly due to sudden floods. Heavy loss of property and crops had been reported after this. The flood disaster was one of the worst in the past decade. In another incident, a bus fell into a canal in Rewa and claimed the lives of more than 50 people as the driver changed the route to avoid traffic jams. Despite complaints about traffic jams due to poor roads, nobody reviewed the situation. In these incidents, it was found that the officers couldn’t get an idea of the situation due to a communication gap. Now, after the complaint on CM Helpline, the ministers and officers will review the condition from Bhopal through the situation room said the officer. Now, the officers will be alerted much prior to control the situation. “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other ministers need not go for a survey immediately as they will get an update in the situation room. For places with no CCTVs, the officers will use drones to capture the condition and will send it to the situation room,” said Manish Rastogi, principal secretary, chief minister office. The state government is also setting up or renovating control and command centre in every district. However, Congress said the situation room is nothing but a power room that will be used to control district officers. “It is good to have a centralised control system to avert national disaster but what is the need of having a live feed of roads and other places? The CM wants to control everything from Vallabh Bhavan,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson, MP Congress Committee. BJP leaders feel that now it’s become a habit of Congress leaders to raise doubt on everything. BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “This is a first of its kind situation room in India and this is for disaster management. But Congress leaders are unnecessarily raising doubt on everything. They forgot to raise constructive issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-gets-first-of-its-kind-situation-room-for-disaster-management-101625855731540.html
10-07-2021||Other||Punjabi University students protest against fee hike||Patiala Punjabi University student unions protested the management’s decision to increase course fee by 10%. The protestors gathered outside the vice-chancellor’s officer and burnt the effigy of varsity authorities, and raised slogans. Varinder Singh of All-India Student Federation said students enrolled in the varsity’s constituent colleges, neighbourhood campuses, regional centres and campus will bear brunt of increasing fee structure.He said the varsity should immediately roll back its decision as in the times of financial crisis due to Covid-19, the revised fee amount would put extra financial burden on the students and their parents.Among other demands, the students want the varsity to roll back its decision to ask for Parent Teacher Association (PTA) funds from students; to shutdown courses with less than 50% students enrolment and to lower rates charged for mark-sheets etc and GST charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-students-protest-against-fee-hike-101625855553329.html
10-07-2021||Kolkata||Prashant Kishor, Mamata Banerjee discuss anti-BJP alliance, structural shake-up in TMC||Election strategist Prashant Kishor and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met in Kolkata on Friday afternoon to discuss the organisational changes the Trinamool Congress (TMC) wants to introduce and the alliance of regional forces it plans to form against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prior to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, said ruling party leaders aware of the development. The meeting, which continued for three hours, was held at the chief minister’s residence at Kalighat in south Kolkata. Her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was also present. TMC leaders aware of the development said that following Kishor’s advice, Mamata Banerjee wants to firmly enforce the one-man-one-post policy in the party and give more importance to young leaders to shake up the rank and file. Some major announcements are likely to be made next week. “The changes will be made in view of the civic body election, which are overdue, as well as the 2023 panchayat polls and Lok Sabha polls in 2024. The BJP will surely put up a tough fight in all coming elections,” said a senior TMC leader who did not want to be named. The chief minister is also keen to see the TMC playing a decisive role in the next Lok Sabha polls. On June 22, prominent opposition leaders and civil society members assembled at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s residence in Delhi and discussed issues that may help regional forces project an alternative before voters.The meeting took place after Kishor met Pawar twice. Former BJP leader and Union minister Yashwant Sinha, who joined the TMC in March this year, convened the meeting on behalf of Rashtra Manch, an anti-BJP platform that he co-founded in 2018. Since the Congress did not attend it, the issue of forming a third front was not discussed, leaders who were present, later said. The meeting was attended by National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary, NCP’s Praful Patel, Aam Aadmi Party’s Sushil Gupta, Communist Party of India’s Binoy Viswam and Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s Nilotpal Basu. They discussed issues such as fuel price rise, unemployment and the need for social stability and harmony.After achieving a resounding victory over the BJP in the recent assembly elections, the TMC, in June, renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company launched by Kishor, till the next Lok Sabha polls. Kishor declared that he had quit I-PAC and his team would function on its own. He said he would play a different role. Soon, Kishor was seen meeting leaders in different states. Mamata Banerjee plans to consolidate anti-BJP forces and contest polls in other states with a target to win elections. This was officially declared by Abhishek Banerjee on June 8. The young Lok Sabha MP declared on that say that his party will set up units in other states with the sole aim to win assembly elections and face the BJP head-on. Although he did not name any state, senior TMC leaders HT talked to said, the party is exploring the possibility of contesting in some big states rather than eyeing the smaller ones first.States that go to the polls in 2022 are Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. The TMC has no presence in any of these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/prashant-kishor-mamata-banerjee-discuss-anti-bjp-alliance-structural-shake-up-in-tmc-101625855552285.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Illegal phone tapping: DGP to head committee, report in three months||The Maharashtra government on Friday formed a three-member committee headed by director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey to probe the allegations of tapping of phones of elected representatives during the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government. Ashutosh Dumbre, commissioner, state intelligence department (SID), and Sunil Kolhe, additional commissioner of police, special branch, are the other members of the committee. The panel will check if the phones were tapped illegally for political motives and will fix the responsibility on those involved in it. The committee has been asked to submit its report in three months. “The committee has been asked to investigate all phone tapping cases conducted in the past five years between 2015 and 2019. It will examine if the phones of elected representatives were tapped for ulterior political motives and by illegal means. It will also fix responsibility of those found involved in it,” stated an order issued by the state home department on Friday. The decision came two days after state home minister Dilip Walse-Patil announced a high-level probe while speaking in the Maharashtra Assembly. The ruling legislators raised the issue in the Assembly on Tuesday after Nana Patole, state Congress chief and legislator, informed that his phone was tapped during the Fadnavis government. He said that this was done with other elected representatives as well. “In 2016-17, my phone was tapped by the previous government by giving a dummy name — Amjad Khan. It was done on the grounds of narcotics smuggling. Who gave the order to tap my phone needs to be investigated,” Patole said, in the Assembly on Tuesday. “Phones of other public representatives were also tapped. Such acts are alarming for all. It is an attempt to destroy the public life of public representatives. Democracy is in danger…If legislators are being threatened in the Assembly, they will face the same fate which Anil Deshmukh and Chhagan Bhujbal are facing,” he added. “If the phones are being tapped using a dummy name, the matter needs to be investigated. In my view, it is a very serious issue and I declare a high-level probe in the matter. All those guilty will face strict action,” Walse-Patil said in response to the demand for an investigation in the Assembly. On Friday, deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar said he has found substance in the complaints made by Patole. “In a democracy, tapping phones of elected representatives using different names is not acceptable. This also doesn’t fit in the existing law, which says tapping can be done for cases related to law and order, smuggling of narcotics, when internal security of the country can come in danger or to maintain communal harmony. If it is being done for political reasons and by violating the law, it is extremely wrong,” Pawar told reporters. In response, former finance minister and senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar downplayed the move. He said there was no need to form a high-level committee and the government could have got the information by examining the relevant documents. “I am surprised that they have constituted a DG level committee for this as the information can be obtained only by examining the relevant documents. A phone of any person can be tapped only with prior permission from the additional chief secretary of the home department. The committee should have been formed in case of involvement of a senior official in such an act. If allegations are true then the officers found guilty should be punished,” Mungatiwar told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-phone-tapping-dgp-to-head-committee-report-in-three-months-101625854950926.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Common minimum syllabus for UP univs, degree colleges from new session||The state higher education department has finalised the common minimum syllabus (CMS) to be implemented in all universities and degree colleges of the state as a choice-based credit system (CBCS) from the upcoming academic session.The department sent the finalised CMS to the universities and colleges on Friday. However, CMS is not applicable to courses like medicine, dentistry, engineering, law, computer application besides educational courses like B Ed and M Ed.The common minimum syllabus has been designed in sync with the national education policy, 2020, (NEP 2020) that aims at providing a uniform syllabus of a subject in all universities and degree colleges. As per a press statement issued by the department, the CMS has been designed for 62 subjects.Additional chief secretary, higher education department, Monika S Garg has also written to all universitied and colleges’ administration asking them to implement at least 70% of the CMS. The colleges will have a liberty to design or introduce the remaining 30% syllabus as suggested by their teaching staff.While CMS for three-year graduate programme is to be implemented from 2021-22 session, for postgraduate, honours and PhD programmes, it will be implemented from the next academic session i.e. 2022-23.The implementation of CMS will permit adoption of credit transfer system for students as suggested in the NEP. The credit transfer system will allow student to exit with a certificate after completing one year, diploma after two years and a degree after three years.A student will have to earn a minimum of 46 credit for one year certificate, 92 credit for two year diploma and 132 credit for three degree in a subject. Students can also be transferred to different college in middle of the session by using credit transfer system.Under the CMS, a student will have to opt for two major subjects of same faculty for the three year programme. Besides, these student will have to take a third subject of other faculty along with vocational courses and co-curricular courses available as per the faculty chosen by the student.As per the higher education department, a greater stress has been given to research. Under CMS, the students will have to carry out research in the chosen subject right from undergraduate level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/common-minimum-syllabus-for-up-univs-degree-colleges-from-new-session-101625854890910.html
10-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three-month-old girl buried alive, 2 arrested||Cuffe Parade police arrested two people for allegedly kidnapping and killing a three-month-old, after the girl’s parents refused to give “shagun” money to one of the accused, a eunuch, upon the birth of the child. The duo allegedly buried the child alive in a marshy land along the shore, police said.The police said the eunuch, Kannu, visited the child’s home in Ambedkar Nagar slums in Cuffe Parade on Thursday and demanded ₹2,000, a saree and a coconut, as traditional “shagun” from her parents. The child’s father Sachin Chitkole, his wife and grandfather asked Kannu to come later on the day of her naming ceremony. Kannu then allegedly got angry, leading to a heated argument.Kannu then met her friend Sonu (full name not known) and the two decided to approach the child’s parents. “Sonu along with Kannu allegedly kidnapped the child around 2am on Friday when everyone was fast asleep. The family had not closed the door as it was hot in the night,” a police officer said. After the mother could not find the child in the morning, they looked for the baby in nearby areas and reported the matter to Cuffe Parade police. They had named Kannu as a suspect.Kannu then appeared at the police station and claimed to be innocent. However, after sustained interrogation, she admitted to killing the child with the help of her friend. She said they kidnapped and buried the child alive in a marshy land along the sea. “The body of the child has been recovered and sent for post-mortem,” said deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu. Meanwhile, police was put on a manhunt for Sonu, following which he was arrested. “Both the accused have been arrested and charged under for kidnapping, murder and destruction of evidence,” DCP Siriprolu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-three-month-old-girl-buried-alive-2-arrested-101625854652173.html
10-07-2021||Lucknow||Only Delta, Kappa variants found in gene sequencing by KGMU, says U.P. CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said only the Delta and Kappa variants of the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen were found in the Covid samples from Uttar Pradesh gene sequenced by King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow.Delta and Kappa are the old variants of the second wave of the pandemic. (Earlier, at least two cases of the Delta Plus variant were found among the samples from eastern Uttar Pradesh sent for gene sequencing to the New Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in May. The reports of these samples were received in July).“Both the variants (Delta and Kappa) are not new for UP,” he said at a high-level Covid review meeting, mentioning that recently KGMU did genome sequencing of 109 samples of which 107 were Delta and two Kappa variants. The two Kappa cases are from Lucknow according to the address mentioned at the time of sampling. The samples were collected in May.In earlier meetings, he had repeatedly been asking the state’s Covid management team to be on the lookout for the newer Delta Plus variant, considered more virulent than the other variants in the first and second waves.In view of the Delta Plus variant infections reported in several other states, the Uttar Pradesh government had asked KGMU to do genome sequencing to detect if the variant was present in the state.The chief minister once again laid stress on the enhancement of facilities within the state for genome sequencing.Yogi said the state had done 6.1 crore (61 million) Covid tests (since the onset of Covid in the state in March last year) and had administered 3.6 crore (36 million) Covid vaccination doses.“In both tests and vaccination, the state is number one in the country,” he said.He also said that in the past 24 hours, Uttar Pradesh did 2.52 lakh (252,000) tests of which only 90 tested positive while 162 patients recovered during the same period.“The positivity rate in the past 24 hours was a mere 0.04%. There are 41 districts that did not report any fresh case. In 32 districts, cases came up in single digits. Now, the state has only 1,697 active Covid cases and the recovery rate in Uttar Pradesh is 98.6%,” Yogi said.He also said that 7.83 lakh (783,000) Covid vaccination doses were administered across the state in the past 24 hours and asked the officials concerned to further speed up the vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/only-delta-kappa-variants-found-in-gene-sequencing-by-kgmu-says-yogi-adityanath-101625854411571.html
10-07-2021||Pune||COEP’s annual regatta ready to set sail... online||PUNE The College of Engineering Pune’s (COEP) annual regatta is ready to set sail on July 11. The buzz of an audience, which makes it a unique evening every year, will be missing this time as no spectators will be allowed due to Covid restrictions. In 93 years of the event’s history, this will be the first it will be telecast online for viewers.The regatta will be streamed on YouTube on July 11.“Every time we perform in front of 10,000 people. It is a unique experience this time as we are going online. I have been participating for the last five years and we used to have two months of regular practice, which did not happen this time due to the pandemic,” said Devika Agashe, who will be leading the kayaking event.The theme of this year’s Regatta is “Resilient Together”. The theme connotes the true meaning of what it means to be resilient, to overcome adversity and help uplift others during a crisis, to give them much needed strength and emotional support. Amidst the Covid crisis, students are decorating their beloved boat club and making all the necessary arrangements. Safety measures are also taken care of. Everyone is on their toes to ensure that the legacy continues. Last year, the event took place on March 8.The COEP Regatta is the longest-running college fest in India as per the Limca Book of Records. An inaugural ceremony was hosted on July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coeps-annual-regatta-ready-to-set-sail-online-101625849071437.html
10-07-2021||Patna||My ancestors were Hindu, kin still are: Bihar minister||PATNA: Bihar’s minority welfare minister Jama Khan has said his ancestors were Hindus from Rajasthan and converted to Islam later. Khan was talking to reporters at Hajipur on Thursday night during which he was asked about the current row in Uttar Pradesh over alleged conversion of Hindus to Islam.Khan had won the last assembly election from Chainpur in Kaimur district on Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) ticket but later switched to Janata Dal (United).Khan said his ancestors, Bhagwan Singh and his younger brother Jay Ram Singh, who were Rajputs, had come to Kaimur area from Baiswara in Rajasthan in 14th century AD and settled there after winning some battles and amassing land.According to Khan, Bhagwan Singh converted to Islam while Jay Ram Singh remained a Hindu. “The descendents of Jay Ram Singh are still living at Saraiya village, adjacent to my village Naughara in Chainpur block of Kaimur district,” the minister said.“We still have family relations and invite each other for family functions. I always visit my Hindu brothers in their village,” the minister said. Anand Kumar Singh, a local journalist from Saraiya village and a descendent of Jay Ram Singh, said the Singh brothers along side Sakarwar dynasty ruler Shalivahan of Chainpur fought against Allauddin Khilji but were defeated and their king Shalivahan was killed. “Bhagwan Singh was forced to convert to Islam to save his family and land,” Anand said, adding that descendents of the two brothers still maintained close ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/my-ancestors-were-hindu-kin-still-are-bihar-minister-101625846552791.html
10-07-2021||Pune||Pune city doctors report ‘bone death’ in Covid-19 recovered patients||After mucormycosis, city doctors are now reporting a huge number of diagnosed cases of avascular necrosis, a new health complication that causes the death of bone tissues, in many Covid-19 recovered patients owing to the long-term use of corticosteroids (especially at high doses)Dr Anand Jadhav, an orthopaedic specialist from Apollo Spectra, said, “Earlier, mucormycosis was seen rampant in patients post-Covid. Now, ‘bone death’ is also another worrisome problem seen in recovered patients from the first and second waves owing to the use of steroids. Around 10-15 patients with avascular necrosis visit me every month for treatment for the last two months now.”“Avascular necrosis, also called osteonecrosis, can be termed as the death of bone tissue owing to the lack of blood supply. It can lead to tiny breaks in the bone, and the bone collapses. A broken bone or dislocated joint can interrupt the blood flow to a section of bone,” he said.“In avascular necrosis patients, there is increased pressure in the bones inside the sphincter. Its rigid structure causes pain to patients. Core decompression surgery is performed if the avascular necrosis is in the first and second stages. This reduces the pressure inside the ball. Joint replacement surgery is the only option to reduce permanent pain in the third and fourth stages. However, surgery is not required if it is diagnosed early. Therefore, if the Covid patients on steroids having groin or thigh pain are advised to take an MRI or X-ray to check if they have avascular necrosis of the hip,” he said.Dr Keerthi Prakash Kotla, a consultant pathologist, said, “Large-scale use of life-saving corticosteroids in Covid-19 cases causes the resurgence of avascular necrosis cases. Pain related to avascular necrosis of the hip might also be felt around the groin, thigh, or buttock. Besides your hip, it may also affect your shoulder, knee, hand, and foot. Hence, on complaints of hip and thigh pain, diagnosis can be done by early X-ray, CT scan, MRI, and bone scan of the hips. Limit your alcohol intake, monitor cholesterol levels, do not misuse steroids without a doctor’s knowledge, and avoid smoking to manage avascular necrosis.”Dr Chandrashekhar Dixit, consultant - orthopaedic and joint replacement specialist from Jupiter Hospital, said, “Avascular necrosis damages the bone tissue due to lack of blood supply. Basic architecture under the cartilage area of the bone is affected, causing unevenness at the joint. Anyone can be affected, but the condition is most common in people between 30-50 age group.”“The common factor between mucormycosis and avascular necrosis is found to be the inevitable use of steroids during treatment of Covid. We are expecting more of such patients in the next one to two years,” he said.“Early diagnosis is the key to the treatment of avascular necrosis. Typical treatment involves the use of blood thinners, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, anti-osteoporosis drugs, cholesterol-lowering drugs and physiotherapy, proper nutrition and body weight under control,” he said.“In Jupiter hospital, we have seen seven patients in last months who had received steroids in last year and early months of this year. Two patients have been advised to undergo joint replacement surgery. Rest are managed conservatively so far,” he said.However, Dr Raghav Barve, an orthopaedic consultant with multiple hospitals in the city, cautions young patients who have avascular necrosis to not rush for hip replacement and instead go for early diagnosis and early treatment which includes medications, physiotherapy and better lifestyle habits.He said, “In stage one and two avascular necrosis could be treated through medications alone while in stage three or four it could become serious and require hip replacement surgery. However, young patients must not rush for hip replacements as the surgeries are effective for around 20 years post which the prosthetic implants have to be replaced. So if a young patient aged 30 undergoes hip replacement then at 50 they’ll need to undergo the surgery yet again, however for older patients, aged 60-70, one surgery may last their lifetime. Early diagnosis, including X-Ray and MRI along with correct medications, can help in the longer run,” he said.Dr Barve added, while earlier, those on steroids or with renal problems suffered from avascular necrosis, now the number has doubled since the past two months due to post Covid-19 complications.He said, “As of now, I’m getting patients recovering from the first wave in the coming years, this number could go up drastically as in the second wave we saw many more patients requiring steroids during Covid treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-doctors-report-bone-death-in-covid-19-recovered-patients-101625844450409.html
10-07-2021||Delhi||Football fever grips Delhi with Euro 2020 finals||When there is a major sporting tournament, Delhiites do not need an excuse to celebrate. The Euro 2020 final, scheduled on July 11, will see Italy and England face off for the title. The finale has got football lovers excited. From planning safe and small watch parties, arranging for projectors to watch the game on big screen to whipping up Italian delights and even applying for an off from work the next day, football fans in the city are already in the preparation mode.Excitement is also building up among expats in the Capital who are ready to cheer for their favourite country. Alex Ellis, British High Commissioner to India who represents the United Kingdom and its four nations is as thrilled as Delhiites. He says, “I can’t wait for the match, and I know I won’t be alone in saying this. I see so many people wearing jerseys of their favourite Premier League clubs and this shows how closely English football is followed here. India and the UK are connected by a passion for sports.”As far as the Indian Standard Time (IST) is concerned, the final will be broadcast on July 12 at 12:30am, some youngsters are taking an off from work on Monday. “I have already informed my boss that most likely I will take a Monday off. The match starts post midnight and if it goes on till penalty shoot-out, it will go on till 3am,” says Kunwar Sanjit, a marketing manager, who will be getting together with a couple of football fanatic friends and have a FIFA night prior.Others who are missing the vibe of match screenings at restaurants are planning a little party of their own by getting projectors. “My friends and I used to go to sports bars and restaurants to watch the screenings but this time we are arranging for a projector to watch the match. Only a limited number of friends will be coming so that we are able to follow safety norms,” says Arpit Pruthi, 31, social media and brand reputation manager.While those who are not able to get together to watch the game with friends or family amid the pandemic have their virtual plans in place. Arjun Kalra, 25, a sports content producer says, “In my group, it’s quite sober because of the current situation, plus it’s not club football… So, we’ll be watching at our homes only and may be do watch-alongs and discuss over texts.”To get into the celebratory mode, fans will be cooking traditional Italian delights to show support. Ruchi Khanna, 27, a HR professional says, “I have been supporting Italy since the beginning of the tournament so why not prepare an Italian feast ahead of the match for my family on my off today!”On the delivery front, some restaurants are even running offers or have extended their delivery time to cater to the demand. On the special occasion, Cafe Diva in the Capital will be open till late on Sunday for deliveries, until midnight. For guests to not get hassled by cooking for a small get-together, Priyanka Tiwari ,founder, Appumm House says, “We want the fans to simply sit back, order their food from us and enjoy the match with their pals, and hence offering a flat 15% off on our entire menu just for the day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/football-fever-grips-delhi-with-euro-2020-finals-101625824291320.html
10-07-2021||Other||Suspended IPS officer booked for sedition in Chhattisgarh||Raipur: The Chhattisgarh Police on Friday booked suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer GP Singh for sedition citing documents “promoting enmity” and “conspiracy against the government” allegedly recovered in the raids at his premises last week. Singh was suspended after the state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Economic Offences Wing (EOW) raided his premises in connection with a case related to disproportionate assets. A First Information Report (FIR) against Singh under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) was registered on ACB and EOW’s complaint at Raipur’s Kotwali police station on Thursday night. It cited the allegedly incriminatory documents recovered during the raid. HT has seen a copy of the FIR, which said the seized documents contain “provocative contents that can promote hatred and dissatisfaction against the constitutionally formed government”. The FIR said the case has been registered on the basis of a 48-page document ACB and EOW submitted after a primary investigation. “The documents submitted by the ACB were examined after taking legal opinion. An FIR has been registered under sections related to sedition and hate speech,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named. The FIR said ACB recovered pieces of torn papers and when they were rearranged, “serious and sensitive contents were found”. “Objectionable comments against leaders of reputed political parties along with detailed plans of conspiracy were mentioned in these papers. Secret analysis related to representatives and candidates of different assembly constituencies along with comments on serious issues of the concerned area were also written on seized papers. The papers also contained comments on several government schemes, policies, social and religious issues,” the FIR said. It was not immediately clear who these people and parties were. Singh moved the Chhattisgarh high court against the sedition case and sought a Central Bureau of Investigation inquiry into the matter, said his lawyer Kishore Bhaduri. “We are also filing an interim relief application in a lower court,” said Bhaduri. Kanak Tiwari, a former advocate general of Chhattisgarh, said the FIR is inconclusive and does not mention anything in elaboration. “Whatever may or may not constitute the offence of sedition will be the subject of inquiry. In this regard, the Supreme Court judgment in the Kedarnath Singh case in 1962 is the ultimate authority to determine whether an offence is made out or not, but the facts are not brought in detail in FIR.” The 1962 judgment laid down the fundamental requirements--incitement to violence or public disorder--before registration of a sedition case. Searches were earlier conducted at around 15 locations linked to Singh, an additional director general-rank officer, from July 1 to July 3. Investigators have claimed to have discovered documents related to movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore during the raids. An ACB statement on July 3 said the documents seized during searches at Singh’s premises established he allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and indulged in a “massive exchange of money”. “Singh also allegedly tried to commit money laundering by investing in shell companies,” the statement said. Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, served as additional director general of ACB and EOW before he was transferred to the state police academy in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspended-chhattisgarh-police-officer-booked-for-sedition-101625813489631.html
10-07-2021||World||New variants, vaccination pace could threaten economic recovery, warns G20||The G20 nations on Saturday said that the new variants of coronavirus and different paces of vaccination around the world could threaten economic recovery. In the final communique after meeting in Venice, the finance ministers and central bankers of G20 nations, however, underlined that the global outlook has further improved since their meeting in April, mainly due to the rollout of vaccines and continued policy support.“We reaffirm our resolve to use all available policy tools for as long as required to address the adverse consequences of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), especially on the most impacted, such as women, youth and informal and low-skilled workers,” the statement read.US treasury secretary Janet Yellen said the G20 meetings were further confirmation that the world is ready to end the global race to the bottom on corporate taxation, adding that there's broad consensus on a global minimum tax of at least 15%. Citing the backing of 131 nations on the global minimum tax, Yellen said that the world should now move quickly to finalise the deal.“In addition to tax, the G20 made good progress on a range of issues, including climate change and the effort to help lower income nations with their vaccine rollout so the world can finally neutralize the threat of Covid-19,” she added.Union minister for finance & corporate affairs Nirmala Sitharaman participated virtually in the meeting under the Italian Presidency. The two-day meeting on July 9-10 saw discussions on a wide range of issues including global economic risks and health challenges, policies for recovery from the Covid-19, international taxation, sustainable finance and financial sector issues.According to the ministry of finance, Sitharaman shared the Indian experience of integrating technology with inclusive service delivery during the pandemic. She also shared her insights on the Italian Presidency’s ongoing work on a roadmap to guide sustainable finance, the ministry of finance said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-variants-vaccination-pace-could-threaten-economic-recovery-warns-g20-101625938201267.html
10-07-2021||World||Pakistan says ‘not a guarantor’ of Afghan peace process as Taliban march on||As the Taliban make rapid territorial gains in Afghanistan, the Pakistani military on Saturday said that Islamabad is a facilitator of the Afghan peace process and not a guarantor. In an interview with ARY News, Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) director-general Babar Iftikhar said that Pakistan has tried to move the Afghan peace process with “sincerity”, adding that the United States withdrawal from the region happened a “little quickly.”"Of course other stakeholders have been a part of this, but Pakistan has played a key role," said Gen Iftikhar.“It is still a facilitator of this peace process, we are not guarantors," he added.Pakistan has been evasive on the question of the Taliban’s role in rising violence in Afghanistan even as the group continues its offensive in the war-torn country. Amid the final withdrawal of US troops in the region, the Taliban have taken control of most of the border areas near Iran and Tajikistan, causing immense concern for the Afghan government.“We have always said that we have no favourites in Afghanistan. The Afghan people have to decide which government they want and how to take the country forward," said Gen Iftikhar.Pakistan wants the US to delay the withdrawal until a transition takes place, as expressed by Gen Iftikhar during the interview, but doesn’t want to host bases on its soil. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan recently ruled out the possibility of hosting American bases for military action inside Afghanistan. In an op-ed for The Washington Post, Khan argued that Pakistan cannot host American bases as they have “already paid too heavy a price.”“If Pakistan were to agree to host US bases, from which to bomb Afghanistan, and an Afghan civil war ensued, Pakistan would be targeted for revenge by terrorists again," said Khan.On Friday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar underlined that there is a “legitimacy aspect” to whoever gets to govern Afghanistan, adding that it "can not and should not be ignored." Speaking at a joint press conference in Moscow alongside Russia’s foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, Jaishankar stressed the need for an immediate reduction in violence in Afghanistan, given its direct implication for regional security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-says-not-a-guarantor-of-afghan-peace-process-as-taliban-march-on-101625932861560.html
10-07-2021||World||Delta variant threatens US tourist hub, Missouri’s Ozark Mountains||Nestled in Missouri’s Ozark Mountains, the city of Branson has long drawn throngs of U.S. tourists with live country music, a replica Titanic, Dolly Parton’s Stampede dinner show, an 1880s theme park and an oversized bust of Ronald Reagan.But Branson now has another, more dire claim to fame as the origin of Missouri’s outbreak of the delta variant -- the coronavirus strain that now accounts for more than half of U.S. cases.Missouri’s delta outbreak has raised alarms nationally as the U.S. races to contain the variant, which is more transmissible than the original strain that ground the world to a halt and killed millions. With large swaths of the country’s population declining vaccines, the delta variant threatens to derail U.S. efforts to return to normal.Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, this week singled out southwestern Missouri -- the region that includes Branson -- as one of several hot-spots for the variant.“Low vaccination rates in these counties, coupled with high case rates and lax mitigation policies that do not protect those who are unvaccinated from disease, will certainly and sadly lead to more unnecessary suffering, hospitalization and potential death,” Walensky said in a briefing on Thursday. “We are really encouraging people who are not vaccinated yet to get vaccinated and wear a mask until you do.”Branson is an ideal incubator, the sort of place that would worry Walensky. It sits at a crossroads of the U.S. South and Midwest, playing host to big crowds that pack entertainment venues and restaurants. It heaps on feel-good Americana, and mostly caters to conservative regions where the pandemic has become a political litmus test and vaccinations lag the national average.Trump flags and hats dot the streetscape; almost no one wears masks.And there appears to be little concern in Branson, where -- as in other conservative regions across the U.S. -- doubts about vaccines and the virus alike run deep. The town in April elected Larry Milton as mayor after he ran on an anti-mask platform. Branson is now fully reopened, shows have resumed at full capacity -- Dolly Parton’s Stampede suggests masks for the unvaccinated, but doesn’t require them -- tourists line the streets and restaurants are full. Covid restrictions have vanished.Missouri’s Republican governor, Mike Parson, joined revelers for a crowded outdoor July 4th celebration in the town, in the throes of an outbreak. Parson, who didn’t respond to a request for comment, has offered mixed messages on vaccinations -- he criticized President Joe Biden for suggesting this week that shots could be promoted door-to-door, before tweeting on Thursday that vaccination is the best way to prevent Covid-19.Branson was the first place in Missouri that the delta variant was found. Marc Johnson, a University of Missouri researcher working with the state to track coronavirus variants, first detected it on May 10 in one part of the city’s sewer system. A week later, it was found in the other part -- and in two other Missouri towns. A week after that, it was in nearby counties. Now it’s throughout the state.‘It’s Everywhere’“It’s everywhere,” Johnson said. “And I expect that everywhere that we have not seen a spike yet, we are about to.”The delta variant now accounts for more than half of U.S. cases, according to CDC estimates. Of the counties with the most new cases, 93% are less than 40% vaccinated, Walensky said. These are the locations where hospitalizations and deaths are rising among the unvaccinated, and tend to be where delta is dominant, she said, stressing that nearly every American who now falls severely ill or dies hasn’t been inoculated.Hospitalizations are rising in southern Missouri – Branson’s most serious cases go to nearby Springfield, where one hospital set a record this week for Covid-19 admissions. The hospitals have made public appeals for staff and ventilators.“All of the sudden everybody said it’s done, but it’s not,” said Tom Keller, president and chief executive officer of Ozarks Healthcare, which runs a hospital and clinics in southern Missouri. “I don’t know how the delta variant got to Springfield, Missouri, and didn’t get to the East Coast first.”The health community hasn’t been blunt enough in warning how Covid can ravage the body, Keller said: “We’re going to be a lot more direct.”Polling has shown that political conservatives are less likely to get the vaccine and more likely to say they think the pandemic is over, a combination that, in the face of delta, risks fresh outbreaks.In neighboring Arkansas, cases and hospitalizations are rising sharply, too. Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson said this week that the state saw its largest increase in hospitalizations since January. “We are losing ground,” he said, adding that the delta variant appears to hitting younger people.The average age of patients hospitalized for Covid-19 has fallen to 54.7 years from 62.7 in January, he said. “If you don’t want to go to the hospital, get vaccinated,” he warned.Across Missouri’s western border, Kansas has begun public-service announcements to head off what officials there fear will be a spread of the variant stemming from July 4th celebrations. The state has been monitoring rising case loads in neighboring states for weeks, said Sam Coleman, a spokesman for the governor.‘Lack of Proof’But in Missouri, local health officials say there is still deep skepticism in the region about coronavirus vaccines, and many people are misinformed about the safety of the shot and the danger of the virus.A political lens is unavoidable for the growing U.S. vaccine gap. The vaccination rate in counties that backed Biden for president is roughly 12 percentage points higher than those that backed Donald Trump, up from 2.2% in April, according to an analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation“I’ve had people tell me: ‘I’ve had it, it was no big deal, I’m not going to get vaccinated,’” said Craig McCoy, a former paramedic who’s president of Mercy Springfield Communities, which operates a hospital in Springfield. “What they don’t realize is that people with antibodies of the alpha variant are sitting in our hospital with the delta variant.”In Branson, some lay out broad skepticism with the vaccine – saying they worry it’s rushed and potentially unsafe.“It’s lack of proof,” said Stephen Pello, 63, a carpenter from Texas, during a recent visit to Branson. “I don’t trust the CDC, I don’t trust the politicians; I trust what the Bible tells me and what the Spirit puts in my heart.”Pello said his doctor mentioned vaccination to him, but didn’t press the issue after Pello said he needed more information. He suspects others like him might get the shot if Trump more fervently urged them to do so, but he said even that wouldn’t change his mind.‘We’re Not Done’Charliese Holder, 61, a Branson visitor from Oklahoma, also expressed skepticism about information coming from government officials, including Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert.“I think there’s been too much wishy-wash from Fauci and the others,” Holder said as she ate an ice cream cone outside a packed shop on Branson’s main street. She said she hasn’t ruled out getting the vaccine, but has doubts about its efficacy.“Even though they’re calling this a vaccine, per se, the way they’re making it sound, I don’t think it’s any different than the flu shot,” she said. “There’s a lot of questions that aren’t answered.”Johnson, the University of Missouri researcher, said that the key unknown about the latest outbreaks is when caseloads will plateau, and how the delta wave will look in more heavily vaccinated communities.“We’re not done, the virus is not done, there is going to be a wave through the U.S. It could be that the really highly vaccinated places do okay, but I’m not even really sure about that,” Johnson said. “Either way, I am absolutely convinced it’s not going to stay in Missouri.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-variant-threatens-us-tourist-hub-missouri-s-ozark-mountains-101625928210501.html
10-07-2021||World||Haiti requests US to deploy troops after the President's assassination||Haiti’s interim government said it asked the U.S. to deploy troops to protect key infrastructure as it tries to stabilize the country and prepare for elections in the aftermath of President Jovenel Moïse’s assassination.Amid the confusion, hundreds of Haitians gathered outside the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince pleading for a way out of the country. Women carried babies and young men waved passports and ID cards as they cried out, “Refuge!” and “Help!”“We definitely need assistance and we’ve asked our international partners for help,” Interim Prime Minister Claude Joseph told The Associated Press in a phone interview late Friday. “We believe our partners can assist the national police in resolving the situation.”The stunning request for U.S. military support recalled the tumult following Haiti’s last presidential assassination, in 1915, when an angry mob dragged President Vilbrun Guillaume Sam out of the French Embassy and beat him to death. In response, President Woodrow Wilson sent the Marines into Haiti, justifying the American military occupation — which lasted nearly two decades — as a way to avert anarchy.But the Biden administration has so far given no indication it will provide military assistance. For now, it only plans to send FBI officials to help investigate a crime that has plunged Haiti, a country already wracked by gaping poverty and gang violence, into a destabilizing battle for power and constitutional standoff.On Friday, a group of lawmakers announced they had recognized Joseph Lambert, the head of Haiti’s dismantled senate, as provisional president in a direct challenge to the interim government’s authority. They also recognized as prime minister Ariel Henry, whom Moïse had selected to replace Joseph a day before he was killed but who had not yet taken office or formed a government.One of those lawmakers, Rosemond Pradel, a former secretary general of Haiti’s provisional electoral commission, told the AP that Joseph “is neither qualified nor has the legal right” to lead the country.Joseph expressed dismay that others would try to take advantage of Moïse’s murder for political gain.“I’m not interested in a power struggle,” said Joseph, who assumed leadership with the backing of police and the military. “There’s only one way people can become president in Haiti. And that’s through elections.”Meanwhile, more details emerged of a killing that increasingly has taken the air of an murky, international conspiracy involving a shootout with gunmen holed up in a foreign embassy, a private security firm operating out of a cavernous warehouse in Miami and a cameo sighting of a Hollywood star.Among those arrested are two Haitian Americans, including one who worked alongside Sean Penn following the nation’s devastating 2010 earthquake. Police have also detained or killed what they described as more than a dozen “mercenaries" who were former members of Colombia’s military.Some of the suspects were seized in a raid on Taiwan’s Embassy where they are believed to have sought refuge. National Police Chief Léon Charles said another eight suspects were still at large and being sought.The attack, which took place at Moïse’s home before dawn Wednesday, also seriously wounded his wife, who was flown to Miami for surgery. Joseph said he has spoken to the first lady but out of respect for her mourning has not inquired about the attack.Colombian officials said the men were recruited by four companies and traveled to the Caribbean nation in two groups via the Dominican Republic. U.S.-trained Colombian soldiers are heavily sought after by private security firms and mercenary armies in global conflict zones because of their experience in a decades-long war against leftist rebels and powerful drug cartels.Some of the men had posted on Facebook photos of themselves visiting the presidential palace and other tourist spots in the Dominican Republic, which shares Hispaniola Island with Haiti.The sister of one of the dead suspects, Duberney Capador, told the AP that she last spoke to her brother late Wednesday — hours after Moïse’s murder — when the men, holed up in a home and surrounded, were desperately trying to negotiate their way out of a shootout.“He told me not to tell our mother, so she wouldn’t worry,” said Yenny Capador, fighting back tears.It’s not known who masterminded the attack. And numerous questions remain about how the perpetrators were able to penetrate the president’s residence posing as U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agents, meeting little resistance from those charged with protecting the president.Capador said her brother, who retired from the Colombian army in 2019 with the rank of sergeant, was hired by a private security firm with the understanding he would be providing protection for powerful individuals in Haiti.Capador said she knew almost nothing about the employer but shared a picture of her brother in a uniform emblazoned with the logo of CTU Security — a company based in Doral, a Miami suburb popular with Colombian migrants.The wife of Francisco Uribe, who was among those arrested, told Colombia’s W Radio that CTU offered to pay the men about $2,700 a month — a paltry sum for a dangerous international mission but far more than what most of the men, nonommissioned officers and professional soldiers, earned from their pensions.Uribe is under investigation in the alleged murder of an unarmed civilian in 2008 who was presented as someone killed in combat, one of thousands of extrajudicial killings that rocked Colombia’s U.S.-trained army more than a decade ago.CTU Security was registered in 2008 and lists as its president Antonio Intriago, who is also affiliated with several other Florida-registered entities, some of them since dissolved, including the Counter Terrorist Unit Federal Academy, the Venezuelan American National Council and Doral Food Corp.CTU’s website lists two addresses, one of which is a gray-colored warehouse that was shuttered Friday with no sign indicating who it belonged to. The other is a small suite under a different company’s name in a modern office building a few blocks away. A receptionist at the office said Intriago stops by every few days to collect mail and hold meetings. Intriago, who is Venezuelan, did not return phone calls and an email seeking comment.“We are the ones who are most interested in clarifying what happened, so that my brother’s reputation does not remain like it is,” said Capador. “He was a humble, hard-working man. He had honors and decorations."Besides the Colombians, among those detained by police were two Haitian Americans.Investigative Judge Clément Noël told Le Nouvelliste that the arrested Americans, James Solages and Joseph Vincent, said the attackers originally planned only to arrest Moïse, not kill him. Noël said Solages and Vincent were acting as translators for the attackers, the newspaper reported Friday.Solages, 35, described himself as a “certified diplomatic agent,” an advocate for children and budding politician on a now-removed website for a charity he started in 2019 in south Florida to assist resident of his home town of Jacmel, on Haiti’s southern coast.He worked briefly as a driver and bodyguard for a relief organization set up by Penn following a magnitude 7.0 earthquake that killed 300,000 Haitians and left tens of thousands homeless. He also lists as past employers the Canadian Embassy in Haiti. His Facebook page, which was also taken down following news of his arrest, features photos of armored military vehicles and a shot of himself standing in front of an American flag.Calls to the charity and Solages’ associates went unanswered. However, a relative in south Florida said Solages doesn’t have any military training and doesn’t believe he was involved in the killing.Joseph refused to specify who was behind the attack, but said that Moïse had earned numerous enemies while attacking powerful oligarchs who for years profited from overly generous state contracts.Some of those elite insiders are now the focus of investigators, with authorities asking that presidential candidate and well-known businessman Reginald Boulos and former Senate President Youri Latortue meet with prosecutors next week for questioning. No further details were provided and none of the men have been charged.Analysts say whoever plotted the brazen attack likely had ties to a criminal underworld that has flourished in recent years as corruption and drug trafficking have become entrenched. The growing power of gangs displaced more than 14,700 people in Haiti last month alone as they torched and ransacked homes in a fight over territory.“This country has nothing to offer,” said 36-year-old Thermidor Joam, one of those thronged outside the U.S. Embassy on Friday. “If the president can be killed with his own security, I have no protection whatsoever if someone wants to kill me.”Prosecutors also want to interrogate members of Moïse’s security detail, including the president’s security coordinator, Jean Laguel Civil, and Dimitri Hérard, the head of the General Security Unit of the National Palace.“If you are responsible for the president’s security, where have you been?,” Port-au-Prince prosecutor Bed-Ford Claude was quoted as telling French-language newspaper Le Nouvelliste. “What did you do to avoid this fate for the president?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haiti-requests-us-to-deploy-troops-after-the-president-s-assassination-101625925966314.html
10-07-2021||World||Taliban calls China a 'friend', promises not to host Uyghur militants in Afghanistan: Report||The Taliban has said the group sees China as a “friend” to Afghanistan, hoping Chinese investment for reconstruction work in the war-torn country, according to a media report. Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen told South China Morning Post that the group controls 85 per cent of Afghan territory and would guarantee the safety of Chinese investors and workers.The Taliban has made rapid territorial gains in Afghanistan amid the final withdrawal of US troops, threatening the progress the country made in the last two decades, especially on social issues. During the interview, Shaheen also reportedly assured China that it would not host Uyghur militants from the Xinjiang province.The comments came as China is concerned about Afghanistan becoming a hub for the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a separatist outfit waging an insurgency in Xinjiang. China has been sharply critical of the US move to pull out its troops without stabilising the peace process in Afghanistan. This week, Beijing evacuated 210 Chinese nationals from Afghanistan on a chartered flight.While the Taliban shares close ties with Pakistan, both Beijing and Islamabad face threats from the Islamic militant groups which were part of Al-Qaeda and Taliban. Earlier this week, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi said that Beijing and Islamabad need to defend regional peace together as the Afghanistan issue has implications for both countries. China asked its close ally Pakistan to step up cooperation to contain the security risks in the war-torn country following the withdrawal of the foreign forces.Shaheen said the Taliban would also prevent al-Qaeda or any other terrorist group from operating there, reported SCMP. “We have been to China many times and we have good relations with them,” SCMP quoted Shaheen as saying. "If (the Chinese) have investments, of course, we will ensure their safety.”China has been eying big scale investments in Afghanistan as the country has the world’s largest unexploited reserves of copper, coal, iron, gas, cobalt, mercury, gold, lithium and thorium, valued at over USD one trillion. In 2011, the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) won a $400 million bid to drill three oil fields for 25 years, containing roughly 87 million barrels of oil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-calls-china-a-friend-promises-not-to-host-uyghur-militants-in-afghanistan-report-101625926382725.html
10-07-2021||World||Confirmed death toll in Miami condo collapse reaches 86, mayor says||The number of people confirmed to have been killed in the collapse of a Miami-area condominium tower last month reached 86, Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava said on Saturday.No survivors have been pulled alive from the ruins since the first few hours after the tower partially caved in on itself early on June 24.Investigators have not determined what caused the 40-year-old complex to collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/confirmed-death-toll-in-miami-condo-collapse-reaches-86-mayor-says-101625927187367.html
10-07-2021||World||Indian entrepreneur appointed as visiting professor at UK university||Birmingham City University (BCU) has conferred a Visiting Professorship to an Indian-origin entrepreneur in recognition of his expertise spanning media, business, charity and politics in both the UK and India.Manoj Ladwa, founder of India-focused media organisation India Inc. Group, was formally named the recipient of the role at a ceremony in London last week, attended by leaders from the university, academia and senior Indian diaspora representatives and diplomats.BCU said the new role will see Professor Ladwa lead masterclasses for the university’s students and use his expertise in media and journalism to develop new ideas, practices and collaborations with the university’s academics.“Manoj Ladwa’s experience and expertise has seen him found and develop the India Inc. Group, which has become a major resource in both journalism and policy,” said Professor Alison Honour, Pro Vice-Chancellor and Executive Dean for Birmingham City University’s Faculty of Arts, Design and Media.“While the University already enjoys very fruitful links in India, including via our STEAMhouse project, this appointment will help us take these partnerships even further. We are delighted to have been able to secure his expertise as a Visiting Professor at the University and we know that he will bring with him years of experience and be a real asset for our staff and students alike,” she said.Ladwa, who was also a member of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s electoral media campaign team, is known for highlighting the role of the British Indian diaspora in driving collaborations between the two nations.“I am honoured to have been given the opportunity to contribute to the excellent work being done by BIME [Birmingham Institute of Media and English] and Birmingham City University in media and communications and in its efforts to build strong ties with India and Indian enterprise,” said Ladwa.“This role brings me back to my childhood roots in Birmingham, a vibrant city which has so much to offer through its industry, multiculturalism, and increasing focus on cutting edge green growth technology and innovation. I very much look forward to working closely with BCU’s world class faculty, students and wider networks in the coming years,” he said.The India Inc. Group, founded 10 years ago, is the London-headquartered media house behind the recently concluded India Global Forum, which brought together senior politicians and entrepreneurs from around the world, and publications such as ‘India Global Business’ and diaspora platform ‘iGlobal’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-entrepreneur-appointed-as-visiting-professor-at-uk-university-101625923227156.html
10-07-2021||World||Delta variant continues to be dominant Covid-19 strain in UK: Study||Health officials in the United Kingdom have said the Delta variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), first found in India last year, continues to be the dominant strain of the SARS-CoV2-virus in the UK, though they added that both doses of an anti-Covid vaccine offer “high protection” against the variant.Also Read: UK to ease compulsory Covid-19 self-isolation rules for fully vaccinated from Aug 16The data, released by Public Health England (PHE), also showed that cases due to the Delta variant in the UK rose to 216,249 from 161,981 last week. This represents a rise of 54,268 cases from last week, as against 50,824 last week from the week before that.We have published updated case numbers for all Variants Under Investigation and Variants of Concern in the UK. Delta cases have risen by 54,268 since last week, a 32% increaseSee the data for yourself: https://t.co/NxiBAaLVss pic.twitter.com/LlMFM9B9T6“The data continues to show that the sharp increase in cases that we’re seeing is not being followed by a similar increase in hospitalisations and death,” Dr Jenny Harries, chief executive of the PHE, said. “This is because two doses of the available vaccines offer a high level of protection against the Delta variant. Getting both the jabs is the best way to ensure that you and the people you love remain safe. So, we once again urge everyone to come forward for the vaccination as soon as they’re eligible,” Harries said further.She also urged people to remain “careful and cautious” as the country moves towards the planned end of restrictions, on July 19. “Cases are rising across the country, and while the vaccines offer excellent protection, they don’t give 100% safety,” Harries remarked.Also Read: 'Will move away from legal restrictions': UK PM Johnson confirms ending Covid measuresThe weekly PHE study also found that the Delta Plus variant, which is a mutation of the Delta variant, has thus far led to only 44 cases. The Delta variant, or the B.1.617.2 strain, was found accounting for 99% of the cases sequenced across the UK, followed by the Alpha variant, which was first detected locally.Also Read: Scientists call on UK govt to abandon ‘dangerous and unethical’ opening plans amid Delta scareOn Friday, the UK reported 35,707 new daily Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in infections since January 22. On July 12, the government of prime minister Boris Johnson is scheduled to take a final decision on ending all legal lockdown restrictions in the country from July 19. However, experts have urged Johnson to let some safety measures stay as daily infections continue to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-variant-continues-to-be-dominant-covid-19-strain-in-uk-study-101625923462636.html
10-07-2021||World||Durban: 1st city in South Africa to have private energy contract||Ethekwini, the South African municipality that includes the port city of Durban, has become the first in the country to seek proposals for private power generation.The municipality on Friday released a request for information for the supply of 400 megawatts of power in a bid to ease reliance on national utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., which has subjected the country to intermittent power outages for more than a decade. It will also allow the city of 3.8 million people, which houses Africa’s largest port, to get more of its energy from renewable sources as Eskom relies almost entirely on coal.Ethekwini is seeking a “diverse mix of sustainable, dispatchable and reliable power generation technologies,” the municipality said on its website, indicating that while it isn’t stipulating which technology should be proposed it does want the power to be available on demand.The request follows the decision by the South African government last year to allow cities to buy power from providers other than Eskom.Johannesburg and Cape Town have similar plans. The City of Johannesburg will issue a request for information for the construction of a 150-megawatt solar plant, 50 megawatts of rooftop solar panels and the refurbishment of an idle gas-fired plant that could generate 20 megawatts in September, the municipality said in a presentation early last month. It will also seek information for the installation of 100 megawatts of battery storage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/durban-1st-city-in-south-africa-to-have-private-energy-contract-101625919362694.html
10-07-2021||World||Sirisha Bandla to activate Nasa-supported plant experiment during Virgin Galactic mission||Indian-origin aeronautical engineer Sirisha Bandla will activate a Nasa-supported plant experiment at critical data-collection stages during Virgin Galactic’s first fully crewed spaceflight, scheduled to take off from New Mexico on July 11. The US space agency on Saturday said that Bandla, vice president of government affairs and research operations at Virgin Galactic, will operate the experiment on the “Unity 22” flight on behalf of co-investigators from the University of Florida.As part of the experiment, Bandla will activate three plant-filled tubes to release a preservative at critical data-collection stages - at standard Earth’s gravitational force before the rocket boost, just before entering microgravity, and after the conclusion of microgravity. The university researchers have flown similar experiments on suborbital flights in the past. But the data collected during the Unity 22 flight will provide a “first look at human-tended payloads on SpaceShipTwo.”For years, the two researchers from the University of Florida in Gainesville have been using plants to study biological changes in organisms when they travel through the Earth’s atmosphere and into space. The experiments are aimed at arriving at the answers to fundamental research questions essential to understanding the impact of space travel on humans and other organisms.Also Read | Who is Sirisha Bandla: Know all about Indian-origin woman to fly to spaceCo-principal investigators Robert Ferl and Anna-Lisa Paul began studying how plants respond to microgravity on the molecular level with space shuttle experiments in the late 1990s. The researchers found that plants behave quite differently in space compared to on the ground. They applied the findings to longer-term observations with nine experiments on the International Space Station.“About half of the genes in our bodies encode the exact same proteins in plants,” explained Paul. “And that’s very exciting because it means that as we look at how plants behave in the absence of gravity, we can translate many of those basic biological processes to humans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sirisha-bandla-to-activate-nasa-supported-plant-experiment-during-virgin-galactic-mission-101625918944618.html
10-07-2021||World||Two mega diamonds unearthed in Botswana within weeks. What’s behind sudden rush?||An enormous 1,174-carat diamond was recently unearthed in Botswana, days after another huge precious stone was discovered in the African country. The mining company, Lucara Diamond Corp., said in a statement that the diamond, which measures 77mm long, 55mm wide and 33mm thick, was found at the Karowe diamond mine last month. The company presented the diamond to the government at a ceremony on Wednesday.It is the third diamond of over 1,000 carats unearthed from the same mining location, a world record for Karowe. Apart from the recovery of the rare rock, the mining company also unearthed several other diamonds — weighing 471, 218 and 159 carats — of similar appearance, suggesting the 1,174-carat diamond was part of a larger diamond with an estimated weight of more than 2000 carats.Before the discovery of the mega diamond, another huge 1,098-carat precious stone was discovered in Botswana by diamond firm Debswana, which was then believed to be the world’s third-largest gem-quality stone ever to be mined. The world's second-largest diamond ‘Lesedi La Rona’ was also found in Botswana in 2015.Also Read | Diamond believed to be world's third-largest unearthed in BotswanaHow difficult is it to mine huge diamonds?The vast majority of global diamond production constitutes small diamonds, at less than one carat. Small diamonds are common and only useful for industrial applications. On the other hand, large gemstone-quality diamonds are extremely rare and precious.Billions of years old natural diamonds formed deep in the Earth and some scientists have suggested that there are vast quantities of gem-quality stone hundreds of kilometres deep, according to an article by The Conversation. The authors Jodie Bradby and Nigel Marks wrote that the deepest hole ever drilled is about 12 kilometres and we will never be able to mine these deep-earth diamonds.The report says that the diamonds unearthed by mining companies are typically thought to have come up near the surface due to a deep-source volcanic eruption. The surfacing of diamonds is not an easy process as the volcanic eruption needs to be fast enough to deliver the stones and at the same time, they can’t be exposed to extreme heat, shock or oxygen.Most diamonds are found within igneous rocks called Kimberlite but only a small percentage of all known Kimberlite deposits contain diamonds, the authors said. On top of it, only a handful of these rocks are rich enough with diamonds to warrant being mined, which makes it very difficult to find an ideal condition.What is behind the sudden rush?According to Brady and Marks, large natural diamonds often get destroyed during the mining process when an ore is blasted with explosives and then crushed into fragments to search for diamonds. But companies have come up with new technologies that process with the aid of X-ray ore-sorting technology, specifically targeted for these “mega diamond recovery”.The latest mega diamond from the Karowe mine was recovered using these newer techniques, indicating that more of these enormous stones will be discovered in the future. “Advances in diamond mining techniques, coupled with the inherent rarity of mega diamonds, is a boon for Botswana, where diamonds constitute a significant portion of the country’s GDP,” the duo wrote.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-mega-diamonds-unearthed-in-botswana-within-weeks-what-s-behind-sudden-rush-101625915231938.html
10-07-2021||World||WHO chief scientist warns coronavirus pandemic is not over. Lists main reasons||World Health Organisation’s (WHO) chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan warned that the pandemic is not waning because coronavirus cases are on the rise all over the world as the delta variant is spreading fast. “In the last 24 hours, close to 500,000 new cases have been reported and about 9,300 deaths -- now that’s not a pandemic that’s slowing down,” she said during a televised interview with BloombergQuint.Swaminathan listed the following reasons for suggesting the pandemic is not over yet.A fast-spreading delta variantSwaminathan said that the delta variant is behind an increase in the number of cases being reported in five out of six WHO regions, and in Africa, mortality rates have spiked from 30% to 40%. US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) director Rochelle Walensky also predicted that the delta variant will drive infections in the US in the coming months. "An estimated 25 per cent of all reported SARS-COV-2 sequences nationwide are the Delta variants, and in some regions of the country, nearly one in two sequences is a Delta variant," ANI said quoting Walensky.Also Read: Covid-19 not slowing down yet, Delta variant spreading rapidly: WHO’s chief scientist Dr Soumya SwaminathanSlow vaccination rolloutsWHO director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, had remarked on June 30 that the most transmissible strain of Covid-19, the Delta variant, is spreading mostly in the unvaccinated population. “Delta is the most transmissible of the variants identified so far, has been identified in at least 85 countries, and is spreading rapidly among unvaccinated populations,” Ghebreyesus had warned. He insisted that the only way to break the link between transmission and the emergence of new variants is mass vaccination. WHO has been urging COVAX to help nations ramp up their efforts of vaccination through adequate donations.Relaxation of safety measuresWHO has been urging nations to exercise abundant caution while relaxing Covid-19 preventative measures once cases start to decline. The UN body has warned against organising big events and “even backyard barbecues.” “All of these actions have consequences and the Delta variant is spreading rapidly among people who are unvaccinated,” said WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-scientist-warns-coronavirus-pandemic-is-not-over-lists-main-reasons-101625910630997.html
10-07-2021||World||‘Will get worse’: Experts warn as UK reports highest new Covid cases since Jan 22||As the United Kingdom prepares for dropping most of the pandemic-induced restrictions on July 19, experts are concerned about the government's approach amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Academy of Medical Royal Colleges (AMRC) on Friday warned that “things will get worse before they get better.” The coordinating body of the UK and Ireland's 23 medical royal colleges and faculties said in a statement that the country is already in the turmoil of the third wave of coronavirus, highlighting the dramatic rise in Covid-19 cases.AMRC said the National Health Service (NHS) is currently under unprecedented pressure for a combination of reasons, not all of which are yet clear. “People who stayed away from the NHS during the pandemic are now coming forward, some of them with more serious problems because of the delay in seeking help,” they added.On Friday, the UK reported more than 35,000 infections, the highest in over five months. On average, it has been recording about 410 cases per million people over the past week, one the highest cases in the world per capita. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has branded the July 19 reopening as “Freedom Day” but experts are worried about the message.Prof Helen Stokes-Lampard, chair of AMRC, told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme that “there seems to be a misapprehension that life will return to normal from then [July 19], and that we can throw away all the precautions, and frankly, that would be dangerous.”“We all want to make sure that the public is fully aware that this pandemic is far from over and that when the 19th comes, what we need is a responsible approach and a very cautious approach to relaxing restrictions,” she added.AMRC said that the country will see a rise in other respiratory infections as well Covid-19 cases, adding to the pressures on the NHS when hospitals are trying to tackle the huge backlog in elective work which has built up over the pandemic.“It is like the worst of a bad winter in July,” it said, urging the public to continue to show caution in their approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-get-worse-experts-warn-as-uk-reports-highest-new-covid-cases-since-jan-22-101625909648526.html
10-07-2021||World||Indian-origin Shirisha Bandla set to fly into space tomorrow||Sirisha Bandla, a 34-year-old aeronautical engineer, is set to become the third Indian-origin woman to head to space when she flies as part of Virgin Galactic’s first fully crewed flight test on Sunday.Bandla, who was born in Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh and brought up in Houston, Texas, will join Sir Richard Branson, the company's billionaire founder, and five others on board Virgin Galactic’s SpaceShipTwo Unity to make a journey to the edge of space from New Mexico."I am so incredibly honoured to be a part of the amazing crew of #Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all," she tweeted. Bandla will be astronaut no 004 and her flight role will be Researcher Experience, according to her profile on Virgin Galactic.She will become the third Indian-origin woman to fly into space after Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams."When I first heard that I was getting this opportunity, it was just. I think that that probably captured it very well, I was speechless. This is an incredible opportunity to get people from different backgrounds, different geographies and different communities into space," she said in a video posted on Virgin Galactic Twitter on July 6.Bandla, a Purdue University alumna, will be evaluating the human-tended research experience, using an experiment from the University of Florida that requires several handheld fixation tubes that will be activated at various points in the flight profile, a statement on the Galactic website said.Bandla started in her role as the Vice President of Government Affairs and Research Operations at Virgin Galactic in January 2021, the university said in a statement.Bandla grew up in Houston, near NASA’s Johnson Space Center, and always wanted to become an astronaut. But poor eyesight meant she could not meet the requirements to become a pilot or an astronaut, derailing her high-school plan to go the Air Force-to-NASA route, she said in the statement."I’ve had fond memories of my time at Purdue,” Bandla said in 2021, “being part of a group of passionate individuals... Purdue built a strong foundation of technical and programmatic principles we all carried into our successful careers.The flight window for the next rocket-powered test flight of its SpaceShipTwo Unity opens July 11, pending weather and technical checks, Galactic said in a statement.The “Unity 22” mission will be the twenty-second flight test for VSS Unity and the company’s fourth crewed spaceflight. It will also be the first to carry a full crew of two pilots and four mission specialists in the cabin, including the company’s founder, Sir Branson, who will be testing the private astronaut experience, it said."I’ve always been a dreamer. My mum taught me to never give up and to reach for the stars. On July 11, it’s time to turn that dream into a reality aboard the next @VirginGalatic spaceflight," Branson tweeted following the announcement on July 2.Building on the success of the company’s most recent spaceflight in May, Unity 22 will focus on cabin and customer experience objectives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-shirisha-bandla-set-to-fly-into-space-tomorrow-101625904054616.html
10-07-2021||World||Hong Kong 'unnerved' by Chinese security law, citizens doubt their futures||As many as 60% of the citizens in Hong Kong have reportedly expressed doubts about their futures under the draconian national security law that was imposed by China on the city back in June last year. The impact of the legislation imposed by the Xi Jinping-led communist government in China has left a "chilling effect" on the people of Hong Kong, a report in the Taipei Times noted, citing officials in the mainland affiars council familiar with the matter.The council had, in its report marking the 24th anniversary of the handover of Hong Kong to China, said that the US-based Freedom House gave the territory the worst rating in the history of its Freedom in the World report at 52 points, back in March. Hong Kong was ranked "partly free," due mainly to the security legislation.Germany's Global Public Policy Institute and Reporters Without Borders similarly downgraded the territory in their respective reports on academic and press freedom, it added.Meanwhile, several people including activists, students, journalists have been arrested in the past few months in Hong Kong under the security legislation. The scope of those prosecuted for a speech from prior to the law's passage -- from politicians to academics and journalists -- has produced a "chilling effect," the council's report said.The press especially is facing "unprecedented political violence," including the redefinition of "media representative" to only recognize workers of media outlets registered with the government, it said.Next Digital has emerged as a victim of the security legislation, as police have used it to prosecute owner Jimmy Lai and Apple Daily executives, it said.The closure of the Apple Daily on June 25, shortly after the government froze its assets, has "sounded a death knell for press freedom in Hong Kong," Taipei Times reported.Many news firms have chosen to stay silent, leading to the closure or removal of content from online publications such as Stand News, Winandmac Media, and Post 852, it added.Meanwhile, increasing numbers of academics critical of Beijing have been dismissed or forced out since last year. Some have even seen their teaching qualifications revoked for disseminating content in support of independence, it added.Changes to the education curriculum in February also outlawed political activities on campuses and banned teachers from discussing their political views, while mandating education about the security law to more than 8,000 students, it said.Fear over-reporting by students is likely to deepen self-censorship on campuses, the council said, adding that some academics are also considering cutting back on international exchanges.Censorship has even extended to the Internet and the arts, drawing an ambiguous red line that would stifle creative freedom, it added.The website HKChronicles, which publishes personal information of police officers and pro-Beijing figures, was reportedly shuttered by Hong Kong security forces with cooperation from Internet service providers, the council said.Pro-China media have also criticized the Hong Kong Arts Development Council for funding "reactionary" works of art and the M museum for exhibiting works by Ai Weiwei, it added.Changes announced last month to the Film Censorship Ordinance would ban films that "endanger national security," it said.Public gatherings have also been halted, including the annual Tiananmen Square Massacre candlelight vigil that had been held every year for three decades, it said.Even freedom of movement could be affected, as the passage in April of changes to immigration regulations would grant authorities the power to bar individuals from entering or leaving the territory when it goes into effect on August 1, the council added.The law criminalizes any act of secession (breaking away from China), subversion (undermining the power or authority of the central government), terrorism, and collusion with foreign forces, with punishments of up to life in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-unnerved-by-chinese-security-law-citizens-doubt-their-futures-101625894860141.html
10-07-2021||World||Covid-19: Indonesia faces oxygen crisis, reaches out to countries for help||Indonesia, the world’s fourth most-populated country, is currently grappling with a severe shortage of oxygen supplies to treat critical patients infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This is a drastic turn of situation as only two months ago, in May, Indonesia was providing oxygen supplies to India, when the latter was severely hit by the second wave of the pandemic. Indonesia had supplied around 3,400 oxygen cylinders and concentrators to India.The Indonesian government has reached out to several countries including China, Singapore, Australia to address its oxygen shortage. Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan, the minister in charge of the country’s Covid-19 pandemic response, told the Associated Press on Friday that the government has received a shipment of over 1,000 oxygen cylinders, concentrators, ventilators and other health devices arrived from Singapore along with 1,000 ventilators provided by Australia.Pandjaitan said on Friday the government is also planning to purchase 36,000 tonnes of oxygen and 10,000 concentrators from Singapore, adding he is in contact with China and other countries.Indonesia has so far recorded 2,455,912 cases and 64,631 deaths due to the viral disease. However, reports suggest that cases and deaths are being underreported and the actual count is much higher than the official figures. On Friday, the country reported 38,124 cases and 871 more deaths in the last 24 hours. This is the first time in six days that the country did not see a record rise in its daily tally.However, the country is currently facing a more severe wave of the pandemic due to which hospitals are overwhelmed with a growing number of critically infected Covid-19 patients. Many of these patients are dying in isolation at home or while waiting to receive emergency care, AP further reported.In Java, hospitals had started setting up makeshift Intensive Care Units (ICUs) during mid-June. Earlier this week, emergency rooms at a public hospital in Bandung city were closed after running out of oxygen supplies, Yaya Mulyana, the city’s deputy mayor, told AP.As per government data, Indonesia’s daily oxygen requirement has climbed to 1,928 tons and the total available production capacity is 2,262 tons per day.“I asked for 100% of oxygen to go to medical purposes first, meaning that all industrial allocations must be transferred to medical,” minister Pandjaitan said on Friday, adding it is a race against time and “we have to work fast”. In response, the country’s industrial ministry issued an official order stating all oxygen supplies be sent to hospitals swamped with Covid-19 patients and urged people in the industrial sector to cooperate. ‘On the vaccination front, a total of 1.47 million health workers in the country will be administered with a third booster jab using the Moderna vaccine, the government said on Friday. This decision comes after several health workers, who had been fully inoculated with China’s Sinovac jab, died due to the viral disease.(With inputs from AP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-indonesia-faces-oxygen-crisis-reaches-out-to-countries-for-help-101625894157340.html
10-07-2021||World||Magnitude 6.1 earthquake hits Indonesia, no tsunami warning issued||A 6.1-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Indonesia's Sulawesi island Saturday, the United States Geological Survey said, but no tsunami warning was issued and there were no immediate reports of damage. The strong quake hit 258 kilometers (160 miles) northeast of the city of Manado in North Sulawesi at a depth of 68 kilometers.Indonesia experiences frequent quakes due to its position on the Pacific "Ring of Fire", an arc of intense seismic activity where tectonic plates collide that stretches from Japan through Southeast Asia and across the Pacific basin.A 6.1-magnitude earthquake strikes off Indonesia's Sulawesi island, the USGS says, but no tsunami warning is issued and there are no immediate reports of damageThe quake hit 258kms northeast of Manado in North Sulawesi at a depth of 68kms pic.twitter.com/l0nsaxExcXIn January, more than 100 people were killed and thousands left homeless by a 6.2-magnitude quake that struck Sulawesi, reducing buildings to a tangled mass of twisted metal and chunks of concrete in the seaside city of Mamuju.A powerful quake shook the island of Lombok in 2018 and several more tremors followed over the next couple of weeks, killing more than 550 people on the holiday island and neighbouring Sumbawa.Later that year, a 7.5-magnitude quake and a subsequent tsunami in Palu on Sulawesi island left more than 4,300 people dead or missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/magnitude-6-1-earthquake-hits-indonesia-no-tsunami-warning-issued-101625881421329.html
10-07-2021||World||Haiti tells US, UN to send troops as fears of instability grow||Haiti has asked Washington and the UN to send troops to help it secure its ports, airport and other strategic sites after the assassination of President Jovenel Moise, a government minister said Friday.The United States has already said it will send FBI and other agents to Port-au-Prince, two days after Moise was brutally killed by gunmen in his home, opening up a power vacuum in the impoverished and crisis-hit Caribbean nation.In the wake of the slaying "we thought that the mercenaries could destroy some infrastructure to create chaos in the country. During a conversation with the US Secretary of State and the UN we made this request," elections minister Mathias Pierre told AFP.The US State Department and Pentagon both confirmed receiving a request for "security and investigative assistance" and said officials remain in contact with Port-au-Prince, but did not specify whether military troops would be deployed.The UN did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Washington had signaled its willingness to help the Haitian investigation, and White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki added Friday that senior FBI and other officials would be heading to the Caribbean as soon as possible.Pierre confirmed that the request had been made as questions swirled Friday about who could have masterminded the audacious assassination, with most members of a hit squad of Colombians and Americans either dead or in custody, and no clear motive made public.Amid the uncertainty, two men are now vying to lead the country of 11 million people, more than half of whom are under age 20. There is no working parliament.After days of paralysis in the capital, Port-au-Prince saw the timid return of people to the streets, shops opening and the resumption of public transport on Friday morning -- but under a pall of apprehension.People scrambled to stock up on basic necessities at supermarkets and lined up at gas stations to buy propane used for cooking in anticipation of more instability."I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow or the day after in the country, so I am preparing for bad days ahead," Port-au-Prince resident Marjory told AFP, as she and her husband stocked up on supplies at a store."I'm prioritizing everything that can last for many days."Gang violence, rife in the Caribbean nation, also picked up again on Friday, with clashes between groups paralyzing traffic on a major highway.The city's airport, shuttered in the wake of the attack, appeared to have reopened, according to Flightradar data.Contract killers?But as the shock of the killing wore off, many were demanding answers."Foreigners came to the country to perpetrate this crime. We, Haitians, are appalled," a resident of the capital told AFP."We need to know who is behind this, their names, their backgrounds so that justice can be served," he added.Police have said a 28-member hit squad of Colombians and Americans had carried out the attack, but that they were still seeking its masterminds.Senior police officers, directly responsible for Moise's security, are in the hot seat and have been summoned to appear before the courts.Others have speculated on the possible involvement of security agents in the killing, adding to the confusion."The president of the Republic, Jovenel Moise, was assassinated by his security agents," former Haitian senator Steven Benoit said on Magik9 radio Friday."It is not Colombians who killed him. They were contracted by the Haitian state."Political chaosSome alleged attackers, including both Americans, have been arrested. Three have been killed, and at least five are still on the run, officers said Friday.Some of the suspects were arrested after breaking into the Taiwanese embassy, Taipei confirmed. Several were paraded before the media on Thursday.The US has said it is aware of the arrest of US citizens but declined further comment.Colombia on Friday said 17 Colombian ex-soldiers were thought to have been involved. President Ivan Duque has told Haitian officials Bogota will collaborate in the investigation.The attack has further destabilized the poorest country in the Americas, plagued by insecurity.Haiti was already in the midst of in an institutional crisis: Moise had not organized an election since he came to power in early 2017 and the country has had no parliament since January 2020. Moise had been ruling by decree.One of Moise's last acts as president on Monday was to appoint a new prime minister, Ariel Henry. He had not taken office when Moise was killed.Hours after the assassination, Henry's predecessor Claude Joseph said he was in charge.While the opposition has accused Joseph of power-grabbing, the United Nations envoy to Haiti, Helen La Lime, has said he had authority because Henry had not been sworn in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haiti-tells-us-un-to-send-troops-as-fears-of-instability-grow-101625880516830.html
10-07-2021||World||Covid-19: California to require face masks at schools this fall||California will require that masks be worn at schools when classrooms open this fall, despite new guidance issued Friday from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that says vaccinated teachers and students don’t need to wear face coverings inside school buildings.Ahead of new school guidelines expected next week, health officials in California said Friday that requiring face coverings will allow all schools to reopen this fall for full in-person instruction.California Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. Mark Ghaly said that not all schools can accommodate physical distancing of at least 3 feet or more, so the best preventive measure is wearing masks indoors.The California Department of Public Health said in a statement that the mask requirement “also will ensure that all kids are treated the same,” without any stigma attached to those who are vaccinated or unvaccinated.“We believe that with masking and with testing, we can get kids back to in person 100% in our schools,” Ghaly said.Ghaly noted the CDC guidance released Friday says that when it is not possible to maintain at least 3 feet of physical distance, “it is especially important to layer multiple other prevention strategies, such as indoor masking."The health department plans to release more detailed guidance for school reopening next week, said Ghaly, who joined Gov. Gavin Newsom at a Napa Valley elementary school to sign a bill that provides record funding for California schools.Newsom invited a group of young students to help him sign the legislation, which directs how most of the $123.9 billion for K-12 education in the 2021-2022 fiscal year must be spent.As part of a broad new education spending package made possible by the state’s surprise budget surplus, the state’s two-year kindergarten program will be expanded to include all 4-year-olds for free. The program aims to phase in the expansion by 2025 at a cost of $2.7 billion per year.The new plan also puts more money toward after school and summer school programs, particularly in districts that serve many high-needs students.“This is a transformational budget. This is unlike anything we have ever done in this state,” Newsom said.This year’s budget also adds money to fund free school meals for all students, with $54 million allocated for this year and $650 million in future years.Newsom’s kindergarten expansion fulfills a promise that he and Democratic legislative leaders made to foot the bill for universal 4-year-old kindergarten statewide.Currently, there are about 91,000 4-year-olds enrolled in transitional kindergarten. The new plan would boost enrollment to about 250,000.The bill achieves many longtime priorities for Democrats in the Legislature, said Democratic Assemblywoman Cecilia Aguiar-Curry, who joined the signing ceremony.“We are changing lives,” said Aguiar-Curry, of Winters. “By the signing of this today, we’re not going to leave anyone behind.”Newsom has said the funding aims to address many of the inequities that the coronavirus pandemic exposed, including the need for robust mental health services to address childhood depression and trauma, more teachers and lower teacher-student ratios.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-california-to-require-face-masks-at-schools-this-fall-101625876037779.html
10-07-2021||World||Pfizer backs booster shots, US experts say no need yet||Pfizer Inc plans to request US emergency authorisation in August for a third booster dose of its Covid-19 vaccine, based on early data showing that it can sharply increase immune protection against the coronavirus disease.At the same time, however, US federal health officials signalled that they would take a cautious approach to potential booster shots, and underlined that the currently available vaccines are effective at keeping people from being sickened by the coronavirus.Pfizer has received initial data from an early human study showing that a third dose of its existing coronavirus vaccine is safe and can raise neutralising antibody levels by 5 to 10 fold compared with the original vaccine, the company’s research head Mikael Dolsten said in an interview.Once more data is in hand, Pfizer plans to ask the FDA to authorise a booster shot that could be given six to eight months after the original two doses, Dolsten said. The drugmaker is also talking with regulators in other countries and the European Union about the new results, he said. Pfizer produces the vaccine in partnership with BioNTech SE.However, in an unusual evening joint statement on Thursday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration pumped the brakes, saying they are engaged in a process about whether and when a booster might be needed. That “can include data from specific pharmaceutical companies, but does not rely on those data exclusively,” it said.The statement stressed that available vaccines are effective and that nearly all people hospitalised and dying from the virus currently are unvaccinated -- a message that signals a fear that Pfizer’s announcement could fuel brewing doubts about vaccines broadly.“Americans who have been fully vaccinated do not need a booster shot at this time,” the agencies said in the statement, adding: “We are prepared for booster doses if and when the science demonstrates that they are needed.”Dolsten said the company is going public with its plans because the early data looks convincing and because of increasing concern about mutations of the virus, including the ultra-transmissible Delta variant that is spreading in numerous countries.“There is a lot of fear and concern” about variants... “we are confident that such a boost will be highly effective against the delta variant,” Dolsten said.While the antibody results are based on a small initial cohort of roughly 10 to 20 people who received the booster, Dolsten said that the “the data set is so clear we have complete confidence that the full study will reproduce this.”Israeli dataMessenger RNA vaccines provide powerful protection against severe Covid-19, including cases caused by the Delta variant, but there have been signs of breakthrough cases. A British study in May, for example, found the Pfizer shot was 88% effective in preventing symptomatic disease from the Delta variant after the second dose.More recent data released by Israel this month found that Pfizer’s efficacy had dropped to 64% since the Delta variant took over there, even as it was 93% effective at keeping people out of the hospital.Dolsten said Pfizer interprets the Israeli finding as a sign that blood-antibody levels have faded somewhat since people in Israel started being vaccinated in January and February. In the presence of a highly transmissible variant, that may allow mild cases to slip through even though people remain protected against severe disease, he said.Even when front-line antibodies have faded slightly, the vaccine still produces a variety of memory responses that can stave off serious illness, Dolsten said.“When you have low blood levels of an antibody, viruses that are highly contagious may reinfect and cause mild disease,” Dolsten said.Delta trialSeparately, Pfizer plans to begin human trials of a new booster customised against the Delta variant, first detected in India. But Dolsten said it was unlikely that this customised vaccine would be needed, as the existing vaccine does a good job of producing antibodies against the variant. Even preventing mild cases can be useful because it will help slow infections that can lead to new variants, and will prevent cases of long Covid that can occur even after mild infections, Dolsten said.In the past, Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla has suggested that Covid booster shots might be needed but medical experts have cautioned that it isn’t clear whether and when boosters will be needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizerbacks-booster-shots-us-experts-say-no-need-yet-101625871353642.html
10-07-2021||World||At least 52 killed in Bangladesh factory fire||A fire engulfed a food and beverage factory outside Bangladesh’s capital, killing at least 52 people, many of whom were trapped inside by an illegally locked door, fire officials said on Friday.The blaze began on Thursday night at the five-story Hashem Foods Ltd. factory, in Rupganj, just outside Dhaka, sending huge clouds of black smoke billowing into the sky. Police initially gave a toll of three dead, but then discovered piles of bodies after the fire was extinguished.So far 52 bodies have been recovered, but the top two floors of the factory have yet to be searched, said Debasish Bardhan, deputy director of the Fire Service and Civil Defense.He said the main exit of the factory was locked from the inside and many of those who died were trapped.Many workers jumped from the upper floors of the factory, and at least 26 suffered injuries. Information about how many people were in the factory and how many were missing was not immediately available.“For now, we only have these details. After searching the top floors we will be able to get a complete picture,” Bardhan said. Bangladesh has a tragic history of industrial disasters, including factories catching fire with the workers locked inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-52-killed-in-bangladesh-factory-fire-101625870715219.html
10-07-2021||World||Six months after riot, removal of US Capitol fencing begins||More than six months after the deadly US Capitol insurrection, authorities on Friday began the process of dismantling fencing and barricades surrounding the iconic Washington building, although some access restrictions will remain in place.Personnel were seen removing bars connecting sections of the eight-foot (2.4-meter) black metal fencing that had been erected in the days following the violent unrest at the citadel of American democracy.Removal of the fence itself was to begin early Saturday, workers on the site said, with the deconstruction operation expected to last through the weekend.Thousands of National Guard troops were stationed there following the attack, and a wide security boundary complete with razor wire turned the Capitol into a fortress for months.An outer perimeter was dismantled in March, but the fencing, Capitol Hill traffic detours and a ban on visitors has irritated lawmakers from both parties.In a letter to lawmakers this week, Senate Sergeant at Arms Karen Gibson said US Capitol Police will continue to "monitor intelligence information and the associated threat environment," and that if threat conditions warrant, the temporary fencing could be reinstalled quickly."Additionally, though the temporary fencing will be removed, building access restrictions implemented in response to COVID-19 remain in place and will be enforced," Gibson said.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi launched a security review after the attack to study ways to bolster security around the Capitol.Security concerns remained an issue for months. On April 2, a policeman was killed and another wounded when a man crashed his car into a barrier at the complex.US Capitol Police shot the driver dead as he jumped out of the car and lunged with a knife.mlm/mdl||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/six-months-after-riot-removal-of-us-capitol-fencing-begins-101625869435928.html
10-07-2021||World||Nearly 20 US senators back legislation to help Afghan interpreters||Nearly 20 US senators now back legislation to help protect Afghan civilians who supported US forces during the 20-year-long war in their country, a lead sponsor of the bill said on Friday, a day after President Joe Biden set a target date of Aug. 31 for withdrawal.Democratic US Senator Jeanne Shaheen said at least 17 Democratic and Republican senators are now sponsoring her bill to increase the number of authorized visas and take other steps to improve the efficiency of a program to help bring to the United States Afghans who helped US troops.In a speech on Thursday, Biden strongly defended his decision to pull US military forces out of Afghanistan, and set a target date of the end of next month for the final withdrawal of US forces.A growing number of Biden's fellow Democrats and Republicans in the Senate and House of Representatives have been urging his administration to do more for thousands of civilians who helped US troops, often risking their lives and those of their families."We have a moral imperative to act now – before it’s too late – and fulfill our promise of safety for the Afghans who stood shoulder-to-shoulder with our troops," Shaheen said in a statement.Senators co-sponsoring the bill include Democrats Dick Durbin, Patrick Leahy, Jack Reed, Mark Kelly, Kirsten Gillibrand and Tim Kaine, as well as Angus King, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats.Republicans signed on to the measure include Joni Ernst, Roger Wicker, Steve Daines, Ben Sasse, Tim Scott, Dan Sullivan, Cynthia Lummis, Rob Portman and Todd Young.Members of the House are also working on legislation to help the Afghan civilians. Many lawmakers have voiced support for evacuating interpreters and others who worked with US forces to third countries to protect them while their applications for visas to reach the United States are reviewed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-20-us-senators-back-legislation-to-help-afghan-interpreters-101625865528534.html
10-07-2021||World||World must invest more for 'prevention and preparedness' against another pandemic: G20 panel||The world must invest much more to avoid a repeat of the coronavirus pandemic, experts convened by the G20 said Friday as they warned the next health crisis could come within a decade."The world is far from equipped to prevent or stop the next pandemic," the High Level Independent Panel said in a report presented at the G20 finance ministers meeting in Venice, Italy.It said even as Covid-19 rages, "there is every likelihood that the next pandemic will come within a decade -- arising from a novel influenza strain, another coronavirus, or one of several other dangerous pathogens"."Its impact on human health and the global economy could be even more profound than that of COVID-19," it said.The report recommended governments collectively commit to increase financing for prevention and preparedness by at least $75 billion over the next five year.This would fund a coordinated surveillance and research network for infectious diseases, more resilient healthcare systems, better governance to manage crises and an improved global capacity to produce vaccines."We must learn the right lessons from this pandemic in order to be well prepared for the next one," said Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, director general of the World Trade Organization.She noted however that Covid-19 "is still here", urging the G20 ministers to do more to donate vaccines and support manufacturing and distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-must-invest-more-for-prevention-and-preparedness-against-another-pandemic-g20-panel-101625863212967.html
10-07-2021||World||Joe Biden names close political ally Eric Garcetti to be US ambassador to India||WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden has named Eric Garcetti, a close political ally, as his nominee for ambassador to India. Garcetti, 50, is currently serving as mayor of Los Angeles.The White House announced his nomination on Friday along with three other ambassadors.Garcetti was co-chair of Biden’s presidential campaign and was also part of the committee that Biden had appointed to look for his running mate. After the election, Garcetti was named one of the co-chairs of the inauguration committee. He was widely expected to get a cabinet berth and reports have suggested he was being considered for secretary housing.Like all host countries, India would like a US ambassador to be someone with an open line of communications with the White House, which Eric Garcetti is likely to have, according to people familiar with these matters. It’s just more efficient and less time-consuming to not have to go through the usual state department bureaucracy, said the same people.Also Read: Imran Khan’s quest for Joe Biden’s attentionBiden’s ambassadorial nominee for India will be one of the more high-profile announcements for the administration given the focus the US president has brought on ties with India, bilaterally and as part of the Quad with Japan and Australia.President Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have spoken four times already in 100 days since the American leader took office. And they have met virtually as part of the Quad and the summit of 40 world leaders that Biden hosted in April.Eric Garcetti has been the Mayor of the City of Los Angeles since 2013, following 12 years as a member of the City Council, including six as Council President. The White House announcement said as mayor, Garcetti oversees the busiest container port in the Western Hemisphere, the largest municipal utility in the country, and one of the busiest airports in the world.Eric Garcetti co-founded Climate Mayors and led more than 400 US mayors to adopt the Paris Climate agreement. He is the current chair of C40 Cities – a network of 97 of the world’s biggest cities taking bold climate action and has led the organisation’s engagement and expansion in India as well as C40’s global response to the Covid pandemic through the sharing of best practices and resources, said the White House. Garcetti’s familiarity with the region owes also to his 12 years as Intelligence Officer in the US Navy Reserve Component. Garcetti served under the Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet and the Defense Intelligence Agency, retiring in 2017 as a Lieutenant. He is a Rhodes Scholar and studied at Queen’s College, Oxford and the London School of Economics and Political Science. His website as LA mayor says he is also a jazz pianist and photographer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-names-close-political-ally-eric-garcetti-to-be-us-ambassador-to-india-101625862931988.html
10-07-2021||World||Joe Biden nominates mayor of Los Angeles Eric Garcetti to be US ambassador to India||President Joe Biden has nominated Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti to serve as ambassador to India, the White House said Friday, selecting a high-profile ally to serve in one of the most difficult diplomatic posts.Garcetti, if confirmed, would be dispatched to India as it has been overwhelmed by a surge in coronavirus infections and deaths.The White House also announced Friday that Biden is nominating Democratic fundraiser Denise Bauer to serve as ambassador to Monaco, career foreign service officer Peter Haas to serve as ambassador to Bangladesh and former Obama-era national security aide Bernadette Meehan to serve as ambassador to Chile.Garcetti, who considered a 2020 White House bid and later became part of Biden’s inner circle, emerged as a widely discussed possibility to join Biden’s Cabinet last year. But he took himself out of the running, saying the raging coronavirus crisis made it impossible for him to step away.The two-term mayor would leave LA with an uneven record. He has been credited with continuing a transit buildup in a city choked with traffic, establishing tougher earthquake safety standards for thousands of buildings and steering the city though the deadly pandemic as it became a hot spot for infections. Cases have fallen steeply in the city and some restrictions have been rolled back, consistent with the trajectory in the state.But Garcetti was overmatched by a crisis of homelessness that became a national embarrassment despite the massive jump in government spending to fight it. Many streets and sidewalks remain cratered and crumbling, despite his early pledge to make fixing them a cornerstone of his administration.A lawsuit alleges that a former top staffer sexually harassed one of the mayor’s police bodyguards while Garcetti ignored it or laughed it off. The mayor denies the claims. One of his former deputy mayors was also indicted on corruption charges in an ongoing federal investigation at City Hall. And as is the case in many large cities, the crime rate in LA is spiking.In picking Garcetti, Biden is rewarding a loyalist who was one of his national campaign co-chairs, who served on the committee that vetted his pool of vice presidential contenders and who served as one of several co-chairs for Biden’s inaugural committee.Bauer, who served as ambassador to Belgium, is a prominent Democratic fundraiser. She served as executive director of Women for Biden during his last run for the White House. She served in a similar role in President Barack Obama's 2012 campaign.Haas, whose career at the State Department includes stints across five geographical bureaus and as consul general in Mumbai, currently serves as acting assistant secretary of state and as principal deputy assistant secretary for economic and business affairs.Meehan, who is the executive vice president of global programs for the Obama Foundation, spent over a decade as a foreign service officer and was a National Security Council spokesperson during the Obama administration.Biden has stepped up ambassadorial nominations in recent weeks.Among his other picks are former Interior Secretary Ken Salazar as ambassador to Mexico, former Deputy Secretary of State Tom Nides as ambassador to Israel, and retired airline pilot Chesley ”Sully” Sullenberger, most famous for negotiating the emergency landing of a US Airways plane on the Hudson River in 2009 with no fatalities, to serve as U.S. representative on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization.Biden is also expected to nominate former longtime State Department official Nicholas Burns to serve as his ambassador to China and former Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel to serve as ambassador to Japan, according to a person familiar with the decisions who was not authorized to comment publicly on the matter and spoke on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-nominates-mayor-of-los-angeles-eric-garcetti-to-be-us-ambassador-to-india-101625860668915.html
10-07-2021||World||Joe Biden calls Vladimir Putin, asks him to act on ransomware attacks||US President Joe Biden said on Friday that he pressed Russian President Vladimir Putin to act against groups conducting ransomware attacks from his territory.In comments made during a signing ceremony in Washington, Biden said he told Putin, "When a ransomware operation is coming from his soil even though it's not sponsored by the state, we expect them to act if we give them enough information to act on who that is."Ransomware - a breed of malicious software which hackers use to hold data hostage in exchange for payment - has become an increasingly powerful scourge for businesses across the world. Cybercriminals have used it to paralyze thousands of American organizations, setting off a series of increasingly high-profile crises.Many of the gangs carrying out the ransomware attacks are alleged by American officials and cybersecurity researchers to be operating out of Russia with the awareness, if not the approval, of the government there.Biden had warned Putin about cyberattacks in person during a summit in Geneva last month, telling his Russian counterpart that disruptive intrusions against critical infrastructure should be off limits.In his remarks Friday, Biden said that he and his Russian counterpart had "set up a means of communication now on a regular basis to be able to communicate with one another when each of us thinks something is happening in another country that affects the home country."Biden said he was optimistic following the call."It went well," he said.Internet crime has bedeviled US-Russian relations since the 1990s, when American cyber experts first began complaining of spam emails from Russia. But the sheer disruptive power of ransomware has taken the issue to a new level.In May cybercriminals alleged to be operating from Russia froze the operations of critical fuel transport group Colonial Pipeline, setting off gasoline shortages, price spikes and panic buying on the East Coast.The following month a different Russia-linked group struck meatpacker JBS, briefly disrupting its food supply chain. Last week the same hackers claimed responsibility for a mass ransomware outbreak centered on Florida IT firm Kaseya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-calls-vladimir-putin-asks-him-to-act-on-ransomware-attacks-101625858576764.html
10-07-2021||India||‘No deliberate under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths’: Kerala CM||There is no under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in Kerala and the state has been following the death protocol in letter and spirit while the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has lauded it several times, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said while addressing the media on Saturday.“Reporting all deaths under such trying circumstances is difficult. We haven’t done deliberate under-reporting. If there are complaints we will look into them,” he saidHis reply at a time when many complaints surfaced regarding the under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in the state. A section of media stated that the government reported only 404 Covid-19 deaths officially in May while the actual figure was more than 10,000. Local bodies’ death registration figures contradicted the official data in the last three months, media reports based on the reply obtained under the Right to Information Act, indicated.The CM cited the case of a north Indian state and said when more than one lakh died in that state, the official toll was only 2,461. He said such things will never happen in a state like Kerala. “Such a situation never arose in Kerala. We reported at least one death out of three. There is no deliberate attempt towards this,” he said.But the opposition Congress said its workers have started compiling details of all Covid-19 deaths and it will release it if the government failed to do so by next week.Though the CM expressed concern over the high test positivity rate (TPR), he said there is no need to panic about this. Vijayan said in many states, the second wave started in March and peaked immediately but in Kerala, it began in May and its progression is slow. Meanwhile, the state reported 14,087 new cases on Saturday with a test positivity rate of 10.7 per cent. The average TPR of the last seven days in the state was 10.4, health ministry statistics show. Kerala has an active caseload of 1,15,226 infected patients. For almost a month, the state has been reporting almost one-third of the total Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deliberate-under-reporting-of-covid-19-deaths-kerala-cm-101625941295161.html
10-07-2021||India||Zika virus not spread by contact, not cause of concern right now: Health expert||The Zika virus, of which 14 cases have been reported in Kerala, is not spread by aerosols or contact and is not a major cause for concern at this time, said Dr Mathew Varghese, Public health expert and former director of St Stephens Hospital in Delhi.While speaking to ANI, Dr Varghese, however, warned that epidemiologists and the state health department should be concerned about the resurfacing of the virus."Zika virus is not spread by contact or aerosols. It is spread by mosquitos. That is a different epidemiology. I would not worry about it at this point in time. Epidemiologists and the Kerala Public Health dept has to be concerned that from somwhere Zika has come, and find a way to control the virus and mosquitoes. We should not create a scare among the people," he said.Kerala has reported 14 cases of the Zika virus, the state health department informed on Friday, adding that an action plan has been formulated for its prevention. A high alert has been flagged in all districts, especially for pregnant woman, were confirmed infected with the mosquito-borne virusWhile speaking about the rapid pace of virus mutations in the country, the public health expert said that it is normal for viruses to mutate and people have to prepared to have these in the environment."It is normal for viruses to mutate. They will keep mutating. This is the norm, it's not unusual. We have to be prepared for various types of variants in the environment and have to be careful," Dr Varghese said, adding that length and extent of carefulness are important.Asked about the massive crowds witnessed at hill stations over the last few days amid the pandemic, Varghese said that people should be allowed to go out to open tourist spaces but they should follow protocol very strictly, including face masks and frequent sanitisation."Tourist spots are getting crowded because people are getting more and more fed up with the closed lockdown life, and I think we need to grant it to them. Allow them to have open spaces but they must follow precautions very strictly, especially in indoor spaces," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-not-spread-by-contact-not-cause-of-concern-right-now-health-expert-101625938700152.html
10-07-2021||India||15 confirmed Zika virus cases in Kerala: Tamil Nadu, Karnataka intensify measures||The total number of persons infected with the Zika virus in Kerala has gone up to 15, with the state health ministry confirming one more case on Saturday. The samples of a 40-year-old man from Nanthancode which was sent to the National Institute of Alappuzha has been found to be positive. Neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have upped the guard, though Zika can mostly spread from one person to another through a mosquito bite.Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore administration has intensified vehicle checks on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border, where e-passes were already mandatory.Karnataka's health department has asked officials to intensify vector control measures and identified Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chamarajanagara as districts that need to be more vigilant. "In view of reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighbouring state of Kerala, it is crucial to intensify the vector control measures in Karnataka also. The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of Aedes mosquito, which is a vector for Zika Virus Disease," a circular by the Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare Services said.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Zika cases are not unexpected as it is the same Aedes Aegypte that causes dengue and chikungunya are responsible for Zika.Aedes aegypti is prevalent in Karnataka as well and that is why routine surveillance has to be intensified, the Karnataka government has said.Pregnant woman first case in KeralaThe first case of Zika was reported in Kerala on Thursday. That the number has now risen to 15 shows that the virus has somewhat spread in the state. The 24-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with fever, headache and red spots on June 28. As her sample was sent for examination, Zika was confirmed, On July 7, the woman gave birth normally. She did not travel outside the state but went to meet her mother who stays near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. Her mother too had similar symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-confirmed-zika-virus-cases-in-kerala-tn-nadu-karnataka-intensify-measures-101625935846035.html
10-07-2021||India||Watch: DK Shivakumar allegedly slaps a man for this reason||A video of Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar allegedly slapping a man went viral on social media after BJP leaders shared the video and sought an answer for Shivakumar's behaviour from party leader Rahul Gandhi. "Have you given DKS the licence for violence?" BJP National general secretary CT Ravi asked Rahul Gandhi in a tweet that had the video.Reports said Shivakumar got irritated with the man as he tried to put his arms around him when Shivakumar went to Madhya to inquire about the health of veteran leader G Made Gowda.After the incident, he reportedly asked the cameraman to delete the footage and asked the person to be responsible, PTI reported.Shivakumar later commented on his action and did not deny slapping the party worker who tried to come close to him. "...what to say if one puts his arms around? What will the people say? Can we allow such a thing because he is a karyakarta (worker)? What will others looking at it say?" Shivakum asked.Karnataka CONgress President @DKShivakumar SLAPS his party worker in full public view.If this is how the "former shishya" of Kotwal Ramachandra treats his party worker, one can imagine what he would do with Others.Have you given DKS the "licence for violence", @RahulGandhi? pic.twitter.com/JuuSBsALwG"Karnataka CONgress President @DKShivakumar SLAPS his party worker in full public view. If this is how the "former shishya" of Kotwal Ramachandra treats his party worker, one can imagine what he would do with Others. Have you given DKS the "licence for violence", @RahulGandhi?" CT Ravi tweeted.The BJP Karnataka Twitter handle dug out an old video of DK Shivakumar allegedly assaulting someone for trying to click a selfie with him and said Shivakumar should quit public life if his "underworld-like behaviour" is unavoidable.ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕವಾಗಿ ಹೇಗೆ ನಡೆದುಕೊಳ್ಳಬೇಕೆಂದು ಕೆಪಿಸಿಸಿ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷ @DKShivakumar ಮೊದಲು ಅರಿತುಕೊಳ್ಳಬೇಕು.ಈ ಹಿಂದೆ ವಿದ್ಯಾರ್ಥಿಯೊಬ್ಬ ಸೆಲ್ಫಿ ತೆಗೆದ ಎಂಬ ಕಾರಣಕ್ಕೆ ಆತನ ಮೇಲೆ ಹಲ್ಲೆ ನಡೆಸಿದ್ದರು.#ಮಹಾನಾಯಕ ಡಿಕೆಶಿಯವರೇ ಭೂಗತ ಜಗತ್ತಿನ ರೀತಿಯ ವರ್ತನೆಗಳು ನಿಮಗೆ ಅನಿವಾರ್ಯ ಎಂದಾದರೆ ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕ ಜೀವನ ಬಿಟ್ಟುಬಿಡಿ.#ರೌಡಿಡಿಕೆಶಿ pic.twitter.com/Daq4bon2rQIn its criticism, BJP termed DKS as a former disciple of Kotwal Ramachandra who was an underworld don of then Bangalore in the 1970s and '80s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-dk-shivakumar-allegedly-slaps-a-man-for-this-reason-101625931187869.html
10-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir administration dismisses 11 employees from service over alleged terror links||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sacked 11 of its employees, including sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, for allegedly working as over ground workers (OWGs) for terrorists, officials said on Saturday. The dismissed employees are from the Jammu and Kashmir Police, the education, agriculture, skill development, power and health departments, as well as the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), officials further said.Among those sacked, Syed Ahmed Shakeel and Shahid Yousuf, are Salahuddin’s sons. While one was employed with the SKIMS, the other was working for the education department. Explaining their termination, officials said the National Investigation Agency (NIA) tracked terror funding trails of the duo, and found them involved in raising, recovering, collecting and transferring funds through non-banking transactions for terror activities of their father’s organisation.Of those dismissed from service, four are from Anantnag, three from Budgam, and one each from Baramulla, Srinagar, Kupwara and Pulwama. Their dismissal took place under Article 11 of the Constitution, under which no inquiry is required, and those sacked can only approach a high court to seek relief.Officials explained how action was recommended against those sacked from service. “The designated committee in the Union territory, which scrutinises such cases, in its third and fourth meeting, recommended the dismissal of three and eight employees, respectively, from government service,” they explained, adding that of those recommended for dismissal in the third meeting, one was allegedly an OGW for the Lashkar-e-Taiba while the other two were found involved in “anti-national” activities.From the eight employees recommended for dismissal in the fourth meeting, officials said, two were constables in the Jammu and Kashmir Police, and allegedly provided inside information and logistical support to the terrorists.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-dismisses-11-employees-from-service-over-alleged-terror-links-101625930271517.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre reviews measures taken by states to check Covid amid tourist influx and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.What are hill stations doing to check Covid amid tourist influx? Centre reviewsThe Centre on Saturday reviewed the steps taken by the state governments to check the spread of the Covid-19 cases in hill stations and tourist locations amid a heavy influx of tourists. Read more'Shocked to the core': Maneka Gandhi's message as she shuts her centre after dog cruelty video goes viralSanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre in Delhi will be shutting down from August 1 for a complete overhaul, former minister and Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi tweeted on Saturday. Read moreTaliban calls China a 'friend', promises not to host Uyghur militants in Afghanistan: ReportThe Taliban has said the group sees China as a “friend” to Afghanistan, hoping Chinese investment for reconstruction work in the war-torn country, according to a media report. Read moreAnanya Panday, sister Rysa are consoled by mother Bhavana Pandey at grandma's funeral; Chunky performs last ritesAnanya Panday was inconsolable at the death of her grandmother Snehlata Panday. Pictures from the funeral show the actor and her sister Rysa crying as their mother Bhavana Pandey consoled them. Read moreVVS Laxman's contract as batting consultant extended by CABVVS Laxman's contract as batting consultant of the Bengal cricket team has been extended by the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) on Saturday. Read moreNo needle in the haystack this! Rancher uses Apple Watch to find his iPhone in a haystackApple has released a new video advert that showcases one of the pretty cool features you can find on the Apple Watch and the iPhone. In the ad called “Haystack” Apple has shown how you can find your smartphone with the help of your watch. Read moreWatch: Kappa variant of Covid: Cases in Uttar Pradesh, transmissibility | Key details||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-reviews-measures-taken-by-states-to-check-covid-amid-tourist-influx-and-all-the-latest-news-101625928923030.html
10-07-2021||India||New Covid strains can emerge, virus will keep mutating, says top health expert||With the fear of a possible third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) looming over, and amid the rising cases of Delta variant across the globe, a top public health expert has cautioned that several new kinds of variants may emerge in the future as it will keep mutating.Speaking to news agency ANI, Dr Mathew Varghese, public health expert, and former director, St. Stephen’s Hospital, New Delhi, said, “Mutation is normal for viruses and they will keep mutating as long as their viruses are multiplying. That is the norm.”Dr Varghese added that people need to be prepared for various types of mutants in the future, and stressed on the need to remain vigilant and keep following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.His remarks come at a time when tourists have been spotted crowding the northern hill states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand to beat the heatwave. Visuals of several of these travellers surfaced on social media where they flouted Covid-19 norms, including roaming around without masks and not maintaining social distance.Dr Varghese also pointed out that India’s Covid-19 vaccination hasn’t covered as much population as it has in the UK and the US. “Our population hasn't been immunised to the level that we have seen in the US where 50 per cent of the population is immunised. In the UK more than 50 per cent have received two doses. Presently, the numbers that have been immunised in our country are less,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.The expert pointed out that the number of persons who have contracted the coronavirus in the popular tourist places where overcrowding is being seen is less because they haven’t been affected by the virus outbreak to that extent.Dr Verghese further stressed that India has only recently “gone through a massive surge in the second wave,” at the beginning of June, and thus, people need to be careful.Tips to avoid getting infected with Covid-19According to Dr Verghese, vigilance needs to be maintained, particularly in areas that are witnessing a rush of tourists. He also suggested wearing masks, washing hands and social distancing while visiting tourist places.“Don’t touch the mask and if you touch it, then sanitise it. Mask is your essential shield, covering both your nose and mouth,” she added.Dr Verghese said that soap is always more efficient than sanitiser, and even while sanitising, one should always wash their entire hands and fingers. He has also recommended constant wearing of masks when outside in public areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-strains-can-emerge-virus-will-keep-mutating-says-top-health-expert-101625929779871.html
10-07-2021||India||Sabarimala temple to open for devotees from July 17-21, but conditions apply||The Sabarimala temple will open for devotees for its monthly puja from July 17 to 21, the temple authorities informed on Saturday. As the temple will be opening for the devotees amid the coronavirus pandemic, people are required to strictly adhere to Covid safety protocol to prevent the spread of the virus.Rules for visiting the temple include:Devotees who are completely vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are allowed to visit the temple. Devotees should have a complete Covid vaccination certificate.People with negative RT PCR reports, issued within 48 hours, will be allowed to visit.A maximum of 5,000 devotees will be allowed through the online booking system.The Covid-19 situation in Kerala has not moved much as the state is still reporting around 15,000 daily cases. As many as 14,087 people were found to be infected with the virus in Kerala on Saturday, while 109 succumbed to the disease, according to the state government data, PTI reported.Also read: Kerala on alert after 14 Zika cases, Centre sends expertsThe new additions pushed the state's infection tally to more than 3 million (3,053,116) and the death toll to 14,489. More than 11,000 were cured of the viral infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 2.9 million (2,922,921), the state data in a PTI report showed.Malappuram recorded the highest number of cases (1883), followed by Thrissur (1705), Kozhikode (1540), Ernakulam (1465), Kollam (1347), Palakkad (1207) and Thiruvananthapuram (949), as per the report.Of the total new cases reported in the past one day, 53 are health workers, 98 came from outside the state and 13,240 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 696 cases, the release said, PTI reported.The temple was closed to devotees in view of rising coronavirus cases in the country. The temple of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala was opened on April 10 with restrictions for an eight-day Vishnu festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-to-open-for-devotees-from-july-17-21-but-conditions-apply-101625926673546.html
10-07-2021||India||What are hill stations doing to check Covid amid tourist influx? Centre reviews||The Centre on Saturday reviewed the steps taken by the state governments to check the spread of the Covid-19 cases in hill stations and tourist locations amid a heavy influx of tourists. While Himachal Pradesh and Uttrakhand have seen a deluge of careless tourists in the past few days, the Centre also enquired about the actions being taken by other states like Goa, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal --- a mix of states which are reporting a higher number of cases and states which are flooded with tourists.In a meeting, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla warned the states and said that the second wave of the pandemic is not over and the local authorities have to ensure that Covid-appropriate protocols are strictly adhered to.Tourist influx, fresh threatWith the easing of lockdown restrictions, tourists have started flocking to hill stations of Shimla, Manali, Mussoorie, which has emerged as a fresh threat to the declining Covid-19 trend in the country. Photos and videos circulating on social media platforms show that they are not maintaining social distancing. They are not even wearing masks. The recent video from Mussoorie's Kempty Falls showed hundreds of unmasked people revelling at the falls with no social distancing. The union health ministry has taken note of these photos and videos and said these are open invitations to Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first meeting with the council of ministers raised the issue and urged his ministers to sensitise people without spreading fear.Look at Russia, UK, Bangladesh: Government's fresh warning to revenge travellersThe threat of a fresh rise will increase if these tourists do not quarantine them upon returning from these vacations. What are hill stations doing to control crowds?The onus lies on the local administration as a complete lockdown at this point of time will hurt local businesses.> After the viral photo, the Uttarakhand government on Friday capped the number of visitors at Mussoorie's Kemply falls to 50. It has also said that these 50 people can not stay at the falls beyond half an hour.> The district administration of Dehradun has made negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for people visiting Mussorie.> Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has asked Dehradun and Nainital hotels to cap occupancy at 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-are-hill-stations-doing-to-check-covid-amid-tourist-influx-centre-reviews-101625925919676.html
10-07-2021||India||Monsoon to reach Delhi, northwest India in a day, says IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to reach northwest India in the next few days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted fairly widespread to widespread rainfall in isolated parts of northwest India including Delhi, Haryana and Punjab during the next five days as the easterly winds have made conditions favourable for the advancement of southwest monsoon.The lower-level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal have extended northwestwards, reaching up to Delhi, Haryana and east Rajasthan as on Saturday, the Met department said, adding that low-level relative humidity has also increased over the region.Also read: IMD forecasts 'good' rainfall in Madhya Pradesh from July 11 to 16"Hence, the conditions continue to remain favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh and some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours," the IMD said.Under the influence of these conditions, the department said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is very likely over northwest India during the next five days.It also projected isolated heavy rainfall in Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand during July 10-13. Heavy rainfall is expected over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and west Uttar Pradesh during July 11-13 and over east Rajasthan during July 10-12."Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh & Uttarakhand during 10th-13th July; over Punjab during 10th-13th July; over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh during 11th-13th July; over East Rajasthan during 10th-12th July," the department tweeted.It also added that the conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over remaining parts of the country during the subsequent 48 hours.This is reported to be the most-delayed monsoon in Delhi in the last 15 years, according to the officials, reported PTI.Monsoon had reached Delhi on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006, as per the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre Kuldeep Srivastava, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-reach-delhi-northwest-india-in-a-day-says-imd-101625919294372.html
10-07-2021||India||'Shocked to the core': Maneka Gandhi's message as she shuts her centre after dog cruelty video goes viral||Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre in Delhi will be shutting down from August 1 for a complete overhaul, former minister and Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi tweeted on Saturday. This move comes after a video of a para vet of the centre assaulting a dog after it bit him went viral on social media. Founded in 1980, this animal care centre is India's oldest and Delhi's largest all-animal centre. As its website says, the centre was founded in 1980 from a legacy bequeathed by Mrs Ruth Cowell of New South Wales, Australia to Sanjay Gandhi.On July 5, a video on social media went viral. The video did not claim that the incident took place in Maneka Gandhi's centre, but alleged the same. In her statement issued on Saturday, Maneka Gandhi took the onus and admitted that the video was indeed from her centre and she is shocked to the core."The incident has shocked us all to the core -- I have been personally seething with rage and have been sick to my stomach since I watched the horrifying video. We immediately filed an FIR against the para-vets and they have been arrested. The doctor in-charge of the section has been given a notice to leave. But this is not enough," Maneka Gandhi wrote.Announcing that the centre will remain closed for a complete overhaul, Maneka said that the centre will not rescue animals during the overhaul period and the existing animals of the centre will be rehabilitated."We will rebuild this institution again -- physically and more importantly, in terms of staffing," the BJP MP said. The internal policies and incentive mechanisms will be reviewed and the entire dog section will be rebuilt, Maneka Gandhi said.What was the video?Poor Sick Dog Thrashed On Floor And Beaten On Mouth While The Staff Laughs💔 I received a series of Horrifying videos today from an anonymous reporter about this brutality at Sanjay Gandhi Animal Hospital 😥 Its tormenting to the soul to even watch it! @pfaindia @Manekagandhibjp! pic.twitter.com/Qoz4jS5Y0DThe video showed a blood-stained room of a dog rescue centre where a dog was trashed on the floor and then beaten up after it bit one of the caregivers. Later, the dog succumbs to the injuries.As Maneka Gandhi clarified in her statement, the two para vets who were dealing with the dog were newly appointed. The dog was naturally agitated and she was in extreme pain."We will overhaul the hospital management and its staff completely, while ensuring everyone working there is provided with animal-sensitivity training. It is time to rebuild this institution from the ground-up, and ensure that such an incident is never repeated again," Maneka said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-maneka-gandhi-s-post-as-she-shuts-centre-after-viral-dog-cruelty-video-101625921913673.html
10-07-2021||India||'Allow tourists but...' Govt's adviser has a suggestion to tackle revenge travellers||Public health expert and a member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation Dr Matthew Varghese said people have been fed up staying indoors during the lockdown and hence the tourist spots are getting crowded. Offering a way out of this situation, the doctor said it will not be right to completely restrict them, but such congregations should take place in the open, and once they return, they must have to maintain social distancing. "Mutation is normal for viruses and they will keep mutating as long as their viruses are multiplying. That is the norm. We should be prepared for various variants and have to be careful. The length and the extend of carefulness is important," Dr Mathew told news agency ANI.As tourists spots have started opening up, visitors are thronging these places without adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. The issue was even raised at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's first meeting with his revamped council of ministers on Thursday, where PM Modi mentioned that the photos and videos of these crowded places should instil fear.The Union health ministry has been reiterating that the second wave of the pandemic is not yet over. This is when utmost care should be taken as the case trajectory is declining in the maximum areas of the country.Photos and videos of the crowd from Manali, Mussoorie's Kempty Falls have gone viral on social media sending shockwaves to the local administrations which are now bringing back restrictions at a local level. RT-PCR will be mandatory for Mussoorie-bound tourists while Uttarakhand has capped hotel occupancy at 50 per cent.Threats of the third waveThe shocking instances of crowding come when 66 districts of the country are reporting more than 10% test positivity rate, and experts have said that the third wave of Covid-19 is almost "inevitable", though it may not be as severe as the 2nd wave.The health ministry has flagged that the risk does not stop at crowding only as these people, if infected, will spread the infection to many when they come back to their cities and towns from these tourists places.Why open spaceAs Dr Matthew has said crowding at open space has lesser risk than in an enclosed space. This is because the SARS-COV-2 virus gets dispersed in a well-ventilated place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-tourists-but-govt-s-adviser-has-a-suggestion-to-tackle-revenge-travellers-101625918911506.html
10-07-2021||India||‘Directed states to ensure strict compliance with Covid-19 directives’: Centre responds to Delhi high court notice||The central government on Saturday filed a status report in the Delhi high court, informing the court that it has directed all state and Union territory governments to ensure strict compliance with the national directives for management of the coronavirus pandemic, adding that states and UTs can take necessary actions under the Disaster Management Act (DMA).Also Read: Delhi high court warns of deadly third wave“MHA issued order dated 29.06.2021 directing state/UT governments and state/UT authorities to consider the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for Covid-19 management till 31.07.2021 as conveyed through MoHFW advisory dated 28.06.2021, and also take necessary measures under DMA, 2005,” the Centre said in response to the high court’s notice.In its response, the Centre also defended the opening up of activities following a decline in daily Covid-19 cases, calling it an “essential” process; however, it further said that the states and UTs should ensure that the “whole process is fully calibrated.” The national directives for Covid-19 management, it stated, include face covering, social distancing, not spitting in public faces, work from home, staggering of business/work hours, screening and hygiene, and frequent sanitisation.The report further clarified that the decision to impose or ease restrictions has to be based on the assessment of the ground situation. It also informed the high court about the “framework for implementation of prompt and target action,” which, it said, was shared by the Centre with states and UTs. “The framework also emphasises that Covid-19 management can succeed only through a whole of government and whole of society approach,” the report said.The status report was filed in response to a notice issued by the Delhi high court on June 18 to the Union government and the Delhi government, seeking their response over the violations of Covid-19 protocols in Delhi’s markets. A vacation bench of Justice Navin Chawla and Justice Asha Menon, which took suo moto cognisance of the violations, had observed that such breaches would only “hasten the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.”The bench took notice of the violation after a doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) shared with one of the judges photographs of street vendors defying Covid-19 protocols in city’s markets.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/directed-states-to-ensure-strict-compliance-with-covid-19-norms-centre-responds-to-delhi-high-court-notice-101625917693816.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Experts warn as UK sees highest daily Covid-19 cases since January and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will get worse’: Experts warn as UK reports highest new Covid cases since Jan 22As the United Kingdom prepares for dropping most of the pandemic-induced restrictions on July 19, experts are concerned about the government's approach amid rising cases of Covid-19. Read moreOutgoing Jharkhand governor says new governor to take a call on TAC rowJharkhand’s outgoing governor Droupadi Murmu said Article 244 of the Constitution gives special powers to the governor and it should be respected by all. Read moreBCCI, SLC announce revised schedule for India vs Sri Lanka ODIs and T20IsThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) on Saturday announced the revised schedule of India’s upcoming tour of Sri Lanka. Read more‘Relevant, riveting, real’: Smriti Irani shares video featuring Dilip Kumar, leaves netizens emotionalLegendary actor Dilip Kumar passed away on July 7 at the age of 98. Since his demise, netizens are sharing tributes on different social media platforms. Read moreGeeta Basra and Harbhajan Singh welcome a baby boy: 'Our lives are complete'On Saturday, cricketer Harbhajan Singh announced that he and actor Geeta Basra have been blessed with a baby boy. The couple is already parents to a daughter, Hinaya Heer Plaha. Read moreIndia reaffirms commitment to Syria-led UN-facilitated political processIndia reaffirmed its commitment to a Syrian-led & owned UN-facilitated political process. India said that this was to help bring long term security in the conflict-ridden region. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-experts-warn-as-uk-sees-highest-daily-covid-19-cases-since-january-and-all-the-latest-news-101625914482064.html
10-07-2021||India||Doyen of Ayurveda Dr P K Warrier dies at 100||Dr P K Warrier, who popularised Ayurveda, died in Kerala’s Kottakal on Saturday a month after celebrating his 100th birthday on June 8, his family said. Decorated with the country’s third and fourth highest civilian awards -Padma Bhushan in 2010 and Padma Shri in 1999 - Warrier was also a freedom fighter. He was known as a connoisseur of arts, an author and a teacher. Warrier remained the managing trustee of Kottakal Aryavaidya Sala till his death. He took over the family-run company at a young age and made Aryavadiya Sala a well-known brand.The youngest of six siblings, Warrier was born in 1921. He joined the freedom movement while he was still in college. He dropped out to join the Quit India movement on Mahatma Gandhi’s call in the 1940s. Warrier later grew closer to the Communist movement before quitting politics to take care of the family business. He became a trustee of the Aryavaidya Sala, founded by his uncle in 1902, at 24. He was the in-charge of its medicine-making unit and later became the managing trustee of the group after his elder brother, P M Warrier, died in an air crash in 1953.P K Warrier, who is survived by his two children, treated patients till the Covid-19 pandemic struck. He was also infected and later recovered from Covid-19, his family said.Warrier is known to have been instrumental in modernising the packaging of Ayurveda medicines, which were earlier available in the forms of kashayam (concoction) and choornam (herbal powder). He helped develop its tablet and tonic forms. An authority on medicinal plants and herbs, he also set up an R&D unit in the 1960s to help modernise the traditional form of medicine. When he took over, the firm’s turnover was ₹9 lakh. It is now over ₹500 crore, and the firm has branches in almost all major cities of the country. The firm runs five major hospitals, an R&D centre, two medicine factories, 1500 retail outlets and two herbal gardens. The firm was instrumental in making rejuvenation therapy famous and attracted many film stars and leaders to Kottakal, which has become synonymous with Ayurveda.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled Warrier’s death. “His contribution to popularise Ayurveda will always be remembered,” Modi tweeted. Khan said as a physician, Warrier was committed to the scientific pursuit of Ayurveda. “He will be remembered for the matchless contribution to the modernisation of Ayurveda,” said Khan. Vijayan said Warrier was instrumental in taking ancient science to global fame. “From the heads of the state to the poor, he treated everyone on par.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doyen-of-ayurveda-dr-p-k-warrier-dies-at-100-101625915554408.html
10-07-2021||India||What is two-child policy? What Assam and Uttar Pradesh have proposed||Legislation that bars people from availing of government subsidies and other government benefits if they have more than two children is known as a two-child policy. India does not have a national child policy but two BJP states Uttar Pradesh and Assam have moved towards this direction.Assam's population control policy proposalAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has been a strong supporter of the two-child policy. The government is likely to bring new legislation for this policy in the state Budget session starting from July 12.In 2017, Assam had brought in the Population and Women Empowerment Policy in which government employees were asked to strictly follow the two-child norm. The new law may bring loan waiver and other government schemes under this population rule. But Sarma has said that tea garden workers and SC/ST community will not be included in that.In the first week of July, Sarma met the indigenous Muslim community and said that similar such discussions with Bengali-speaking Muslims will also be held. "Population explosion in some parts of Assam has posed a real threat to the development of the state," Sarma said.Uttar Pradesh two-child policy proposalUttar Pradesh's law commission has come up with a similar proposal where any person having more than two children will be barred from getting government subsidies. The proposal is on the lines of what the Assam government already has -- a person with more than two children can not apply for a government job or contest local body election."The personal law governing A allows polygamy. A has three wives B, C and D. A and B, A and C, and A and D shall be counted as three distinct married couples so far as the status of B, C and D is concerned but as far as the status of A is concerned, it shall be counted as one married couple for the purpose of calculation of the cumulative number of children," the draft says.Two-child policy in other statesWhile these two states are new in this direction, there are several other states which have this rule for specific things like contesting in local body elections etc.In Rajasthan, if a person has more than two children, they are disqualified from contesting the local elections. A similar provision barring people with more than two children from contesting local elections exist in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-two-child-policy-what-assam-and-uttar-pradesh-have-proposed-101625911705691.html
10-07-2021||India||Mother Dairy to hike milk prices by ₹2 per litre from Sunday. Details||Milk supplier Mother Dairy on Saturday announced that the price of its liquid milk will go up by ₹2 per litre in Delhi-NCR with effect from Sunday. The new prices that are being revised after more than a year will be applicable for all new milk variants.The hike in milk prices comes as the cooperative is experiencing inflationary pressure on overall input costs that have risen multifold in last year. Mother Dairy said it is "compelled to raise" the prices. "Mother Dairy is compelled to raise its liquid milk prices by ₹2/litre in Delhi NCR with effect from July 11, 2021. The new prices will be applicable for all milk variants. The milk prices were last revised about 1.5 years ago in December 2019," Mother Dairy said in an official release, according to news agency ANI.Also read: UP law panel proposes 'two-child' population policy. All you need to knowIn the last year, farm prices have increased up to 8-10 per cent, with a surge in operational costs of processing, packaging, logistics etc. It is pertinent to note that the farm prices of milk alone have firmed up by about 4 per cent in the last three to four weeks, the official release read, said the ANI report.The milk prices are also being raised across other major markets like East and Central Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, Nagpur, Kolkata, etc from Sunday to the tune of ₹2 per litre on the current MRP in the respective markets.Mother Daily sells around 30 lakh litres of milk per day in Delhi-NCR, while the total sale is 35 lakh litre per day, as per PTI.It further said that despite paying higher prices towards milk procurement, the consumer prices were kept intact. With the new revision, the milk prices are undergoing a change of 4 per cent.The milk cooperative also said that the hike in farm prices is only being partially passed on to the consumers, thereby securing the interests of both the stakeholders. It passes close to 75-80 per cent of the sales realization from milk towards the procurement of milk.Prior to this, Mother Dairy's competitor Amul also raised milk prices across all cities by ₹2 per litre on July 1.Revised prices here:Bulk vended milk (token milk) to be sold at ₹44 per litre from Sunday against its current price of ₹42 per litre.Full cream milk to be sold at ₹57 per litre from Sunday.Toned milk will be available at ₹47 and double toned milk (Live Lite) to be available at ₹41 from Sunday.Cow milk to cost ₹49 Sunday onwards.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-dairy-to-hike-milk-prices-by-rs-2-per-litre-from-sunday-details-101625907720164.html
10-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 lockdown extended till July 19; shops to open till 9pm||The Tamil Nadu government announced on Saturday that the state's Covid-19 induced lockdown is being extended by a week till July 19. The government also announced further relaxations which, it said, will come into effect at 6am on Monday when the existing guidelines, which were announced last Friday when the lockdown was extended till July 12, come to an end.According to an order issued by chief minister MK Stalin-led government, restaurants, tea shops, roadside shops, snacks shops and bakeries can now open for one more hour, till 9pm, at an occupancy of 50%. Last week, the Tamil Nadu government allowed these to open till 8pm, from the earlier deadline of 7pm.Additionally, the government has also allowed competitive exams for state and Union government services to be held, though officials will have to ensure strict compliance with the standard operating procedure (SOP). Examination agencies will be required to inform respective district administrations in advance.Also, in continuation with last week's order, schools, colleges, theatres, bars, swimming pools, swimming pools, zoos, biological parks etc. will remain closed. All social/political/cultural events, too, will remain prohibited. Several other relaxations, which were announced last week, will also continue to stay in force.On Friday, a total of 3,039 new Covid-19 cases and 69 deaths due to the infection were detected in Tamil Nadu, according to a health department bulletin on the day. With this, the state's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has risen to 2,513,098 including 33,322 related fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-july-12-shops-to-open-till-9pm-101625907866718.html
10-07-2021||India||UP law panel proposes 'two-child' population policy. All you need to know||The Uttar Pradesh law commission formulated a proposal for population control and welfare, rewarding couples that adhere to a 'two-child policy'. The UP law commission said that the policy will be voluntary — it will not be enforced upon anyone. However, if any person decides to "voluntarily" keep the number of their family members limited, they will be eligible for government schemes. On the other hand, if someone doesn't follow the policy, they will face restrictions in government jobs, availing ration, and other benefits.The Uttar Pradesh law commission has made several proposals in the draft population control act. The commission has also sought recommendations for changes to be made in the draft -- which can be sent via e-mail or post by July 19."We have proposed that any couple that follows a two-child policy will be given all government benefits," said UP law commission chairman Aditya Nath Mittal. "They will be able to avail all government welfare schemes."Mittal said that if someone does not follow the 'two-child' policy aimed at population control, they won't be eligible for such government schemes. "Their ration cards will be restricted to four units, they will not be able to apply for government jobs and if they are already government employees, then they won't get a promotion," said the chairman of the UP law commission.The 'two-child' population control policy will be voluntary, he said. "If a person voluntarily keeps the number of his family members limited, they will be eligible for government schemes," the UP law commission chairman added.The commission is planning to present the policy by the second week of August, Mittal said. Earlier, the law panel had said that it was examining various family units besides their ‘polygamy and polyandry aspects’. The recommendations will be made to the state government and it is up to it to accept or reject the recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-law-panel-proposes-two-child-population-policy-all-you-need-to-know-101625905036415.html
10-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir appoints nodal officers to help Delimitation Commission||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday appointed 20 nodal officers, one in each district, to help the Delimitation Commission reorganise new constituencies in the next nine months, said a government order.“The nodal officers shall be responsible for assisting deputy Commissioners in providing timely information as may be sought by the Commission. Receiving representations from stakeholders for submission to the Commission and any other work as may be assigned by the Commission,” reads the order issued by Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, commissioner secretary to the UT government.Former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir. The commission on Friday assured that the exercise to carve out new assembly constituencies in the union territory will be conducted transparently and tried to allay fears of any gerrymandering. It rejected People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) allegations that it was pre-decided and aimed to disempower people to realize the ‘political vision of a particular political party’.During its stay in Jammu and Kashmir, the commission met 280 delegations comprising 800 people in Srinagar, Pahalgam, Kishtwar and Jammu. However, the PDP stayed away from the commission.The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there. However, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of mainstream political parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said they were disappointed over the outcome of the meeting with PM.All major political parties, except the PDP and the ANC, have met the commission and submitted memoranda of suggestions and demands on the delimitation exercise in Jammu and Kashmir.While the majority of the parties have suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and the CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be made the benchmark for the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-appoints-nodal-officers-to-help-delimitation-commission-101625905414210.html
10-07-2021||India||Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw embraces engineer on finding out they are alumnus of the same college||Ashwini Vaishnaw, who took charge as the Union railway minister on July 8 after the cabinet reshuffle, was seen embracing an engineer form the Indian Railways signal department after finding out they both belonged to MBM Engineering College in Jodhpur.In a video clip, the new minister can be seen embracing a Railways employee, after someone from the department pointed out that they both belong to the same college. Vaishnaw can be heard saying “Come, let us hug”.Vaishnaw, a former Indian Administrative Services officer of the 1994-batch, graduated with a B.Tech degree from MBM Engineering College in Jodhpur and a M.Tech degree from Indian Institute Technology, Kanpur. He is also an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of business.Also Read: Modi cabinet 2.0 has 42% ministers with criminal cases, 90% crorepatis: ReportVaishnaw also talked about how the juniors in his college referred to their seniors as “boss”, and jocularly asked his former college mate to refer to him as the boss. “You should call me boss from today," the minister joked.#railwaysminister @AshwiniVaishnaw meeting an engineer of signal dept at @RailMinIndia When he found that one employee is from the same college as him, minister said “aao Gale lagte hain! humare college main junior senior boss bolte hain.” pic.twitter.com/Vf8bu1hwlHVaishnaw, 51, will also be heading the ministries of Electronics and Information Technology and Communications along with the Railways. He has built an illustrious career working for General Electric Co. and Siemens AG before becoming an entrepreneur. After venturing into politics, he was elected to the Rajya Sabha and has also been a part of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s administration.His classmate from Wharton, Nipun Mehta, who is the chief executive officer of a fintech start-up Ula was all praises for his batchmate. He told Bloomberg that “Ashwini was one of the most brilliant people in my Wharton MBA class. He was older than most of us and had accomplished so much before coming to Wharton so the class learned quite a lot from him,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-embraces-engineer-on-finding-out-they-are-alumnus-of-the-same-college-101625903758565.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rakesh Tikait asks for 'impartial' probe on R-Day violence and all the latest news||'Should we go to UN?': Rakesh Tikait seeks 'impartial' probe into Republic Day violenceBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the incident of violence on Republic Day this year needs an "impartial investigation", for which the farmers may have to knock on the doors of the United Nations (UN). Read MoreOPD footfall dipped by 57%, surgeries by 43% at one of Delhi’s biggest hospitalsThe number of patients at the out-patient department (OPD) of one of the biggest private hospitals in Delhi dropped almost two-thirds (57.6%) last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreActivists assail Goa coastal management plan at marathon hearingsActivists and environmentalists pointed out several discrepancies in the draft of the controversial Goa coastal zone management plan during the much delayed public hearings on Thursday, with many alleging it was unlikely to protect and restore the coast. Read MoreHappy Birthday Sunil Gavaskar: BCCI pays tribute to the original Little Master as Indian cricket legend turns 72The month of July marks the birthdays of three of Indian cricket's biggest icons. Read MoreWhen Raj Kapoor shouted at Rishi Kapoor for not giving Dilip Kumar's intense look: 'Mujhe Yousuf chahiye'Raj Kapoor had once shouted at Rishi Kapoor for being unable to give the intense expression of a despondent lover that Dilip Kumar would give. Read MoreAnand Mahindra has this to say about Harleen Deol’s brilliant catchIf you’re a cricket fan, chances are you have already seen the jaw-dropping catch by Indian cricketer Harleem Deol in the first T20I against England. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rakesh-tikait-asks-for-impartial-probe-on-r-day-violence-and-all-the-latest-news-101625901194330.html
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19 in India: All you need to know about the top updates of this week||India, which is currently battling the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and is staring at a possible third wave of infections, has so far registered 30,795,716 cases and 407,145 deaths due to the viral disease. The total recoveries have climbed to 29,933,538 and the national recovery rate is at 97.2%. While the active cases stand at 455,033 and constitute 1.48% of the caseload.This week, the highest single-day spike in cases was on July 8, when 45,892 people were detected Covid-19 positive. The lowest single-day tally this week was on July 6 when 34,703 cases were recorded, the lowest in nearly four months.As many as 1,206 people succumbed to the viral disease on Saturday, the highest so far this week, while 553 deaths were recorded on July 6, the lowest tally for the week.Even though the daily infections in the country have not spiked since May 7, when more than 414,000 cases were seen, the threat of the viral disease is still looming with the emergence of delta and kappa variants.The easing of Covid-19 restrictions, lockdowns by states and Union Territories (UTs) to revive economic activities has come at a cost as people are not adhering to the virus-related protocols including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. Recently, scenes of massive crowds at hill stations and other tourist destinations with no adherence to Covid norms, has stoked fears that the third wave of the pandemic will be the most severe than the previous two.Here are the most important Covid-related updates during this week> The state of Tripura has detected at least 138 cases of the delta plus variant of Covid-19. A total 151 samples were sent to a laboratory in West Bengal for testing of which 138 were found with delta plus variant, 10 with delta variant and the remaining three with alpha variant, a state government official said.> Maharashtra is expected to bring in a few relaxations in its ongoing Covid-19 restrictions. The state government may ease curbs in a few districts which have a low test positivity rate and high vaccination coverage.> No devotees are allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in Odisha’s Puri. Only those Chariot pullers who have been fully vaccinated and have a negative RT-PCR test report will be allowed to attend the Yatra.> Several states, including Haryana and Gujarat will be opening their schools and colleges soon amid a downfall in their daily Covid-19 disease cases.> Amid the severe overcrowding of hill stations in India, specifically in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the Centre said on Friday that such behaviour is an open invitation for Covid-19 to spread.> The Union health ministry said on Friday that no cases of the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in the country till now. However, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said Lambda is a variant of interest and hence its total significance is still being explored.> Two cases of the Kappa variant have been detected in Uttar Pradesh after genome sequencing of 109 samples was done at King George’s medical college in Lucknow. The remaining 107 cases have been detected with the Delta plus variant.> The Delhi government has passed a ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ to deal with the third wave of the pandemic. Four levels of alerts have been issued on the basis of which economic activities in the national capital will be restricted.> Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reviewed the progress of oxygen augmentation and its availability in the country. During the meeting, Modi was informed that the Centre is setting up over 1,500 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants across the country, which will support over 400,000 oxygenated beds.> On July 5 (Monday), Germany lifted a ban on travellers from India, Nepal, the United Kingdom, Portugal and Russia, which have been hit by the delta variant of Covid-19.> India will now provide CoWin, a vaccine registration platform, as a digital public good to other countries to conduct their own vaccination drive against Covid-19. Fifty countries including Mexico, Canada, Uganda, Nigeria are interested in adopting CoWIN to run their inoculation drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-top-updates-of-this-week-101625898869789.html
10-07-2021||India||Activists assail Goa coastal management plan at marathon hearings||Activists and environmentalists pointed out several discrepancies in the draft of the controversial Goa coastal zone management plan during the much delayed public hearings on Thursday, with many alleging it was unlikely to protect and restore the coast. “The plan has several omissions of fishing villages, fishing sites and traditional access routes to the coast have not been shown. We are demanding that the plans submitted by the coastal villages which accurately reflect local knowledge, be accepted and incorporated into the final plan,” Abhijit Prabhudesai, an activist said. The plan, which is a statutory document under the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification of 2011, was initially meant to have been ready by 2015 but has seen several delays forcing the National Green Tribunal to ban fresh permissions for coastal development or business until the plan is finalized. Environmental activist group Goa Foundations said the draft contained “no management plan for the sand dunes anywhere, no management plan for the turtle nesting beaches, no management plan for the khazan lands [and] no management plan for the mangroves.”“The local communities for whom the notification was designed and intended to benefit have not been consulted in its preparation. They are now being asked to acquiesce in the draft prepared by experts who have little credible knowledge of local conditions and have made huge errors. The draft plan, therefore, focuses only on geomorphological descriptions of the coastal area,” the Goa Foundation, which refrained from participating in the public hearing, but submitted written submissions, said. Among the foremost complaints, the activists have said that Goa’s khazan lands, which are an intricate system of low lying lands that are inundated during high tides, have been either only partially marked or erroneously classified in different villages. “A Khazan Management Plan should have been under preparation from January 2011. This was nowhere done and the department of Environment and the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority should be held criminally responsible for this lapse,” the Goa Foundation said. According to Dr Antonio Mascarenhas, a scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography, the plan misses out on a dune conservation policy including its management, restoration and rebuilding. “A robust CZMP must contain a dune conservation and restoration package,” he said. Activist Avinash Tavares alleged only a fraction of the total sand dunes were shown on the plan leaving others open for construction and destruction along the coast. “The sand dunes shown in the draft CZMP are but a subset of the total number of sand dunes in Goa. The sand dunes shown are those which have not been covered by vegetation, landscaping, encroached upon by temporary or permanent structures and on areas where the owner has applied for development permission. All coastal sand dunes and sand dune areas must be shown inspite of any legal/illegal structure before and after 1991,” he said. Stakeholders also pointed out omissions of other marine ecosystems ranging from coral reefs to turtle nesting sites. “The CZMP maps have not included all areas in Goa known to support coral reefs, including areas north of Grande Island and around Pequeno Island. Turtle nesting sites have also not been accurately marked. This is particularly concerning considering that the identification of these sites will determine the kind of development permitted in their vicinity,” a group of researchers said in their submission. They have called for the creation of specific management plans for each ecosystem that take into account ecological value as well as the usage of these systems by various stakeholders. “We suggest the following ecosystems are included: coral reefs, seagrass meadows, dolphin foraging sites, rocky intertidal areas, seaweed dominated areas and important bird habitats. Each of these is important for the ecology and biodiversity of the state, and many can be easily degraded and overexploited. We recommend that during the drafting of these plans all stakeholders, including tourism operators and researchers, are extensively consulted,” they added. Activists and ecologists who participated in the hearing alleged that thetwo sessions held simultaneously in North and South Goa seemed more like an official formality than a sincere attempt to hear public opinion.While only 45 out of more than 700 registered could speak at the South Goa hearing, in North Goa, the hearing concluded well past midnight with speakers not allowed more than 15 minutes each. “To add to this, so many speakers just could not continue till this late. It seems that they just wanted to tick a box and say that the hearing was done. The disregard for the people of Goa and the people in Goa was obvious,” Albertina Almeida an activist, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-assail-goa-coastal-management-plan-at-marathon-hearings-101625898993714.html
10-07-2021||India||'Should we go to UN?': Rakesh Tikait seeks 'impartial' probe into Republic Day violence||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the incident of violence on Republic Day this year needs an "impartial investigation", for which the farmers may have to knock on the doors of the United Nations (UN). He clarified that leaders of the movement had not talked about going to the UN over the farm laws, and had only brought up the issue in relation to the January 26 incident."Is there any agency here that can conduct an impartial investigation? If not, should we take this matter to the UN?" asked Tikait, a prominent leader of the ongoing protests by farmers at the border areas of the national capital.Tikait, however, clarified that the leaders of the movement had never mentioned taking the issue over the farm laws to the international agency."We had not said that we will take up the issue of new farm bills at the United Nations. We had only responded to a question over the January 26 incident," Tikait said.If the Centre wants discussion on farm laws, we're ready for talks. From July 22 onwards, 200 of our people will hold protests near Parliament: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitOn January 26, a section of farmers protesting against the Centre’s contentious farm laws clashed with police after the tractor rally planned by them diverted from the designated route and stormed into the Red Fort. They hoisted a religious flag and that of the farmers’ union on its domes.While one of the protesters was killed, as many as 394 police personnel and several farmers sustained injuries in the clash.The Delhi Police has till now filed two charge sheets in connection with the violence at Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally. The first charge sheet, filed on May 17, concerned the violence at Red Fort and the video evidence against each person on the day of the incident. The supplementary charge sheet, filed on June 17, has statements from Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel who were the first witnesses to the violence and were also allegedly attacked by rioters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-we-go-to-un-rakesh-tikait-seeks-impartial-probe-into-republic-day-violence-101625896727162.html
10-07-2021||India||‘Covid testing enough for global travel, not vaccine discrimination’: Jaishankar||Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday the international travel on the basis of coronavirus (Covid-19) testing is “good enough” even as some countries have introduced the requirement for vaccination, and called for the need to reach an understanding.“People who are tested before for international travel and tested on arrival is a good enough basis for travel, but some countries have now introduced the issue of vaccination,” he said while addressing a joint press conference after meeting his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov.Jaishankar added that he and Lavrov had discussions on how travellers of their respective countries are not “discriminated against” and how “understandings” regarding the travel of Indians and Russians to each other’s countries can be reached.The external affairs minister also stated that the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has allowed Russia and India to demonstrate the strength of their cooperation, and the production of Sputnik vaccine is one of them. “I think we have to protect our population and help the world, and the two go together that they are part of the same issue,” Jaishankar added during the conference.Moreover, Lavrov pointed out that Russia is ready for a discussion with India regarding coordinating their possibilities pertaining to citizens vaccinated against Covid-19. “I think that we can reach an agreement here, and it will serve as an example to other states,” he added.The Russian foreign minister also highlighted that both Russia and India are against politicisation of vaccines, and that he is “confident” the majority of countries will share this approach.Jaishankar also thanked Russia for the nation’s aid to India during the latter’s fight against the coronavirus crisis. Russia had sent at least 22 tonnes of medical supplies to the country during the peak of the pandemic.“Despite several changes happening across the planet, both before and during the pandemic, our time-tested and trust-based relationship remains very strong and continues to grow,” the external affairs minister said.Jaishankar also stated that India is Russia’s “partner in the production of Sputnik-V vaccine” and that this approach is not only good for both the countries, but also for the rest of the world.Notably, The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has joined hands with India pharmaceutical firm ‘Dr Reddy’s’ to manufacture and produce Sputnik-V vaccine in India. The RDIF has also inked collaboration with Stelis Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Virchow Biotech, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, and Morepen Laboratories to produce Covid-19 vaccines in the India.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-testing-enough-for-global-travel-not-vaccine-discrimination-jaishankar-101625896504715.html
10-07-2021||India||India blacklists New Zealand vlogger Karl Rock, cancels his visa. Here's why||India blacklisted Karl Rock, a YouTuber of New Zealand origin for one year over visa violations, news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing officials at the Union ministry of home affairs who confirmed the development. The vlogger had earlier claimed that the government added him to the blacklist without giving him a reason after he left India to travel to Dubai and Pakistan, thereby separating him from his wife and family in New Delhi.The Centre's stance on the matter was also confirmed by news agency PTI a day ago. Citing unidentified officials familiar with the development, reported that the Union home ministry blacklisted Karl Rock for violating visa conditions since the vlogger was found doing business on a tourist visa."New Zealand origin vlogger Karl Rock has been blacklisted by the Government of India for violating multiple visa norms," a ministry official told ANI on this day, "He was found doing business on a tourist visa and has been barred for one year; his visa has been cancelled."Karl Rock said that his wife Manisha Malik hails from Haryana and that by blacklisting him, the government is separating him from his wife and family. In a tweet addressed to New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern, Rock highlighted his "struggle" and a petition that he launched in this regard. He also tagged a bunch of senior diplomats, journalists, as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's official handles on the tweet.✍ Please help us by signing our petition https://t.co/Atn7hxiBRbIn a video posted from his YouTube channel, the vlogger also claimed that he had not seen his wife in "269 days".Rock, who was once praised by Kejriwal for donating plasma on recovering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), started an online petition alleging that the Indian government stopped him from returning to India by unfairly adding his name to the ministry of home affairs' blacklist."I left India to go travel Dubai and Pakistan in October 2020 and upon leaving they cancelled my visa at the airport. They wouldn't tell me why. So, in Dubai, I applied for a new visa. They called me in for a meeting and told me I had been blacklisted and, therefore, they couldn't issue me a visa to go home," Rock wrote in his petition."Before someone is added to the blacklist they're meant to be given the reason, and time to reply," he said, adding, "I wasn't".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blacklists-new-zealand-vlogger-karl-rock-cancels-his-visa-here-s-why-101625889522191.html
10-07-2021||India||Manipur extends curfew till July 20||A night curfew will be imposed from 7 pm to 5 am till July 20 across Manipur as the state government on Friday extended the pandemic-related restrictions. Officials said the Covid situation in the state continues to be of concern and warrants restrictions to control the spread of the infection.In an order, chief secretary Rajesh Kumar said service centres of personal computers and mobiles can open from 10 am to 2 pm on the days when grocery shops are closed. “Further, opening up will depend on the Covid scenario and the progress in vaccination,” the order said. “Vegetable vendors (district administration should ensure that spots for vendors are clearly marked and complied) and grocery shops will open as per earlier arrangement on July 12, 15, and 18 from 7 am to 10 am.”The order said the high court may decide permissible activities based on various measures taken up by the government. It added deputy commissioners and superintendents of police should take necessary action to implement the orders strictly.On Friday, Manipur reported 10 Covid 19 fatalities, taking the state’s toll to 1,251. The state reported 852 Covid 19 cases. It has so far reported 76,032 cases. Manipur has 6,610 active cases and a recovery rate of 89.66%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-curfew-till-july-20-101625891613292.html
10-07-2021||India||138 Delta Plus variant cases detected in Tripura||At least 138 cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 have been detected in Tripura, a health department official said.“We sent a total of 151 Covid-19 samples to laboratory at Kalyani in West Bengal. Among them, the Delta Plus variant was detected in 138 samples. The rest 10 have been found to be plain Delta variant and another three as an Alpha variant,” said Tripura’s state surveillance officer Deep Kumar Debbarma. He said Tripura’s largest--West District-- has reported the maximum number of Delta Plus variant cases--115. Eight cases were detected in Sepahijala district followed by five cases in Gomati, four cases in Unakoti, two cases each in South and North districts, and one case each in Khowai and Dhalai.“Delta Plus variant is highly infectious than plain Delta. It can infect the lungs. I appeal to people to follow corona guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus,” said director (health services) Subhasish Debbarma. The state government has announced a weekend curfew from 12 pm on Saturday till 6 am on Monday across areas under 13 local urban bodies including Agartala Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/138-delta-plus-variant-cases-detected-in-tripura-101625890833443.html
10-07-2021||India||Fuel prices hiked for 38th time in 68 days, diesel touching ₹90/litre in Delhi||Fuel rates were hiked for the 38th time in 68 days with petrol prices rising by 35 and diesel by 26 paise per litre on Saturday despite international benchmark Brent crude prices falling by $1.61 a barrel or 2.06% at the Friday close, compared to its peak of $77.16 on Monday.The latest revision of India’s domestic fuel rates have made petrol costlier by ₹10.51 per litre and diesel by ₹9.15 a litre since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Petrol is now priced at ₹100.91 per litre and diesel at 89.88 a litre in New Delhi.While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Petrol prices have already crossed ₹100 per litre in five metros – Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bangalore.The cost of one litre petrol in Mumbai is now ₹106.93 and diesel ₹97.46. The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar where pumps are selling petrol at ₹112.24 per litre and diesel at ₹103.15 a litre.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high fuel rates at pumps. Domestic retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their respective international benchmarks of the previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates.International oil prices have shown extreme volatility this week. While an inconclusive meeting of producers’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) – over restraining output on Monday pulled down crude prices initially, falling US inventories and indications of strong demand from China and India saw prices rising again in the last two days of the week.Benchmark Brent that surged to $77.16 a barrel on the first day of this week, highest since October 2018, fell over 4.8% in the next two sessions. It, however, gained 0.94% or 69 cents on Thursday and rallied 1.93% further on Friday to close the week at $75.55 per barrel, still lower than the Monday high.India imports more than 80% crude it processes, hence international oil prices impact pump rates of auto fuels. High domestic taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel.In Delhi, Central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, Central taxes are over 35.66% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the Central government and the states raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up finances hit by the pandemic.The unrelenting upward movement of fuel rates since May 4 has already seen petrol cross ₹100 mark in various cities across the country including Delhi, Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali and Darjeeling.Even as international oil prices saw volatility, since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude plunging to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest in these 46 days; petrol and diesel rates in the country went up the next day by 19 paise and 29 paise a litre, respectively.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.During the 66-day pause on rate hike, state-run retailers had also reduced politically sensitive petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-prices-hiked-for-38th-time-in-68-days-diesel-touching-rs-90-litre-mark-101625888733298.html
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19: India clocks 42,766 single-day cases, 1,206 fresh fatalities recorded||India recorded 42,766 number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on Saturday, pushing the total tally of cases to 3,07,95,716. In the previous 24 hours 1,206 people also succumed to the viral infection, and the overall death toll now stands at 407,145, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard updated at 8am.Saturday’s tally marks a decrease over the 43,393 cases the country had recorded on Friday, and 45,892 cases on Wednesday. The number of fatalities recorded on Saturday also went up.The health ministry informed on July 9 that the cumulative vaccine coverage in India has surpassed 37 crore, of which 10,98,62,585 doses were administered for the first time to those in the 18-44 age group while 35,08,932 got their second dose. The health ministry issued guidelines for vaccinating pregnant women, and urged expecting mothers to get vaccinated with any of the three vaccines presently authorised for use in India -- Covishield, Covaxin, and Sputnik V.Also Read: Covid may cause pre-term delivery: Govt on why pregnant women must take jabsAs states have started to gradually open up reports of citizens flouting Covid-19 induced protocols started to emerge. This comes against the backdrop of the World Health Organisation (WHO) notifying a new strain of the virus, called Lambda, as a ‘variant of interest’ on June 14.Also Read: 'We should be watchful': Govt on Covid's Lambda variant in IndiaThe health ministry said that so far India has not recorded any cases of Lambda virus but urged everyone to exercise caution. "We cannot lower our guard. A new risk is being seen at tourist spots where a gathering of crowds being seen, social distancing and mask protocol is not being followed. This is a serious cause of concern," said Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, during a media briefing on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clocks-42-766-single-day-cases-1206-fresh-fatalities-recorded-101625885878728.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: No devotees allowed in this year's Rath Yatra in Puri and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No devotees allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in PuriThe Rath Yatra festival in Odisha’s Puri this year will be celebrated without the participation of devotees, similar to the previous year, along with strict adherence to coronavirus disease protocols (Covid-19) in order to curb the spread of the viral disease, the Jagannath temple administration said on Friday. Read moreTripura sent 151 samples for testing. More than half are positive for Delta plusTripura confirmed on Friday that more than half of the samples that the state sent for genome sequencing to West Bengal have, in fact, turned out to be positive for the Delta plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2, which is feared to potentially drive a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Read moreOdisha hikes MGNREGA workers' wage, announces ₹532 cr packageOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a Covid assistance package of ₹532 crore for 32 lakh Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers in the state who have worked in the last 3 months of this year. Read moreMagnitude 6.1 earthquake hits Indonesia, no tsunami warning issuedA 6.1-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Indonesia's Sulawesi island Saturday, the United States Geological Survey said, but no tsunami warning was issued and there were no immediate reports of damage. Read moreEuro 2020, Italy vs England: Sunil Chhetri predicts a 'cagey final', explains why Italy may have an advantageIndia football team captain Sunil Chhetri believes the Euro 2020 final between England and Italy could be a 'cagey' affair as both the teams would be focusing on defending and scoring on counter-attacks. Read moreJaved Ali says contestant on a show he judged won just because of how he talked: 'People want masala'Singer Javed Ali is the latest celebrity to speak about singing reality shows. Singer and RJ Amit Kumar sparked a controversy a couple of months ago when he spoke about how he was asked to praise contestants when he visited the sets of Indian Idol season 12. Read moreSwipe right on security: How to stay safe on dating appsEver since the pandemic locked us in our homes, technology has become even more important in our lives. From ordering in essentials to finding someone significant, the apps are doing all the heavy lifting. Read moreKareena Kapoor announces book Pregnancy Bible in ₹2k strappy camisole dressBollywood star Kareena Kapoor Khan delighted her followers when she announced her new book titled Kareena Kapoor Khan's Pregnancy Bible online.The actor called it her 'third child'. Read moreTweeple are relating hard to this post about eating idli too quicklyA Twitter user's hilarious description of what happens when you eat idli too quickly has left people laughing out loud. The share has been collecting several reactions from tweeple, many of whom are sharing how the post is extremely relatable. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-no-devotees-allowed-in-this-year-s-rath-yatra-in-puri-101625887004052.html
10-07-2021||India||Not in favour of military action, committed to Syria-led political process: India at UN||After voting in favour of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Syrian Humanitarian Resolution, India on Friday reaffirmed its commitment to a Syrian-led and Syrian-owned UN-facilitated political process, to help bring long term security in the conflict-ridden region."We also remain convinced that there can be no military solution to the Syrian conflict and reaffirm our commitment to advancing a Syrian-led and Syrian-owned UN facilitated political process in line with the UN Security Council Resolution 2254,” said India's Permanent Representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti.The Indian diplomat also expressed concern over the presence of external actors in Syria. "We are deeply concerned with the involvement of external actors in Syria which is making the situation worse,” Tirumurti said.Syria has been witnessing violence and terror for almost a decade. Once the fulcrum of Arab culture and a leading voice of the region, the country is now a cesspool of disaster. More than 13 million people across the war-torn nation need humanitarian assistance in one form or another.Also Read: Haiti tells US, UN to send troops as fears of instability growCalling for enhanced efforts at providing humanitarian assistance to all Syrians, and not just in northwest Syria, without discrimination, Tirumurti said, "Syrian women, children and the elderly have been severely impacted in disproportionate ways. Today’s adoption, therefore, will reassure 3.4 million people in the northwest of Syria.”He stressed that both the UN Secretary General and Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) have spoken about the worsening humanitarian operations in Syria.Resolution 2254, which called for a ceasefire and political settlement in Syria, was invoked by Russia, Turkey, and Iran.The Indian ambassador stressed, “There is an urgent need for an active engagement between the international donor community, humanitarian agencies, and financial institutions with Syria, consistent with the sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity of Syria to address the humanitarian situation and reconstruction needs,”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-in-favour-of-military-action-committed-to-syria-led-political-process-india-at-un-101625887655036.html
10-07-2021||India||No devotees allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in Puri||The Rath Yatra festival in Odisha’s Puri this year will be celebrated without the participation of devotees, similar to the previous year, along with strict adherence to coronavirus disease protocols (Covid-19) in order to curb the spread of the viral disease, the Jagannath temple administration said on Friday.Rath Yatra, an annual festival associated with Lord Jagannath, is held for centuries in Puri in July. The Odisha government announced in June that the Yatra this year will begin on July 12.Also Read| Puri artist creates miniature chariot of Lord Jagannath with ice cream sticks“No devotees are allowed to participate in Rath Yatra. Chariot pullers with negative RT-PCR test reports and those who have been fully vaccinated will be permitted to attend the Yatra. Around 1,000 officials excluding police personnel will be deployed,” Ajay Jena, the administrator of the Puri Jagannath Temple, told news agency ANI on Friday.Jena added that 3,000 servitors and 1,000 temple officials will be allowed for the rituals and RT-PCR tests are being conducted at all four places in Puri since Thursday.Earlier this week, the Supreme Court refused to allow Rath Yatra in other cities of Odisha apart from Puri and said that the people should worship at home at a time when the country is reeling under Covid-19 disease pandemic.Also Read| Supreme Court refuses nod for Rath Yatra outside PuriDismissing a number of applications to allow the Yatra in Baripada, Sasang, Nilagiri and Kendrapara areas of the state, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said on Tuesday, “You want to pray to the God. You can do it at home. I also wanted to go to Puri, but I have not been able to go in the past one-and-half years because of the pandemic. This is not the time. I pray at home.” The three-member bench led by CJI Ramana pointed out that this year more people died due to Covid-19 as compared to last year.The bench was also categorical that the Odisha government had taken a considered decision by not allowing Rath Yatra in any other city apart from Puri, Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, meanwhile, on Thursday reviewed preparations for the Rath Yatra and sought cooperation of all stakeholders including devotees for the smooth conduct of the festival in line with Covid-19 protocols. Patnaik expressed his gratitude to the people for their cooperation in successfully organising the Yatra last year. He said the devotees can watch the celebrations on TV and social media platforms this year, according to an official statement.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-devotees-allowed-to-participate-in-this-year-s-rath-yatra-in-puri-101625885537055.html
10-07-2021||India||Odisha hikes MGNREGA workers' wage, announces ₹532 cr package||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a Covid assistance package of ₹532 crore for 32 lakh Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers in the state who have worked in the last 3 months of this year.A release from panchayati raj department said each of the 32 lakh workers will receive an additional ₹50 for each day of work done during the months in addition to the daily wage of ₹207 that National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) workers get in the state. The state panchayati raj department officials said 50.3 million persondays were created in 2020-21 (till July 1, 2020) against 75.9 million by the same time in the financial year 2021-22.NREGA is the largest wage employment programme in the world and aims to enhance the livelihood security of households in rural areas by providing at least 100 days of guaranteed work a year to every household whose adult members volunteer to work.The latest package comes on the heels of a ₹1,690 crore package announced for landless farmers, construction workers, particularly vulnerable tribal groups, SC/ST students and physically handicapped students last month. A ₹29 crore package for street vendors too was announced last month.Recently, Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan demanded that blocks should ensure enough work under Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) was sanctioned to cover as many habitations as possible. “Gram panchayats should be allowed to add works to the shelf of up to ₹10 lakhs without having to use the SECURE (Software for Estimate Calculation Using Rural Rates for Employment which is adjusted to take account of state specific workflow and rates) application. In each village, there should be 4-5 works operational so that the workers can be distributed among them,” the NGO had demanded.Last year, tribal-dominated Keonjhar district increased the wage rate for all NREGA workers from District Mineral Foundation from ₹207 to ₹298.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-hikes-mgnrega-workers-wage-announces-rs-532-cr-package-101625882072809.html
10-07-2021||India||‘Tourists are welcome here, but...’: Himachal CM Thakur amid overcrowding at hill stations||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Friday appealed to the tourists arriving in the state to follow all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. “We are concerned about the number of tourists coming to the state. They are welcome here but I appeal to them to follow Covid-19 norms,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.For the past few days, scores of people have been flocking to tourist spots and hill stations across India including those in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand to beat the scorching heat of north India.Underlining the fact that it is crucial to save the tourism industry, the Himachal Pradesh chief minister said on Friday that he held a virtual meeting with district officials and ordered them to monitor and regulate crowds, adding the Covid-19 disease pandemic is not over yet. “Hotels are being asked to follow SOPs,” Thakur further said.Pictures and videos that emerged on social media platforms showed gross violation of Covid-19 protocols. Most people were seen without a mask and also defying physical distancing norms. The instances of overcrowding have led to fears that the upcoming third of the pandemic in the country might be more severe than earlier imagined.On Friday, hundreds of tourists were seen without masks in Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala and social distancing went for a toss. The increasing number of tourists in the state has also posed a greater challenge for the government to ensure adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour amid fears of the upcoming third wave of the pandemic.Himachal Pradesh has so far recorded 203,245 cases and 3,486 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease till now. The recoveries are nearing 199,000 while the active cases stand at 1,307. Vaccination is currently suspended for beneficiaries between 18-45 years, which poses a risk of a massive spike in cases amid the overcrowding in tourist spots in the state.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-not-over-yet-appeal-to-tourists-to-follow-norms-himachal-cm-thakur-101625879947975.html
10-07-2021||India||Tripura sent 151 samples for Covid-19 testing. More than half found positive for Delta plus||Tripura confirmed on Friday that more than half of the samples that the state sent for genome sequencing to West Bengal have, in fact, turned out to be positive for the Delta plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2, which is feared to potentially drive a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Of the 151 total samples that were sent for testing, as many as 90 came back positive for the Delta plus strain, medical professionals in the state confirmed.Also Read | More Delta Plus cases reported in India: How this variant is rapidly spreading"Tripura had sent 151 RT-PCR samples for genome sequencing in West Bengal," said Dr Deep Debbarma, a Covid-19 nodal officer in Tripura, on Friday. "Of these, more than 90 samples were found to be Delta plus variants," he said, adding, "It is a matter of concern."Tripura had sent 151 RT-PCR samples for genome sequencing in West Bengal. Of these, more than 90 samples were found to be Delta Plus variants. It is a matter of concern: Dr Deep Debbarma (in white shirt), COVID nodal officer (09.07) pic.twitter.com/KAo2gkwCR7The health ministry said earlier this week on Wednesday that 'variants of concern' of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus were detected in as many as 174 districts across 35 states and Union territories. Among them, the highest number of cases were reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal, and Gujarat.In a first, Uttar Pradesh reported two cases of the Delta plus Covid-19 variant — one from Gorakhpur and the other from Deoria — on Thursday. A day later, the state said that the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 was again found in as many as 107 samples. Meanwhile, two cases of the 'Kappa' variant of Covid-19, a new strain, have also been detected in the state, an official statement confirmed.Also Read | Delta Plus strain has to be tackled with urgent, additional measures: WHOIt is said that the Delta plus Covid-19 variant may drive a potential third wave of the pandemic in India. The Delta variant was the key driver behind the last wave, which was almost twice as deadly as the first.The rate of infection was so fast during the second wave that on an average, around 1,000 people were reported to be getting infected by Covid-19 daily during the months of April and May, while the 'real' death toll was believed to be far beyond the official tally. Now that the second wave of the pandemic is finally showing signs of receding, news of a potential third wave, driven by the Delta plus variant, has pushed the country to a frenzy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-sent-151-samples-for-covid-19-testing-more-than-half-found-positive-for-delta-plus-101625879040026.html
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19 negative report must for tourists flocking to Mussoorie||Hours after restricting the number of tourists to be allowed at a time to popular destinations in Dehradun, following reports of largescale violation of appropriate norms necessitated to restrict the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Uttarakhand administration further tightened the belt and made negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for those entering Mussoorie from outside the state.The local administration said the travelers would be required to make online booking of their accommodation in Mussoorie after getting negative reports of RT-PCR tests. Those without a Covid-19 negative report would be denied entry beyond Kolhukhet.“Tourists in large numbers are flocking the hill station to beat the summers in the plains. However, most of them are defying Covid-19-induced protocol. In the light of these violations, the district administration had to adopt a strong measure. Anyone without a negative RT-PCR test report won’t be allowed to enter Mussoorie,” said Narendra Pant, a local police officer.ALSO READ | ‘We're not afraid of Covid': Tourists in Haridwar ditch masks, social distancingThe instances of overcrowding have led to fears that the upcoming third of the pandemic in the country might be more severe than earlier imagined.On Friday, the government imposed several measures to restrict tourist activities in the state. It put a cap on 50 people at a time in Mussoorie’s Kempty Falls and the maximum duration of their stay at 30 minutes, after a shocking video clip that went viral on Wednesday showed hundreds of tourists taking bath at the popular waterfall in close proximity and without face masks.The district administration in Nanital – another popular destination for tourists visiting Uttarakhand – also imposed a ban on the entry of the two-wheelers on weekends to reduce traffic congestion and restrict the number of travelers flocking to the hill station.Earlier this week, the Centre voiced concerns over overcrowding at tourist destinations across India. Days ago, visuals of overcrowded streets emerged on social media from Manali with no people defying physical distancing norms. The Union health ministry then issued a warning against what it called ‘revenge travel’ and crowding of these tourist spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-negative-report-must-for-tourists-flocking-to-mussoorie-101625879528282.html
10-07-2021||NA||Breaking News: Congress workers stage protest against LPG price hike, throw cylinders in lake||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Zika virus not spread by contact, says health expertThe Zika virus is not spread by aerosols or contact and is not a major cause for concern at this time, as Dr Mathew Varghese, Public health expert and former director of St Stephens Hospital, Delhi said on Saturday. "Zika virus is not spread by contact or aerosols. It is spread by mosquitos. That is a different epidemiology. I would not worry about it at this point in time. Epidemiologists and the Kerala Public Health dept has to be concerned that from somwhere Zika has come, and find a way to control the virus and mosquitoes. We should not create a scare among the people," ANI quoted Dr Varghese as saying.Congress workers stage protest against LPG price hike, throw cylinders in lakeMP Congress workers staged protest against hike in LPG prices by throwing gas cylinders in Dewas' Meetha Taalab on Saturday."PM Modi is not able to control inflation in the country. He should resign. We demand immediate rollback of LPG price hike," ANI quoted a youth Congress worker as saying.Uttar Pradesh: Large gathering of devotees violate Covid norms at Banke Bihari temple#WATCH COVID19 guidelines violated due to the presence of large number of devotees at Mathura's Banke Bihari temple today pic.twitter.com/wGv0zQHIsAMaharashtra registers fall in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths; 8,296 fresh infections and 179 fatalities recordedMaharashtra logged 8,296 new Covid-19 cases and 179 fatalities in the last 24 hours. More than 6,000 people recovered from the disease since the previous day.HP Police deploys extra force to enforce Covid safety norms in tourist hot spotsHimachal Pradesh Police has deployed extra dedicated force to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in tourist hot spots like Shimla, Manali, Dharamshala, Rohtang Tunnel, Kasauli and Dalhousie, reported ANI.Former Himachal Pradesh CM Virbhadra Singh cremated with full state honoursHimachal Pradesh | Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh was cremated with full state honours at Rampur todayHe passed away on 8th July in Shimla after a prolonged illness. pic.twitter.com/ExTAT4sUBbDelhi reports 76 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate falls to 0.09%Delhi on Saturday reported 76 new cases, one death and 81 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate has declined to 0.09 per cent.Home secretary Ajay Bhalla chaired a meeting to review steps taken by states to check spread of Covid-19 in hill stationsUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday reviewed the steps taken by state governments for checking the spread of Covid-19 in hill stations and tourist locations. States should ensure strict adherence to the protocols prescribed in respect of wearing masks, social distancing, etc, the home secretary said during the meeting.UP CM Yogi Adityanath says BJP victorious in block panchayat polls; credits win to PM Modi’s ‘pro-people’ outreachUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday credited BJP's win in panchayat polls to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visionary policies and pro-people outreach.Karnataka Congress chief slaps party worker for trying to put hand on his shoulder#WATCH Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar slaps a party worker for trying to put his hand on his shoulder in Mandya yesterday pic.twitter.com/6ldIB08mdwAssam to get independent department of indigenous faith and culture: CMAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said the state will have a new independent department of indigenous faith and culture, reported ANI.Always open to discussion but don't encroach our land: Assam CMAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said some tension is going on in both Assam-Nagaland and Assam-Mizoram borders and state police has been deployed to protect the constitutional boundary. "Being gateway to the northeast, we are always open to discussions but do not encroach on our land," ANI quoted him as saying.Uttarakhand CM meets home minister Amit Shah in DelhiUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi.Himachal Pradesh: Police maintains strict vigil over Covid norms amid tourists inflowHimachal Pradesh | Police maintains strict vigil to enforce COVID19 norms like wearing of masks and social distancing as tourists flock to the hill town of Shimla pic.twitter.com/dgsdeSehKH2 terrorists killed in Anantnag encounter, operation in progress: Kashmir Zone Police#AnantnagEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. #Operation in progress. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/uI0o1gRGgI14 Zika virus positive cases in Kerala, department on high alert: State health ministerKerala health minister Veena George on Saturday said the state has a total of 14 positive cases of Zika virus. "Our department is on high alert and monitoring the situation closely. For Covid, we have always tried to keep number of cases below medical capacity. No one died in Kerala due to lack of oxygen supply," ANI quoted George as saying.Assam CM reshuffles portfolios in state cabinetAssam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma reshuffles portfolios in the state cabinet. Urkhao Gwra Brahma given charge of handloom & textile, soil conservation, Welfare of Bodoland. Ranuj Pegu will handle Education, Welfare of Plain Tribes and Backward Classes departments. pic.twitter.com/0m97oSkUEUIndia-Vietnam partnership to continue to get stronger: PM Modi to Vietnamese counterpartPM Narendra Modi congratulated Pham Minh Chinh on his appointment as PM of Vietnam during a phone call on Saturday. PM Modi expressed confidence that India-Vietnam Comprehensive Strategic Partnership will continue to become stronger under his able guidance, reported ANI.NCW takes suo moto cognizance of Lakhimpur Kheri incident of alleged attack on womanThe National Commission for Women (NCW) on Saturday took suo motu cognizance of an incident wherein a woman was allegedly attacked and misbehaved with and her saree was pulled in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh. Chairperson Rekha Sharma urged the Director-General of Police, Uttar Pradesh to immediately intervene in the matter and take strict action against the men involved.Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 19Lockdown in Tamil Nadu extended till July 19th with further relaxations.Hotels, tea shops, bakeries, roadside shops, snack shops can function with 50% of customers till 9 PM. Schools, colleges, theatres, liquor bars, swimming pools, zoos will remain closed.The ongoing lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease has been extended till July 19. Clash breaks out between BJP and SP workers in UP's HamirpurHamirpur: A clash broke out between BJP and SP workers in Sumerpur area. Police resorted to baton charge to remove the workers from the spot. Voting for Uttar Pradesh block panchayat presidents is taking place today. pic.twitter.com/xGZnCZFRSEAs voting began for the UP Uttar Pradesh block panchayat presidents on Saturday morning, a clash broke out between workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) in Sumerpur area of Hamirpur city, according to news agency ANI. 'Should we go to UN?': Rakesh Tikait seeks 'impartial' probe into R-Day violenceBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the incident of violence on Republic Day this year needs an "impartial investigation", for which the farmers may have to knock on the doors of the United Nations (UN). Read moreDelhi govt revises noise pollution rules, to slap ₹10k fine for loudspeakersDelhi Pollution Control Committee revises penalty for violation of noise rules: ₹10,000 for noise through loudspeakers/public address systems, ₹1 Lakh for Diesel Generator sets of over 1000 KVA; ₹50,000 for sound-emitting construction equipment. The equipment will be seized pic.twitter.com/YvY2PxK3jTThe Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Saturday revised the penalty for noise pollution rules. According to the committee's order, a fine of ₹10,000 will be imposed for pollution through loudspeakers, while a fine of ₹1,00,000 will be imposed for diesel generator sets of over 1,000 KVA. Covid-19: Indonesia faces oxygen crisis, reaches out to countries for helpIndonesia, the world’s fourth most-populated country, is currently grappling with a severe shortage of oxygen supplies to treat critical patients infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more PM Modi to chair meet with revamped council of ministers on July 14Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be chairing a meeting with the revamped council of ministers on July 14, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. Delhi likely to experience rainfall, thunderstormsThe India Meteorological department said on Saturday that light rain or thundershowers are likely in Delhi as monsoon is expected to reach the Capital today. This will be the most delayed monsoon in Delhi in the previous 15 years. Covid-19: Maharashtra may see a few relaxations soonAmid stabilisation of the daily caseload and pressure from citizens for more relaxations, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to review the Covid-19 situation in the next few days. Read moreIndia blacklists New Zealand YouTuber Karl Rock for one yearProminent YouTube vlogger Karl Rock has blacklisted by the Indian government for violating multiple visa norms. Karl, who is originally from New Zealand, was found doing business on a tourist visa, a Union home ministry official told news agency ANI, adding he is barred for one year and his visa has been cancelled. India adds 42,766 new Covid-19 cases, 1,206 more deathsIndia's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 3,07,95,716 on Saturday after 42,766 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. As many as 1,206 people succumbed to the viral disease on Saturday, taking the toll to 407,145. Read moreOfficials recover bodies of 6 pilgrims who drowned in Ayodhya's Saryu river, search on missing 3#UPDATE | Ayodhya: 6 bodies recovered so far & 3 people rescued from Guptar Ghat where 12 people were drowning y'day while trying to rescue 15 devotees. Search underway for 3 missing people, SDRF, NDRF & PAC teams are carrying out the operation: Lucknow NDRF Commander Vinay Kumar pic.twitter.com/r1QDylmemCNo devotees allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in PuriThe Rath Yatra festival in Odisha’s Puri this year will be celebrated without the participation of devotees, similar to the previous year, along with strict adherence to coronavirus disease protocols (Covid-19) in order to curb the spread of the viral disease, the Jagannath temple administration said on Friday. Read moreOdisha hikes MGNREGA workers' wage, announces ₹532 cr packageOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a Covid assistance package of ₹532 crore for 32 lakh Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers in the state who have worked in the last 3 months of this year. Read moreFuel prices in India hike for 7th time this monthThe price of petrol & diesel in #Delhi is at ₹100.91 per litre & ₹89.88 per litre respectively todayPetrol & diesel prices per litre - ₹106.93 & ₹97.46 in #Mumbai; ₹109.24 & ₹98.67 in #Bhopal; ₹101.01 & ₹92.97 in #Kolkata respectively pic.twitter.com/hhBZijIHvGFuel prices in India were once again hiked on Saturday and breached the ₹100-mark in many cities. Covid-19 not over yet, appeal to tourists to follow norms: Himachal CMHimachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Friday appealed to the tourists arriving in the state to follow all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. Read moreHaiti tells US, UN to send troops to stabilize countryAfter Haiti President Jovenel Moise was found assassinated at his private residence on July 7, the government has now asked the United States and the United Nations to send troops to secure the country's ports, airport and other strategic sites, a minister told news agency AFP on Friday. "We thought that the mercenaries could destroy some infrastructure to create chaos in the country. During a conversation with the US Secretary of State and the UN we made this request," elections minister Mathias Pierre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-10-2021-101625876783682.html
10-07-2021||India||Schools, colleges set to reopen in these states with drop in Covid-19 cases. All details here||As coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases begun to witness a declining trend in India, preparations are on to reopen schools and colleges across different states. Haryana announced on Friday that government and private schools for students of classes 9 and 12 will reopen from July 16 with written permission of parents allowing their wards to physically attend classes. The Gujarat government, deciding to reopen educational institutions from July 15 onwards, also made a similar announcement on Friday. Preparations to resume classes are underway in Bihar as well.Also Read | ‘Tweaking Class 10 marking plan will hurt our image’: CBSE tells high courtAccording to the notification issued by the Haryana school education directorate, high school students can physically attend classes from July 16, while classes for middle-school students -- classes 6 to 8 -- will begin from July 23. Everyone on the premises will need to mandatorily adhere to the appropriate Covid-19 related protocols, according to the order, which added that the decision regarding the reopening of primary schools will be taken later.However, the option of an online mode of study will continue for students unwilling to attend the school their attendance won’t have an impact.In Gujarat, schools for class 12 students are reopening from July 15, along with colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate students, reported news agency ANI. "However, the option of an online mode of study will continue for students unwilling to attend the school and the attendance will not be enforced," the agency quoted Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani as saying.These colleges would be allowed to function with half the attendance on campus, but students are free to physically attend the classes on a voluntary basis.However, no decision has yet been taken on the reopening of classes for primary school students in any of the states, even though physical classes for high school or middle-school students gradually look to reopening. Any decision taken in this regard will be informed in time via a government notification, it was said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-set-to-reopen-in-gujarat-haryana-bihar-with-drop-in-covid-19-cases-all-details-here-101625874365829.html
10-07-2021||India||Afghanistan must get legit govt: Jaishankar||India on Friday stressed the need for a legitimate government in Afghanistan and a reduction in violence, saying the situation in the war-torn country has implications for regional security and stability.External affairs minister S Jaishankar articulated India’s position during a joint news conference with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Moscow against the backdrop of efforts by the Taliban to project itself as a key player following a campaign of targeted assassinations and attacks on crucial districts.“Violence cannot be the solution for the situation in Afghanistan. And at the end of the day, who governs Afghanistan has a legitimacy aspect to it. I think that is something which cannot and should not be ignored,” Jaishankar said in response to a question on whether the world community could make peace with the fact that Afghanistan would be controlled by the Taliban.Expressing concern at the “direction of events in Afghanistan”, Jaishankar referred to India’s stated policy of not interfering in the internal affairs of other countries.“In many cases, when there is volatility in a society, we leave the people of that country to work it out. But Afghanistan is a very different case because now for more than 30 years, there have been international conferences, groups [and] formats to discuss how to stabilise and bring about peace in Afghanistan,” he said.“And the reason is because it has proven implications for regional security and regional stability. So the point right now we stress is that we must see a reduction in violence,” he added.In his opening remarks at the news conference, Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan “occupied a lot of our attention because it has a direct implication for regional security”.He added, “We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence and if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around Afghanistan, it’s important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we’ve seen in economic, social and democratic terms are maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan.”Lavrov said the situation in Afghanistan was of “great concern” to Russia because the violence might spill over the borders into Central Asian states.Jaishankar’s remarks came a day after a Taliban delegation led by key negotiator Shahabuddin Delawar, which was in Moscow for talks with Russian officials, asserted that the group controls “85% of Afghanistan’s territory”.Delawar told a news conference in Moscow that the US “was forced to leave our territory” because the Taliban brought the Afghan population over to its side under the “principle of Islam”. Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted Delawar’s delegation met Zamir Kabulov, Russia’s special envoy for Afghanistan, and discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan and the peace process.Shaheen said Delawar had “maintained that all borders now in [Taliban] control will remain open and functional”, and that the group would not “target diplomats, embassies and consulates, NGOs and their staff”.India has been calling for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire to end the violence that has coincided with the rapid drawdown of US forces, 90% of which has been completed. US President Joe Biden has said the withdrawal of troops will be completed by August 31, triggering concerns in the region that resultant vacuum will add to the instability in Afghanistan and have far-reaching security implications.Though New Delhi has steadfastly backed the government of President Ashraf Ghani, it recently opened channels of communication with some Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-must-get-legit-govt-jaishankar-101625870934691.html
10-07-2021||India||WhatsApp will put policy on hold till data law is enacted||WhatsApp on Friday told the Delhi high court that it has “voluntarily agreed to put on hold” its new privacy policy till India enacts the proposed data protection law, while adding that users will not be compelled to accept new terms in a significant climbdown from its recent stance.WhatsApp, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh that it would not compel users to give consent for the new policy, but will continue to remind them about the update to the terms and conditions.The policy had also caught attention of the Competition Commission of India (CCI), which launched an inquiry against which the company filed a court appeal.“The update which triggered the inquiry of CCI is, for the present, we have voluntarily agreed to put it on hold…We will not compel people to accept…We will continue to display our updates from time to time to people who have not accepted. In addition, we will display the update whenever a user chooses relevant optional features, like when a user communicates with a business receiving support from Facebook,” Salve told the court.The controversy relates to WhatsApp making it mandatory for people to consent sharing data about their interaction with businesses (not including the actual message contents) on the app with Facebook companies if they wanted to keep using the service.“The commitment is that I will not do anything till the parliamentary law comes. Obviously, then if parliamentary law comes, you have to fit within that law. If Parliament allows me to have a separate policy for India, I will have it. If it does not allow me, then bad luck. I will then have to take a call,” said Salve.Friday’s stance is a significant departure from what the company said on May 17, when senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp on that day, told the court that user accounts can be deleted for not accepting the new privacy policy.Sibal had said that contrary to reports, WhatsApp was not deferring its update on the privacy policy and it came into force from May 15. He said that it would not straightaway delete the accounts and would rather persuade people to come on board.The contentious privacy policy also invited interventions by the Union government, which on multiple occasions urged the company to withdraw it.The court was hearing the appeals of Facebook and its firm WhatsApp against a single-judge order refusing to stop the competition regulator CCI from beginning a probe into WhatsApp’s privacy policy.Salve argued that since the policy is on hold, the basis of the probe -- the privacy policy -- has been stalled and the inquiry by CCI “had become academic”.But, the court remarked: “You are not implementing it but the policy is with you and any day it can come”. It asked Salve about the opt-out option being given to the European users and not to the Indian users.To this Salve said: “Objectionable part was ‘take it or leave it’. For present, ‘take it or leave it’ is something we are not doing. Opt in, opt out is not there. If a user gives consent to the new privacy policy, his data would be shared. If they don’t, there is no change. Everybody is using WhatsApp even if they agree or not to allow sharing of the information of the users.”He also said that WhatsApp has informed the Union government about the developments related to the implementation of the security policy after the latter sent a communication on May 13, asking them to withdraw the policy.The communication sent to it in May established that the privacy policy was already a subject matter of hearing before the Supreme Court and the high court.“Government has asked us to shut down the policy. We have said we will not enforce it till the Data Protection Bill comes out. That is open-ended because we don’t know when the Bill is going to come out.... Suppose the Bill allows me to do it, we will have completely different ramifications,” Salve submitted.Opposing WhatsApp’s stand, additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, for CCI, argued that as long as the privacy policy existed, its implications will continue to persist.He said that the matter before CCI was only at the stage of inquiry and “nothing is going to happen even if steps are taken”.“As long as policy stands, competition law issues persist... It is not as if by filing reply anything detrimental will happen until the court hears and disposes the matter,” Lekhi said, responding to WhatsApp’s contention that it should not be compelled to respond to information sought by CCI.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, contended that the Supreme Court is hearing an appeal against WhatsApp’s privacy policy and hence CCI cannot be allowed to hold inquiry above a superior constitutional authority.The court, while refusing to allow an impleadment application opposing WhatsApp’s plea, posted the matter for July 30.Experts said WhatsApp’s latest stand did not have a legal foundation.“It ultimately diverts the attention from the main issue that the privacy policy is in violation of IT Act and Rules. So rather than addressing that, what effectively WhatsApp is saying that we will continue to perpetuate our contravention under till a data protection law comes. That leads to WhatsApp losing its immunity against criminal prosecution. WhatsApp cannot wait for a new policy to justify its scheme which is in violation to the current law,” said senior advocate Pavan Duggal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-will-put-policy-on-hold-till-data-law-is-enacted-101625870473614.html
10-07-2021||India||No action for not complying with IT rules: Kerala high court||The Kerala high court on Friday restrained the Centre from taking any coercive action against members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA), for now, under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The association, which represents 25 news and current affairs broadcasters, challenged the rules on Thursday, saying they give government authorities “excessive powers” to “unreasonably and impermissibly restrict” the media’s freedom of speech and expression.Justice PB Suresh Kumar, who granted interim relief to NBA members, also issued notice to the Union government for its stand on the petition. NBA said the rules seek to create an “oversight mechanism giving the executive unfettered, unbridled and excessive powers to regulate the content of digital news media”.During Friday’s hearing, senior lawyer Maninder Singh, appearing for the NBA, drew the court’s attention to the high court’s decision to grant protection against coercive action in March to legal news portal Live Law and sought a similar shield for the news broadcasters.The NBA’s challenge is essentially focussed on Part 3 of the new IT rules that relate to digital news media and requires publishers to establish a grievance procedure, a self-regulatory body, and adhere to the code of ethics, according to news agency PTI. The self-regulatory bodies to be formed by media companies or their associations have to be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court, high courts or an eminent person.Maninder Singh argued that a joint secretary-rank official would be heading the oversight mechanism at the ministry, which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge.Since a joint secretary-rank official will head the oversight mechanism which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge, Maninder Singh argued that this would imply that the joint secretary will supervise orders of a retired judge.“The grievance redressal mechanism created and the powers delegated have a ‘chilling effect” on the content of the media,” NBA’s petition said, contending that the rules exceeded the authority granted under the Information Technology Act and violate the constitutional rights of equality before law and freedom to practise any profession.The rules, which apply to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms, were notified by the Centre on February 25 and came into effect on May 25.It has, however, led to a storm over compliance. Petitions against the rules have been filed in several high courts including Delhi, Bombay, Madras, Calcutta and Kerala, prompting the Centre to approach the Supreme Court to request that the top court transfer all these cases to itself.These rules also require digital companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Instant messaging WhatsApp has approached the Delhi high court over the provision that obligates social media intermediaries to identify the first originator of a message.The Centre has argued the rules are intended to provide speedy redressal of bringing down harmful content and allows users to demand the removal of personally intimate pictures or videos within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-action-for-not-complying-with-it-rules-kerala-high-court-101625870288516.html
10-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: HC dismisses student activist’s claim of illegal detention||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed student activist Gulfisha Fatima’s claim of illegal detention in connection to the northeast Delhi riots, saying it was “completely misplaced” and “not maintainable”.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the writ of habeas corpus does not apply in respect of a person who is in judicial custody. A habeas corpus petition is filed seeking direction to produce a person who is missing or illegally detained.“The facts will show that the petitioner is in judicial custody and detention, therefore, cannot be termed as illegal,” the bench said.It further said if Fatima is aggrieved by court orders passed in judicial proceedings before the trial court, she can challenge them before the appropriate forum in proper proceedings.“This petition is completely misplaced and not maintainable. Same is accordingly dismissed,” the bench said.Fatima was arrested on April 11 last year and is currently under judicial custody. Besides this case, she is also accused in three other riots related cases.In the habeas corpus petition, Fatima, through her sibling, claimed that her custody in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case relating to the alleged larger conspiracy that led to the northeast Delhi riots last year was illegal, and that she should thus be released.During the hearing, the bench asked advocate Jatin Bhatt, representing Fatima, whether he was willing to withdraw the plea as it was of the view that the writ of habeas corpus was not maintainable in this case. To this, the counsel said his instructions were not to withdraw.Advocate Amit Mahajan, representing Delhi Police, said the habeas corpus petition filed by Fatima was not maintainable and that it deserves to be dismissed with cost as it is nothing but a blatant abuse of the process of law.He also told the court that a habeas corpus petition by Fatima’s brother seeking the same relief was dismissed by the high court last year.On July 5, another bench of the high court refused to hear the matter after taking strong exception to Fatima’s advocate Mehmood Pracha, for taking recourse to “heckling” and placing reliance on facts that were not on record.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24, 2020, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-hc-dismisses-student-activist-s-claim-of-illegal-detention-101625864615392.html
10-07-2021||India||For 2024: BJP’s 3-fold economic challenge||The Cabinet reshuffle on July 7 comes almost at the half-way point of the second term of the Modi govt. The reshuffle has come just in time to change things, both on the ground and in terms of the narrative, ahead of the next set of state elections: Uttar Pradesh in early 2022 and Gujarat in late 2022 are the most important among these. Social and regional considerations aside, here are three things that will shape the economic narrative when the BJP seeks a third consecutive mandate in 2024.1. Stock market rally can sustain a 'feel-good’ sentiment among the richBSE Sensex, India’s benchmark stock market index, reached yet another all-time high of 53054.76 on July 7. Indian equity markets have been the only silver lining in what are otherwise gloomy, if not grim, economic prospects. However, the exceptional performance of stocks markets is based more on optimism than objective performance. This is borne out by the fact that the P-E multiple — the ratio of stock prices and earnings per share — has been rising steadily.Surging stock markets have helped sustain India’s image as an investment destination in external markets. The foreign investment which comes is also a source of comfort on the external account front.Capital gains in stock markets have created a sustained positive wealth effect for Indians who are invested there. Stock markets have provided immunity to a section of the well-off population against the economic downturn which existed even before the pandemic hit. This includes many promoters and entrepreneurs whose wealth is a function of their company’s stock prices.The market capitalisation of the BSE S&P index has increased by 2.6 times between the quarter ending March 2014 and March 2021. India’s nominal GDP has increased by 1.9 times during this period. However, any significant correction, which might even be justified, given the present valuations, could be a big dampener of economic sentiment. But if stock markets continue to rally till 2024, they might sustain a feel-good narrative among the relatively well-off.2. …but a fall in already stagnant private sector earnings across classes will hurtThe reason capital gains offer limited political gains is simple. One has to have capital to invest in order to enjoy future capital gains. This skews capital gains benefits towards the already rich. This is why income gains are more important than capital gains when it comes to political goodwill in a country where most people have very little capital.It is here that the government will face its biggest challenge. The pandemic’s economic shock has inflicted severe damage to labour earnings across the board as the economy sees what is clearly a profit-led recovery. However, even before the pandemic hit, things were not very good.The Indian economy is characterised by economic dualism, where a large number of people work in subsistence level activities while a small proportion (significant in absolute numbers) is employed in high value activities. In the three decades of economic reforms, most high value activities have shifted to and then grown in the private sector.A boom in the high value part of the economy also creates tailwinds for its less productive counterpart. India’s IT boom and the real-estate boom driven by a channelisation of salary earnings into the home market is a good example of this virtual coupling. While the IT boom created millions of white collar jobs in the private sector, construction emerged as the biggest source of mass employment outside agriculture.India’s private sector growth engine suffered a shock after the 2008 global financial crisis as export growth went down. The twin-balance-sheet crisis, which was created out of irrational exuberance on part of firms and lack of prudence and poor governance structures in banks, worsened the problem.While there were periods of revival during the last phase of the second United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government and early phase of the first Narendra Modi government, the economy never really recovered its pre-2008 momentum. This had a direct impact on labour earnings. Annual growth in total compensation of employees of corporate sector companies as well as daily rural wages stagnated in the second half of the term of the first Modi government.It can be argued that total compensation of employees for corporate firms does not capture per worker earnings like rural wages. However, the total wage bill of the corporate sector is a good indicator of total income accruing to workers in the organised sector of the economy.At some point of time, a sense of discontent is bound to set in vis-à-vis the current regime’s inability to usher in a sustained high growth phase. How much of a factor it will be before 2024 will depend more on the extent and speed of recovery from the pandemic’s lows rather than a return to pre-2008 levels.3. …inflation the most important factorIt is one thing to earn the same amount of money, even a little less when prices are constant. However, well-being levels can fall drastically when incomes are stagnant, and prices are rising fast. Most people in the Indian economy find themselves in this situation.India’s GDP suffered a contraction of 7.3% in 2020-21. The Consumer Price Index (CPI), India’s benchmark retail inflation measure grew at 6.16% in 2020-21. This is the highest annual growth in CPI since 2013-14, when CPI grew at 9.38%. Inflation was at exceptionally low levels before the 2018-19 elections. Annual growth in CPI was 3.59% and 3.41% in 2017-18 and 2018-19. The current CPI series starts in 2011-12, so inflation comparisons before 2012-13 are not possible.The low inflation environment is bound to have provided a cushion to slow growth in incomes before the 2019 election. To be sure, it did have an unfavourable terms-of-trade impact on farmers, as the nominal component of agri growth collapsed at a faster pace than non-agricultural growth. The results of the 2018 assembly election results of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh were a manifestation of this rural anger. The BJP immediately made a course correction by announcing the PM-KISAN scheme, which offers .6,000 per year to every Indian farmer.Things are very different at the moment. Even if the headline inflation number comes down — RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee expects it to be 5.1% in 2021-22 – price levels are far too high for comfort. For example, if petrol prices stay at .100 till next year, petrol inflation will be zero, but the prices will still pinch. The return of inflation will also erode the value of welfare entitlements such as cash transfers under PM-KISAN. A farmer in Delhi could have bought 90.7 litres of diesel (.66.14 per litre) from the.6,000 he received under PM-KISAN on March 31, 2019. He would be able to buy only 66.94 litres at the price of.89.62 per litre on July 8, 2021.What is perhaps an even bigger threat is the possibility of a wage-price spiral. As prices rise, nominal wages will have to increase, especially for those who spend most of their income on essentials. The prices of many such many such commodities are sensitive to international prices such as petroleum products and edible oil. Then, there is always the risk of an adverse supply shock in food items because of freak weather events. India has had an exceptional good run with monsoons during the current government. A drought year could provide an inflationary shock.Inflation is where the government can be expected to be most proactive in the short-term. India has deregulated petrol-diesel prices long ago. However, they are often regulated when elections are around the corner. This could happen again as the Uttar Pradesh elections come closer. Whether such a price cut will be able to significantly bring down the inflation burden in the run up to 2024 is a difficult question to answer. A sustained rise in inflation also tends to scare investors in stock markets. An effort to curb it by raising interest rates will, in turn, give a negative stimulus to an already growth starved economy. There are no easy choices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-2024-bjp-s-3-fold-economic-challenge-101625863019195.html
10-07-2021||India||More than 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far in Karnataka||In a "milestone", more than 2.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in Karnataka so far, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday.The Health Department information tweeted by Sudhakar said more than 2.5 crore doses of vaccine have been administered in the state till now, which he described as a milestone. So far 2,06,01,462 first doses and 45,20,506 second doses have been administered, it said, adding that vaccines are being given at 8,207 centres, out of which 7,609 are government and 598 are private.Meanwhile, the Department of College Education has vaccinated 51.12 per cent of students and staff in the city's government degree colleges, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said here on Friday. The city comprises eight Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) zones and the total number of students and staff in government and aided degree colleges is 62,255 Out of this, 31,826 have been vaccinated as of July 8, Narayan, who is also the Higher Education Minister, said. In the student group 31,147 were vaccinated as against 59,179 which covers 52.63 per cent, while among the staff, 2,518 were vaccinated as against 3,076 which tallies to 81.86 per cent, a statement from the DCM's office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-25-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-in-karnataka-101625862635911.html
10-07-2021||India||WHO approval to Covaxin likely in 4-6 weeks, says chief scientist||The World Health Organisation is likely to approve India’s only indigenously developed vaccine in use so far, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for an emergency use listing in the next four to six weeks, said chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan.“There is a process to be followed for approval. Companies have to submit their safety data, complete trial data, and even manufacturing quality data for approval. Bharat Biotech has already started submitting the data and the dossier is being assessed. It is the next vaccine to be reviewed by our committee. There will be a decision on inclusion in the next four to six weeks,” said Dr Swaminathan during a webinar on vaccine access across the world.In a recent interview, Swaminathan said the Phase 3 trial data of Covaxin “looks good” and meets the safety profile of the international public health agency so far.Bharat Biotech announced Covaxin’s Phase-3 clinical trial data recently. As per the trial report, Covaxin has been found to be 77.8% effective against symptomatic Covid-19.Globally, Covaxin has already received emergency use authorization in 16 countries, including Brazil, Mexico, Philippines and Iran.The WHO approval, if granted, will come as a relief to Indians and citizens of at least 12 countries where the vaccine is being administered.Addressing the event, Swaminathan also discussed the recent meta-analysis data on anti-parasitic drug Ivermectin as a possible Covid-19 treatment.“The quality of studies were poor so when we put it in meta-analysis they did not suggest any evidence to use Ivermectin. The drug should be used only in clinical trials. There are a lot of medicines being used without evidence,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-approval-to-covaxin-likely-in-4-6-weeks-says-chief-scientist-101625861823999.html
10-07-2021||India||Rush at hills an invitation for virus to spread, warns Centre||The Union health ministry on Friday warned people against complacency in the country’s fight against Covid-19, citing a spike in tourism across hill stations in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand in recent weeks to say that this “behaviour” can be an “invitation for the virus” to spread.A video of a crowded Kempty falls in Uttarakhand’s Mussourie was also presented at the briefing, where Niti Aayog member, VK Paul, said that although tourism was key to economic revival for some areas, not observing mask discipline and social distancing “can lead to a serious situation”.“If you see what is happening around the country, there is rampant carelessness - in markets, in recreational places, in tourist spots. We see a particular new risk at tourist places. When such mingling takes place, it’s making it easier for the virus to find new hosts,” he said.Paul, and Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Aggarwal were speaking at the government’s routine press briefing on Covid-19. The officials reiterated that the second Covid-19 wave in India was not over yet and states relaxing travel and other related restrictions does not mean people do not take necessary precautions.Aggarwal, pointing to the video of Kempty falls crowding, brought up Modi’s comments on the need for a jan andolan. “Is such a behaviour not an open invitation for the virus to infect us,” he said. “We must introspect if we have a misplaced belief that the danger of Covid is over because we are lifting restrictions”Paul said states will need to be proactive towards ensuring strict implementation of Covid-safe behavior to avoid out of control transmission. “This risky mix-mingling behavior is posing a serious concern; it is not time for that kind of tourism yet. That time will come when everything will open up normally but it has not come yet,” he said.Cases are rising in some states, and as many as 53% of the cases are being reported from just two — Maharashtra and Kerala, with 80% of the new cases being reported from 90 districts across 15 states in the country that need special focus, Aggarwal said.“If we look at past week data, in terms of contribution towards caseload, 21% of the cases have been reported from Maharashtra and 32% from the state of Kerala. From 6,740 new cases that Maharashtra had dropped to, has now gone further up to 9,083 cases. In Kerala new cases had dropped to 8,037 but now it has jumped to about 14-15,000 daily new cases. Even though it is in a limited geographical area still it is a cause for serious concern, and it is important to pay focused attention for implementing intensive containment measures,” he added.There are about 66 districts with case positivity of more than 10% for the week ending July 10, that includes 10 districts of Arunachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, nine districts of Manipur, eight of Kerala, six of Meghalaya, four of Assam and Sikkim, three of Tripura, and two districts each of Odisha, Mizoram, and Maharashtra indicating increased spread of infection.Experts said that as long as the spike is transient, it is not of a major concern.“Spikes usually reflect continuing circulation in most places, accentuated by population movement due to unlocking. The spikes also reflect testing levels; not to worry as long as these are transient,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, epidemiology head, Indian Institute of Public Health.“We are coordinating with states to ensure intensive containment measures are taken to control the infection spread,” said Aggarwal, adding that same precautions will also be needed to be followed during the upcoming kanwar yatra. “We need to balance things: on one hand if we are trying to open up things, it is important on the other hand to follow Covid appropriate behavior so that there is no surge in cases,” he added.Government’s baseline target is to bring the daily Covid-19 cases to 10,000. “Currently the rate of decline is somewhat slow and we have not completely overpowered the virus yet, which is why it is important to observe Covid safe behavior, said Paul, adding that pregnant women should also start taking the jab as there was enough scientific evidence to support that it offers adequate protection to them.“Risk of developing complications in pregnant women, especially slipping into pre-term labour and delivery, is higher; therefore, it was decided to open it up even for pregnant women,” said Paul.The officials also said vaccines for children could be available in the near future if the national drugs regulator approves of Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-d Covid-19 vaccine that was tested in children in phase 3 trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rush-at-hills-and-invitation-for-virus-to-spread-warns-centre-101625861683344.html
10-07-2021||India||Over 370 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far: Govt||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 37 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.Of these, more than 27.86 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Friday, according to a provisional report at 7 pm.The ministry said 13,28,636 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,24,570 as second dose in the age group of 18-44 years on Friday.Cumulatively, 10,98,62,585 persons in the 18-44 age group have received their first dose and 35,08,932 their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 50 lakh people in the 18-44 age group.Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-370-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-govt-101625862150953.html
10-07-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses govt plea against hearings on IT rules in HCs||The Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Centre’s plea to restrain all high courts in the country from passing any order on the government’s new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, which has been challenged in multiple petitions by tech companies, digital news publishers and individual citizens.Refusing to pass any interim order for now, the Supreme Court said the Centre’s transfer petition for shifting all cases pending before different high courts to the top court will be heard on July 16.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna tagged the Centre’s petition with a clutch of other petitions related to regulations that cover over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix and Hotstar. The 2021 IT Rules too apply to OTT platforms, and have become contentious for how it affects social media and digital news.On March 23 this year, a three-judge bench of the top court stayed all High Courts from considering any fresh petitions in connection with the OTT regulations. It will be this bench that will now consider the transfer petition by Centre with regard to petitions challenging the IT Rules 2021 on July 16.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who appeared for Centre, informed the Court that petitions against the IT Rules were pending before the high courts of Delhi, Madras, Bombay and Kerala.These petitions include those by WhatsApp, which has challenged clauses requiring originator of a private message to be traced, news publishers and broadcasters, who have said it violates the fundamental right to free speech, and private citizens like TM Krishna, who has challenged the entirety of the rules on multiple grounds.Mehta stated that the Kerala High Court on Friday had ordered interim protection to the News Broadcasters Association from any coercive action for non-compliance under the IT Rules.The Delhi High Court, on the other hand, refused protection to another set of petitioners. Mehta urged the Court to stay proceedings before various High Courts till the next date of hearing.The bench said, “Today we are simply tagging this matter with the other pending case. That matter is pending before a bench presided over by Justice DY Chandrachud. We will not issue any order except to list this petition before the appropriate bench on July 16.”The Foundation for Independent Journalism, which runs the news website The Wire was present during the proceedings on caveat. It was the first to challenge the rules before the Delhi High Court in March this year. Later, the Quint Digital Media Limited, which runs the website The Quint, also filed a petition that is now pending with the Delhi High Court. Online legal news portal Live Law also moved the Kerala high court against the rules.Senior advocate CU Singh and advocate Liz Mathew, who appeared for the Foundation and Live Law respectively, informed the Court that the matter heard by Justice Chandrachud had nothing to do with the challenge to IT Rules 2021. “Those petitions were filed prior to the coming of the IT Rules 2021 and are on a completely different issue,” said Singh.The IT Rules 2021 were introduced in February this year. The new rules apply to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms, bringing all digital media functionaries under a three-tier oversight mechanism for regulation of content.This comprises of a grievance officer responsible to deal with complaints within 24 hours. The two remaining tiers consist of a self-regulatory body of experts headed by a former judge, and an inter-departmental committee headed by a senior bureaucrat of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.The Calcutta High Court too is considering the validity of the IT Rules in a PIL proceeding while a media house has gone to the Karnataka High Court challenging the Rules in question.These petitions have largely claimed that the Rules curtail and restrict the freedom of press in India and claim the conditions imposed under the Digital Media Ethics Code and guidelines to be onerous and beyond the scope of the Information Technology Act 2000.The use of vague words such as “good taste” and “decency” in the Ethics Code are additional challenges to the Rules which, according to many of the petitioners, gave “pervasive control to state over published content”.However, the Centre has said that the Rules are intended to provide speedy redressal of complaints to enable taking down harmful content, personally intimate pictures or videos of individuals within 24 hours. The Rules also require the media functionaries to cooperate with the Government and investigating agencies for purposes of verification of identity, detection and prevention of crimes, and investigation or prosecution of offences.“The Supreme Court’s decision demonstrates that it will not simply believe the government’s assertion that the Rules are perfectly legal unless they unpack the complex regulations. Government could have prevented this situation by not rushing in with the Rules. High Courts interfered as they felt the Rules could be detrimental to online media freedom. This apprehension also stands affirmed by the top court,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia Policy director and senior international counsel at Access Now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-govt-plea-against-hearings-on-it-rules-in-hcs-101625861705075.html
10-07-2021||India||Data points to gross underestimation of Covid deaths||A July 9 update on the Health Management Information System (HMIS) of the National Health Mission provides fresh evidence that India’s official Covid-19 death toll may be an underestimate. HMIS has recorded 827,597 deaths in April-May 2021, a number that is far greater than what was seen in the last three years. In 2018, 2019 and 2020, these numbers were 355,905, 391,593, and 350,333 deaths over the same period. India’s official death toll from Covid-19 for April-May 2021 is 168,927.While the HMIS data includes mortality from all causes, the large deviation from previous years and the association of the 2021 deaths with symptoms such as fever and respiratory illnesses strongly suggest that these could be due to Covid-19. The excess mortality reflected in the HMIS numbers in itself could be an underestimate because the database primarily captures data from government facilities in rural India.What is the HMIS?The website of National Health Mission describes HMIS as “a Government to Government (G2G) web-based Monitoring Information System that has been put in place by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Government of India to monitor the National Health Mission and other Health programmes and provide key inputs for policy formulation and appropriate programme interventions”. Launched in October 2008, the HMIS gets data from around 200,000 health facilities (across all States/UTs) “which upload facility wise service delivery data on monthly basis, training data on quarterly basis and infrastructure related data on annual basis on HMIS web portal”, the official website says.Because the Civil Registration System (CRS) statistics are published with a significant time lag – the 2019-20 numbers were published in June 2021 – HMIS death numbers are the closest proxy to official death numbers in India. A comparison of total recorded deaths in the CRS and HMIS shows that the latter are significant underestimates. The CRS recorded 7.6 million deaths in 2019-20 compared to just 2.6 million in the HMIS.What does HMIS data tell us about deaths during the second wave?The second wave of Covid-19 infections peaked on May 9, if the seven-day rolling average of daily new cases is concerned. In terms of deaths, the peak came much later, on May 23. However, both daily new cases and deaths recorded a big spike in April itself. HMIS data for April and May 2021 shows a sharp rise in the number of deaths – 8.28 lakh compared to less than 4 lakh in the past three years for which data is available.While deaths normally increase marginally every year, the 2020 numbers actually show a fall, which could be attributed to the lockdowns. This counterintuitive trend could also be a result of lower than usual reporting in the HMIS portal. The number of health facilities which reported this information after March 2020 onwards has still not been published.What is the likelihood of these deaths being Covid-19 deaths?It is very high. The HMIS gives age-wise and cause-wise break-up of deaths. We know that Covid-19 affects adults more than children. Adult deaths in April-May 2021 increased by 153% compared to the 2020 figures. The HMIS records adult deaths as separate from maternity related deaths. To be sure, maternity related deaths also increased, perhaps a result of lack of access to health facilities at a time when Covid-19 patients flooded hospitals. For children, deaths decreased by 14%. Deaths due to fever and respiratory problems – the most common aggravated symptom of Covid-19 infections -- saw the biggest jump; more than 500%, in 2021 compared to 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-points-to-gross-underestimation-of-covid-deaths-101625861862377.html
10-07-2021||India||We try reaching out to users before blocking accounts: Twitter||Social media firm Twitter told the parliamentary committee on information and technology that it makes a “good faith” effort to contact users – and it did so for former Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor -- when disabling or restricting access for alleged violation of US copyright lawsThe firm was responding to letter sent by the panel questioning its decision to briefly lock out Prasad and committee chairperson Tharoor from their accounts under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). It defended its actions and said that its decisions were based on terms and conditions that users agree to when they sign up to use the service.“If we remove or restrict access to user content in response to a copyright complaint, Twitter will make a good faith effort to contact the affected account holder with information concerning the removal or restriction of access, including a full copy of the complaint, along with instructions for filing a counter-notice,” the firm said in its response, people familiar with the matter said.Twitter on June 25 suspended Prasad’s access to his social media account for nearly an hour over, inviting a rebuke from the minister for being in violation of the new social media and intermediary guidelines.The decision was based on a copyright takedown under the DMCA that stated the minister posted content that was in violation of guidelines. The tweet, from 2017, contained AR Rehman’s famous song Maa Tujhe Salaam, was withheld by the social media firm, with its contents no longer available in the public domain.House panel chair Tharoor asked Twitter to explain in writing why it had locked out the former union minister and him. In a written response, Twitter said that the action was in keeping with its policies.The former minister, who resigned earlier this week, at the time said: “It is apparent that my statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of Twitter, particularly sharing the clips of my interviews to TV channels and its powerful impact, have clearly ruffled its feathers”.He added that Twitter’s actions were in gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 in which the company allegedly failed to provide Prasad any prior notice before denying him access to his own account.Twitter has told the Delhi High Court that it will make the necessary appointments within eight weeks, but the Court asked it to complete the process within two weeks.In its response, Twitter added that as per its copyright policy, Twitter responds to copyright complaints submitted under the DMCA. “Section 512 of the DMCA outlines the statutory requirements necessary for formally reporting copyright infringement, as well as providing instructions on how an affected party can appeal a removal by submitting a compliant counter-notice. Twitter responds to reports of alleged copyright infringement, such as allegations concerning the unauthorized use of a copyrighted image as a profile or header photo, allegations concerning the unauthorized use of a copyrighted video or image uploaded through our media hosting services, or Tweets containing links to allegedly infringing materials,” it said.“Twitter’s response to copyright complaints may include the removal or restriction of access to allegedly infringing material. The account holder is asked to review and acknowledge an in-app notification that confirms that they have understood Twitter’s copyright policy and once they do so, the account is automatically unlocked,” it added.The firm said it attempts to be transparent in the enforcement of its policies and marks out withheld tweets, while allowing users to file a counter notice.“In the case of Mr Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hon’ble Minister of Law & Justice, Communications and Electronics and Information Technology as well Dr Shashi Tharoor, Hon’ble Chairperson for the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology, Twitter received DMCA notices from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) alleging that video Tweets posted on their accounts infringed copyrighted works owned by Sony Music Entertainment. For Mr Prasad, the DMCA notice was in reference to the original work (ie alleged infringement) of AR Rahman’s Maa Tujhe Salaam,” the firm said.“For Dr Tharoor, the DMCA notice was in reference to the original work (ie alleged infringement) of Boney M –Rasputin. Upon receipt of the notice, Twitter complied with its copyright policy, disabled access to the allegedly infringing videos, and temporarily locked the accounts. When the account holders acknowledged their understanding of our copyright policy, the accounts were immediately unlocked. Twitter sent by email a full copy of the DMCA notices to the account holders.”It also said that accounts are temporarily locked. “However, we may take retractions and counter-notices into account when applying our repeat infringer policy.It added that users, when they sign up to use Twitter, agree to post only content to which they “have obtained all rights, licenses, consents, permissions, power and/or authority necessary”.Twitter also drew the panel’s attention that certain uses of copyrighted material does not require permission, such as political speech, content that is potentially newsworthy, or cases of apparent fair use. “This type of speech is protected under UN-recognised principles of free expression and may not violate Twitter’s Copyright Policy,” the company added.Experts have previously told HT that the issue relates to Twitter’s headquarters being subjected to American jurisdiction. According to Raman Chima, Asia Pacific policy director at Access Now, because Twitter is ultimately operated as a service by Twitter Inc, the DMCA applies to it internationally. “That is how Twitter is structured,” he said.“The problem with creating a broad order of takedown regimes is that such situations will arise. It is ironic that the minister is complaining about a regime that is too strict when the government is trying to create a similar situation in India with the new IT rules,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-try-reaching-out-to-users-before-blocking-accounts-twitter-101625861877640.html
10-07-2021||India||PM reviews oxygen availability as govt looks to set up 1,500 PSA plants||The Centre is setting up at least 1,500 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants across the country to support more than 400,000 oxygenated beds, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was informed on Friday in a meeting to review oxygen augmentation and availability as India prepares for a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections.Modi asked officials at the meeting to ensure the plants are made functional at the earliest and work closely with state governments, said a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office.These plants include those being financed by the PM CARES fund as well as from various ministries and government firms,the statement added.“The PM asked officials to ensure there is adequate training of hospital staff on operation and maintenance of oxygen plants... to ensure that each district has trained personnel available,’’ the statement said.Principal secretary PK Mishra and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba were among top officials who attended the meeting.Officials familiar with developments said each plant has a daily capacity of 1.5-2 MT of oxygen. A standard hospital needs 15MT of oxygen daily in usual circumstances. A training module is being prepared by experts and they are aiming to train around 8,000 people across the country to operate the oxygen plants, the official added.During the second wave of infections this summer, India faced a debilitating shortage of medical oxygen as demand shot up from 4,000 MT to more than 10,000 MT due to a surge in infections and deaths. Unable to meet demand, many hospitals ran out of oxygen, leaving hundreds of patients gasping for breath. In response, the government banned industrial use of oxygen, airlifted oxygen trucks from industrial plants and ran oxygen trains but experts stressed on the importance of augmenting supply to avert any future crisis.The issue was taken up by high courts and the Supreme Court with daily monitoring of supply after a number of hospitals approached the courts in distress.According to the PMO statement, the PM also urged officials to ensure India uses advanced technology Internet of Things (IoT) “to track performance and functioning of these oxygen plants at a local and national level”. IoT is a system of internet-connected devices embedded with sensors that can collect and transfer data over a wireless network for computation and research purposes.“A pilot (is) being done using IoT for monitoring the performance of the oxygen plants,” officials told the PM, according to the statement.The decision came a day after the Union Cabinet announced a ₹23,123 crore package to augment grassroots health infrastructure and set up an emergency response system in preparation for a third wave. The ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package: Phase-II’ will be implemented across 736 districts to improve medical infrastructure at primary and district health centres. Projects under the plan will be implemented within nine months. The Centre will provide ₹15,000 crore and states ₹8,123 crore in the package.The Prime Minister’s meeting was followed by the commerce minister Piyush Goyal holding a meeting in the evening with oxygen manufacturers, where he focussed on three aspects of oxygen supply. The minister asked how production of oxygen could be increased, how it could be stored and finally, how to increase transportation abilities of liquid oxygen, said a person familiar with the development.“RIL Jamnagar has been very efficient in converting gaseous oxygen into liquid but they are unable to increase storage. So, the minister asked if their strategy could be replicated by other manufacturers and how could they ramp up storage,’’ said the person quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-reviews-oxygen-availability-as-govt-looks-to-set-up-1-500-psa-plants-101625861728372.html
10-07-2021||India||Judges must know their limits, not act like emperors: Supreme Court||Judges must not behave like emperors, the Supreme Court observed on Friday as it condemned the practice of summoning government officials by courts “at the drop of a hat and to exert direct or indirect pressure”.The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta took a grim view that some of the high courts in the country have developed a practice of calling government officials routinely which, it said, is against public interest as many important tasks entrusted to such officials get delayed.“Judges must know their limits. They must have modesty and humility, and not behave like emperors. The legislature, the executive and the judiciary all have their own broad spheres of operation. It is not proper for any of these three organs of the state to encroach upon the domain of another, otherwise the delicate balance in the Constitution will be upset, and there will be a reaction,” the bench said, quoting from a 2008 judgment of the Supreme Court.“The line of separation of powers between Judiciary and Executive is sought to be crossed by summoning the officers and in a way, pressurising them to pass an order as per the whims and fancies of the court,” the court noted while hearing an appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government against an order of the Allahabad high court in a service matter.In the case relating to posting and back wages of a medical officer of the state, the high court had passed certain orders which are being contested by the UP government before the top court. In February, the bench had stayed the order of the high court to give back wages to the medical officer but the high court did not hold its hands and still summoned the health secretary of the state in a contempt case against the state government.Disapproving of such orders, the top court held that it is time to reiterate that public officers should not be called to the court unnecessarily. “The dignity and majesty of the court is not enhanced when an officer is called to court. Respect to the court has to be commanded and not demanded and the same is not enhanced by calling public officers,” it said.The bench emphasised that the presence of public officers comes at the cost of other official engagements demanding their attention and may eventually take a toll on the tasks they are supposed to do for the public.“The public officers of the executive are also performing their duties as the third limbs of the governance. The actions or decisions by the officers are not to benefit them, but as a custodian of public funds and in the interest of administration, some decisions are bound to be taken,” the court said.The bench added that a court can always set aside a decision which does not meet the test of judicial review but summoning officers frequently “is liable to be condemned in the strongest words.”Citing the example of the judiciary, the bench underscored that court proceedings also take time since there is no mechanism of fixed time hearing.“The courts have the power of a pen which is more effective than the presence of an officer in the court. If any particular issue arises for consideration before the court and the advocate representing the state is not able to answer, it is advised to write such doubt in the order and give time to the state or its officers to respond,” the bench maintained.The top court also set aside the orders of the high court initiating contempt proceedings against the state government as well as the directive to pay back wages to the medical officer. It noted that the high court was wrong in granting relief to the medical officer who did not join his posting for 13 years on the pretext of not receiving his joining order in 2002. The court said that it was not open to the medical officer to defy the order of transfer on the ground of non-communication when more than 100 medical officers were transferred by the same common transfer order and then he chose not to join where he was posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-must-know-their-limits-not-act-like-emperors-supreme-court-101625860589301.html
10-07-2021||India||Uniform Civil Code shouldn’t remain a mere hope in Constitution: High Court||The Delhi high court has said a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) should not remain a mere hope in the Constitution, expressing regret over conflicts in society due to differences in various personal laws.A single-judge bench of justice Pratibha M Singh said there is a requirement for such a code that would be “common to all” and enable uniform principles being applied in respect of aspects such as marriage, divorce, succession, etc so that settled principles, safeguards and procedures can be laid down.In a judgment dated July 7 that was released on Friday, the bench said the need for a UCC has been reiterated from time to time by the Supreme Court.“In modern Indian society, which is gradually becoming homogenous, the traditional barriers of religion, community and caste are slowly dissipating. The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce.”“The hope expressed in Article 44 of the Constitution that the State shall secure for its citizens a Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope,” justice Singh said in her judgment of July 7.The court said more than three decades have passed since the apex court, in 1985, directed the law ministry to take appropriate steps.“More than three decades have passed since then and it is unclear as to what steps have been taken in this regard till date. Accordingly, let the copy of the present judgment be communicated to the Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice, Government of India, for necessary action as deemed appropriate,” the court said in a 27-page judgment.The court’s observation came while hearing a plea involving the applicability of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 in respect of parties belonging to the Meena community.The couple got married in 2012 under Hindu rites and customs and had a child in 2013. In 2015, the husband initiated a divorce petition in the trial court.Opposing the same, the wife filed an application in a city court contending that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 do not apply to the parties concerned as they are members of a notified Scheduled Tribe in Rajasthan. The trial court, while dismissing the husband’s divorce petition, held that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act would not apply to the couple, as they belonged to the Meena community.Challenging this judgment, the husband had moved to the high court where the wife argued that even though she was married under the Hindu Marriage Act, that would not take away her status of belonging to a particular community.On July 7, while setting aside this judgment, the high court said that even though the parties belonged to the Meena community, their marriage was solemnised according to Hindu rites and ceremonies and they follow Hindu customs.It said that this stance has been made clear in various documents submitted by the wife, including the marriage invitation and the FIR.The court said that if the members of a tribe voluntarily chose to follow Hindu customs, traditions and rites, they cannot be kept out of the purview of the provision of the Hindu Marriage Act.“…nothing has been placed before the court to show that the Meena tribe has a specialised court with proper procedures to deal with these issues,” the court said.“Thus, insofar as divorce proceedings are concerned, if proper tribal customs are not established or the following of Hindu customs or rites is admitted by the parties, there is no reason to hold that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 would not apply,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uniform-civil-code-shouldn-t-remain-a-mere-hope-in-constitution-high-court-101625860574280.html
10-07-2021||India||Odisha man branded 500 times with hot iron to treat him of TB, dies: Family||Bhubaneswar: A 34-year-old tribal man in Odisha’s Keonjhar district died on Thursday after allegedly being branded with hot iron to treat him of tuberculosis, his family has said.Bikash Dehury of Kainsari village under Banspal block of Keonjhar was unwell for the last several days and complained of loss of appetite, fever and other ailments. His wife Droupadi Dehury alleged that her husband had consulted doctors at several hospitals including Bansapal community health centre and district headquarters hospital for treatment of tuberculosis.“However, the doctors did not treat him following which he went to a witchdoctor. The local witchdoctor branded him with hot iron throughout his body leaving him with 500 burn marks,” said his wife. He died on Tuesday.Chief district medical officer of Keonjhar, Dr Akash Das said he has sought reports about Dehury’s TB treatment from the government hospitals in the district and would be able to comment only after getting a report.Keonjhar Sadar MLA and BJP leader Mohan Majhi alleged that two years ago, nine tribals in the same village succumbed to tuberculosis following which the district administration took some measures. “But later, the district administration did not take any steps on treatment of TB which forced the tribals to consult local witchdoctors,” he alleged.In one such incident in Bardapal panchayat of Keonjhar in 2019, more than 50 infants were branded with hot iron to cure and prevent stomach-related diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-branded-500-times-with-hot-iron-to-treat-him-of-tb-dies-family-101625861071849.html
10-07-2021||India||India can help boost our air power: Afghan envoy||With air power emerging as a key element in the campaign by Afghan security forces against the Taliban, Afghanistan is looking to India, the US and Russia to help bolster the country’s fledgling air force, Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay said on Friday.Amid reports of intense fighting in several parts of Afghanistan and the capture of a large number of districts and some crucial border crossings by the Taliban, Mamundzay rejected assessments by some Western powers about the possible collapse of Afghan security forces. He, however, acknowledged the situation is “very dire”, with the fighting displacing more than 200,000 people and resulting in nearly 4,000 civilian deaths since mid-April.The Afghan envoy ruled out the possibility of seeking Indian boots on the ground but said New Delhi could assist Kabul with military hardware, intelligence and logistics support and financial resources in the fight against regional and international terrorist groups, including a “big percentage of foreign fighters”.Describing air support air support as a “game changer”, Mamundzay said: “Our assessment is [that] if we have the required air support, Taliban would never be able to capture any district. And just to give you one instance, should we have 15 to 20 Mi-35 helicopters, or 30 to 40 Black Hawks, they would not be able to hold ground.”He added, “Taliban have the same equipment, weapons and ammunition that we have. Our superiority lies in air support and we appreciate the support that the US has recently promised, that they would support us with more air support. We call on all responsible countries in the region, including Russia, Iran and India, to provide us the required air support.”Mamundzay said there is “active conflict” in almost 150 districts of the total of 400 districts in Afghanistan’s 34 provinces. “Taliban has been capturing a number of capitals of the districts, which has caused an outcry from the local population and the government. In the past three days, we have been able to recapture 10 districts. Now, this would continue for a number of months, we would capture districts, they would recapture it back,” he said.The drawdown of US troops, he said, “could have been handled in a more organised and planned manner”. Mamundzay described the assessment by some Western capitals about the possible collapse of Afghan forces and the government in Kabul in six to 12 months as “very unrealistic”.He said: “We outnumber Taliban by five or six times, a force of 70,000 to 75,000 cannot face a force of around 400,000...We are going through a turbulent time, but the resilience of our people and the heroic patriotism of our forces is there to defend Afghanistan.”The Taliban are delaying the peace process by not setting a time frame for returning to talks “because they want to gain more territory so that they would speak from a position of strength should we get to the negotiating table again”, Mamundzay said.The Taliban also want to prove to “their foot soldiers, ground commanders and affiliates and associates that they are back in power. We have reports that al-Qaeda, Jundullah, ETIM, LeT and JeM are celebrating Taliban’s victories,” he added.The situation has been further complicated because none of the processes aimed at kick-starting peace talks – from the “extended Troika” backed by Russia to the talks arranged by Iran and the process in Doha – have “delivered any results”, the envoy said.“We feel that Taliban are buying time for themselves to continue with their military adventurism and capture more land. And then when we get to winter, they will propose peace negotiations when fighting is difficult. And then they speak from the position of strength, that we hold XYZ percentage of the landmass, now agree to a peace deal on our terms, or else face defeat,” Mamundzay said.Describing Pakistan as the “country in the region with the most influence over the Taliban”, Mamundzay said: “We expected Pakistan to play a very constructive role to bring Taliban to the negotiating table, use that influence that the Pakistanis used to help the Americans...We expected the government of Pakistan to help us in the same manner, in the same spirit so that Kabul and Taliban reach a dignified and lasting deal.“We sadly have not seen the kind of role that we expected Islamabad to play. I hope in the weeks ahead, that calculus will change and they will begin to play a more constructive role.”Asked about what India could do to find a lasting solution in Afghanistan, Mamundzay said India could enhance the political and diplomatic support it currently provides, including helping at the UN Security Council with the listing and delisting of Taliban leaders and forging the required consensus in the region for the peace process.India should continue its economic and development assistance and also look at the possibility of “security assistance should we not reach a dignified and lasting peace deal with the Taliban”, he said.“If we get to a stage where war is imposed on the Afghan public, then we look at India for military and security assistance to protect our people and to fight terrorist groups. So we have not yet got to that stage, we’re still giving a peace a chance,” Mamundzay added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-help-boost-our-air-power-afghan-envoy-101625860550313.html
10-07-2021||India||'Implement poll promises on women welfare immediately': AIADMK warns DMK of state-wide protests in Tamil Nadu otherwise||Demanding that the DMK government immediately implement its ₹1,000 financial assistance scheme for women, a key Assembly poll promise, the main opposition AIADMK on Friday said it would launch a state-wide protest if this was not done. After assuming the role of opposition following a decade in the seat of power, this is the first major announcement by the AIADMK to target its arch rival DMK and also amid the backdrop of the recent renewed challenge from V K Sasikala to the party. The DMK captured power in Tamil Nadu by making several assurances and notably the ₹1,000 assistance scheme for women family heads (every month) and waiver of loans obtained by Women Self Help Groups from cooperative banks, the AIADMK said. In a resolution adopted at a meet of district secretaries and top office-bearers, the AIADMK said people, particulary women expected the DMK, which has assumed power to implement its electoral promises. "This meeting urges the DMK government to immediately implement its ₹1,000 financial assistance scheme." Also, it should honour several promises given to women and if the assurances are not fulfilled expeditiously, the party would hold a massive state-wide protest, AIADMK 'warned' the government in one of the six resolutions adopted in the meet. Waiver of jewel loans (by pledging jewels upto five sovereigns) from cooperative banks were among the other assurances the AIADMK pointed out. The main opposition also asked the DMK to take resolute steps over the Mekedatu dam issue and stop the bid by Karnataka to build the reservoir across Cauvery river. It urged the state and central government to curb price rise, including those related to fuel, cooking gas, farm input cost, cement and other construction materials. The DMK promised reducing petrol and diesel prices by ₹five and four (per litre) respectively after assuming power, and only an immediate implementation of this promise could a honest move, the AIADMK said. "This meet condemns the DMK government for not fulfilling its promise of providing ₹100 subsidy for cooking gas cylinders." It also slammed the DMK for not 'speaking out' on implementing several other promises made ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls. The AIADMK hit out at the government for "not procuring paddy on time" from farmers and asked it to take steps on a war footing to complete the exercise. The resolutions were proposed by top AIADMK leaders, coordinator O Panneerselvam and co-coordinator K Palaniswami and seconded by all district secretaries and functionaries. Sasikala, confidante of late top AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa, who was eased out of the party, has been talking over phone to her supporters and a section of main opposition party cadres and assured them that she would 'step in' to lead the party. However, the AIADMK leadership has dismissed such claims, saying she is not even a member of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-poll-promises-on-women-welfare-immediately-aiadmk-warns-dmk-of-state-wide-protests-in-tamil-nadu-otherwise-101625859582818.html
10-07-2021||India||Jammu-Kashmir delimitation process to be fair, transparent: Panel||A government commission redrawing electoral constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) said on Friday that the process will be fair and transparent, and based on consultations with all stakeholders, rejecting charges that the contentious exercise was pre-planned.The delimitation commission remarks came on the last day of its four-day tour of Kashmir and was a response to charges by the Peoples Democratic Party, which stayed away from the panel’s meetings and alleged that the “pre-determined” exercise was meant to disempower the people of Kashmir.“I don’t think anybody should have any fears. We are very confident that we will finish this in a transparent manner. Otherwise, we would not have come to spend three to four days here talking to so many people,” said former Supreme Court judge, justice Ranjana Prakash Desai, who heads the three-member panel.The commission also said that delimitation will be conducted on the basis of the 2011 census and there was no current criteria on how to divide seats between Hindu-majority Jammu and Muslim-majority Kashmir. Other members of the panel are chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and J&K’s election commissioner K K Sharma.“We are very overwhelmed by the participation of various stakeholders in large numbers. We have taken note of their suggestions. This is our first visit and I assure you this is not our last. This process is a complex exercise and this commission will take all necessary steps to continue this engagement,” Desai said.Speaking on similar lines, Chandra said: “We can assure you and as the chairperson also did, it will be an absolutely transparent process and we will take into account views of all stakeholders. That is why we visited Srinagar, Kishtwar and Jammu, and met 800 people from 290 groups,” he said.“If something would have been on our minds or something was decided earlier, then this commission would not have come here. I would like to say very clearly that nothing has been prepared so far. We wanted to make an assessment and know the views of the people. If that was done then there was no need for us to come,” he said.Quoting a Supreme Court Judgement, he said: “The delimitation is not a mere mathematical exercise. It must reflect the political aspirations of the society”.“We see it as one Union territory. We don’t bifurcate (on the basis of) how much will go to the Valley and how much will go to Jammu. All will be done in a transparent manner and criteria will be implemented uniformly,” he added.On PDP’s decision to stay away from the exercise, Desai said: “We can only interact with those who want to participate in the process... We wish that they all come.”Delimitation is a controversial process that was mandated after the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two union territories on August 5, 2019. It is seen as the first step towards holding fresh elections in the region after seven years but local parties allege that the exercise will tilt the balance of power towards Jammu.In the press conference, Chandra said the delimitation exercise will be carried out as per the 2011 census and will consider several features like geographical compactness, conveniences, accessibility, communication facilities and topography of the region.“Earlier, the delimitation exercise in J&K was done as per 1981 census but in the rest of the country, the delimitation was done based on the 2001 census. Twenty-four seats of the legislative assembly of UT of Jammu and Kashmir shall remain vacant and the said area shall be excluded in delimiting the territorial constituency as provided under part V of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019,” he said.The commission was constituted in March last year to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in the UT.The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s landmark meeting with political leaders from J&K on June 24 -- the first political outreach by the Centre in two years.The Centre sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls and restoration of statehood. After the event, the National Conference ended its boycott of the panel and met the members.But the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- of which both NC and PDP are a part -- demanded the restoration statehood before elections.The parties which met the commission included the NC, Congress, CPI(M), Apni Party and People’s Conference. While the majority of the parties suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be the benchmark for the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammukashmir-delimitation-process-to-be-fair-transparent-panel-101625860074427.html
10-07-2021||India||NGT can’t ‘short shrift’ health hazards posed by plastic bottles: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) came in for criticism in the Supreme Court on Friday for failing to pass any effective orders on a serious issue pertaining to health hazards posed by plastic bottles and multi-layered plastic packages despite dealing with the matter for seven years.The issue was brought to the tribunal in 2014 by NGO Him Jagriti Uttaranchal Welfare Society which demanded a ban on plastic packaging of carbonated soft drink and liquor immediately and gradual phasing out of plastic packaging for all other non-essential items, in view of its adverse consequences to environment and human health.The NGO complained that despite evidence against possible contamination of chemicals “leaching” from plastic bottles into food or fluids, the NGT disposed of the matter on January 8 by asking the authorities concerned in the government to take necessary steps.Dealing with the NGO’s appeal against the said order, the top court felt that the tribunal made light of its obligation to remedy the situation brought to its notice.“This is a serious issue. The tribunal (NGT) cannot short shift the concern brought before them. Ultimately, when they dispose of the matter, they have said to an extent the issue has been resolved,” said a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah.The court issued notice to the Union government, Central Pollution Control Board, Directorate General of Health Services, and Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to file their responses within six weeks. In addition, the other parties who have been asked to respond are All India Plastic Manufacturing Association, Tetra Pak India (P) Limited, Bureau of Indian Standards, and Pet Containers Manufacturing Association.Appearing for the NGO, advocate Ritwick Dutta submitted that the NGT abdicated its duty by failing to adjudicate the issue and left it to the authorities, whose inaction over seven years was demonstrated during the seven-year long proceedings, to take action.The bench agreed with this view.“This was not a writ petition. It was an original application that was part of the tribunal’s original jurisdiction. They had to deal with the cause raised.”The petition said the presence of heavy metals like antimony, lead, chromium, cadmium and plasticizers like di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalates (“DEHP”) in plastic beyond the prescribed limit, is detrimental to human health as the chemicals leach into the edible contents and cause damage to the endocrine and neurological system.The NGT even constituted an expert committee that submitted a report in August 2019 much in line with what the NGO pointed out. This report accepted that excessive use of plastic, especially in the packaging of non-essential products is a matter of concern.The ministry of chemicals and fertilizers has also been added as a party to the proceedings as the petition made reference to the decision passed by Drugs and Technical Advisory Board in May 2016 recommending a ban on the use of PET/ plastic in the liquid oral formulations for primary packaging of drug formulations for paediatric use, geriatric use and for use of pregnant women and women of reproductive age group, as a precautionary measure.Dutta pointed out that even expert bodies such as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health (AIIHPH) recommended for ban of plastic packaging for oral formulations for paediatric, geriatric and use by pregnant women and women of reproductive age.“The tribunal’s failure to adjudicate on the matter, which was pending before it since 2014, has caused further delay, only exacerbating the harmful effects on the health of consumers,” the petition added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-can-t-short-shrift-health-hazards-posed-by-plastic-bottles-supreme-court-101625860351822.html
10-07-2021||India||Labour ministry kicks off survey on migrants using digital tools||The labour ministry has kicked off a mega survey on migrant workers in the country, billed as a “game changer” because it harnesses a range of digital tools for the first time that could transform the process of gathering economic data in the country.India has a rigorous system of conducting statistical surveys to capture a gamut of socio-economic data. But these are mostly done manually.The survey on migrant workers, proposed after a massive job crisis forced tens of thousands of them to flee cities after a total lockdown in 2020, is the first attempt to estimate their numbers and details associated with their work. The absence of such a database is a key hurdle in formulating policies for migrants.“It is going to be a game changer because not only will it give us a glimpse into the migrant workforce, but it is also the first time that a national survey has been totally digitally enabled to help with accuracy and authenticity,” said DPS Negi, director general of the labor bureau.On March 31, the government announced two national surveys. One would track migrants and their socio-economic conditions, jobs and sectors they work in, the labour ministry had said. The other would gather job creation numbers from 150,000 firms.Last summer when a harsh lockdown had to be imposed as the first wave of coronavirus infections swept the country, thousands of migrant workers fled cities, without jobs and with little to survive on. Most of them walked down highways to reach their native villages.The government wasn’t able to respond with any immediate help because there was no database of who these people were. The then labour minister, Santosh Gangwar, told Parliament in September 2020 that there was no data on how many migrant workers left cities or how many died.The migrant survey, which has finally started off, has been designed to capture a range of socio-economic data to help with policymaking. According to the official cited above, the attempt to map migrant workers relies on digital tools, customised according to the survey design.Surveyors are required to make inputs on GPS-connected handheld devices, Negi said. Artificial intelligence will play a key role in collating and organising data, which will not only capture and reconcile data faster but eliminate discrepancies.A voice-to-text software is also being used to record inputs.While there are no official estimates of migrant workers, a novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had revealed an annual “interstate migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011.Subramanian had called for full portability of all welfare doles for migrants. The government has rolled out the One Nation One Ration Card programme, which is a digitised platform that enables migrants who hold a ration card to access their share of subsidised foodgrains from anywhere in the country.Negi said a sample size of 300,000 households was being considered for the migrants’ survey. For the establishments’ survey to determine primary job creation, 150,000 companies will be surveyed quarter-on-quarter.Much of the technologies behind the digital platforms being used for the migrants’ survey are homegrown, including those developed by the state-owned BECL Ltd.The migrant survey will provide empirical results on sectors that rely on migrant labour, such as textiles, stone quarries and mines, construction, brick kilns, small-scale industries, domestic work, etc.“In terms of socio-economic data, we need information on who they are, what they do, where they work and whether things such as seasonality affect their work preferences. Only then can we know what kind of vulnerabilities they are afflicted with. I hope the survey is granular enough,” said R Srinivasa Murthy, an economist formerly with the Narayan Meghaji Lokhande Maharashtra Institute of Labour Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labour-ministry-kicks-off-survey-on-migrants-using-digital-tools-101625859471281.html
10-07-2021||India||Kerala on alert after 14 Zika cases, Centre sends experts||At a time when Kerala is grappling with heavy caseload of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reporting maximum daily cases in the country, the state is now facing yet another challenge in the form of Zika virus outbreak. The Union government on Friday rushed a team of experts to the state, where at least 14 cases have been confirmed so far, the state health ministry said in a statement.Of the 19 samples sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune last, 14 were found to be positive for Zika virus on Thursday.Kerala health minister Veena George on Friday called an emergency meeting, and an action plan was formulated.“We have started a vigorous vector control programme and the whole state was alerted. We are closely monitoring the situation and more testing labs will be opened,” said George, adding that there was no need to panic.A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parasala in Thiruvananthapuram district was among the 14 people to test positive for Zika virus on Thursday. A health official in the state said that the woman had a normal delivery on July 7 and both the mother and child are stable.At least 60 more samples were sent to Pune on Thursday even as health authorities in the state were busy making arrangements to test samples at the NIV regional centre in Alapuzha, an official said.The woman has no travel history, and it is suspected that she contacted the virus locally, adding to the worry of already overworked health officials.A surveillance team, along with vector control experts and entomology units, visited the area where the woman lived and made the necessary arrangements to prevent the further spread.State health authorities said the further spread could be contained with utmost vigil as all those who have tested positive so far live close to each other. Some of those affected also include health workers. “They were all working at a private hospital. We will check their travel history and take immediate action,” the minister said.In Delhi, health joint secretary Lav Agarwal said a six-member expert team has been rushed to help the state. “The six-member team includes vector-borne disease experts and doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences,” he said.While the virus is spread mostly through mosquitoes, it can also be transmitted sexually, experts said, adding that the fatality rate among Zika virus patients is very low and only one in five develops symptoms. The symptoms of the disease, first identified in monkeys in Uganda in 1947 and among humans in Nigeria in 1954, include joint pain, fever and headache. In May 2015, it was reported in Brazil, where it spread rapidly. The virus can cause shrunken brain in children and a rare auto-immune disease called Guillain-Barre syndrome, experts said, adding it was first reported in the country in Gujarat in 2017.Meanwhile, Covid-19 infections continued to remain high in Kerala, which reported 13,563 new cases on Friday with the test positivity rate of 10. 4%, according to the state health bulletin. For almost a month, the state has been reporting highest number of cases in the country. It also reported 130 deaths taking the toll to 14,380.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-on-alert-after-14-zika-cases-centre-sends-experts-101625859459363.html
10-07-2021||India||HC rejects Chirag's plea against LS Speaker’s decision on uncle Paras||The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House.Justice Rekha Palli said there was no merit in the petition as the Speaker has the right to regulate the internal disputes of the House. The judge added that the court cannot be asked to solve the internal party disputes.“Now it is very clear. If you want to press, it is your wish. I am clear that this is inter-party dispute. You can exercise your remedies. You take your call…But the court cannot get into this dispute,” Justice Palli said.“It is well settled that the right to regulate internal disputes of the House is the prerogative of the Speaker,” the high court said. “I find absolutely no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” Justice Palli added.The high court, which was inclined to impose cost on Chirag, did not do so after a request regarding the same was made by his counsel.The petition sought setting aside Lok Sabha Speaker’s June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as the leader of LJP. Paras took oath as a Union minister on July 7 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reshuffled his Cabinet.During the hearing, advocate Arvind Bajpai, representing Chirag, said among the six party MPs, five wrote to the Speaker to recognise Paras as leader of the party in the House and directions were passed in this regard.Thereafter, the party chose to remove those five MPs and approached the Speaker to take action and declare Chirag as the leader of the party in the House, Bajpai added. However, the Speaker has “not corrected” the alleged mistake of recognising Paras as the leader of the party in the House, he contended.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao, representing the Speaker’s office, vehemently opposed the petition, saying Chirag was attempting to get the inter-party dispute resolved in the court.They said five out of six members of the party had approached the Speaker with the fact that Paras was the whip holder of the party and that the action of the Speaker cannot be faulted with.The court, while agreeing to the submissions of the counsels, said it was not inclined to grant any relief.Chirag had filed the plea on July 7 and later tweeted in Hindi, saying he has filed a petition in the Delhi high Court against the Lok Sabha Speaker’s initial decision recognising party’s expelled member of Parliament Pashupati Paras as the leader of the party in the House.The plea said the review of the decision was pending with the Speaker and despite reminders no action has been taken after which they have approached the high court.It sought direction that a corrigendum be issued by showing the name of Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-chirag-s-plea-against-ls-speaker-s-decision-on-uncle-paras-101625859452286.html
10-07-2021||India||Madras HC pulls up public servants over ‘practising favouritism’||The Madras high court recently said that people holding responsible public posts are acting with the “evil elements” of favouritism, nepotism and corrupt activities that are “anti-developmental, anti-national and unconstitutional”. The court made these observations while disposing of a series of writ petitions filed since 2012 by Red Giant Movies, a production and distribution company headed by Udhaynidhi Stalin, son of chief minister M K Stalin. The case pertains to Red Giant movies filing writs that they were being discriminated against as they belonged to the opposition party then and were not being granted exemption under the Tamil Nadu Entertainment Tax Act, 1939. The then Government of Tamil Nadu passed an order in July 2006 under the Entertainments Tax Act, granting exemption from payment of entertainment tax for the movies having their title in Tamil. A subsequent government order in July 2011, imposed additional conditions. The government issued orders in January 2012, constituting a committee of persons as official and as ex-officio members to view and assess the movies based on applications submitted by the producers/distributors for tax exemption. Before the DMK won the assembly elections, for which results were announced on May 2, the AIADMK was in power from 2011. A bench comprising Justice S M Subramaniam passed an order on July 5 which became on Friday, saying that he found substance in the petitioner’s allegations of malafides. But the court said that due to lack of specifics evidence and lapse in time, the court could not grant the prayer that sought for quashing government orders related to the case. “As far as the present writ petitions are concerned, this Court could easily visualize the possibilities of favouritism and discrimination,” the court said in its order. “However, the Committee’s overall exercise was improper as the members of the Committee have a certain personal affinity with the Government or the Political leaders, who were ruling the State. Courts cannot undo the exercise in the event of not establishing malafide with concrete proof.”The court went on to issue guidelines to the present government to ensure that committee members are fair. On those lines, the court delved into issues of institutions, the integrity of public officers, judicial activism and corruption. “One can imagine if favouritism, nepotism and corrupt activities are allowed to go on to such an extent, the common man will suffer and we will not march towards the goal of social justice as enunciated in the Preamble of the Indian Constitution,” the court said. “Therefore, the appointment of women and men of integrity in public posts, specifically in such Expert Committees are of paramount importance.”Stating that institutions are majestic and created with a noble purpose, the court said that it was men and women, administering these institutions, who lack integrity and are to be blamed for illegal activities. “The definition of corruption is not confined only on the demand and acceptance of illegal gratification,” the court said. “Corruption in many other forms are far more dangerous than illegal gratifications. Those corrupt activities in the mind are the cause for the destruction of the institutions in this Country. Therefore, people should realise that the appointment of women and men of integrity and honesty alone is the solution for the purpose of upholding the institutional values, recognition and majesty.”The court instructed that the government must be careful while making appointments in government organisations, as an institution’s integrity is lost if the character of an individual working there is lost. The guidelines include selections to be made beyond the political affinities, aspirations and ideologies, “keeping in mind that it is public appointments”. Integrity and honesty with merit must be criteria. “If each Political party appointing their men in such Expert Committees, if allowed to be continued, then there is no scope for the revival of social justice, equality in opportunities, merit and integrity,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-pulls-up-public-servants-over-practising-favouritism-101625859331102.html
10-07-2021||India||Not leaving Kerala, being kicked out: Kitex MD Sabu Jacob||Thiruvananthapuram: Garment major Kitex Group’s managing director Sabu Jacob lashed out at the Kerala government on Friday after backing out of the ₹3,500 crore proposed project in the state and deciding to shift it to Telangana. “I am not leaving on my own. I was kicked out. Sad, Kerala says it is one of the best investor-friendly states, but ground situation is contrary. Its policies are at least 50-year-old,” an emotionally charged Jacob, the MD of Kitex group, said in Kochi before boarding a private jet sent by the Telangana government. He said he never expected such a fate. After he announced his withdrawal from the project two weeks back alleging witch-hunt and official apathy, many states have rolled out red carpet to the firm, which is one of the leading apparel exporters of the country. Though Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana have shown keen interest, the firm chose the last. Later, Telangana industry minister KT Rama Rao held a preliminary round of talks with Jacob and sent a private jet to Kochi. The jet was parked in Kochi since Thursday. “After airing my grievance everyone including Industry Minister P Rajeev was busy blaming me. Kerala has to learn many lessons from its neighbours, otherwise it will become a graveyard of industries,” Jacob said. He added that it was not a move against the state or its government but a desperate move to save his firm. “I know how to float around but I am really concerned about the future of upcoming entrepreneurs. The state has to change a lot. Let it be an eye opener,” the MD said, adding that Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan “really wanted to change the atmosphere but his efforts are not percolating down”. However, the Kerala industry minister put up a brave face, saying the government was willing to talk to him. “It is an unfortunate decision. It seems Jacob has made up his mind long before. He’s leaving the state when many major companies have decided to set up their shops in Kerala,” Rajeev said. He added that the state government had nothing to do with frequent inspections and most of them were result of complaints lodged to the National Human Rights Commission and various other courts. Rajeev also said it was wrong to blame the government alone as most of the complaints were filed by Congress leaders. Besides calling off the new project, which was signed in 2020 investor meet in Kochi, the MD said he would also be shifting some of the existing units to other states “if the situation continued to be like this”. He said his plan was to open three apparel parks in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad as part of the industrial corridor, which was intended to give jobs to at least 35,000 people. Headquartered in Kochi, the firm provides 15,000 employment and exports ready-made apparels to many western countries. After its decision to leave the state, the company’s shares shot up by 13% in the last two days. The firm began as Anna Aluminium Company, founded by Jacob’s father M C Jacob in a small way in 1970s. In 1992, the company entered into garment manufacturing sector as Kitex Garments Ltd. The firm now claims to be the second largest producer of children’s apparels in the world. It released its public issue in 1995 and various state governments often cited the company to paint a rosy picture against its much-criticised trade union culture. However, the group fell out with major political parties after it floated an independent political party called ‘Twenty20’ in 2015. The party, which currently rules over four local bodies in Ernakulam district, also fielded candidates in the district in the recently concluded assembly elections. According to political observers, some of its candidates received enough votes to become the cause of defeats for many Congress candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-leaving-kerala-being-kicked-out-kitex-md-sabu-jacob-101625859273005.html
10-07-2021||India||K’taka to intensify measures amid Zika concerns||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it would intensify efforts to monitor vector control measures in the state over rising concerns of the Zika virus in neighbouring Kerala.“Given reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighbouring state of Kerala, it is crucial to intensify the vector control measures in Karnataka also,” the state health department said in a statement on Friday.“The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of Aedes mosquito, a vector for Zika Virus. Considering the prevalence of Aedes aegypti in Karnataka, which is a vector of Dengue, Chikungunya as well Zika, the routine SR activity in rural areas by ASHA & health assistants, the fortnightly SR activity in urban wards should be implemented on war-footing mode with strict monitoring & supervision,” according to the statement.The health department said that effective disposal of solid waste should be given due importance to prevent Aedes breeding in peri-domestic conditions.The measures come days after Kerala detected new cases of the Zika virus, and the union health ministry has sent a six-member team to the southern state to monitor the situation.The number of Zika cases detected on Friday is 14, forcing the Kerala government to sound an alert.Karnataka and Kerala share a border and several districts on either side see significant people movement on either side daily.Karnataka has already put in place measures to mandate RT-PCR negative certificates from anyone coming from Kerala and Maharashtra (in the northern border) to contain the possibility of more covid-19 infected persons coming into the state.The new health scare adds to the possibility of prolonging the impact of the pandemic in which several states have enforced restrictions and people movement to contain the spread of the novel Coronavirus.The measures to intensify vector control of Zika include surveillance for adults and larvae.According to the government, it will conduct vector management through environmental modification and manipulation, adopting personal protection measures, biological and chemical control at households, community and institutional levels.The health department said that it will conduct Aedes larval surveillance and source reduction activities in airports, seaports/harbours and the villages and wards in the vicinity of 2 km with increased vigil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-to-intensify-measures-amid-zika-concerns-101625859211060.html
10-07-2021||India||Biocon MD lashes out at B’luru civic body over poor quality of public projects||Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, the chairperson and managing director of Biocon Ltd, on Friday lashed out at the civic authorities over the poor quality of works completed by the city corporation.“Is this what @BBMPCOMM accepts as a completed project? I am so depressed to see our city in ruins with no pride left. All other cities hv (have) used the pandemic to complete road projects except us!” Shaw said in a post on Twitter.She posted a picture of what appears to be a newly laid out concrete footpath that looks haphazard and incomplete with loose stones covering one part of it.She tagged Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister in the post as well.Netizens responded to the tweet by posting several more such examples of poor quality of infrastructure across the city.The state government had stated that it would use the covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown to complete all road and other infrastructure projects.The statements by Shaw, one of Bengaluru’s most prominent residents, come at a time when the city’s infrastructure appears to have deteriorated further from before the pandemic.Bengaluru, once referred to as the garden city, is among the most polluted in the country largely due to excessive vehicular movement and relentless construction activities.Almost all roads in Bengaluru are currently in a deplorable condition, which successive governments attribute to its “developing” nature.Road and other infrastructure works are taken up periodically, costing the tax-payers thousands of crores, but are rarely ever in driveable conditions that has added to the challenges of India’s IT capital.The BBMP’s budget, however, has remained in the ballpark of ₹10,000 crores per year.The civic body set aside ₹473 crore for upgradation of roads under chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s ambitious “Mission 2022”.The BBMP budget 2021-22 provides for around ₹20 lakhs per ward for each of the around 200 wards in the city as part of the goal to reach 1000 kms of walkable footpaths across Bengaluru.However, most of the footpaths have been dug out, barring a few completed Tender Sure roads in the central business district.The civic body set aside ₹473 crore for up-gradation of roads under chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s ambitious “Mission 2022”, a campaign to overhaul the city to mark the 75th year of independence.The ambitious mission, initiated by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, proposes the development of 12 high-density corridors, totalling nearly 200km.The campaign also proposed rejuvenating lakes and increasing green cover.The recent rains between July 4 to 7 had chipped away newly laid roads, water logged and dangerous for pedestrians and commuters.The increase in construction activities in public infrastructure has also brought down the quality of air, water and the general quality of living in a city that aspires to be referred to as “global city”.The infrastructure in Bengaluru has barely kept up with its prowess in technology, startups, biotechnology and aerospace among other attributes.There are at least 147 kms of roads within Bengaluru, under major projects, that are currently under construction, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body).“We should hope to complete it by the end of December,” according to one senior official of the BBMP, requesting anonymity.He added that the delays in completion of works is due to shifting of utilities and not to disrupt traffic movement. He added that even the police only give staggered approvals to avoid traffic blocks.However, a day of driving in Bengaluru would give the true picture as almost 9.4 million vehicles moving at snail’s pace due to poor quality of roads and congestion, has even earned the city the reputation of having the world’s worst traffic globally in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biocon-md-lashes-out-at-b-luru-civic-body-over-poor-quality-of-public-projects-101625859151154.html
10-07-2021||India||Mandya MP, JD(S) trade barbs over illegal mining||Member of parliament Sumalatha Ambareesh and the Janata Dal (Secular), led by former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, traded charges over alleged illegal mining in Karnataka’s Mandya district, about 100 kms from Bengaluru.The war of words raked up yesteryear actor and politician, MH Amarnath, better known by his screen name Ambareesh.The confrontation between the Mandya MP, the widow of popular actor-turned-politician Ambareesh, and the JD (S), which has its seeds in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, was reignited this time when Sumalatha alleged that illegal mining activities were affecting the structure of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam.On Monday, the Mandya MP demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the impact of illegal mining on the dam. Leaders of the JD(S), who have won all eight seats in the district, were quick to react, alleging that all illegal mining activities had begun during the time when Ambareesh was at the helm of affairs in the sugarcane-growing district.“This is the number one point for loose talk by those who are expected to be in a responsible position,” Sumalatha told reporters in Bengaluru on Friday.“If you have any documents that prove Ambareesh has done something illegal, definitely bring it and make a complaint to officials. Who said don’t. All these years you were there, why didn’t you take any action so far?” she questioned. Sumalatha, an independent who was backed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2019 elections, defeated Nikhil Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) candidate and son of HD Kumaraswamy.The battle in 2019 had seen several JD(S) legislators make personal remarks against Sumalatha that helped turn the tide in her favour, despite Kumaraswamy’s party sweeping the assembly polls in all eight constituencies the year before.HD Kumaraswamy on Monday waded into a controversy by asking Sumalatha to sleep in front of the gates of KRS dam to prevent seepage. “For Mandya district, there was never a parliamentarian like her nor will there be one like her in the future. Day before I had seen in a meeting where she acted like the protector of KRS dam and we should probably make her sleep at the gates to ensure the water doesn’t leak,” Kumaraswamy had told reporters.In response, the first-time MP said that it displays the mindset of the former chief minister. “It proves his intolerance towards women,” she said.The fight between the JD(S) and BJP-backed Sumalatha, experts say, is likely to have a bearing on the relationship between the two parties in the district where Congress is believed to be the common enemy.Prathap Simha, the MP from neighbouring Mysuru-Kodagu, on Friday said that Sumalatha should provide evidence that there were cracks developing in the KRS dam.“Before saying that it (Dam) has developed cracks, have you seen it personally and with what evidence are you making these statements,” Simha said.Sumalatha had also alleged phone tapping, which indicated the possibility that Kumaraswamy misused the office of the chief minister for personal gain.Shivarame Gowda, former MP from Mandya and JD(S) leader, on Friday said that Sumalatha used and profited from Ambareesh’s name and death to come to power.“I will ask Sumakka (Sumalatha) that so many people of Mandya gave you their vote, have you even given them a glass of water when you are in power?” Gowda said.He added that Ambareesh lived the life of a big man and enjoyed the love of people but did nothing for the district of Mandya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandya-mp-jd-s-trade-barbs-over-illegal-mining-101625859093379.html
10-07-2021||India||Plea for relief from physical appearance: HC reserves order on Twitter head’s plea||The Karnataka High Court today reserved orders in the petition filed by Twitter India’s Manish Maheshwari. The Twitter India official had challenged the Uttar Pradesh Police notice asking to appear before them in person regarding a video that alleged an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad was a victim of a hate crime. Police said that their investigation later revealed that the incident was over a personal dispute and booked nine people, including Twitter India, for allegedly circulating false information to fan communal tension.The single bench reserved its order after arguments on Friday, to be pronounced on July 13.During the hearing, UP Police’s counsel, Prasanna Kumar, submitted that if Maheshwari is not the Managing Director (MD) of Twitter India, he should state the same before the court, and Maheshwari will not be arrested as he is only a representative of Twitter.In response, Justice G Narendar said: “How many times should he tell that he is not the MD? He already answered, on 18th June.”CV Nagesh, appearing for Maheshwari, submitted that there was a need to ensure that power under Section 41A is not used to intimidate, threaten and harass people such as the petitioner.Twitter’s India head Manish Maheshwari told the Karnataka high court on Tuesday that he was ready to appear before the UP Police if they guarantee that they will not arrest him, even as the single-judge bench asked the police if they had ascertained that Twitter India was capable of controlling the content on its platform.The UP Police had insisted on Maheshwari appearing before them in person while he had offered to give a statement over video conferencing with regards to the matter.Twitter has been in the eye of controversy over the past few months. On May 21, it labelled a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Sambit Patra “manipulated media” prompting a Delhi Police investigation. The special cell of Delhi Police questioned Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter in India, in late May.The company then missed a May 25 deadline to comply with the new guidelines for intermediaries and social media firms, and an official in the IT ministry previously told HT that the company would lose the protection it enjoyed as an intermediary under the country’s IT law as a result.The Ghaziabad Police has been wanting to question Maheshwari over a video clip that went viral on June 15. The police believe Twitter did not do enough to halt the circulation of the clip which they believe misrepresents the nature of an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a communal hate crime. The Karnataka high court gave the Twitter executive protection from arrest and told the Ghaziabad Police that they could question him virtually, a ruling that has since been challenged in the Supreme Court.The map that caused the latest controversy was part of a larger image depicting the world map on the company’s website under the careers sections on the page titled Tweep Life. While it showed the disputed Aksai Chin area of Ladakh, illegally occupied by China, as part of that country, it depicted the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as a separate country.The misrepresentation caused an uproar online amid the ongoing impasse between the government and the micro-blogging firm.This is the second time that Twitter has run into trouble over a map in the past year. In October last year, the Centre had served Twitter with a notice over the geotag for Leh showing it as a part of China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-for-relief-from-physical-appearance-hc-reserves-order-on-twitter-head-s-plea-101625859033942.html
10-07-2021||India||₹1,500cr plant on anvil to treat Vrishabhavati river: K’taka minister||Karnataka minister for tourism and environment CP Yogeshwar said the state government will spend ₹1,500 crore in five years to build a tertiary treatment facility so that Vrishabhavati river water will be treated and used for agriculture purposes, even as a report by exerts says the civic agencies in the city are responsible for flow of sewage into the river. “The tertiary treatment facility will be completed in three to five years. Treated water through the tertiary treatment can be utilised for many things except for drinking purposes,’’ Yogeshwar said during his visit to the river on Thursday. The 57-km-long Vrishabhavathi river used to be a picnic spot in the late 1960s. Because of water pollution, the only river that originates from Bengaluru city now has an alternative name – the Kengeri Mori (Gutter of Kengeri). Vrishabhavati, a tributary of Arkavathi, originates in Bengaluru near the Bull Temple in Basavanagudi and flows through major areas like Guddadahalli, Bapujinagar, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, and Kengeri before it meets Arkavathi near Kanakapura town. The river carries domestic sewage from Bengaluru city and industrial effluents from Peenya, Yeshwanthpura, Kumbalgodu, Bidadi and Harohalli industrial areas. A report submitted by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) points out that it is the civic agencies in the city that are responsible for the current state of the river. According to the report, the city generates an estimated 1,440 million litres of sewage per day (MLD), a third of this, around 530 MLD, drains into Vrishabhavati; only 260 MLD sewage is treated. The report states that construction of sewage treatment plants (STPs) – capable of treating 150 MLD sewage -- is in progress. “Still, there is a gap of 200 MLD, which need to be addressed immediately,” the 48-page document states. “The present sewage flow in Vrishabhavati Valley is 530 MLD and it is expected that the sewage will be 720 MLD by the year 2023. Many local industries dump their waste products directly into the river, which causes pollution and increases the stress on the river. The wastewater treatment plant capacity serving the area does not meet the demand, which further adds stress on the river,” the report read. The interim report has suggested the issue of disposal of effluents, both domestic and industrial wastewater, and solid waste to be addressed on a priority basis. Some of the short-term measures are fencing the drains, regularly monitoring the quality of wastewater, checking unauthorised developments around the lakes, de-silting and setting up a toll-free number to receive complaints. Experts say the decay of the river has an impact on Bengaluru’s ecosystem that goes beyond the froth and stench it generates; it could affect the quality of groundwater in the areas that it passes through. Farmers on the outskirts of the city use this water for the cultivation of vegetables that end up on the dining tables of the city’s residents. “In terms of volume, domestic sewage contributes to the bulk of the pollution. Most households in Bengaluru don’t connect their sewage to the lines provided by the civic authorities. These (sewage) lines are meant to take the domestic effluents to a treatment centre. But the people connect their sewage to stormwater drains, which eventually take it to the river,” said Dr Sharachchandra Lele, a distinguished fellow at the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment. According to the experts, the effluents let into the river are slowly making their way back to the city. “The baby corn, other vegetables, fodder and the milk from the cattle from the villages downstream come into the city. If the quality of water the cattle drink and the water that is used for cultivation is bad it could certainly affect the city dwellers directly,” Lele said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1500cr-plant-on-anvil-to-treat-vrishabhavati-river-k-taka-minister-101625858911176.html
10-07-2021||India||HC rejects Chirag plea against LS Speaker’s decision on uncle Paras||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House. Justice Rekha Palli said there was no merit in the petition as the Speaker has the right to regulate the internal disputes of the House. The judge added that the court cannot be asked to solve the internal party disputes. “Now it is very clear. If you want to press, it is your wish. I am clear that this is inter-party dispute. You can exercise your remedies. You take your call…But the court cannot get into this dispute,” Justice Palli said. “It is well settled that the right to regulate internal disputes of the House is the prerogative of the Speaker,” the high court said. “I find absolutely no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” Justice Palli added. The high court, which was inclined to impose cost on Chirag, did not do so after a request regarding the same was made by his counsel. The petition sought setting aside Lok Sabha Speaker’s June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as the leader of LJP. Paras took oath as a Union minister on July 7 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reshuffled his Cabinet. During the hearing, advocate Arvind Bajpai, representing Chirag, said among the six party MPs, five wrote to the Speaker to recognise Paras as leader of the party in the House and directions were passed in this regard. Thereafter, the party chose to remove those five MPs and approached the Speaker to take action and declare Chirag as the leader of the party in the House, Bajpai added. However, the Speaker has “not corrected” the alleged mistake of recognising Paras as the leader of the party in the House, he contended. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao, representing the Speaker’s office, vehemently opposed the petition, saying Chirag was attempting to get the inter-party dispute resolved in the court. They said five out of six members of the party had approached the Speaker with the fact that Paras was the whip holder of the party and that the action of the Speaker cannot be faulted with. The court, while agreeing to the submissions of the counsels, said it was not inclined to grant any relief. Chirag had filed the plea on July 7 and later tweeted in Hindi, saying he has filed a petition in the Delhi high Court against the Lok Sabha Speaker’s initial decision recognising party’s expelled member of Parliament Pashupati Paras as the leader of the party in the House. The plea said the review of the decision was pending with the Speaker and despite reminders no action has been taken after which they have approached the high court. It sought direction that a corrigendum be issued by showing the name of Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-chirag-plea-against-ls-speaker-s-decision-on-uncle-paras-101625858791109.html
10-07-2021||India||SC declines to entertain plea that sought sunset clause in caste-based quotas||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition to limit caste-based reservations in education as it felt this was an issue outside the jurisdiction of the courts.A PIL filed by a practising doctor Subhash Vijayaran argued that caste-based reservation cannot be allowed to continue for eternity as there should be a time limit, beyond which the reservation benefits should be rolled back.“Compared to the pre-reservation era when people strived to gain the forward tag, today people fight and spill blood for the backward tag. Well off doctors, lawyers, engineers flaunt their backward tag to gain admissions in PG (post graduate) courses via reservations. Even the institutions of national importance like AIIMS, NLUs, IITs, IIMs, etc. are not spared. Every year, 50% of their very scarce seats are sacrificed on the altar of reservation,” the petition said.The petitioner, who also has a law degree, requested the court to place a time limit on such affirmative action, contending that if it was left to Parliament, caste-based reservation would continue for eternity.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat told him that they couldn’t do this.“You are fully aware of our jurisdiction. How do we fix a time limit on caste-based reservation? We can allow you to withdraw or we will dismiss this petition,” the bench said.It was the petitioner’s case that instead of reservation, the weaker sections need to be empowered by making them more competitive rather than de-powering them by eternal crutches of reservation that not only promotes mediocrity but ignites hatred and resentment in the society.A pro-reservation foundation appeared on caveat to oppose the petition. Vijayaran decided to withdraw his PIL following which no orders were passed by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-declines-to-entertain-plea-that-sought-sunset-clause-in-caste-based-quotas-101625858672401.html
10-07-2021||India||UGC’s revision of history syllabus for undergraduate course triggers row||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) revised the undergraduate history syllabus under the Learning Outcome-based Curriculum Framework (LOCF) this week after receiving suggestions from stakeholders between February and March. The draft prepared by an expert committee of the commission has run into a controversy over objections raised by some members of academia over its increased focus on Vedic literature, fewer topics on Mughal history, and an outdated reading list.While some teachers said they are concerned over the reduced focus on Mughal history, the introduction of a paper called Idea of Bharat, more focus on religious and Vedic literature, removal of papers on the role of women in ancient Indian society, and an outdated reading list, others welcomed the revised syllabi saying too much focus had been given to Mughal history over the years and an introduction to “Indian society” was a good move as students must learn India’s diverse history.Jitendra Meena, assistant professor of history at Shyam Lal College, said the exclusion of certain topics hinted at a political agenda. “The Mughal history topics have been reduced and are being seen in comparison to regional powers like the Marathas instead of being studied on their own. Similarly, branding the 1857 revolt as the First War of Independence seems like an endorsement of the Savarkar school of thought whereas many subaltern studies have termed the 1855 Santhal rebellion as the first war of independence. The paper on Inequality and Differences has also been removed which had helped students understand caste, language, and other identity-based issues.”Despite repeated requests, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain did not comment on the matter on Friday.Other DU professors also said the syllabus was regressive and did not address the issues of caste and gender. “A paper titled the ‘Idea of Bharat’ has been included as the first paper to set the tone for a certain kind of propaganda. The curriculum framework, which might be implemented across central universities, will move us towards a ‘monolithic’ kind of construction of India. In the ‘Idea of Bharat’, there has been a continuous use of the word ‘eternity’ that means changelessness. It’s making India look like a changeless society and a land of religion. Whereas, historically we are a land of critique of religion. The syllabus also does not address issues of caste and gender. So, overall this curriculum is regressive,” said Maya John, assistant professor of history at Jesus and Mary College.Not all history teachers agreed with this viewpoint. Monmoyee Basu, who has been teaching history at Hansraj College for over two decades, said, “I appreciate the paper Idea of Bharat because students should have an idea of their country, its geographical area, history, and culture. So studying the concept of India is important. However, the reading list fails to include recent publications or important texts for multiple papers.”The current syllabus also does not have papers on the history of women in ancient India as compared to the current CBCS syllabus, which has listed “appreciating the ways in which technological changes, commercial developments, and challenges to patriarchy by certain women shaped the times” as a learning outcome in the “history of India” paper.LOCF is interlinked with the choice-based credit system (CBCS) currently in place in Delhi University colleges. While Jamia Millia Islamia and 44 DU colleges offer undergraduate courses as per the CBCS pattern, Ambedkar University is in the process of aligning with the CBCS pattern. Teachers across universities said the current syllabus had reduced the number of papers from 43 to 37 in addition to either removing or replacing 12 papers.UGC officials said that the peer-reviewed LOCF syllabus is not binding in nature and is prepared after taking the suggestions of stakeholders into account. “LOCF is advisory in nature and higher educational institutions are requested to take necessary measures for appropriate revision of the curriculum. It is not intended to promote the designing of a national common syllabus for a programme of studies,” a senior UGC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugcs-revision-of-history-syllabus-for-undergraduate-course-triggers-row-101625858371085.html
10-07-2021||India||J&K delimitation process to be fair, transparent: Panel||Srinagar: A government commission redrawing electoral constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) said on Friday that the process will be fair and transparent, and based on consultations with all stakeholders, rejecting charges that the contentious exercise was pre-planned.The delimitation commission remarks came on the last day of its four-day tour of Kashmir and was a response to charges by the Peoples Democratic Party, which stayed away from the panel’s meetings and alleged that the “pre-determined” exercise was meant to disempower the people of Kashmir.  “I don’t think anybody should have any fears. We are very confident that we will finish this in a transparent manner. Otherwise, we would not have come to spend three to four days here talking to so many people,” said former Supreme Court judge, justice Ranjana Prakash Desai, who heads the three-member panel. The commission also said that delimitation will be conducted on the basis of the 2011 census and there was no current criteria on how to divide seats between Hindu-majority Jammu and Muslim-majority Kashmir. Other members of the panel are chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and J&K’s election commissioner K K Sharma. “We are very overwhelmed by the participation of various stakeholders in large numbers. We have taken note of their suggestions. This is our first visit and I assure you this is not our last. This process is a complex exercise and this commission will take all necessary steps to continue this engagement,” Desai said.Speaking on similar lines, Chandra said: “We can assure you and as the chairperson also did, it will be an absolutely transparent process and we will take into account views of all stakeholders. That is why we visited Srinagar, Kishtwar and Jammu, and met 800 people from 290 groups,” he said.“If something would have been on our minds or something was decided earlier, then this commission would not have come here. I would like to say very clearly that nothing has been prepared so far. We wanted to make an assessment and know the views of the people. If that was done then there was no need for us to come,” he said.Quoting a Supreme Court Judgement, he said: “The delimitation is not a mere mathematical exercise. It must reflect the political aspirations of the society”.“We see it as one Union territory. We don’t bifurcate (on the basis of) how much will go to the Valley and how much will go to Jammu. All will be done in a transparent manner and criteria will be implemented uniformly,” he added.On PDP’s decision to stay away from the exercise, Desai said: “We can only interact with those who want to participate in the process... We wish that they all come.” Delimitation is a controversial process that was mandated after the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two union territories on August 5, 2019. It is seen as the first step towards holding fresh elections in the region after seven years but local parties allege that the exercise will tilt the balance of power towards Jammu. In the press conference, Chandra said the delimitation exercise will be carried out as per the 2011 census and will consider several features like geographical compactness, conveniences, accessibility, communication facilities and topography of the region. “Earlier, the delimitation exercise in J&K was done as per 1981 census but in the rest of the country, the delimitation was done based on the 2001 census. Twenty-four seats of the legislative assembly of UT of Jammu and Kashmir shall remain vacant and the said area shall be excluded in delimiting the territorial constituency as provided under part V of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019,” he said.The commission was constituted in March last year to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in the UT.The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s landmark meeting with political leaders from J&K on June 24 -- the first political outreach by the Centre in two years. The Centre sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls and restoration of statehood. After the event, the National Conference ended its boycott of the panel and met the members. But the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- of which both NC and PDP are a part -- demanded the restoration statehood before elections. The parties which met the commission included the NC, Congress, CPI(M), Apni Party and People’s Conference. While the majority of the parties suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be the benchmark for the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-delimitation-process-to-be-fair-transparent-panel-101625857773567.html
10-07-2021||India||Exempt armed forces from RTI law, department of military affairs to govt||NEW DELHI: The department of military affairs (DMA) has sent a proposal to the government seeking exemption of the armed forces from the Right to Information Act, 2005, citing implications for national security, people familiar with the developments said on Friday.The DMA wants the defence services to be included in the Second Schedule of the law that lists intelligence and security organisations exempted from most transparency obligations placed on public authorities under the law, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. He said the proposal sent last month was being examined by the department of personnel and training (DoPT).RTI campaigner Venkatesh Nayak said the DMA proposal was “extremely distressing” and the DMA should have made efforts to implement the RTI Act “rather than resist it”.“If its proposal is approved, this will become another severe body blow dealt to the regime of transparency established by the Act,” he said.Created in December 2019, DMA is one of the five verticals in the defence ministry, apart from the departments of defence, defence production, defence research and development and ex-service welfare. DMA is headed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who is steering the military theaterisation drive.“There have been instances of the RTI Act being misused to obtain inside information at the behest of inimical elements. We may not give out the number of soldiers deployed in a sector in response to an RTI query. But then we get queries on quantities of ration, fuel and vehicles. Responses to such questions can help those elements calculate backwards,” he said.A previous attempt by the armed forces in 2006 to get into the exempted category did not materialise. The government had then countered that the armed forces were free to reject information requests which, in their opinion, had security implications.The second official cited above said there was no reason to keep the defence forces out when even organisations like the Border Security Force, the Central Reserve Police Force, the Central Industrial Security Force are exempted under Section 24 of the Act, which empowers the government to place security and intelligence organisations in the exempted list.A total of 26 organisations are exempted under Section 24. But they do have to respond to RTI requests in case of information sought in respect of allegations of violation of corruption and human rights violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exempt-armed-forces-from-rti-law-department-of-military-affairs-to-govt-101625856391653.html
10-07-2021||India||Delhiwale: The unorthodox dal makhani||This lawyer-cum-writer has challenged tradition. A resident of Delhi’s Bengali Market, Siddharth Kapila has appended a “modern healthy-ish take” to dal makhanni, the dish whose joy lies in its rich makhan, or butter. Tweaking the soul of a beloved dish is a risky undertaking. Good for him he did it in faraway England, where he is currently stranded. The 30-something Mr Kapila had gone to visit friends there in March, and couldn’t return as planned due to the second surge of coronavirus in Delhi. Speaking on a WhatsApp video call from Leeds town, he confesses “I like combining elements of different cuisines, without taking away what the original is good for.”In his version, he replaces butter with Greek yoghurt, a substitute that has been employed in the recent past by a few blogger-chefs too (just Google!). Mr Kapila says one can get the Greek yoghurt “in any Khan Market grocery” but we can also use Mother Dairy dahi, he assures. Here’s his recipe.Ingredients:For mixed seeds chilli oil:½ teaspoon coriander seeds, coarsely crushed½ teaspoon cumin seeds½ teaspoon mustard seeds1 chopped green chilli½ teaspoon Kashmiri mirch powderFor dal tadka:1 onion, finely chopped1 tomato, chopped3/4 cloves garlic, finely chopped or crushed and the same amount of crushed ginger3/4 teaspoon cumin seeds1 tablespoon coriander powder1 teaspoon Kashmiri mirch powder1 cup black beluga lentils or urad dal3 cups (or more) waterAdjust for salt¼ cup plain Greek yogurt or thick dahia bunch of fresh mint leaves, thinly slicedMethod:Boil a cup of (soaked for 6 hours) daal with salt. Adjust the water so that the dal is thick rather than watery. To this, add a tadka of cumin seeds, onion, tomato, ginger, garlic and coriander powder—made by cooking down the ingredients in two tablespoons of hot oil.Separately, warm thick Greek yoghurt in a double boiler. Which is to say, pour the yoghurt in a glass bowl that is placed over a sauce pan in which water is gently simmering. The dahi should be warm, not hot.For the mixed seeds chilli oil, heat a table spoon of vegetable oil on a slow flame. Add the mixture of seeds and a chopped green chilli. Allow the oil to sizzle and splutter and add a pinch of Kashmiri Mirch powder for colour as soon as you take it off the flame.For serving: add the thick dal in a serving dish, pour the warm yoghurt on top of it and drizzle the chilli oil over the yoghurt. Finally, sprinkle finely sliced mint leaves over the dish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-unorthodox-dal-makhani-101625856026217.html
10-07-2021||India||Social media cannot be used to defame: SC||New Delhi: Stating that social media cannot be used to defame others, the Supreme Court on Friday refused to grant protection from arrest to a college professor who allegedly made objectionable remarks on Facebook against Union minister Smriti Irani. The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta observed that people must remain mindful of the language they use against others while criticising them, or cracking jokes on social media. “You can’t defame women like this. You cannot use social media just to defame. What kind of language is being used? There is a language to criticise. There is a language to say jokes. You can’t say anything you like and then want to get away,” said the bench, denying anticipatory bail to Shaharyar Ali, head of the history department at SRK College in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad. Firozabad Police booked Ali, head of History department at SRK College, in March for an allegedly obscene Facebook post against the Union women and child development minister. He was booked for offences under Section 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly promoting enmity between communities, apart from Section 67A of the Information Technology Act for publishing obscene material. The first information report was lodged against Ali on a complaint by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. The Allahabad high court in May denied pre-arrest bail to Ali, saying that the accused was not eligible for the relief given the fact that he is a senior teacher and head of department in a college. It added that his social post was likely to promote ill will between different communities. Challenging this order, Ali, through senior counsel Vikas Singh, claimed before the top court that his Facebook account was hacked, and that as soon as he came to know about the contentious post, he published an apology. But the bench remained unimpressed. “What you are saying is an afterthought. You used the same account to post your apology but you say your account was hacked. This shows you are the one still using that account. Is there anything to show that your account had been hacked?” it asked Singh. At this, the counsel said that though he had nothing to show about his account getting hacked, his conduct of posting the apology should be construed as being truthful. The court, however, retorted: “We are not able to believe your hacking story. If your account was hacked, how can you access your own account? It can’t be called hacking. And if someone has used your account to post something, you will still be liable prima facie. You can prove your innocence before the trial court if you have not done anything.” The court said that Ali cannot claim ignorance since he used the same account hours later. “And then you think that by saying sorry, all your acts can be washed off. It is not like that. We are not persuaded,” added the bench. It dismissed Ali’s anticipatory bail plea, and gave him two weeks to surrender before the trial court in Firozabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-cannot-be-used-to-defame-sc-101625855490934.html
10-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Take action against ransomware groups, Biden tells Putin||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Foreign minister delivers holy relic of Georgian religious figure St Queen KetevanJaishankar delivers relics of Georgian religious figure Ketevan the Martyr during visit Tbilisi visit.US president Joe Biden tells Russian president Putin to take action on ransomware groupsDays after Russian ransomware attackers attacked a Miami-based MSP, the US president asked his counterpart to take action against the hackers.Mahrashtra death toll touches new milestoneCovid-related deaths cross 125,000-mark in Maharashtra; daily caseload remains static at close to 9,000Haryana to reopen schools for children in phased mannerHaryana government decided to reopen schools for children in Class 9-12 from July 16 and children in Classes 6-8 from July 23Wall Street to open higherThe US stock exchange could see a rebound to as energy and banking shares, news agency Reuters reported. Mukul Roy made chairman of Bengal's public accounts committeeMukul Roy was made chairman of public accounts committee in West Bengal on Friday. BJP, the party to which Roy still belongs and is holding the seat of an MP, walked out in protest. Delhi reports 81 Covid-19 cases, 3 deathsCOVID19 | Delhi reports 81 new cases, 3 deaths and 127 recoveries in the last 24 hours; positivity rate at 0.11% pic.twitter.com/WAbmkwgPS4Punjab lifts weekend and night curfew as positivity rate drops to 0.4%Punjab lifted the ongoing weekend and night curfews on Friday as Covid-19 positivity in the state dropped to 0.4%. Indoor and outdoor gathering will also be allowed from July 12 onwards.Need to continue taking precautions against Covid-19, says health ministryA day after news emerged of crowding in tourist spots the Union health ministry urged people to continue abiding by necessary precautions as Covid-19 cases are increasing even in countries like UK, Russia, and Bangladesh.'We are committed to an independent, Afghanistan', says EAM JaishankarIf we have to seek peace within Afghanistan and around, it's important for India and Russia to work together to ensure that much of the progress in economic, social terms are maintained. We are committed to an independent, sovereign & democratic Afghanistan: EAM JaishankarExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar said that is important for India and Russia to work together to ensure peace in Afghanistan, adding that both countries are committed to an independent Afghanistan.40 killed, at least 30 injured as fire breaks out in a Bangladeshi factoryA massive blaze in a Bangladesh factory has killed 40 people and injured at least 30 with some people jumping from the upper floors to escape the fire. Dozens still missing: AFP pic.twitter.com/EQvwYDxLldICMR urges breastfeeding mothers to get vaccinated against Covid-19Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, urged breastfeeding mothers to get vaccinated against Covid-19. "Breastfeeding mothers should get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19 without any hesitation," Panda told ANI.Controls 85% of Afghan territory, says Taliban as US troops pulloutAs US troops withdarw from the war-torn Afghanistan, Taliban claims to controls 85 per cent of Afghan territory.Over 1500 PSA Oxygen plants coming up across the country: PM ModiOver 1500 PSA Oxygen plants are coming up across the nation. PSA Oxygen plants contributed by PM CARES would support more than 4 lakh oxygenated beds. Ensure that the plants are made functional at the earliest: PM Modi at today's meeting over augmentation and availability of oxygenKerala HC restrains Centre from taking coercive action against news broadcasters under new IT rulesResponding to News Broadcasters Association (NBA) plea challenging the new IT rules "on the ground that they give govt authorities excessive powers," Kerala High Court in an interim order restrains the Central Govt from taking any coercive action against NBA under new IT Rules, ANI reported.ED gets nod to record Sachin Waze's testimony against Anil Deshmukh tomorrowEnforcement Directorate obtains court's permission to record suspended Mumbai Police Officer Sachin Waze's statement in ED case against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh at Taloja prison on July 10Won't ask users to opt for new privacy policy: WhatsApp tells Delhi HCWhatsApp tells Delhi HC it will not compel users to opt for new privacy policy till data protection bill comes into force.Delhi HC begins hearing plea of FB, WhatsApp against order refusing to interfere with CCI probe on privacy policyDelhi High Court begins hearing Facebook and WhatsApp pleas challenging a single-judge bench order dismissing their pleas against the Competition Commission of India (CCI) decision.PM Modi to interact with Tokyo-bound athletes on July 13Indian athletes are all set to do the nation proud in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with India's Olympic-bound sportspersons on July 13, three days before the first batch of athletes departs for the Games in Tokyo. Read moreCondition of former UP CM Kalyan Singh better, says hospitalThe condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is better, the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, told news agency PTI on Friday. Singh, who is currently in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital, was admitted on July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness levels.Search operation underway in J&K's JatwalAfter locals informed of a suspicious person, search operation underway in Jatwal area of Samba: Jammu & Kashmir Police.PM Modi to chair high-level meet on oxygen availabilityPM Modi to chair a high-level meeting to review augmentation and availability of oxygen across the country at 11:30 am.India reports 43,393 new Covid-19 cases, active cases slide to 458,727India reported 43,393 new cases and 911 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,752,950 and 405,939 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. Read MoreOnly 50 tourists now allowed at Mussoorie's Kempty fallsOnly 50 tourists now allowed at Mussoorie's Kempty falls, says Uttarakhand after hundreds seen flouting Covid-19 norms, reports ANI.Haiti cops makes more arrests in President Jovenel Moise assassination caseTaiwan says Haiti police arrested 11 assassination suspects on its embassy grounds, news agency AFP reported.US CDC exempts fully vaccinated citizens from taking Covid-19 booster shotsUS regulators said on Thursday that Americans who have been fully vaccinated do not need a booster Covid-19 shot at this time."We are prepared for booster doses if and when the science demonstrates that they are needed", the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said in a joint statement late on Thursday.Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine may require third dose, companies seek approvalThe Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name 'Comirnaty', may require a third dose to work more effectively against the original strain of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agencies reported on Friday morning, citing a statement from the companies from a day ago. Read MoreSecond Covid-19 wave lingering, or early signs of 3rd?India faced a severe second wave of Covid-19 infections starting February. The seven-day average of daily new infections rose 36 times between February 11 and May 9, which is when the second wave peaked. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-9-2021-101625788151652.html
10-07-2021||Today's||Caring for the vulnerable: Transgender persons||While India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive has picked up pace, it has also brought into focus the barriers that the marginalised face in accessing the vaccine. Among these are women, people with disabilities, and those on the absolute periphery of the marginalised — the transgender community.As of the end of June, only 11.45% of the transgender population has been partially vaccinated — their population as per the last Census is estimated at 490,000. Those from the community, however, put the figure closer to 1.8 million.These vaccination numbers are partly due to vaccine hesitancy. They are partly due to distrust in the public health system due to experiences of exclusion and discrimination. They are partly due to meagre sources of income, possibly eroded further by the pandemic. The numbers are also due to the digital divide; many are unable to register themselves as they don’t have smart devices. And they are partly a result of high illiteracy levels of the community. Amrita Sarkar of the India HIV/AIDS Alliance in Delhi told me that transgender persons have a higher rate of morbidities, making them more susceptible to Covid-19. They have higher rates of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV/Aids-related infections. This leads to compromised immunity. Several require hormones after gender reassignment surgeries.“The lack of hormones, which many cannot access or the lack of access to treatment for infections given that the health system is presently geared towards Covid-19, has resulted in mental stress. We are also afraid of going to vaccination centres for fear of being shooed away as many have been,” says Sarkar. The ministry of social justice and empowerment has set up a free helpline for transgender people who need support, but it is unclear how effective it is.The only sustained help that they get are from NGOs. The government must engage with leaders from the community to find out how best they can be helped. The one-time subsistence allowance of ₹1,500 per transperson during the second wave isn’t enough.There has to be a concerted effort by state governments to set up camps for transpeople where they can at least be guided through the registration process. Campaigns in clusters where they live can educate them on the effectiveness of vaccines and guide them on how to reach vaccine centres. Setting up separate booths for the vaccine will help instil a sense of safety. Immediate steps can also be taken to institute home vaccinations wherever possible.Speaking on various news platforms, Aqsa Shaikh, India’s first transgender nodal officer of a Covid-19 vaccination centre at the Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, says that her community deserves the same rights as others.In the long-term, one solution to improve conditions for the community is through financial inclusion. Recognising this, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) plans to launch pilot projects in several countries, including India, to fund transgender-led social enterprises; a small but necessary step that can help encourage entrepreneurship, create community networks to other social and economic empowerment activities.The government must also conduct sensitisation sessions on trans issues to address several blind spots.“Talk to us, ask us about our needs, no vaccination drive can be effective unless the most vulnerable are reached,” says Sarkar. Let us hope someone is listening.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/caring-for-the-vulnerable-transgender-persons-101625927795139.html
10-07-2021||Today's||For undertrials in India, the fight for liberty||On July 5, 84-year-old Stan Swamy died in hospital, far from his home and the community he tirelessly worked for. For eight months, he had suffered slowly in jail. Visibly unwell and battling Parkinson’s, he had requested the Bombay High Court (HC) to allow him to go home to “be with my own”. He was not yet charged with, let alone convicted of, any crime — only accused of having vague links to a terrorist conspiracy. Still, he was repeatedly denied bail until the inevitable came to pass. Judges may claim they are helpless before the high standards for bail under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA. However, while Section 43D(5) of UAPA and the Supreme Court (SC)’s added restrictions in NIA v Zahoor Watali are constraints, they are not blanket prohibitions. The SC has held that bail can be granted when delays defeat the constitutional right to a speedy trial in Union of India v KA Najeeb. Bail can also then be granted when continued incarceration would render life itself meaningless, as in the case of Swamy.His case is symptomatic of a larger problem in the criminal justice system: Keeping undertrial prisoners (UTPs) in jail by default. The National Crime Records Bureau’s Prison Statistics Report 2019 shows that UTPs comprise 69.05% of all inmates of India’s prisons. In 2018, it was 69.41%, and in 2017, it was 68.49%. Thirteen per cent are over the age of 50. This, despite prison occupancy averaging 118% nationally (174.9% in Delhi).Part of the problem is that courts have wide discretion to deny bail in a majority of offences. Discretion leads to a cautionary approach and a tendency to rely upon the State’s version of events. The higher courts need to lead by example and encourage greater scrutiny of the prosecution case in the early stages. The presumption of innocence needs revival.A recent example from Uttar Pradesh shows how far we have to go. On March 31, a man was arrested for being part of an auto theft gang. The district court denied bail because the police claimed he was a dreaded criminal, previously booked at the Akbarabad Police Station in a Gangster Act case (which is another stringent law). Before the HC on June 25, the State’s counsel (additional government advocate or AGA) restated this accusation. On July 2, however, the HC recorded that there was no police station of Akbarabad, and the “AGA does not dispute this fact”.This is an extreme case of disregard for the Constitution, which states clearly that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.At every level of the system, there was a failure of duty in this case: Failure by the police in deliberately invoking a non-existent case under a draconian law; failure by the district court in accepting the State’s word as the gospel without verification of records (such mechanical orders reduce the power to imprison to some more menial task); failure by AGA, who may represent the State, but is first an officer of the court and must not encourage illegal custody based on fabrications.And it was also, with all respect, a failure of the HC. Even in this extreme case, it did not grant the man immediate release on July 2 despite recording the falsity of the prosecution case, nor has it directed compensation for his suffering. He was released on July 8 — a full week spent in jail after the error was discovered, and over three months in total. The HC rightly called for an explanation from the errant officers and said that action should be taken against them. However, the man could have been released on interim bail, which exists so that undertrial prisoners do not have to wait for days while the court completes formalities, or waste away in jail while undergoing years-long trials. Recall the SC’s exhortation in the Arnab Goswami case that “deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many”. The courts must uphold this principle uniformly in every case, before it is too late.Shruti Narayan is a Delhi-based lawyer and a member of the Women in Criminal Law AssociationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-undertrials-in-india-the-fight-for-liberty-101625927314979.html
10-07-2021||Today's||The four variables that shaped Modi’s new team||The most significant expansion (in numbers) and reshuffle (of portfolios) of the council of ministers in recent history will strengthen the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politically. Whether it improves the government’s performance is another question, but the entire exercise and the choices made by the Prime Minister (PM) reflect some fundamental strengths of the party, as well as reveal its future direction.There are four important political dimensions through which the rupture in the governing arrangement can be understood.The first is the steady consolidation of the politics of inclusive Hindutva. Before Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, the BJP had been unable to reconcile its quest to be an umbrella Hindu party with its inherently upper-caste dominated leadership, structure and ideological framework. Attempts to change this, most notably by LK Advani and former party general secretary Govindacharya, in the early 1990s, faltered because of upper-caste resistance — think of the marginalisation of both Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, tall Lodh community leaders who expanded Hindutva’s appeal, in the party.Both Modi and Shah have long recognised that the BJP’s hopes of winning elections rested on representing the entire spectrum of Hindu society. This is also in line with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s stated principle of unifying Hindu society. And, therefore, since 2014, Hindutva became more inclusive in two ways.One, it became inclusive by becoming even more sharply exclusivist vis-à-vis Muslims — vitriolic rhetoric and systemic marginalisation of minorities have been used to cement Hindu unity. But, in itself, this wouldn’t have been enough. The second method was playing on the PM’s appeal and his personal identity as someone from an Other Backward Classes (OBC) sub-group, integrating workers from non-dominant backward and Dalit castes into the party structure, and recognising their history, symbols and leaders.This worked in elections. But the BJP’s very success created a new dilemma. Now, those who had voted for the party and believed that it had shed its upper-caste character wanted representation. This was not easy as the traditionally dominant didn’t want to give way. And that is why the expansion of the council of the ministers is not a reflection of the BJP’s expansion into newer groupings, but a logical next step to sustain the base. This is particularly true in north India, where OBC and Dalit workers of the party have not been happy with leadership positions, especially at the state level. Unable to fully break the upper caste stranglehold in state units without antagonising the core upper caste vote, Modi and Shah have found a way out by bringing in a range of ministers from these communities into the Union government.Inclusive Hindutva had arrived as an electoral phenomenon seven years ago; it is getting institutionalised in the formal power structure now. With 27 ministers from OBC castes, 12 from Scheduled Castes subgroupings, and eight from the Scheduled Tribes community, the majority in Modi’s government now comes from traditionally marginalised groups. To clarify, this does not mean that the BJP is an all-inclusive party — as long as its outlook towards Muslims doesn’t change, this won’t happen. But it is paradoxically the most inclusive and the most exclusivist party in India’s electoral history.If the first prism reflects the social depth of the party, the second reflects the politics of spatial expansion.Take the Northeast. It says something about India’s dismal past record that Kiren Rijiju has become the first leader from a state as sensitive as Arunachal Pradesh to enter the Union Cabinet. It speaks as poorly that no native resident of Tripura had ever been a part of the Union council of ministers, till Pratima Bhowmik joined as minister of state last week. It reflects skewed priorities that a region as crucial as north Bengal (think Darjeeling hills and Chicken’s Neck) had not found space in governments, till two ministers, Nishith Pramanik and John Barla were picked last week. It is not just about what region is important strategically; giving representation is also important to enhance a sense of ownership and belonging to the nation.To be sure, the BJP’s inductions were driven by realpolitik calculations, especially the north Bengal appointments which could be a precursor to giving the region a distinct identity to challenge Mamata Banerjee. But it does not take away from the geographical spread of the BJP, crucial for the party’s self-image as a national force. The party will continue with its outreach in new areas, and electoral success, in turn, will slowly impact the structure and representation patterns of the party. The Cabinet expansion is a step in that process.The third prism to understand the rupture is Modi’s recognition that the politics of performance is crucial to legitimacy. The government has faced its most serious erosion of credibility in the past year, with simultaneous national security, public health and economic crises. The mismanagement of the second wave affected, in varying degrees, the trust in the PM himself. And while social engineering has its place, the party leadership knows that performance, the perception of good performance, and a turnaround on tangible metrics are crucial to change the narrative. It is not doing this to please critics with which the party shares a deeply hostile relationship, but to revive the depleted morale of its own base.And that is why, if political considerations have largely driven appointments in the minister of state category, Cabinet appointments in key positions have been (largely but not exclusively) driven by who the PM sees as meritorious, what he identifies as priority sectors, and how he has aligned the two.Bhupender Yadav has been the BJP’s most important office-bearer in the last few years, both because of his election management and parliamentary skills. He has been given labour and employment, a ministry traditionally relegated to lightweights but whose importance was so sharply apparent during the migrant crisis in 2020, as well as environment and climate, which will drive India’s future. The pandemic has extracted a huge toll on the aviation sector, which is crucial for connectivity, tourism, the economy, and what the PM refers to as “ease of living”. Jyotiraditya Scindia has been made in-charge of India’s skies to reverse the setback of the past year (and also, presumably, to see the Air India privatisation process through, a test case of India’s public sector failure). An Ashwini Vaishnaw brings nothing politically for Modi, but he is expected to combine his administrative, private sector, and international experience to manage the delicate balancing act of preserving the integrity of Indian laws while not coming across as a closed society in the battle with big tech. And, of course, health needed a reset — and Mansukh Mandaviya, who is both a Modi loyalist but also widely seen as a competent administrator, has been brought in.The politics of inclusive Hindutva, spatial expansion and performance legitimacy is driven by that fourth final variable — the politics of electoral and party-building imperatives. These include preparing the party for state elections in the next three years, grooming a new generation of leaders, winning over crucial caste vote banks, changing the narrative on governance, and preparing for 2024. The BJP has been quick to understand the shift in public mood, act on feedback, and make changes. Whether the strategy works, and governance improves, is to be seen.letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-four-variables-that-shaped-modi-s-new-team-101625927074799.html
