14-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra approves adventure tourism policy to make it safe for people||Maharashtra government on Wednesday approved a policy for adventure tourism to streamline adventure activities across the state. The policy was approved in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday and detailed guidelines will soon be issued by the tourism department. The new policy has focused on the safety of the people and covers all tour operators that organise adventure tourism except adventure sports, performance-oriented sports, forest safari and nature trips.The policy will establish a regulatory framework for the sector with guidelines on necessary training of personnel and equipment etc. It will make it mandatory for tour operators to register with the state tourism directorate and take all necessary precautions while organising adventure tours, officials said.State tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said the priority of the government is to save lives of the people. “There were no rules related to adventure tourism and accidents were also happening. The policy is an attempt to streamline the activities by covering all the three mediums of adventure tourism — land, water and air. It will cover all tour operators that organise adventure tourism. It means they will have to follow all the rules while organizing adventure tourism tours for amateurs and tourists,” Thackeray said.“The state government’s priority is to save the lives of the people. We want to encourage adventure tourism and send a message that it is safe for them. We want Maharashtra to lead in tourism once Covid pandemic is over,” he said.A senior official from tourism department said, “All tour operators that are related to adventure tourism will have to make a temporary registration with the tourism directorate. They will get permanent registration once they fulfil all the criteria. Following which they will have to follow guidelines to be issued by the tourism department and take all the necessary precautions mentioned.” The activities that come under adventure tourism are mountaineering, trekking, bungee jumping, mountain biking, cycling, canoeing, scuba diving, rafting, kayaking, zip-lining, paragliding, hiking, exploring, canyoneering, sandboarding, caving and rock climbing.Maharashtra is the fifth state in the country in terms of organising a number of adventure tours and is expected to be on top with the help of this policy.“There was no rule in the state making it mandatory for tour operators for registration. There are lots of fly-by-night people in the profession who are not following regular safety procedures. We have brought in registration and guidelines so that the safety and security of tourists is not compromised,” said Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, tourism department.She said the guidelines will be strict, making it mandatory to have experts in the team going for adventure tourism, equipment, first-aid preparedness, insurance etc. There will also be a mandatory site inspection for completing the registration process for tour operators, she added.The government has also decided to form three committees for monitoring and effective implementation of the policy. One will be a state-level committee headed by the tourism secretary, second would be divisional-level committee and third would be local-level committees. All these committees will have experts from the field and officials from sports, forest and police departments, the principal secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-approves-adventure-tourism-policy-to-make-it-safe-for-people-101626287340536.html
14-07-2021||Other||11 in Delhi held for sending fake candidates to take police exam||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have registered 14 cases and arrested 11 people for cheating by sending fake candidates to take the written examination for recruitment of constables, conducted in December 2020.The fraud was detected during the physical endurance and measurement test (PE&MT) of the candidates who had qualified the written test. The PE&MT of 67,740 candidates are being conducted since June 28 at seven grounds at three locations across Delhi, said deputy commissioner of police (recruitment) Shweta Chauhan.DCP Chauhan said that so far, 14 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered at the Sonia Vihar police station against 21 suspects for impersonation and cheating. Out of them, 11 have been arrested in the cases, she said.In the 14 cases, it is suspected that the candidates sent impersonators to appear for the computer-based examination conducted by staff selection commission for constable recruitment for Delhi Police held in December 2020 in their place.“Since Delhi Police is conducting several stages of verification of candidates, these impersonators are being caught during physical test. It is suspected that gangs active in at least three different states are involved in these cases,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-in-delhi-held-for-sending-fake-candidates-to-take-police-exam-101626287341270.html
14-07-2021||Other||State govt to send 35K skilled workers to Japan for specialised training||Lucknow: The state government will send about 35,000 skilled workers to Japan for the Specified Skilled Workers Programme, said MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh on Wednesday. Reviewing the work of project monitoring unit constituted to channelize investment of NRIs in the state, Singh said 3.14 lakh skilled workers would be sent to Japan from all over the country for the Specified Skilled Workers Programme. “From Uttar Pradesh 35,000 skilled workers will be sent to Japan for the Specified Skilled Workers Programme. They will be trained in Japanese language and will also be given skill development training before they leave for Japan,” said Siddharth Nath Singh, in a statement issued on Wednesday. He also pointed out that agencies hiring manpower for overseas recruitment would be connected with the e-district and employment portal. Singh also informed that during the Covid-19 pandemic the state government had received investment proposals of ₹1045 crore from 32 Non-Resident Indians. These proposals are in agriculture, defence and IT sectors, among others. The MSME minister also informed that a database of 3064 NRIs had been prepared after contacting 16 Indian embassies. Soon, details of NRIs would be available from five more embassies, he added. Singh informed that the state government was issuing NRI cards to NRIs of Uttar Pradesh. Till date, this card had been issued to 540 NRIs who had applied, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-govt-to-send-35k-skilled-workers-to-japan-for-specialised-training-101626287221188.html
14-07-2021||Other||UP Board students to be assessed on monthly basis||Lucknow Now the UP board students will be assessed on monthly basis, apart from three internal assessments, half yearly and annual terminal examinations and the marks will be uploaded on the website of Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad. The board examination for Classes 10 and 12 will be held in March 2022 first and second week. An exhaustive 9-page academic calendar was released by Vinay Kumar Pandey, education director, on Tuesday. As per the calendar, the department decided to conduct three internal assessments to be held in last week of August, October and January for students of classes 9 and 10. The school administrations have been directed to upload marks of these internal assessments on the website of Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad. The first quarterly exam will be held in fourth week of September and half yearly in third week of December. The process had been introduced to make sure that students are evaluated throughout the year, an official said. The session will be considered to have started from May 20 this year. The pre board exams will be conducted between first to third week of February while the board exam of Classes 10 and 12 are to be held between first and third week of March. The board has also directed to begin the new academic session from April, 2022. The scheduled dates can change following directions from centre and state due to Covid-19 situation. In months where there are no examinations, teachers will take MCQ based monthly exam and upoad marks on the board website. The board has introduced new question paper pattern for Class 9 students. The paper will have two sections of 30 marks MCQs and 70% marks for theoretical questions. The school administrations have been asked to complete the syllabus via online/ offline classes for Class 10 and 12 by January 15 and Class 9 and 11 by January 31. For practical exams, the board has fixed the dates from January 1 to 15 for first phase and January 16 to 31 for second phase. To make online teaching similar to regular class, the board has suggested holding morning assembly for 15 minutes before teaching. The board has suggested to also recite ‘thought for the day’. The school administrations have been asked to provide timetable of the classes. The secondary education department will also issue schedule of online classes being run on Doordarshan. In the wake of the pandemic, the board has reduced the syllabus by 30% like the previous years. The truncated syllabus has been uploaded on the UP board website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-students-to-be-assessed-on-monthly-basis-101626287041684.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: DC cracks whip against poor mobile connectivity||Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar has given a 15-day ultimatum to mobile service providers (MSPs) to take steps to improve the signal reception across Chandigarh.In a recent meeting with MSPs and heads of different departments, the deputy commissioner (DC) enquired about the reasons behind poor mobile reception being encountered across the city in recent times.“The MSPs contended that the work from home (WFH) culture has led to a dramatic change in the usage pattern of mobile transmission,” said Kuljit Paul Singh Mahi, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) and the nodal officer under Chandigarh Right of Way Policy for Telecom Infrastructure.MSPs had created higher density of mobile towers and transmission infrastructure in commercial spaces and near office complexes, such as IT Park, as the demand for these services was more in these locations. “But, with the pandemic, the demand pattern has shifted to residential areas, where there is relatively smaller footprint of towers and other related infrastructure,” said Mahi.The firms will have to reconfigure their existing mobile tower infrastructure to provide improved services in residential areas. “The DC has asked them to do so in order to resolve problems such as drop calls, poor mobile signal and low mobile internet speeds,” said the ADC.Residents decry poor signalResidents complain that poor mobile reception has become a severe problem in the past few months, even affecting their work.Vasudev Vashisht, an IT professional working with a multi-national company, said: “Since the start of the pandemic, we have shifted to WFH, and mobile network has become key to our functioning. But, for the past few months, mobile signals have become very erratic. Call drop, particularly during longer calls, keeps disrupting our work.”“There are no physical meetings nowadays. We are dependent upon virtual meetings, but with poor mobile connectivity, we are losing key business. We have tried changing the MSP, but the problem persists,” said Naveen Manglani, presidents, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries.Admn to facilitate infra expansionWhile the MSPs can improve services to certain extent with the existing infrastructure, the expansion of network is required for resolving the issue on a long-term basis.In view of this, Brar has also directed local departments, including estate, urban planning and municipal corporation, to facilitate faster approvals for setting up mobile towers in the city.An MSP has to take consent from different departments, and a feasibility study is done by the urban planning department for erecting a mobile tower. “Currently, they have to follow the process physically. But, we are also setting up a web portal dedicated to MSPs for them to get necessary approvals online, which will speed up the process,” said Mahi.The UT administration in February this year notified the Chandigarh Right of Way Policy for Telecom Infrastructure for the city. It envisages a single-window electronic application process for submission of all applications relating to the Right of Way. All departments have to appoint a nodal officer to deal with such applications. Earlier, the NOC was given by the estate office, but now the ADC has been made the nodal officer.“We recently received around 32 applications for the erection of new mobile towers, but were rejected as they were incomplete. We have asked the firms to submit the applications again,” said the ADC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dc-cracks-whip-against-poor-mobile-connectivity-101626286920946.html
14-07-2021||Other||Use of ration card portability on the rise in Uttar Pradesh||Lucknow: As the ration card portability projects gains momentum, more and more beneficiaries are using the facility to buy subsidized food grains from any of the public distribution system (PDS) shop across the state and the country and not necessarily from the shop where they are registered. As many as 29,259 beneficiaries having ration cards in UP availed food grains in 18 other states between May 2020 and June 2021 while 5,891 people having their ration cards registered in 12 other states bought their ration from PDS shops in UP, data sourced from the food and civil supplies department showed. “The largest number UP’s ration cards were used in Haryana where 9996 UP families/migrants bought subsidized food from PDS shops there followed by Maharashtra (4746) and Gujarat (4323,” said commissioner, food and civil supplies, Manish Chauhan. As many as 2505 families using UP’s ration cards bought food grain in Daman and Diu also. Among other states where migrants from UP availed their ration during the period were Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, MP, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Tripura and Uttarakhand. According to Chauhan,, the highest number of transactions in UP were made by Maharashtra with 3535 people using Maharashtra’s ration cards procured their monthly PDS quota in UP followed by Haryana (803) and Bihar (679). The intra-district and inter-district transactions were found to be relatively higher. According to the data more than 1.63 crore households with their ration cards registered at a PDS shop in one place bought food grain from a PDS shop at any other place within the same district between August 2019 and June 2021. Similarly, around 14 lakh families living in one district bought food grain in the other district within UP during the same period. “Besides, a total of 58,74,734 intra-district and 6,19,012 inter-district transactions were made under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKAY) under which food grain was provided free of cost to ration card holders and others between May 2020 to October, 2020 and from May2021 till June, 2021,” Chauhan said. Under the ration card portability that is a part of the Central government’s One Nation, One Ration Card project, eligible beneficiaries can access subsidized/free food grain in the state where they are living and not necessarily in their native place where their ration card is registered. Calling One Nation, One Ration Card, “an important citizen-centric reform, the Supreme Court on June 29 set deadline of July 31 for all states to implement the scheme. The Centre told the Supreme Court that four states—Assam, Chhatisgarh, Delhi and West Bengal—were yet to implement the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/use-of-ration-card-portability-on-the-rise-in-uttar-pradesh-101626286860450.html
14-07-2021||Other||New treatment for migraine at Lucknow’s hospital||LUCKNOW There is a good news for migraine patients as now monoclonal antibodies treatment is available in the state. Earlier this treatment was available only in select hospitals in Mumbai or Delhi.New studies have shown that Calcitonin Gene Related Peptide (CGRP) is the main reason behind migraine problem. This can be treated by CGRP –monoclonal antibodies, which are given as monthly injections for 3 to 4 months and they give relief to 70% to 80% of the patients. Dr Rakesh Kapoor, medical director Medanta Lucknow said , “Migraine is very common neurological condition mainly affecting young persons with lot of suffering .In fact almost 40% of females are affected by migraine. Unfortunately, till now no specific treatment was available for migraine and the drugs so far gave relief in only half of the patients. But with the monoclonal antibodies treatment now available at Medanta people will not have to run to Delhi or Mumbai.” He said, “The monoclonal antibodies are very safe and highly effective. Cost of the CGRP Monoclonal Antibody injection is approximately Rs.25000/- and the total course depends upon the patients’ condition.” Neurosciences team of Medanta Lucknow is headed by director Dr Anup Thacker, associate director Dr Ritwij Bihari, consultant Dr Sudhakar Pandey and associate consultant Dr Pradeep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-treatment-for-migraine-at-lucknow-s-hospital-101626286742319.html
14-07-2021||Other||Roadside vends come up ahead of kanwar yatra||: Preparations have begun for the kanwar yatra that would be taken up by devotees of lord Shiva from Sangam city to Varanasi. This year the kanwariyas have been given permission to play DJ music during yatra, with some preconditions. Following the decision of the state government and hoping to make up for the loss in business due to first and second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, roadside shops near Sangam and Daraganj are being set up to enable kanwariyas buy things they need during the journey. The month of Shravan would begin from July 25 and excited kanwariyas said they were eager to undertake the arduous religious trek. A host of items are on display at many of these makeshift roadside-vends, from saffron colored dresses, t-shirts, different sizes of tumblers, shoes, hand bands, rudraksh malas with 108 beads, decorated sticks with handles (to hang the vessels) and several other things that are in great demand among the kanwariyas. “This year, the shopkeepers are selling eye-catching artistic works, both on the t-shirts and the sticks that would be used by the kanwariyas. DJ music, though only for playing religious songs, has been allowed and this is a great move that would make the trek truly enjoyable and motivating”, said Mahesh Chandra, 38 who has been undertaking this journey for a decade now. “Apart from the dresses, the main attractions of these shops are the decorative items which we use for decorating the kanwar stick,” he shared. The Kanwar stick is prepared by the family members of shop owners and a colourful stick costs anywhere between ₹150 to ₹350, depending on the vessel, decorations, quality. “Due to the pandemic, the cost of t-shirt and other items have increased as compared to past, but we are happy that at least we would be undertaking the yatra while following all the Covid-19 protocols, said Rajesh Kumar Singh, another kanwariya. The t-shirts, with pictures of lord Shiva, is being sold between ₹150 to ₹250, shorts are being sold for ₹80 to ₹150, bags for ₹50 to ₹65, flowers for ₹10 to ₹15 a piece and waist pouches for ₹150 to ₹250. Suraj Yadav, 42, a local shop owner of Daraganj said, “We are happy that we would have some business during these testing times and believe that lord Shiva will bless us all through the kanwariyas who arrive at our shop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roadside-vends-come-up-ahead-of-kanwar-yatra-101626286621419.html
14-07-2021||Noida||TV journalist killed in road accident in Noida||Noida: A 34-year-old TV journalist was killed in a road accident in Noida’s Sector 62 on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday while he was on his way home in Ghaziabad, the police said. The victim was identified as Ravi Sharma, an anchor with a news channel in Noida. According to police, a patrolling PCR van got the information about the accident around 1.40am after which a team was rushed to the spot. “Sharma’s Honda City car crashed into the divider. He was pulled out of the wreckage and taken to a private hospital in Sector 62 where he was put on a ventilator but died during treatment,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1. The police suspect speeding to be the reason behind the accident. Sharma’s body was handed over to his family after an autopsy, they said. A friend of the family, requesting anonymity, said that he had gone to Delhi to meet a few friends and was returning home when the accident took place. “His wife told us that he was recently given additional responsibilities at work. I think that he was under pressure due to the late working hours,” said the friend. The police officials said that so far no complaint has been filed in the case. Sharma is survived by his wife and two sons with whom he lived in Ghaziabad’s Vasundhra, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tv-journalist-killed-in-road-accident-in-noida-101626286441809.html
14-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Two borewells sealed as carcinogenic level 46 times safe limit||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) ordered two borewells in Ghaziabad sealed after groundwater samples from there were found to have the carcinogenic hexavalent chromium at almost 46 times the safe limit.The borewells are located in the Meerut Road Industrial Area adjoining the Lohiya Nagar residential locality. Authorities said the contamination source was a plot where heavy metal waste were previously dumped and that they would engage a survey to find out the extent of contamination.“On February 27, the CPCB had collected 13 groundwater samples from different points in Ghaziabad, including three from the two borewells. The three samples were found to have more than permissible limit of hexavalent chromium (0.05 mg/litre). The CPCB has directed the closure of the borewells,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). “We have informed the district officials and the two borewells will be sealed once a magistrate is available.”Citing the test report, officials said that the three samples contained 0.49mg/litre, 1.36mg/litre and 5.05mg/litre of hexavalent chromium - an average of 2.3mg/litre, which is 46 times the safe limit of 0.05mg/litre.In 2010, the UPPCB had found that the groundwater there had been polluted by several units that were engaged in chrome plating. “After that, the units set up a remediation plant in the locality and treated the groundwater,” Sharma added. He said that the measure was largely successful in taking off a great deal of the contamination. “But the plot on which the waste was once dumped continues to contaminate the groundwater,” he said. “No waste is currently being dumped there but it has not been cleaned either.” The report also found presence of iron in five samples, lead in four samples, nickle in one and manganese in four samples. Officials said that these too were found beyond to be at levels beyond the permissible limits.The CPCB has directed more tests in one kilometre radius of the two borewells to ascertain the extent of contamination.“The responsible parties may be directed to carry out detailed site investigation study to ascertain the source and extent of contamination in soil and groundwater followed by risk assessment and remediation of contaminated site at Lohiya Nagar,” the CPCB recommendation, said.City-based environmentalist and lawyer Akash Vashishtha said that heavy metals, which cannot be removed completely by home filters, can adversely impact health. “Hexavalent chromium can impact liver and kidneys as well, besides causing other health issues. The primary source of contamination is in the industrial area and over a period of time the contamination has spread to other adjoining localities. A hydrogeological survey followed by remediation is must,” said Vashishtha.In February 2020, the UPPCB also sampled groundwater from nearby Raj Nagar residential locality and the industrial area. It had found that four of the 14 samples were had hexavalent chromium beyond permissible limits.“A second sampling was done in January this year and that found little hexavalent chromium. However, we need to continuously monitor the area and we have also recommended a hydrogeological survey. Assessments indicate that the Meerut Road Industrial Area is a major source of contamination from where it possibly spread to other nearby areas,” the UPPCB regional officer said.Vashishtha, however, pointed out that the second sampling had not considered the original sampling points of February 2020.“There is a nursery across the road in Raj Nagar and its occupants still drink the yellowish water. So, the contamination is still there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-two-borewells-sealed-as-carcinogenic-level-46-times-safe-limit-101626286380400.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra defers Regulation of Fee Act amendment||State cabinet on Wednesday decided to defer the proposal of issuing an ordinance to amend the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act intended to regulate the school fee during the pandemic. Fearing the legal battle, the state cabinet decided to seek legal opinion from the Advocate General before bringing any such ordinance.“The attempt of regulating the fee amid the pandemic and conflict between managements and parents, was challenged in the court earlier. The court had said that the existing act does not empowers the govenrment in the fee related issues. This time too any such attempt is likely to be challenged by managements of the schools. The department, therefor has been asked to seek the legal opinion before any such step,” said an official.The state government has proposed to amend the Act by taking the powers to itself to regulate the fee during pandemic.The state government has also decided widely circulate the Supreme Court order which has mandated the schools to reduce the fee by 15% during pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-defers-regulation-of-fee-act-amendment-101626286140476.html
14-07-2021||Other||Elderly woman dies after getting hit by army vehicle in Bandipore||An elderly woman died after getting hit by an army driver in North Kashmir’s Bandipore, said police on Wednesday.Locals said in the afternoon, an army vehicle which was part of an army convoy hit the woman on Nadihal road. The woman was identified as Gul Jan, of Aragam village. She died on the spot.Later, police reached the spot and took the woman to hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.Police said a case was registered against the army driver. “The accident took place at Nadihal Bandupre in which an elderly woman was hit by an army vehicle and she died on the spot. The body was shifted to hospital for medico-legal formalities. An FIR was registered and the vehicle was seized,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-woman-dies-after-getting-hit-by-army-vehicle-in-bandipore-101626286020883.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Visa, second shot problems at home for students going abroad||More than a month after Maharashtra announced a special vaccination drive on priority for students enrolled in universities abroad, many are still scrambling for visa and their second shot in time for the start of the fall semester next month.Many students have taken to social media platforms including Twitter to share their travel woes. “Flights from India are not yet allowed to enter Canada, so some of us have booked tickets to travel to another country from India first, and then take a separate flight from there to Canadian cities,” said Mohit Patel, another student enrolled for a Masters in Data Management at the Northeastern University in Toronto. Patel is spending nearly ₹1 lakh more to fly to Mexico and then to Toronto to avoid the travel restrictions.The Centre opened universal vaccination for adults on May 1 but asked states to bear the cost and burden of vaccinating those in the age group of 18 to 44 years by procuring vaccines directly from the manufacturers. However, several manufacturers, including the two supplying vaccine doses to the Centre – Serum Institute India and Bharat BioTech – were unable to supply directly to the states, the first on account of the lack of approvals and indemnity and the latter due to insufficient production. On June 21, the Centre began to procure vaccines for this age category too. Till then, states including Maharashtra began to prioritise students who needed to travel abroad by allocating specific dates for their vaccinations.Another policy decision spelled further delay. In May, the Union health ministry announced that it would increase the gap between the two shots of Covishield to 84 to 112 days (it was previously 42 to 56 days sparking worry among students about reaching their allotted universities in time. This rule however changed recently by the central government, and students can now opt for their second dose of the vaccine within 28 days of their first shot.Students from small towns said that they were struggling to convince authorities about the reduced gap. Yash Nayak, 22, has already got his visa to the United States approved, but he’s still unsure when he will be allowed to take the second shot of Covishield. He is in a Masters in Science (MS) in Management Information Systems (MIS) at the University of Buffalo.“I got my first dose and as per the 28-day rule, I should be getting my second vaccine now. But unlike cities like Mumbai, Hyderabad and Chennai where students are being vaccinated on a priority basis, authorities in smaller cities are still demanding that we wait for the second shot,” said Yash, who resides in Bhilai, Chhattisgarh. “First it was the fight for getting vaccinated, then we had to wait for the government to decrease the gap between two shots of Covishield and now it’s the seemingly never-ending wait for visas. I received my visa papers for Canada on May 4 but till date haven’t received the passport submission and payment link. Few people I know through Twitter and I are waiting to hear from VFS Global for an update,” said Priyesh Sharma, who will be pursuing a one year post graduate degree in communications from the University of Ottawa.The government of Canada on their official website have also clarified that even though flights from India are currently suspended, students who completed the submission of their study permit application before May 15 should get a confirmed decision from the visa authorities by August 6, 2021. “We will process complete applications submitted after May 15 as quickly as possible—but we can’t guarantee that you (student) will get a final decision before the fall semester begins,” a statement read.On July 8, the Twitter handle of VFS Global Care, posted: “Please note that Canada VAC (visa application process) have started Passport Submission Service in a phased manner. Customers who completed their 2-way courier process prior to the lockdown will be contacted by VFS Global by email.”VFS Global is a private firm that manages the passport and visa-related administrative work for a host of countries around the world.Tamil Nadu resident Rathin Umesh, 22, has received his US visa and has both shots of Covishield vaccine. His tickets to the US are for August 4. What is holding him back, however, is the fear of the new Delta variant of Covid. “My parents and I are equally worried about the new variants of Covid-19, which research shows is bypassing the vaccine effect as well. I really hope to reach my university healthy,” said Rathin, who is going to pursue a Masters in automotive engineering technology from the Minnesota State University. Akshay Chaturvedi, CEO & Founder of Leverage Edu, an EdTech and career guidance company, said the concerns of students also depends on the country they are heading to.“So far there has been absolutely no problem that has come from our students heading to the UK, a huge testament to how the country has handled the pandemic. Our students who are now going to the US have started booking their visa slots in the last few weeks,” said Chaturvedi. “However, the embassy and the government has acknowledged that they are currently managing a huge influx of student visa applications and have advised students to be in constant touch with their universities for alternate options in case visa interview dates aren’t available before their start date. However, this is a very rare instance and we are talking to university partners and students on a daily basis to ensure the right information is carried from source to destination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/visa-second-shot-problems-at-home-for-students-going-abroad-101626285780371.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||NTA’s new changes to NEET-UG pattern leave students worried||In view of the reduction of the Class 12 syllabus across education boards, the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate (UG) medical and dental students will have a change in paper pattern for the first time since its inception in 2016. The announcement came through the official exam brochure which was released by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Tuesday evening. Even as students are still unclear about the reason behind this move, the NTA clarified that the changes were introduced keeping in mind the reduction of the syllabus by various school education boards for their Class 12 students in 2020-21, considering the loss of academic time due to Covid. “To rationalise the decision of reduction in the syllabus by various school education boards, the NTA has taken the decision to provide choice in Section “B” for each of the four subjects,” clarified NTA through an information bulletin.Students have now approached the examination authority for clarity on the marking system of the new paper pattern. Until 2020, the NEET-UG paper pattern consisted of 180 objective type questions from physics, chemistry and biology (botany and zoology) to be answered on a specially designed sheet using a ballpoint pen only. Each correct answer gives students four marks and each wrong answer deducts one mark. According to NTA, the new paper pattern will now comprise two sections under each subject. Section A will consist of 35 questions that students have to attempt compulsorily, and section B will consist of 15 questions from which the candidate can choose to attempt any 10 questions. The amount of time to solve the paper remains the same and the marking pattern remains similar to last year as well. This choice of choosing 10 questions out of 15 has confused students. “When NTA says students can attempt any 10 out of 15, will students be marked in the negative for a wrong answer? Also, if a student chooses to attempt all 15 questions, will the NTA choose only the correct answers for the final marks or choose the first 10 answers only? Such questions are running in all our minds,” said the parent of a NEET-UG aspirant. After much delay, NTA earlier this week announced that the all-India exam will be conducted on September 12 this year and registrations for the exam started this week. While medical and dental aspirants were relieved to finally get information on their exams, this change in exam pattern has introduced new anxieties for students. “Instead of a 180-mark paper, we will now be attempting a 200 mark paper. This automatically means we should get more time to appear for the exam, but NTA has clarified that we will get three hours only. How is this fair?” asked Soniya Talreja, a NEET-UG aspirant. In separate letters and emails addressed to the NTA, students and parents have sought clarity to these questions, and at the same time also demanded that NTA release mock test papers for students to solve before they appear for the actual exam. “We also insist that NTA inform all exam centres to ensure that students are given 15-minute reading time of the question papers before the exam begins so that they are in a good head-space to attempt the three-hour test,” said another parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ntas-new-changes-to-neet-ug-pattern-leaves-students-worried-101626285720520.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Ola-Uber cab rates hiked by 15% in Mumbai||Amid the continuous increase in fuel prices in the city since May 3, mobile phone application-based cab aggregators Uber and Ola have also hiked their fares by 15%. The hike in fares of both app-based taxis has been done across different states in India, corresponding to the rise in fuel rates.Officials from both companies said their drivers demanded an increase due to the constant hike in fuel prices. Mumbai has one of the highest fuel prices in India — one litre of petrol was priced at ₹107.20, while one litre of diesel was available at ₹97.29. Compressed natural gas (CNG), too, has seen a hike in price. “The demand for rise in fares by drivers started in May when fuel prices were increasing across the country. The increase in fuel prices was studied and then the fares were increased.” said officials from Ola and Uber, who requested anonymity. Both Uber and Ola refused to comment on the fare hike in Mumbai and the new fare structure. Passengers have complained about the hike in fares. “I travel between Byculla and Chinchpokli at Rs30, but when I booked an Ola cab on Wednesday, I had to pay Rs45. The hike is not justified as there has been an increase in prices of everyday products.” said Anil Jain, a Byculla resident. “I have noticed an increase in fare prices of both Ola and Uber. Last week, I had booked a cab from Thane to Nariman Point and the rate was around Rs550. Later, towards the end of the week when I tried booking, the fare was Rs900.” said Savita Yadav, a 34-year-old Thane resident.The drivers, however, have stated that there has been only a minimal increase. “If passengers are noticing an increase in fares at present, that could be because of rainfall. During rainfall, there are fewer vehicles on the road. The increase in fare is minimal and is not going to help drivers substantially.” said an Uber cab driver, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/olauber-cab-rates-hiked-by-15-in-mumbai-101626285721260.html
14-07-2021||Other||L-G launches horticulture week to double J&K farmers’ income||Continuing the government’s endeavour to realise the prime minister’s goal of doubling income of farmers by 2022, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday launched horticulture week by planting saplings at Akhnoor.The horticulture week will focus on the broad contours of initiating massive plantation drives, taking objective steps in nursery development, promoting mechanisation among the farming community, creation of water sources, human resource development through training and strengthening the post-harvest management with the overall mission of doubling the farmers’ income in the UT.Sinha observed that the government has set an unprecedented target of planting 25 lakh high-density plants this year as compared to 49,000 in 2019, which is a new record in the history of horticulture of Jammu division.In addition, another 1.20 crore plants of aloe vera and 42 lakh plants of strawberry will be planted, besides 67,500 plants of olive will be planted in Ramban and Doda districts covering around 270 hectare, this year.He laid e-foundation stone for a 100-acre mega high density plantation nursery coming up at Chakroi, RS Pura, besides launching Jammu horticulture mobile app and ‘Parvaz’ - a market linkage scheme for benefit of farmers.Sinha spoke of initiatives taken by the government to facilitate the farming community and extending handholding to farmers through different government schemes with the aim of increasing their income.“Horticulture has become the backbone of the economy of J&K. From state-of-the-art machinery to new plants, water supply resources for farming, training, expansion of the area of high density plantation, many innovative measures were taken in the past one year and many more are in the pipeline for the future deliverables aiming at growth of the farming sector,” added Sinha.He expressed satisfaction over the strides made in agriculture and horticulture to fulfil the PM’s goal of doubling income of farmers by 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-launches-horticulture-week-to-double-j-k-farmers-income-101626285667516.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai corporators demand citizen-friendly online booking system for Covid vax slots||The corporators across the party lines have demanded that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) should make the online booking of vaccination slots more citizen-friendly. Further, from Thursday onwards, vaccination for pregnant women will take off at 35 vaccination centres across the city.The corporators said that every ward opens slots at a separate time, which leads to confusion. Hence, they have suggested that online slots for vaccination centres be released at a fixed time across the city and the information be shared on social media platforms.BJP corporator Abhijit Samant said, “I have written a letter to the municipal commissioner requesting that there should be a uniform time for all wards to release their slots on the Co-WIN portal. Further, the BMC should also decide on a fixed time to announce whether there will be vaccination or not on the next day. There are a lot of citizens who are struggling to get an appointment for their second slot. This makes it more difficult for citizens to get their slot booked online.”Asif Zakaria, Congress corporator from Bandra said, “More citizen-friendly steps should be taken by the BMC when it comes to vaccination. There should be a uniform time for releasing slots. I have seen senior citizens struggling to book their slots online as there is no fixed time when the slots are released.”Zakaria added, “Also, for walk-in vaccination citizens form a queue at 5am or 6am and get free only by noon. I have requested the BMC to arrange water, tea and biscuits to be given to citizens. The citizens will happily pay provided they get such a facility. The BMC’s earlier plan of having vaccination on a walk-in basis for three days a week and on the basis of online appointments for the rest of the week was better. It was catering to all citizens, and everyone was getting covered.”Meanwhile, on Wednesday 65,244 citizens were vaccinated taking the total count of vaccination to 6,233,629. On Thursday, vaccination will be conducted between 2 pm to 5 pm owing to limited availability of vaccine doses.The BMC in a statement on Wednesday said that pregnant women in the city will be able to undertake vaccination at 35 vaccination centres across the city on a walk-in basis and no prior appointment will be required for the same.In the statement, the BMC said, “Necessary training has been given to all the concerned staff on Covid vaccination duty to give proper counselling to pregnant women coming for vaccination. Those pregnant women who will be given should be in the full post-pregnancy period. However, women who have developed covid-19 and who have been treated with monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma will be vaccinated after 12 weeks of the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-corporators-demand-citizen-friendly-online-booking-system-for-covid-vax-slots-101626285660382.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC dumps legal size paper for double-sided A4 prints to cut consumption by half||A small step the Bombay high court took on Wednesday could mean a giant leap for the city’s and the state’s judiciary turning environment-friendly. A circular issued by the court’s administration allows the use of the smaller A4 size paper instead of the legal-size paper; a move that, lawyers and court officers say, could reduce paper usage by half. The circular allows the use of A4 size paper, printed on both sides, for filing petitions, affidavits and other pleadings before the high court, and its benches at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa. Until now, the court accepted only legal size paper printed on one side, and there were no specifications on the fonts. The new circular specifies fonts (Times New Roman or Georgia), font size (14) and the margins (5cm inner and 3cm outer). Advocate SR Nargolkar, who represents the high court administration, informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni of the notification. The effective reduction in paper size is 10% (330mm x 210mm for legal versus 297mm x 210 mm for A4), but the use of both sides for printing will potentially cut down paper consumption by half, a senior court officer said. “It is difficult to estimate how much paper is being used for filing proceedings before the HC, but this shift will cut usage by half and give us more space to store court records.” Nargolkar was responding to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by city lawyer Ajinkya Udane seeking directions to the court administration to shift to A4 size paper. His counsel, PR Katneshwarkar, submitted that the PIL was filed after an earlier petition with similar prayers had been disposed of, asking the petitioner to make a representation to the high court’s registrar general. Katneshwarkar informed the bench that though a representation was made, no decision was taken. The petitioner was, therefore, “constrained to approach the court again.” To be sure, the Bombay HC is not the country’s first court to issue such a direction. According to Udane’s petition, other high courts such as Kolkata, Allahabad, Kerala, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have already adopted the A4 size paper with both-sides printing as standard. Nargolkar said a notification amending the Bombay High Court (Appellate Side) Rules, 1960 and Bombay High Court (Original Side) Rules, 1980 was issued on July 6, so as to allow use of A4 paper, printed on both sides, for pleadings before HC. He said a circular for permitting the use of A4 size paper printed on both sides was issued on Wednesday. The bench then directed Katneshwarkar to make a representation to the HC’s registrar general Mahendra Chandwani to issue directions for allowing use of A4 size paper printed on both sides for pleadings before all subordinate courts in Maharashtra. The circular says, “With a view to bring uniformity about use of paper in day-to-day working on the administrative side, to minimise consumption of paper and consequently to save the environment, Honourable Chief Justice and the Judges of the Bombay High Court have been pleased to direct that henceforth, the Registry shall use A4 size paper (on both sides) for internal communications at all levels in the Registry.” It adds: “It is, clarified that all the pleadings, petitions, affidavits or other documents, etc, filed in the Registry, on Judicial side for the purpose of filing in the High Court and its Benches at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Panaji (Goa) and all other Courts in the State of Maharashtra, the following specifications of paper type would be applicable: ‘Superior quality A4 size paper having not less than 75 GSM with printing on the both sides of the paper with Font - Times New Roman or Georgia, Font size 14 with inner margin of 5cm and outer margin 3cm.” Dr Birendra Saraf, vice president, Bombay Bar Association, welcomed the decision and said that it would contribute to saving not only paper but also pave the way for digitisation of court records. “Once there is uniformity in the size of the paper used, and the process of digitisation is completed, it will be convenient for courts to call for records from lower courts and even while hearing cases in appeal. It will save nearly 60 percent of the paper utilised, a positive step towards saving the environment as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dumps-legal-size-paper-for-double-sided-a4-prints-to-cut-consumption-by-half-101626285600405.html
14-07-2021||Other||₹10,000 fine for hotels, bars, flouting norms in Kalyan-Dombivli||After several hotels, restaurants and bars found violating the lockdown norms, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has decided to impose a fine of ₹10,000. As per the civic body, there are several shops, hotels, restaurants and bars that are flouting the social distancing norms, not wearing the mask and some even operate after a limited time. “If any hotel, restaurant or bar owners are found violating norms during the first inspection ₹10,000 will be fined on the spot, while other establishments will be levied a fine of ₹5,000. In case of the second inspection, the hotel, restaurant and bar owners will be fined ₹20,000, while other establishments will be charged ₹10,000 as a fine. In the third inspection the establishment will be sealed,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC. A total of 12 such establishments were sealed by the civic body on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10000-fine-for-hotels-bars-flouting-norms-in-kalyandombivli-101626285601041.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra expected to ease few curbs, relax shop timings||The Maharashtra government is expected to take a call on relaxations from the ongoing Covid-19-enforced lockdown in the next few days. Besides the relaxations from mandatory RT-PCR tests for domestic fliers, the state is expected to extend the timings of shops and establishments. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray may take a decision in consultation with the state-appointed task force in the next few days.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government is positive about relaxations for shops and restaurants, and a decision is likely to be taken soon. Commercial establishments have been demanding for relaxations in their operation timings and have said that they were ready to follow the compulsion of vaccinating staff. Tope said the final decision over it will be taken by the CM, who heads the state disaster management authority.“There was a detailed presentation made in the state cabinet today [Wednesday], but no decision was taken over the relaxations. We have decided to do away with the mandatory RT-PCR [tests] for the domestic fliers coming in from other states if they are fully vaccinated. Similarly, shopkeepers and restaurants have been demanding more relaxations for the operators fully vaccinated. The final decision will be taken by the CM,” he said.Tope said 92% of the 104,000 active patients are in 10 districts, with the remaining 26 districts having only 8% active patients.“The daily caseload has been below 9,000 over the past more than one month. The growth rate in Maharashtra is much low than other states. Although there are instructions by the Centre about third wave, there are no signs of immediate third wave. The decision about relaxations is expected to be taken soon,” he said.According to officials from Mantralaya, the state-appointed task force has submitted its report to the chief minister. The task force of leading doctors has reportedly recommended the relaxations in the districts with test positivity rate of less than 5%, high vaccination cover of more than 70% and where the Covid-appropriate behaviour is strictly followed. The state government is also of the opinion that since there was no significant surge in cases in districts and cities like Nagpur, Navi Mumbai, Thane, which had implemented level 1 and 2 relaxations for some time last month, a few relaxations can be given.“We have completed 100 days of lockdown after starting roll-out on April 5 after second wave hit. With various reports, including that from INSACOG, over the infection scare from the Delta Plus variant, there is no reason to continue the curbs. We will have to go for relaxations in the next few days,” another official said.The task force and the officials from departments involved in Covid-19 management are strictly against the opening up of the local trains in MMR for general public. They point at the fact that the second wave hit MMR only after the local trains were opened for all.“The state will have to take very cautious approach, while unlocking the activities. The Centre has already alerted all states about the potential third wave and advised to avoid crowding at public places. The percentage of the oxygen-occupied beds has again increased to 14% over the past few days. In such a backdrop, the lenient unlocking may cost us dear. Chief minister is in favour of graded relaxations,” he said.Meanwhile, Tope said that they expect the supply of 42 million doses of vaccine by the central government in August. “The centre is expecting the supply of 420 million doses from the manufacturers’ next months. If distributed to the states in the proportion of the population, 10% of it should be supplied to Maharashtra. We are also talking to the private hospitals and corporate houses requesting them to procure maximum of 25% stock allotted to them from the vaccines manufactured in the country. Presently, we have been able to vaccinated around 300,000 people daily on an average owing to the short supply by the Centre,” he said.Tope also announced to recruit 1,000 doctors in the next few days as part of the preparedness ahead of the potential third wave. State cabinet on Wednesday also decided to extend the retirement age of the doctors and medical officials in government services by one year, taking it to 62 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-expected-to-ease-few-curbs-relax-shop-timings-101626285540880.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid weekly positivity rate more than state average in 10 districts||As Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 8,602 new Covid-19 cases, the weekly positivity rate in 10 districts remains higher than the state average of 4.36%.These districts include Nandurbar (11.72%), Kolhapur (9.85%), Sangli (9.20%), Satara (8.23%), Ratnagiri (7.91%), Pune (7.74%), Raigad (6.98%), Sindhudurg (5.94%), Aurangabad (5.10%) and Beed (4.64%).However, the state health department clarified that the situation at Nandurbar is not bad, as on July 11 there were 212 cases which increased the positivity rate.There are currently 1,06,764 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 17,389 patients, followed by Thane with 16,096 active patients. The Covid case tally of the state now stands at 6,181,247, while the death toll has now reached 126,390, with Pune leading with 17,551 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,654.There were 226,163 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 6,067.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 619 new cases and 10 deaths.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “The second wave started in late February, but these districts were not affected much at the time. These districts witnessed the rise in cases late, hence they will decrease in the coming days,” said Dr Awate. He said that Satara and Sangli witnessed elections of the cooperative sector which resulted in a surge of cases.Dr Anita Mathew, infectious disease specialist, Fortis Hospital, Mulund put the onus on the local citizens to adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “The virus may be mutating but citizens need to learn to live with it. For this, citizens need to wear masks, observe social distance and take all steps to prevent its transmission. In addition, vaccination should speed up,” said Dr Mathew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-weekly-positivity-rate-more-than-state-average-in-10-districts-101626285540302.html
14-07-2021||Kolkata||Let Mamata Banerjee’s election plea be heard outside Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari to SC||NEW DELHI/KOLKATA: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court to transfer the petition filed against his Nandigram election by chief minister Mamata Banerjee outside the state, people familiar with the development said.The petition was filed in the top court by Adhikari’s legal team and is yet to be listed. The case has been given a “provisional” registration and is awaiting final numbering by the Supreme Court’s registry, a person aware of the matter said.The development comes hours after the Calcutta High Court issued notice to Suvendu Adhikari on Banerjee’s election petition challenging her defeat from Nandigram in the assembly polls. Adhikari defeated the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief by a margin of 1,956 votes. It was her first electoral defeat in 32 years. Banerjee insists that election officials didn’t count the votes properly and when she sought a recount after the results were declared, the returning officer rejected her request.The high court also ordered the Election Commission to preserve all records, devices, such as EVMs (Electronic Voting Machines) and video recordings,” Sanjay Basu, a lawyer who represents Banerjee, said after the single judge bench of justice Shampa Sarkar held the first hearing on Wednesday.“Let notice be issued. The matter is made returnable on August 12, 2021. Pending the decision of the case, all documents, election papers, devices, video recordings etc connected with the election which is under challenge before this court shall be preserved by the concerned authority”, justice Sarkar said in her order on Wednesday.Banerjee’s lawyer Sanjay Basu said the court also noted that the election petition does not suffer from any defect under the Representation of the People’s Act.Last week Justice Kausik Chanda recused from the case after imposing a fine of ₹5 lakh on the Trinamool Congress chief for the manner in which she sought his recusal was sought. Banerjee and her party asked for transferring the petition to another judge citing “apprehension of bias” since Justice Chanda had, before his elevation to the bench in 2019, represented the BJP and its leaders in court cases and was seen in photographs sharing a dais with BJP leaders including state unit chief Dilip Ghosh.Justice Chanda, who agreed to step back, however, underlined that it was preposterous to suggest that a judge who had a past association with a political party as a lawyer should not receive a case involving the said political party or any of its members. “The past association of a judge with a political party by itself cannot form apprehension of bias,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/let-mamata-banerjee-s-election-plea-be-heard-outside-bengal-suvendu-adhikari-to-sc-101626285481472.html
14-07-2021||Other||Covid positivity rate in Himachal drops to 1%||The positivity rate in Himachal for the week ending on July 11 came down to 1%, a marginal decrease of 0.1% from the previous week. A total of 85,489 tests were conducted in the state last week, of which 984 samples turned out to be positive.In the preceding week (June 28-July 4), the positivity rate was 1.1%. Lahaul-Spiti district recorded the highest positivity rate of 2.6%, followed by Mandi 2.3% and Chamba 2.1%. Bilaspur and Kinnaur districts recorded positivity rate of 1%.In remaining six districts, it was below 1%. In terms of absolute number of cases, Chamba was the worst hit district recording a total of 232 new cases. Mandi reported 158 cases, Kangra 126, Shimla 114 and Solan 102. Sirmaur reported lowest 12 cases. The case fatality was down to 0.8% with the state recording eight deaths during the week. Meanwhile, a health official said the mobile health and wellness centre vehicles were proving to be of great help in the fight against Covid. The state health department operates 10 such vehicles in seven districts.‘COVID-APPROPRIATE BEHAVIOUR IS THE KEY’The official said the potential danger of Covid-19 spread persists in the state, and the people should ensure strict Covid appropriate behaviour to prevent the third wave. He said people should follow the norms irrespective of their vaccination status. He said in view of the surge in crowding in public places, it will be important to ensure compliance of the guidelines.In the light of guidelines issued by both the central and state governments, the official said, the health department has issued directions to district administrations to take all necessary measures to ensure that people wore face masks and maintained social distancing.HIMACHAL LOGS 93 FRESH COVID CASES
14-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Husband, in-laws held for death of woman||Noida: A man in his late twenties and his parents were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the death of his wife following allegations of torture for dowry. According to the police, the 24-year-old woman was found hanging in her room under the Phase 3 police jurisdiction on Monday evening. The suspects were identified as Vinod Yadav, the victim’s husband who works at a private company in Noida, his father Suresh Yadav, and mother Sarita Devi. “The suspects did not inform the police about the incident. A neighbour called the police helpline and informed us about the incident. The woman’s body was sent for an autopsy and her family in Bihar was informed,” said Vivek Trivedi, station house officer, Phase 3 police station. Police officials said that on Tuesday, the woman’s father approached them and alleged that Vinod, his parents and younger brother had been harassing and torturing his daughter for dowry. “My daughter got married two and a half years ago. Soon, her in-laws started harassing her for not bringing a car with her. They would torture her both emotionally and physically. She had been very upset,” said the father in his police complaint. A case was registered against Vinod, his parents and younger brother under sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act. Three of the suspects were nabbed on Wednesday while the role of Vinod’s brother is being investigated, the officials said. The woman’s body was handed over to her family following the autopsy, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-husband-in-laws-held-for-death-of-woman-101626285420305.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Four arrested for shooting man inside Dwarka court complex||Two days after a 45-year-old man was shot dead outside an advocate’s chamber in Dwarka court complex, the police on Wednesday said they arrested four persons, including the advocate, on the charges of murder and destruction of evidence. Police said the pistol used to shoot the victim was allegedly recovered from the advocate’s chamber on the fourth floor of the court building.The arrested persons were identified as Arun Sharma, the advocate; Rohit, his driver; and Darshan and Pradeep, who are associates of the victim, Swikar Luthra. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the victim has at least five criminal cases, including that of cheating and extortion, registered against him.A senior police officer associated with the probe said that the bullets were allegedly fired by Pradeep when the group was having a party outside the chamber. The injured man was rushed to a nearby private hospital, the officer said, adding that the advocate allegedly misled the hospital staff and police by claiming that the man was shot by someone in a park outside the court compound.“They also tried to destroy the evidence at the crime scene. The advocate was not involved in the firing but he tried to cover up the crime,” the officer added.Dwarka court bar association president YP Singh said, “We have taken several steps to tighten the security apparatus at the court campus. The security personnel at the gates have been asked to check each and every visitor thoroughly before allowing the person to enter the court premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-arrested-for-shooting-man-inside-dwarka-court-complex-101626285303479.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||HC seeks Delhi govt response on plea seeking removal of minority commission chief||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea seeking removal of the Delhi Minority Commission (DMC) chairman Zakir Khan for allegedly being associated with the Aam Aadmi Party and holding political rallies with them.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the Delhi government, DMC and Khan to reply to the petition which has claimed that the chairman is misusing his position and power, and has been found actively involved in announcing the policies and promulgating the agenda of AAP.Zakir Khan had replaced DMC chairman Zafarul Islam Khan last year.The plea filed by Delhi resident Abdul Amir Amiro said Zakir Khan had won from Badarpur municipal ward on a Congress ticket in 2012 and had joined AAP in 2017.The petitioner said the chairman and other members of DMC are authorised to perform functions under the DMC Act, and cannot be associated with any political party as they are public servants.The plea filed through advocate Hemant Chaudhary said that the office-bearers of the DMC cannot join any association whose objectives or activities are prejudicial to the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, public order and morality.“Khan has knowingly misused his power and position for promoting a political party. He had knowingly misused his power and position to influence others by placing the photographs on a public platform, that is, on Facebook,” the plea read.Besides seeking removal of Khan from the post, the plea sought direction to the authorities to withdraw all facilities given to him and to stop his remuneration.The court listed the matter for further hearing on August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcseeks-delhi-govt-response-on-plea-seeking-removal-of-minority-commission-chief-101626285301474.html
14-07-2021||Other||HC to Delhi govt: Why Covid facility in Dwarka not been made a super specialty facility?||The Delhi high court on Wednesday rejected the Delhi government’s stand of not developing the Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka as a super specialty facility and keeping it as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital as a precautionary measure for an “imminent” third wave of Covid-19. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh directed the Delhi government to give a fresh timeline by when the super specialty facility can start functioning. The court noted that a Covid facility does not merely mean setting up oxygen beds but also requires other super specialty facilities. The court said, “People of Delhi need treatment and (the) infrastructure available as of now is not adequate.”“Your (Delhi government) other hospitals, some of which are super specialty, have been turned into dedicated Covid-19 facilities. It is not that once you are a Covid patient, you don’t want any other treatment. The patient would want everything, whether a nephrologist, pulmonologist etc,” the bench observed. “It’s not that Covid hospital does not require a super specialty. Therefore, your endeavour should be to make it now… This is not rocket science. There was a need for it and so you thought of making it,” said the bench. The court’s observations came while hearing a plea by the Dwarka court Bar Association, represented by its president advocate Y P Singh, who contended that the Indira Gandhi hospital in Dwarka was not yet functional despite crossing the deadline of 2019. Appearing for the Delhi government, senior advocate Rahul Mehra told the court that the hospital will have total 1,241 beds, including 169 ICU beds for Covid management. He said the hospital will be self-sufficient in terms of oxygen requirement with a manifold gas pipeline system, liquid medical oxygen storage, distribution tanks and pressure swing adsorption plants.“Hospital furniture (beds etc.) and equipment like ventilators, bipap, multipara monitors, oxygen concentrators have already been procured as part of preparation of Covid care,” said Mehra. The senior advocate added that since the hospital has been designated as a Covid facility, the super specialty facilities have not been started as of now. “When the hospital will be declared as a non-Covid hospital, necessary arrangements to start the super specialty facility will be considered,” said Mehra. However, the court took exception to these submissions noting that the facility should have been created by 2019.“We are not willing to accept this statement. We had asked you to tell what was envisaged in the project. We want to know about the cardiology department, the burns ward..,” the court said asking Mehra to withdraw the report and file a fresh one. Singh said there is only one Covid-19 patient in the entire facility at the hospital in Dwarka and people with several post Covid complications are lacking adequate treatment. He added that the hospital caters to one-fourth population of the city. However, due to delay, patients are being directed to other hospitals. Mehra said the government wants to check the progress of the first phase of works and introduce other super specialty facilities in the second phase. Stating that six floors of the hospital are ready, Mehra sought time till August 15 so that at least the facilities introduced in the first phase can be inaugurated. However, the court declined this request and posted the matter for further hearing on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-to-delhi-govt-why-covid-facility-in-dwarka-not-been-made-a-super-specialty-facility-101626285242875.html
14-07-2021||Other||CBI arrests CGM of NHPC, two others in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested chief general manager (finance) of the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC), Faridabad (Haryana) and two private persons in an alleged bribery case of ₹5 lakh.CBI spokesperson Abhishek Dayal said a case was registered against the CGM (finance), senior general manager (project) of a private company, and others.It was alleged that the said private company (Joint Venture) was working in Parbati Hydroelectric Project (Stage-II) of NHPC located near Kullu in Himachal.The private company has two claims of ₹1.36 crore and ₹1.9 crore (approx) and some additional bill of ₹2 crore which were pending. The senior general manager (project) of the private company had requested the CGM (finance) of NHPC to expedite the process of payment of the same, for which the CGM allegedly demanded bribe.CBI laid a trap and the CGM (finance) was caught accepting bribe of ₹5,00,000. The senior general manager who gave the bribe was also arrested along with the courier.Searches were conducted at Faridabad (Haryana), Kullu (Himachal Pradesh) and Delhi which led to recovery of incriminating documents including those of property and financial dealings.All the arrested accused will be produced before the competent court, said Dayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-arrests-cgm-of-nhpc-two-others-in-bribery-case-101626285242297.html
14-07-2021||Other||Delhi government floats tenders to empanel vendors for setting up EV charging stations||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday said in a statement that a tender has been floated to select vendors to set up charging stations for electric vehicles (EV) in spaces such as shopping malls, theatres, multiplexes, departmental stores, hospitals and residential areas.This is separate from tenders floated and work orders issued by the government to empanel vendors to set up 500 EV charging points across 100 public spaces locations – most of them located in bus depots and outside metro stations – in the city.“Delhi government takes an important step forward to create a single window process for installation of slow and fast EV chargers. BSES Rajdhani, on behalf of all three Delhi discoms, floated the tender for empanelment of vendors, for providing installation of slow and fast EV chargers to anyone in Delhi. In line with vision set by CM Arvind Kejriwal of making Delhi the EV capital of India, Delhi will soon be the first city in India where anyone can get an EV charger installed [and] avail Delhi government subsidy, by making a single phone call or applying online,” said Jasmine Shah, vice chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission, a think tank to the Delhi government, in a statement issued on Wednesday.Earlier this year, the government initiated a single-window policy for application and installation of EV charging stations in private and semi-public spaces.The statement issued on Wednesday further said, “Residential spaces like apartments and group housing societies, institutional buildings like hospitals, and commercial spaces like malls, theatres and grocery stores, can use this single window facility for hassle-free installation of EV chargers in their premises.”“The decision to implement a single window facility and empanel vendors through discoms for smooth rollout of EV chargers in private and semi-public places was taken on June 14, 2020, at the Charging Infrastructure Working Group meeting of Delhi government. We have received requests from many apartment societies, RWAs, mall owners etc that they wish to install EV chargers but don’t know how. This innovative, single window process will enable quick and efficient installation of EV chargers,” said Shah.The schemes are in line with the city government’s EV policy – notified last year – which aims to ensure that 25% of all registered vehicles in Delhi by 2023 are electric vehicles. The EV policy is part of the Delhi government’s larger long-term action plan to fight air pollution in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-government-floats-tenders-to-empanel-vendors-for-setting-up-ev-charging-stations-101626285186786.html
14-07-2021||Other||Three more bodies found, Boh landslide death toll rises to 8||The death toll in the Boh landslide rose to seven after rescue workers recovered two more bodies on Wednesday.The deceased have been identified as 45-year-old Kanchana Devi, wife of Megnath Singh, Bhim Sen, alias Bhimo, 46, and a one-and-half-year-old girl.Bhim Singh was the one who had sounded an alert about the landslide which saved more than 20 lives, before he and his family were swept away in the landslip.“The death toll mounted to eight after three more bodies were recovered on Wednesday. Two people are still missing,” said Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan.Rulehar village of Boh panchayat in Shahpur sub-division of Kangra district was hit by a landslide triggered by heavy rains on Monday morning. Five people were rescued by the locals, one body was found on the same day, while four bodies were retrieved on Tuesday.CONG LEADERS VISIT AFFECTED VILLAGESLeader of Opposition in the state assembly Mukesh Agnihotri on Wednesday visited the affected village and and met the family members of the victims to express his condolences. He was accompanied by state Congress general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania, district Congress president Ajay Mahajan, former MP Chandra Kumar and MLAs Pawan Kajal and Ashish Butail.Agnihotri assured all possible help to the affected families, and later at a press conference, he hit out at the state government for inadequate help.He alleged that the chief minister announced ₹4 lakh each to the kin of the deceased but no immediate help was provided to those whose houses were damaged in the tragedy.“It’s matter of shame that the government has not provided any immediate relief to the affected families,” he said.Agnihotri said he also visited Rajol village of the sub-division where 15 families were displaced due to the flash floods. “They told me that no help has reached them. When chief minister was visiting the area, he should have ensured that the help reaches everyone,” he said.He said the government should rehabilitate the displaced and build houses for them. He said the state disaster response force (SDRF) should also be pressed into service in the ongoing relief work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-more-bodies-found-boh-landslide-death-toll-rises-to-8-101626285185693.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi child rights panel sends recommendations on Centre’s proposed anti-trafficking bill||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Wednesday sent a series of recommendations to the Union ministry of women and child development on the draft Tafficking in Persons (prevention, care, and rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, and also expressed several reservations about the bill in its current form.The Centre, on June 30, issued a public notice inviting recommendations on the draft bill. According to the ministry, the objective of the bill is to prevent and counter the trafficking in persons, especially women and children.In a letter addressed to the ministry, DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu on Wednesday raised objections over the alleged exclusion of child rights statutory bodies in the bill. “The Commission notes that the National Commission For Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has not been included. Similarly, section 6(2) skips the State Commission For Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR). Since children are vulnerable to trafficking, it is crucial that the child rights statutory bodies are included in the National and State Anti-Human Trafficking Committees. Similarly, the Commission recommends inclusion of ChildLine within the national and state-level committees considering their crucial role for protecting children,” he said in the letter.In its recommendations, the DCPCR said the present draft has “no safeguards” in place. “It is a settled principle and the law that the burden of proof lies on the prosecution and not the accused. The proposed bill reverses the presumption of innocence into a presumption of guilt... This is a problematic position and is a dangerous precedent. There are special laws, where the burden of proof is reversed, but those special laws contain safeguards. The proposed draft of the bill has no safeguards. The absence of safeguards makes it a draconian law,” Kundu further said, adding that certain safeguards can be provided to the accused before imposing any form of reverse burden to uphold the constitutional validity of the provisions of the bill/Act. Referring to Section 49 of the proposed bill, the DCPCR said, “The bill states that even the bail shall not be given unless “the designated court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty of such offence. This is the definition of acquittal and hence cannot be the standard for granting bail. Such a provision threatens the most basic jurisprudence of the justice system. This essentially declares the accused guilty without trial.”The commission further recommended a “monitoring and evaluation mechanism”, which is missing from the bill. It also suggested that timelines mentioned in the draft be shortened and the bill, as a whole, be made “gender-neutral” as the victim has been mentioned as “he/him” throughout. No immediate response was available from the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-child-rights-panel-sends-recommendations-on-centre-s-proposed-anti-trafficking-bill-101626285120279.html
14-07-2021||Noida||Thieves steal ₹14 lakh from ATM in Greater Noida||Three persons damaged an ATM and fled with ₹14 lakh cash in Dankaur on early Wednesday morning, said police. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the ATM is located near the bank’s branch in Bilaspur village. “In the morning, police received information from the bank about the theft. Teams of forensic expert, crime branch and local police reached the spot to collect evidence. Two teams have been formed to investigate and arrest the suspects,” he said.The police said the CCTV footage had captured three masked persons barging into the unguarded kiosk with a gas cutter and a bottle of black spray, which they used to disable the security camera, at 3am.Abhishek, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said, “The suspects then damaged the machine and fled with cash in 10 to 15 minutes.”A case has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/thieves-steal-14-lakh-from-atm-in-greater-noida-101626285060357.html
14-07-2021||Other||Himachal board declares Class 12 results, 92.77% students pass||The Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBOSE) on Wednesday declared the Class 12 results with 92.77% students declared passed.Addressing a press conference, HPBOSE chairman Suresh Kumar Soni said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, annual examination of Class 12, except English paper couldn’t be conducted.“So, the HPBOSE, after having exhausted consultation with all stakeholders, evolved an ‘objective criteria’ to assess students on the basis of continuous comprehensive assessment (CCA) and continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE),” he said.The criterion was formulated after government decided to promote the students due to the pandemic.The students were evaluated on the basis of their performance on eight indicators including their Class 10 and Class 11 results, first term, second term and pre-board exam of Class 12, practical exam, and internal assessment.The result was tabulated at school level and compiled by the Board.Soni said total 1,00,799 students were enrolled in Class 12 in HPBOSE-affiliated schools, of which 93,438 passed and 702 got compartment. Students who did not appear in the first and second term and pre-boards did not get benefit of the promotion policy.Soni said the pass percentage in 2019 and 2020 was 62.1% and 76.07%, respectively.In 2019, the number of candidates obtaining 90-100% marks was 1,372 and in 2020 the number was 2,288.“This year, the number of students obtaining 90-100% marks is 3,679. One Pushpender of Ambition Classes School, Mohal in Kullu, scored 100% marks while 31 candidates scored 99%,” said Soni.MERIT LIST TO BE RELEASED LATERSoni said students who are dissatisfied with the results will be given chance to take physical exam likely to be held in August or September.The exam datesheet will be announced soon. He said students were evaluated on the basis of objective criteria and there was no bias.The Board has decided to conduct exam as some students had moved the high court during declaration of Class 10 exam.Apart from this, the results of state open school (SOS) Class 12 will be declared separately, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-board-declares-class-12-results-92-77-students-pass-101626285000962.html
14-07-2021||Gurugram||Liquor shop in residential colony a concern, say Sushant Lok residents; take to streets in protest||Residents of Sushant Lok-1 Block A took to the streets to protest against the opening of a liquor vend in the residential colony, after a re-allocation process this month. They expressed concerns over security issues due to open drinking in the vicinity of the shop.Around 100 residents gathered at the liquor vend at 10.30am on Wednesday and blocked the road to register their protest.Residents alleged that the entrance to the liquor shop, which, earlier used to face the main road, is now facing the internal road of the residential colony.NK Mehra, a resident of Block A who served as a dean of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said that opening a wine shop in a residential colony would pose security issues as well as adversely influence children. “The shop was not expected to be operating from here. We had filed a complaint with the civic agencies to take action, but they did not do anything. We had no other option but to come out and protest,” said Mehra.Women who took part in the protest said that open drinking is a major problem in the city and they are afraid to step out of their homes after evening due to drunken brawls.Lata kumar, a resident said, that it will be difficult to undertake evening walks since there will be a crowd outside the vend. “Authorities should take action and ensure a safe atmosphere in the residential area, “ she saidSanjay Bakshi, a resident of the area, said that they are planning a larger protest if the gate is not shifted. “We have also launched a signature campaign in the area against the vend that was earlier situated on the road, as part of a commercial complex,” he said.Residents said that it will become difficult for women and children to move about in the area.“How can the government allow a liquor shop near a residential area? I went along with other residents of the colony and questioned the shop owner, who claimed that he was allotted the vend in the auction this year and with the permission of authorities, he has changed the entrance. He also said that if the government deemed it right, he would relocate his shop,” said Sunil Sharma, a resident of Block A.The owner of the liquor vend could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.Residents also approached Anil Yadav, a former municipal councillor of Ward 32 to intervene in the issue. “We will call for a meeting with excise officials to direct liquor shopkeepers not to keep the entrance opened towards the residential colony. Also, private security guards must be deployed to control any untoward situation,” Yadav said.VK Beniwal, the deputy excise and taxation commissioner (east), said that they will check the site on Thursday and will review if permission was granted to the owner to change the entrance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/liquor-shop-in-residential-colony-a-concern-say-sushant-lok-residents-take-to-streets-in-protest-101626284644228.html
14-07-2021||Gurugram||Police verification of tenants and workers a must, says Faridabad DC||The Faridabad district administration on Wednesday directed the revenue department, police and private establishments, including owners of residential properties, to ensure that verification of tenants, employees and household workers is carried out properly, as per the law. Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad said that action would be taken if there any negligence in this matter as miscreants, criminals and anti-social elements can take advantage of the laxity to evade detection from law enforcement agencies. “Action would be taken against those concerned if employees, tenants or house helps are found to be lacking police verification. Those who violate this order will face legal action and be considered a participant in any crime, as lack of police verification makes it difficult to catch criminals,” said Yadav. The deputy commissioner said that directions in this regard have been issued to the police department, subdivisional officers of Faridabad, Badkhal and Ballabhgarh, Tehsildar Faridabad and Badkhal, and municipal officials. “There have been instances where people with criminal antecedents have been hired without police verification and they were later found to be involved in crimes. The district police will strictly work to ensure that verification is done for tenants, workers and domestic helps being hired by the people,” said Sube Singh, spokesperson, Faridabad Police.Officials said that the directions by the district administration are significant as it was noted that criminal and anti-social elements often start working in the district and evade detection because police verification is not carried out by employers. “It is important to know who we are hiring and what are his/her antecedents. It becomes difficult to catch someone if we don’t know their right credentials. This step will help in curbing crimes,” said Yadav, who also held a review meeting with all departments during a district coordination meeting. The DC also asked the health department to take stock of health facilities to ensure that district has adequate medicines and oxygen to meet the challenges that could be posed by the third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-verification-of-tenants-and-workers-a-must-says-faridabad-dc-101626284580748.html
14-07-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram receives scattered rain of 2mm, monsoon to intensify over weekend||A day after the first spell of monsoon hit the city on Tuesday, there was scattered rainfall of around 2mm in Gurugram on Wednesday even as the clouds threatened to pour down during the day. The mercury levels shot back up on Wednesday, with the city recording maximum and minimum temperatures of 35.4 degrees Celsius (°C) and 26.1°C, respectively, compared to 30.8°C and 23.1°C recorded on Tuesday. According to a forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gurugram will have to wait for a few more days for “good weather”, as rain is likely to intensify over the weekend. According to the weather warning issued by IMD, a yellow alert, requesting authorities to be prepared has been issued for July 17-18, with predictions of heavy rain and thunderstorm or lightning at isolated places. A similar alert has been issued for neighbouring Faridabad district, said officials. An official from IMD Chandigarh said, “Monsoon has arrived across Haryana, but Gurugram will see less rain in the next few days, and it will pick up July 17 onwards. There is a possibility of heavy rain over the weekend and an alert has been issued for the same.”According to a weather report from the IMD on Tuesday evening, Gurugram received 51.6mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours. As per the district-wise season rainfall status of Haryana issued by the IMD, the normal rainfall range for Gurugram during the monsoon, till mid-July, is 110.8mm, which indicates that the district is still suffering from a 61% deficit in rainfall, as of Tuesday. The first spell of the monsoon showers hit the city after a 16-day delay.The weekly forecast of IMD states that for the next two days, Gurugram will witness cloudy skies. Over the next two days, the maximum temperature is expected to rise to 37°C, while the minimum temperature is likely to be around 25°C Celsius. However, after the weekend, the maximum temperature is likely to drop by four degrees, to around 32°C, according to the forecast. On Wednesday, Gurugram’s maximum temperature of 35.4°C was one degree below the normal. According to the weather bulletin issued on Wednesday evening, Gurugram received 2mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours, between 8.30pm on Tuesday and 8.30pm on Wednesday. The air quality in the city was once again in the satisfactory zone on Wednesday, with an air quality index of 74, as per the daily bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-receives-scattered-rain-of-2mm-monsoon-to-intensify-over-weekend-101626284521281.html
14-07-2021||Gurugram||Dwarka Expressway project: Work on cloverleaf intersection to start in August, says NHAI||Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said they are likely to start work on the remaining section of an under-construction cloverleaf intersection near Kherki Daula, on Dwarka Expressway, by mid-August.Officials said that they are awaiting the transfer of 0.3 acres from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), which is likely by the month-end. They said that work was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but is likely to resume in full swing soon.Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI, said, that work is currently going on at the site and that the work on the 0.3 acres will start in August. “The land will be transferred to us by July-end and this will help us in completing the work,” he said. The under-construction cloverleaf will connect the Dwarka Expressway, also called the Northern Peripheral Road (NPR), with the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), which is on the other side of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. It will ensure hassle-free movement of traffic between SPR and NPR, said officials. The cloverleaf will be a two-level interchange, on which left turns will be handled by slip roads. Work at the site was stuck for over a year due to litigation over two small plots in the vicinity. However, following directions from the Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and Gurgaon member of Parliament Rao Inderjit Singh during a visit in March, the district administration and other civic agencies facilitated the transfer of these plots.NHAI officials said that one of these plots has already been transferred to the authority and with the transfer of the second plot, the road projects will be completed without any further obstacle. The deadline for the Gurugram section of the project was fixed for December 2021, but due to the lockdown, the contractor is likely to get more time, said officials. Officials on Wednesday also said that due to less rain on the first two days of the monsoon, there was no serious waterlogging issue at the project site, even as they insisted that the civic agencies have to develop a comprehensive stormwater drainage system to manage the flow of water.Gadkari, during his visit in April, set August 2022 as the deadline for completion of the entire 29-kilometre Dwarka Expressway project, 11 kilometres of which fall in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dwarka-expressway-project-work-on-cloverleaf-intersection-to-start-in-august-says-nhai-101626283800826.html
14-07-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to repair two-kilometre stretch between Sirhaul, Kapashera borders||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will carry out repair works of a key two-kilometre stretch that connects Sirhaul toll and Kapashera border, through Udyog Vihar, and upgrade the infrastructure for smoother traffic flow and reduce the traffic volume at Sirhaul border, officials said on Wednesday.GMDA officials said that the purpose of the “special repairs” is to provide an alternative route for commuters stuck in congestion at either of the border points as well as for diverting traffic in case of an emergency.The GMDA floated a ₹6.54 crore tender for this project, which is expected to take at least nine months to complete from the date construction commences. Officials said that they will start work on the project after the monsoon, in September, and in the interim, finalise a contractor and complete all other tendering work.The repair work will involve extensive relaying, dismantling of damaged bitumen road with cold milling machines, widening of carriageways, fixing and filling of potholes, building a new footpath and service roads, as well as laying and fixing basic stormwater drain along the stretch.“The contractor will have the responsibility of widening the existing carriageway and strengthening it wherever needed, with extensive bitumen-related work. The contractor will also have to construct a parallel service road, footpath, remodel intersections and junctions falling along the stretch, set up traffic barriers, paint road markings, erect signage and fix streetlights, among other such amenities,” a senior GMDA official privy to the matter said.The official cited above said that the contractor will have to submit an earnest money deposit (EMD) of ₹13.09 lakh for placing a bid and the validity of the bid will last for 120 days. The official said that since the project cost is over ₹5 crore, the contractor will also have to hire technical personnel, such as a site engineer, plant engineer and a quantity surveyor to oversee the project. Further, the contractor will have to start work seven days after a work order is issued and will have to maintain the stretch for 36 months after the completion of work.GMDA officials said that of the ₹6.54 crore, ₹4.36 crore is the expected cost for the work, barring the money needed to lay and fix stormwater drains.As per GMDA’s 2019 comprehensive mobility plan (CMP), nearly 334,000 and 64,000 vehicles travel through the Sirhaul toll and Kapashera toll, respectively, on a usual weekday. The two routes cumulatively carry 44% of Gurugram’s traffic, the CMP further states. Due to the high volume of traffic, both stretches often witness snarls and it takes commuters 20-40 minutes to cross the border during peak traffic hours. The CMP was compiled by the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) on the behest of GMDA.Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member of SPA, said that the two-kilometre stretch, along with a proposed road connecting Cyber City (DLF Phase 3) with Nelson Mandela Marg in Vasant Kunj, were proposed as measures for reducing traffic on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.“The Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway has reached a saturation point. Hence, the repairing and upgrading of the Udyog Vihar stretch were proposed so that small distance traffic travels through the Kapashera border rather than the Sirhaul toll. Together, the two stretches can bring down the traffic volume at Sirhaul toll by more than 24%,” said Sewa Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-repair-two-kilometre-stretch-between-sirhaul-kapashera-borders-101626283741173.html
14-07-2021||Gurugram||Khori: Demolition drive starts, 200 houses razed on first day||The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on Wednesday morning kicked off the demolition of illegally built houses in Khori village to reclaim Aravalli forest land. Officials said that the drive went on from 11am to 2pm and that the target for the day was achieved.Locals said that around 200 houses were demolished in the drive, but there was no official confirmation. The drive is set to continue and will be completed before the next hearing in the Supreme Court.Garima Mittal, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, said, “The action to remove illegal encroachments from forest land in Khori area of Lakadpur village was started by the municipal corporation on Wednesday. We have time till July 19 to comply with the orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court and all encroachments will be removed in this stipulated time. The target set for Wednesday was achieved and the demolition drive was stopped due to rain.” On June 7, the Supreme Court ordered the eviction of thousands of slum dwellers encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district, holding that “there cannot be a compromise or concession on forest land.” There are around 10,000 households in the village. A senior official of the district administration, requesting anonymity, said that nine teams were deployed on the ground for the demolition drive and over 3,000 police personnel, including three deputy commissioners of police, 12 assistant commissioners of police, traffic police personnel, crime branch officials, a rapid action force and Swat teams, were deployed as part of the security arrangements. Anshu Singla, the deputy commissioner of police (NIT), who oversaw the drive, said, “The demolition squad of the MCF reached Khori village with 17 JCB machines on Wednesday morning to remove illegal encroachments from forest land. This action will continue, in compliance with the order of the Supreme Court, and till then, necessary protection will be given to the MCF squad. Strict action will be taken against any anti-social elements.” During a visit to the area on Wednesday, an HT team learnt that mainly, houses in Vishwakarma Colony were demolished on Wednesday. Items like water tanks, utensils, folding beds, chairs, cupboards were kept outside, covered with tarps, underneath which residents were taking shelter from the rain. Residents said that the police force was deployed in the village at 6am, but the demolition started around 11am. Sangeeta Devi (37), a mother of three, whose house was demolished on Wednesday, said, “I was going to bathe today morning, as usual, when all of a sudden, I heard a loud noise. People started gathering outside their houses. I rushed outside with my children and picked up whatever little items from my house and kept them aside before a bulldozer ran over my house.” “We had finished construction of our house just six months ago after spending around ₹6 lakh. We had taken a loan and still have to pay back around ₹3 lakh. Where will we stay and how are we supposed to pay back the loan? So far, we had only been paying a monthly interest of ₹5,000 as we could not even think about clearing the principal amount,” she said. On Tuesday, the administration announced a rehabilitation initiative for residents of Khori village, but residents said that they are still waiting for camps to be set up to facilitate registration. Locals said that they were not even given any information on the application process. Roopmani Devi, a resident of Vishwakarma Colony, said, “This would not have happened had there been people. All these days we were being told that demolition won’t take place and we will be informed if it happens, so most people went out to work, and from behind, our houses were demolished. We used all of our savings and bought a house here around two years ago. Now, where do we go?” Nirmal Gorana, a member of Mazdoor Awaaz Sangharsh Samiti, that has been working with the residents to seek rehabilitation, said, “Just 24 hours ago, the MCF talked about rehabilitation, which it has not been able to implement so far and today (Wednesday), they came down to demolish houses in Khori. Officials talked about giving rehabilitation on the grounds of humanity, but they did not have the slightest mercy to first take the people to the transit camp and then take further action. The government should immediately give shelter to the people in the transit camps till the arrangements for rehabilitation are made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-demolition-drive-starts-200-houses-razed-on-first-day-101626283620926.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Gurdwara body urges Delhi CM Kejriwal to hold elections for managing committee||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, urging him to hold elections to the posts of the members in July. DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa and general secretary Harmeet Singh Kalka in their letter to the chief minister said elections to elect committee members were scheduled on April 15, but the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections under the Delhi government postponed the exercise due to the surge in Covid cases. After the second wave ebbed, the DSGMC moved a file regarding holding elections on July 18 and it was approved by the minister concerned, they claimed.However, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain returned the file without any "signature or remark" after Shiromani Akali Dal's Delhi president S Paramjit Singh Sarna and JAGO party chief S. Manjit Singh GK met him on July 5, the DSGMC office-bearers alleged. "Sarna and Manjit Singh GK met the minister with the intention to postpone the general elections of DSGMC," the letter read."We urge you not to be misguided by the opposition leaders like S Paramjit Singh Sarna and S Manjit Singh GK who want to further postpone the Gurdwara elections for their political gains at any cost," it said.Sirsa and Kalka said the management of the DSGMC wants the general elections of the DSGMC to be held this month. "We, therefore, request you to issue necessary orders for the completion of the DSGMC election process this month," their letter to the chief minister read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gurdwara-body-urges-delhi-cm-kejriwal-to-hold-elections-for-managing-committee-101626279852692.html
14-07-2021||Other||Yogi unveils projects worth ₹8,025.47 lakh in Gorakhpur||HT Correspondentletters@htlive.comLUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of 123 infrastructure development projects worth ₹8025.47 lakh in Gorakhpur on Wednesday. During a programme organized at a cultural centre, the chief minister laid the foundation stones of 48 projects worth ₹3953.53 lakh and inaugurated 75 projects worth ₹4071.94 lakh. The projects have been launched in the assembly constituencies of Gorakhpur rural, Pipraich, Sahjanwa, Bansgaon and Khajini, the state government said in a press statement. “Development is not limited to a particular area. The state government is committed to bring change in the lives of people. There is no shortage of funds for development, it is necessary that the funds are utilised in a time-bound manner,” said the chief minister. “Development will transform the life of every citizen, create happiness and employment opportunities as well as realize the vision of a self-reliant India. There is no substitute for development,” he added.“The benefits of development and welfare schemes should reach the eligible people in time. Instead of creating hurdles in development works, everyone should cooperate. The state government is working with the spirit of development for all,” he emphasised.The CM said along with successfully combating Covid second wave in the state, including Gorakhpur, the state government is also pushing development projects at a fast pace. “Along with life, livelihood has also been saved. Covid has weakened but not eradicated yet. People should follow the Covid protocols strictly,” he said.Yogi Adityanath said under the ‘Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana’, ₹4,000 will be deposited in the bank account of legal guardians of children who have lost their parents due to Covid. “The state government will give free education to orphans. Women who have lost their husbands due to Covid will be given pension and employment, according to their qualification, so that they can live independently. Preparations have begun for the protection of people from the possible third wave of Covid. Along with distribution of medical kits among children, the state government has launched cleanliness drives across UP,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-unveils-projects-worth-rs-8-025-47-lakh-in-gorakhpur-101626281640012.html
14-07-2021||Other||46 direction boards removed after audit deems it dangerous||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has removed 46 of 48 boards in public spaces either giving directions to commuters or stating the name(s) of the area.This action has come after a structural audit by the PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, found that the 48 boards installed across the city are “dangerous” and “must immediately be removed”. In 2020, a board collapsed at the Sancheti hospital chowk, but due to a lack of traffic because of Covid-19 restrictions, no harm was caused to the commuting public. The anti-encroachment department has been is busy removing the boards.Social activist Mayur Shinde said, “Last year, only 26 boards were removed and the remaining 22 should have been demolished with immediate effect. The structural audit had clearly stated that all the boards must be brought down. Various social workers and political personalities were found using these board to put up illegal hoardings. All this will stop with the removal of the remaining boards in the past few days.” According to the PMC administration, most boards had been erected some 13 years ago at the time of the national games in Pune. Most were fixed on Jangli Maharaj road, Paud road, Baner-Balewadi, Fergusson College road, old Mumbai-Pune highway and the airport road.Vijay Landge of the PMC’s Skysign and Licence Department said, “There were a total 48 direction boards and they all have been removed. Gas cutters were used to bring it down and the material has been kept at the ward offices and the anti-encroachment department’s godown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/46-direction-boards-removed-after-audit-deems-it-dangerous-101626281103903.html
14-07-2021||Other||53 convicts refuse to take advantage of emergency parole: ADG Prisons||PUNE Prisons in Maharashtra have 53 convicts who have refused to take advantage of emergency parole, granted in an attempt to decongest overpopulated prisons.“There are 53 inmates in Maharashtra who have refused to leave the facility during this process. They get food, a place to live, and clothes. They do not wish to leave. If they choose, they can be released with one application. The High Court has also allowed for them to stay back if they so choose,” said Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police, Prisons, Maharashtra.Forty-six prisons in Maharashtra currently house 4,863 convicts, of which 4,122 are vaccinated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The administering of a second dose has also begun in some prisons for convicts, as well as under-trials, according to ADG Ramanand.Along with the traditional prisons, the prison department has 52 temporary prisons in the state. Therefore, the same machinery and number of officials that handled a 33,000-36,000 inmate population before the pandemic, is now handling a floating population of an additional 12,00-13,000 inmates in temporary prisons.So far, 10 prison staff and 13 inmates have died due to the Covid-19 infection. Covid care centres and isolation facilities have also been established. However, to supplement the existing strength of 116 doctors, the state government has allowed for recruitment of 10 more doctors in the prisons.Easing the pressure on the health and security infrastructure of prisons, the strength of the prisons in Maharashtra had reduced by 10,000 during the first wave in 2020, when the decongestion process began. However, it quickly mushroomed back to its original strength. To this, ADG Ramanand said that inmates released for decongestion will not be brought back while the pandemic lasts, unlike some other states in the country.“As long as the Epidemic Diseases Act is in force, I have no intention of bringing back the released inmates. It can be thought of when the act is pulled back,” he said.Even with decongestion, the total population of the prisons is 33,719, with 13,000 in temporary prisons. The largest population is in Yerawada central prison which has 5,000 inmates.The current condition of the prisons has necessitated expansion and reduction of the number of under-trials. The proposal for a new prison in Mumbai is a step in that direction, if the proposal sees the light of day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/53-convicts-refuse-to-take-advantage-of-emergency-parole-adg-prisons-101626281102702.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Women to get free entry, coaching at govt sports complexes in Bihar||In a bid to increase participation of women in sports, the state government has decided to offer free coaching and guidance to them for all indoor games.The space for practice sessions will also be made available at the government complexes free of cost, officials in the department of art, culture and youth affairs said on Wednesday. The initiative is a part of the department’s plans to build sports complexes in all the 38 districts of the state to groom sportspersons and provide them facilities required to keep pace with national and international players. The plan has so far been approved in 28 districts, including state capital Patna, while sports complexes in nine of these districts have also been inaugurated and will start functioning in a couple of months, officials said. The nine districts are Saharsa, Madhubani, Arwal, Katihar, Rohtas, Nawada, Lakhisarai, Jamui and Bettiah.Facilities of learning and practising indoor games such as weightlifting, kabaddi, wrestling, taekwondo, karate and table tennis will be available at the complexes, besides gymnasiums and yoga sessions. “Though such facilities are available at many places, such complexes were mostly scattered. The department plans to bring these facilities under one roof,” Mithilesh Kumar, deputy director, directorate of youth affairs, said. He added, “Besides, though there have been sports facilities for professionals at many places, no such outlet has been available for non-professionals, especially for girls, who want to learn for the sake of interest.”At such sports complexes, non-professionals may join any sport under the “pay and play scheme” of the department. However, while men would have to pay entry fees and for coaching, women have been spared all charges, Kumar said. The department will also form a committee to run and manage the sports activities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/women-to-get-free-entry-coaching-at-govt-sports-complexes-in-bihar-101626281101405.html
14-07-2021||Other||PMC approves Rs97 lakh for installation of CCTV cameras in peths, market areas||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved Rs97 lakh for installation of CCTV cameras in market areas in the central part of the city.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “To strengthen security in public places PMC had decided to erect CCTV cameras in the main market areas.”CCTVs will be installed at the Mahatma Phule Mandai, Appa Balwant chowk, Tulshibaug, Laxmi road, Sadashiv peth, Shaniwar peth, Shukrawar peth, Narayan peth, Shastri road and Navi peth.Rasane said the PMC has all the necessary permissions for installing the cameras. The electrical department of the PMC has also given its nod for the project.Rasane said that 210 cameras will be installed in these areas.Meanwhile, the PMC has also okayed the purchase of medicines worth Rs45 lakh to treat mucormycosis. PMC is treating mucormycosis at its Dalvi Hospital in Shivajinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-approves-rs97-lakh-for-installation-of-cctv-cameras-in-peths-market-areas-101626281100672.html
14-07-2021||Other||PCMC to fine contractor for using parking lot without a contract||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has ordered action against a contractor illegal use of a parking lot in the Pimpri market.The contract for the parking lot has expired, which was raised by MP Srirang Barane and former MLA Gautam Chabukswar, during a meeting with civic chief Rajesh Patil and other officials.Patil ordered action against the contractor and a fine for using the parking lot without a contract. The commissioner has also ordered action against illegal constructions in the Milindnagar rehabilitation project.The civic body will also be floating tenders for a multi-storey parking lot in the Pimpri market. A vegetable market will now be constructed as per the new framework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-to-fine-contractor-for-using-parking-lot-without-a-contract-101626281040629.html
14-07-2021||Other||Vaccine on wheels push ensures 5,000 “most vulnerable” get the jab||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) special “vaccine on wheels” initiative has been able to ensure vaccinations for the most vulnerable population, who would otherwise not be able to get the jab against Covid-19 easily. In the last 20 days alone, PMC’s vaccine on wheels has been able to vaccinate 5,000 Punekars, which includes senior citizens, specially abled children, homeless, beggars, the third gender population, and others without official documents. Rubal Agarwal, the outgoing additional commissioner at PMC who has been spearheading the initiative said, “We at PMC would like to ensure that every person, especially the most vulnerable people have easy access to the vaccine, as is their right. Through this drive we have been able to take the vaccine to the people who would not be able to, or face a difficulty to come to vaccination sites. Many organisations and political representatives have come forward to push the drive further.”In a press note issued by the PMC, in the last 20 days, between June 25 and July 14, the civic body has vaccinated 5,000 people, which also includes people living in areas like Buddha Vihar, near the Sadhu Vaswani Mission, and also hawkers, autorickshaw drivers and labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-on-wheels-push-ensures-5-000-most-vulnerable-get-the-jab-101626280981346.html
14-07-2021||Other||Pune district reports 1,188 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths||PUNE Pune district reported 1,188 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in 24 hours on Wednesday. This takes the progressive count to 1.071 million, of which 1.036 million have recovered. The death toll is 17,799 with 17,389 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 45,000 vaccinations on Wedneday. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 611 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 318,024. With three more deaths the death toll stands stood at 5,996. Pune city reported 358 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 499,121. Eight deaths were reported on Wednesday, with which, the toll stands at 8,561. PCMC reported 219 new Covid-19 cases with which the progressive count went up to 254.124. Five deaths reported on Wednesday moved the toll to 2,994.Pune also saw 45,359 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard. Totally 5,375,696 vaccines have been administered, including 4,183,450 first dose and 1,192,246 second doses. A total of 355 vaccination sites conducted vaccinations of which 227 are government and 128 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-1-188-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-16-deaths-101626280980640.html
14-07-2021||Other||Residents of merged villages stuck between ZP and PMC for vax doses||PUNE After much speculation and discussion, the 23 villages located on the periphery of the city were finally merged into the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction. However, while PMC is yet in the process of starting to provide facilities like water supply to the villages, amidst the pandemic, villagers still await vaccines against Covid-19. Residents from these areas said that Zilla Parishad centres, which get about 100 doses once a week are operating, however, the PMC is yet to set up any such vaccination centres.Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We have been getting a lot of demands from citizens. However, we are awaiting the Zilla Parishad hand over of the PHCs or to at least give us some space to start a temporary vaccination drive. In Wagholi we have identified a place. In another case we did identify a school where we could begin the drive, but since the school is a ZP property, we want them to hand over the space. The process to officially handover ZP properties to PMC is a lengthy one which will take a lot of time, so till then, the ZP can hand over some space to begin the drive.” ZP CEO, Ayush Prasad said, “Our population is a lot more than PMC, even without these23 villages which constitute about 0.4 million of population. Currently we continue our drive of Covid-19 vaccination at the six PHCs which are located within the PMC area and each of the PHCs is provided 100 doses. The PHCs that are in PMC areas are still managed by ZP. All the services, medicines, vaccines would be provided by ZP until the state government approves transfer to PMC. We shall be providing vaccines without reducing the quota. We have requested PMC authorities to provide extra vaccines to these PHCs.” Nitin Kumar Jain, one of the directors of the Wagholi Housing Society Association, said, “We have one PHC which has not seen any vaccination drive for the past few weeks. In the past month also we had the drive only one day in a week. While private hospitals continue with their drive, government centres are shut. We have conveyed our problems to the PMC who have promised that they would start a temporary centre soon.” Another resident named Narendra Hagwanem, former deputy sarpanch and member of the Kirkatwadi Development Forum, a citizen’s activist group, said, “The ZP PHC is doing vaccination only once a week which is also shut now. The 100 doses that come to the centre once a week are reserved for both HCQ, FLW, second doses and first doses as well. At this speed only 10% of the population has been vaccinated till now in our area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-of-merged-villages-stuck-between-zp-and-pmc-for-vax-doses-101626280980034.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots case: Court slaps ₹25,000 on police for 'callous and farcical' investigation||A Delhi court on Wednesday pulled up police over the investigation into the Delhi riots case and slapped a fine of ₹25,000. In the hearing, additional sessions Judge Vinod Yadav called the investigation "callous and farcical" as he directed that the amount of fine to be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers. The judge said that the police officers “miserably failed in their statutory duties”.The case was related to Mohammad Nasir. He was shot in the eye during the February 2020 riots in Delhi. Nasir registered a complaint with police against six people, including former BJP MLA Naresh Gaur.However, the police reportedly linked the complaint to an unrelated case, following which Nasir reached out to the metropolitan magistrate.The court had directed to register an FIR. The order was later challenged by the police.Investigators maintained that there was no need to lodge a separate FIR as it had already registered one earlier and there was no evidence against the people who allegedly shot him. The police say that the accused were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident.Over this, the judge reproached the police for “lack of efficacy and fairness” in the investigation and said that it “has been done in a most casual, callous, and farcical manner.”“A copy of this order be sent to the Delhi Police Commissioner for bringing to his notice the level of investigation and supervision in the matter and to take appropriate remedial action under intimation to this Court," Yadav further added in an order dated July 13.The judge also said that Nasir is free to exhaust his remedies available to him in accordance with the law to get a separate FIR registered in respect of his complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-case-court-slaps-rs-25-000-on-police-for-callous-and-farcical-investigation-101626279451848.html
14-07-2021||Patna||SIx juveniles escape Aurangabad remand home||Six juveniles escaped a remand home in Aurangabad on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, officials said. The juvenile boys, all between 12 and 17 years of age, allegedly escaped by breaking the iron rods before scaling the boundary wall of the newly constructed buildingThe incident came to light on Wednesday morning when a security guard found iron rods of a window in one of the bathrooms missing. Later, a headcount revealed that six boys were missing.There are no CCTVs in the building. However, there are five armed guards, three homeguard jawans and three private security guards deputed for security.Following the incident, officials of the remand home informed the district administration as well as Town police station, which in turn launched a manhunt but failed to locate the boys.Assistant director of child protection Santosh Choudhary said a show cause has been issued against the security guards, while Aurangabad district magistrate Sourabh Jorwal said he has sought an explanation from the remand home superintendent Baijnath Kumar. The district magistrate has also instructed to depute five additional jawans at the remand home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/six-juveniles-escape-aurangabad-remand-home-101626279899995.html
14-07-2021||Other||Two killed in bus mishap in Darbhanga||Two persons were killed and several passengers were injured on Wednesday after a bus skidded off the road and fell into 20ft-deep gorge in Darbhanga district, police said.The bus was on its way from Darbhanga to Begusarari when its driver lost control near Saidnagar under Bahadurpur police station (PS), barely ten minutes after setting off on the journey from Laheriasarsai bus stand in Darbhanga. The driver and cleaner of the bus fled the spot, police said.Those killed were a tea seller and a cyclist, Bahadurpur police station in-charge Ram Krishna said.  Some of the injured passengers were sent to Darbhanga Medical College and Hosoital (DMCH) for treatment.An eyewitness, Mohd Kalam said he had gone to a roadside tea stall, when the bus driver suddenly lost control. The bus hit the tea seller and a cyclist, killing both of them on spot.There were about 40 passengers in the bus, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-killed-in-bus-mishap-in-darbhanga-101626279840552.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Two SPs among 5 officials transferred for alleged involvement in illegal sand mining||The state government has transferred two IPS officers and three Bihar Administrative Officers (BAS) with immediate effect in connection with their alleged role in illegal mining cases. A notification in this regard was issued on Wednesday evening.This comes after the state home department recently on July 9 asked Economic Offence Unit (EoU) to conduct a detailed probe against suspect government officers.Aurangabad superintendent of police (SP) Sudhir Kumar Podika, Bhojpur SP Rakesh Kumar Dubey, sub-divisional officer (Dehri) Sunil Kumar Singh, district transport officer (DTO), Patna Purshottam and Aurangabad DTO Anil Kumar Sinha have been transferred and asked to report at their respective headquarters. According to an official source in the home department, illegal mining business is thriving as officers in the district allegedly take no action against the guilty in the face of a strong politically backed lobby. The transport department also transferred three motor vehicle inspectors. Recently on July 12, altogether eighteen police officers were shifted to another range on “administrative grounds” as part of a crackdown against illegal sand mining mafia in the state following chief minister Nitish Kumar’s orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-two-sps-among-5-officials-transferred-for-alleged-involvement-in-illegal-sand-mining-101626279839922.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Patna: Four-year-old disabled girl falls into manhole, dies||A four-year-old physically disabled girl died after falling into an open manhole on Wednesday near Mangal Talab under Chowk police station in Patna, police said. No FIR has been lodged in this connection so far.The incident took place around 10.30am Wednesday when the girl somehow reached near an open manhole and slipped. “The incident came to light when the girl’s body was found floating in the manhole. Soon, a large number of people reached the spot and recovered the body from the manhole and informed the victim’s family,” a police official said.According to the girl’s father, she had left the house to go play as usual. “When I reached the shop where I work, someone informed me about the incident. I don’t believe that my daughter is no more,” he said. Following the incident, irate locals assembled at the spot and raised slogans against Patna Municipal Corporation and local ward councillor, while also demanding compensation to the family of the deceased.On getting information, a police team from Chowk police station reached the spot and pacified the mob.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-four-year-old-disabled-girl-falls-into-manhole-dies-101626279779945.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Fuel price hike in Bihar: RJD to stage protest on July 18, 19||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) will stage protests against rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG at all blocks and district headquarters of the state on July 18 and 19, respectively, party officials said on Wednesday. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said, “We will write to all parties of the Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) to join the protest.”Addressing media persons in state capital, Tejashwi attacked the JD(U)-led state government over increasing hike in prices of petroleum products. “The government used to say that achche din (good days) will be here, but prices of fuel has crossed ₹100 in more than 27 districts. This government is not for the poor,” said Yadav.Meanwhile, Yadav wrote to the Bihar assembly Speaker to provide security to opposition MLAs, while referring to the violence during the budget session in March this year. He also requested the Speaker to share information about action taken against the officers who assaulted the MLAs. “The MLAs are reluctant to come to the House during the Monsoon session after the budget session,” Yadav said in his letter, while demanding action against the guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fuel-price-hike-in-bihar-rjd-to-stage-protest-on-july-18-19-101626279720577.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Bihar health minister for mass campaign to control population||Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey on Wednesday advocated for a mass campaign with public support to control population boom in the state, that had shown a decadal growth rate of 25.1% in the last census (2011). Pandey steered clear of courting any controversy as he parried a question on the need for legislation to control population, as Uttar Pradesh has recently done, while talking to media persons on the sidelines of an event to mark World Population Day (July 11) here on Wednesday. Toeing the line of chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, Pandey said education played an important role in controlling population. He said intermediate-pass girls in the state have a total fertility rate (TFR) of 1.7% against the national average of 1.8%. Similarly, girls who graduated college have a TFR of 1.6% against the national average of 1.7%. He said the CM had minutely examined this fact and already announced opening of at least one high school in every panchayat as well as monetary incentive for girls to study. “Unwed intermediate-pass girls are eligible for a monetary incentive of ₹25,000, while those girls who have complete their graduation get ₹50,000 under Mukhya Mantri Kanya Utthan Yojana,” he added. Pandey said it was due to social mobilisation campaign and mass awareness drive that for the first time this year, the state’s decadal population growth was projected be around 22% - 23%, almost identical to what it was in 1971 (22%). He said the National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 had shown some positive indicators for the state, as its TFR had decreased to 3.0% from 3.4% in their last survey. He, however, stressed the need to increase use of modern spacing methods among married girls and women between 15 and 24 years of age to improve use of modern contraceptive among nulliparous and low parity couples to delay or space the birth of children, as the median age of women in the state, who begin using contraceptives, was still 25 years. He also cautioned against malnutrition and said there was need to focus on nutrition if maternal mortality rate and infant mortality rate were to be brought down. Earlier, Manoj Kumar executive director, State Health Society, Bihar, spoke about the state’s improvement in the two NFHS surveys. He said the unmet demand had gone down from 21.2% in 2015 to 13% while the modern contraceptive prevalence (mCPR) among married women of reproductive age (MWRA) increased in Bihar from 23.3 in NFHS-4 to 44.4 in NFHS-5. Flagging an area of concern, Kumar said that over 40% of girls, who are less than 18 years of age, are still getting married and getting pregnant between 15 and 19 years of age. Sunil Babu, Care India chief of party – Bihar Technical Support Project – and deputy team lead-family planning Dr Padma Buggineni, threw light on the challenges in controlling population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-health-minister-for-mass-campaign-to-control-population-101626279719953.html
14-07-2021||Ranchi||My entire focus will be on betterment of people, says new Jharkhand Guv||Brushing aside any likelihood of political controversy around the office of the Governor in Jharkhand as has reportedly been the case in some other states, newly appointed Governor Ramesh Bais on Wednesday said his entire focus will be on the betterment of people of the state and underlined he will work in coordination with the chief minister.Bais was speaking to media persons after taking oath as the 10th Governor of Jharkhand. Replying to a specific question about political speculations about his role in the state owing to his long political career in the BJP, Bais said, “I don’t care much about what others have to say about me. I believe in doing my work and I am confident that people of Jharkhand will be happy with my work.”A BJP veteran who represented Raipur, capital of Chhattisgarh, seven times in the Lok Sabha, Bais was made Governor of Tripura after the 2019 general elections. Bais said “party feelings” should be restricted till the time of elections, and development should be the only focus after it. The new Governor said he holds a constitutional post and will take help of the Centre, wherever required, for issues related to the state’s development as per the laid down procedures. “Today is my first day in office and I told chief minister Hemant Soren that we can discuss the issues related to the state whenever he is free. I assured him that I will always work with him as a colleague,” he said. Bais took over the gubernatorial post from former Governor Droupadi Murmu, who served for more than six years in Jharkhand’s Raj Bhawan. In her last media interaction, Murmu said she has briefed the new Governor about the controversial notification of Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) rules, 2021 by the Hemant Soren government, transferring the authority to constitute the TAC from the office of the Governor to the chief minister. Speaking to media persons after the oath-taking ceremony, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “I hope the long (political) experience of the Governor would be beneficial for the state.”Jharkhand Congress chief and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said he hoped the new Governor will work for betterment of tribals in the state. “Jharkhand is a fifth schedule state owing to its big tribal population. Governors are guardians of scheduled areas. I hope he (Bais) will work for the betterment of tribes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/my-entire-focus-will-be-on-betterment-of-people-says-new-jharkhand-guv-101626279659887.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Bihar heading for financial crisis, says CAG official||Bihar is heading towards a financial crisis as the state has shown trends of revenue deficit in the fiscal year 2019-2020 against the revenue surplus in fiscal 2018-19, said additional deputy (eastern region) Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) Rakesh Mohan on Wednesday.Revenue deficit is when the government has less income to meet its expenditure, whereas revenue surplus is when its net income is higher than projected expenditure.The revenue deficit in 2019-20 is expected to be around ₹2000 crore as against the revenue surplus in 2018-19 of ₹6897 crore. These observations were made by Mohan, who censured the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar led state government for making unrealistic budget in the last few years, parking funds in personal ledger accounts (PLA) and personal deposit accounts ( PDA) worth crores and not providing records of various departments for audit. “We can say that Bihar is heading for a financial crisis. The signs are not good because the state has been showing trends of revenue deficit in a year when there was no pandemic, which means there aren’t enough funds to meet all expenditures as per the budget outlay. The revenue of the state is decreasing. Capital expenditure (money spent on making assets, including infrastructure, health, education) is also showing a downward trend,” Mohan said. Mohan, who met deputy CM and finance minister Tarkishore Prasad and principal secretary (finance) S Siddharth on Tuesday, said that he has flagged these issues to the government’s top officials and advised them that avenues of gaining income should be increased by the state. “We are afraid that the figure of revenue deficit will increase further in 2020-21, during which the state faced economic contraction owing to Covid-induced lockdowns and overall revenue shortfall by states across the country,” he said. The top auditor, who is in charge of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, also expressed his displeasure over the way the state government has been making unrealistic budgets since the last few years by putting higher projections of expenditure in the outlay of various departments but ending up spending much less. “In 2018-19, the total budget was ₹2.09 lakh crore whereas the actual spending was ₹1.60 lakh crore. The saving was ₹49,000, which is 23% of the total budget. In 2019-20, there are projections that the state government could have saved more than 30%. Many departments have not been able to spend even 40% of their allotted funds. This is wrong because the budgets in the last few years are being prepared unrealistically without taking into account how much funds are available,” he said. Ram Avatar Sharma, accountant general (audit), Bihar, was also present during the interaction.Highlighting that the accountant general was preparing the state’s financial report for fiscal 2019-20, Mohan was also critical of the way abstract contingent (AC) bills and detailed contingent ( DC) bills were piling up without reconciliation. AC bills are generated when there is a withdrawal of funds for any expenditure by departments while the DC bills are submitted to provide an account of expenditure with related vouchers within six months. The AG audits the AC/DC bills for financial probity.“Despite us raising objections over non-reconciliation of AC/DC worth ₹5770 crore in 2018-19, there has been not much progress. The same is the case of non-submission of utilisation certificates (UCs) against grants. These are all signs of financial mismanagement,” Mohan said. Besides, the senior auditor also rued that various departments like Panchayati Raj, Urban Development, IPRD were not giving proper records for auditing to the AG office despite reminders. “Although we face problems in getting records from many departments for auditing, some are very chronic. Auditing is a constitutional obligation and such attitude is not acceptable,” he said. Mohan said. Meanwhile, some financial experts believe that the state started facing a loss in revenue since liquor was banned in the state in 2016.Odisha and Jharkhand continue to be revenue surplus states while Bihar and West Bengal are in deficit, said Mohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-heading-for-financial-crisis-says-cag-official-101626279599978.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Man sleeping on foothpath found bludgeoned to death||A man sleeping at a bus stop near Sadhu Vaswani chowk in Pune was found beaten to death on Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Sanjay Babu Kadam, a resident of Ghatkopar area of Mumbai. His age was estimated to be around 35 years by the police.The man was waiting for a bus to go to Mumbai from Pune and slept on the bus stop, according to the police.The assailant hit him on the right side of his forehead and other parts of his head which caused grievous head injuries. He was taken to Sassoon General Hospital where he was pronounced dead, according to the police.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Bundgarden police station. Police inspector (crime) Abhay Waghmare of Bundgarden police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-sleeping-on-foothpath-found-bludgeoned-to-death-101626279179859.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Government lawyer booked for accepting bribe||A government lawyer was booked for demanding and accepting a bribe from a defence lawyer in the Khed court on Wednesday. A trap was set by the Pune unit of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Wednesday.The accused was identified as additional government pleader Devendra Madhukar Sonnis (57) working at additional sessions court of Khed.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 53-year-old lawyer whose client was arrested in a case and awaiting bail. The bribe was allegedly demanded in order to purposefully help the defence lawyer secure bail for his client, according to the complaint.“The complainant is a lawyer and for an NOC to help during the bail hearing of his client, the accused public servant asked for ₹5,000 bribe and accepted ₹3,500,” read a statement from ACB Pune.The demand and transactions happened on three occasions including July 1, July 6 and July 7 and the trap was set by deputy superintendent of police Vijaymala Pawar of ACB Pune.A case under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act Was registered at Khed police station of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/government-lawyer-booked-for-accepting-bribe-101626279119860.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Awareness needed among youth about Army as career option: Gen Naravane||Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General M M Naravane on Tuesday said there was a need to create greater awareness among the youth about the armed forces as a career option. General Naravane was speaking virtually at the silver jubilee function of Rani Laxmibai Mulinchi Sainiki Shala, a military-oriented school for girls run by the Maharashtra Education Society near Pune. In its 25-year journey, the school has taught 2,000 girls starting with the first batch of only 40 girls and eventually growing the intake into 90 per year from all over Maharashtra. This special school is spread in 32 acres of land that was given by the government of Maharashtra with a special sanction right from the first day. Located under Mulshi tehsil, at Kasar-Amboli, just 25 km from Pune, the school is located as part of hill -top construction. General Naravane pointed out that some regions are under-represented in the defense forces. “We ensure that all the officers and soldiers, irrespective of gender, get equal opportunity to serve the nation and enhance their career prospects. Women officers are serving in the Indian Army with distinction and we have taken a number of steps to give them maximum exposure in challenging assignments,” said Gen Naravane. The army chief also emphasised that the Indian defense forces and the Army in particular believe in gender parity and women’s empowerment. The Indian Army reflects the unique strength of the country which is ‘unity in diversity’, he said. “The army recruits from all the regions and in that effect mirrors a Mini India. However, I must highlight that the regional representation in the army is not a balanced mix,” he noted. ‘The northern region of our country, which comprises 14 percent of our population, accounts for 45 percent of the strength of the Indian Army, while the western region which also includes Maharashtra, with the same 14 percent of the population has mere eight percent representation in the army,’ he said. This disparity needed some introspection, he said. “There is a need to create greater awareness among the youth about the armed forces as the preferred career option and offer them adequate guidance and opportunity and we need to join hands and start the collective work towards this, and this school is one step in that direction,’” the army chief said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/awareness-needed-among-youth-about-army-as-career-option-gen-naravane-101626279059875.html
14-07-2021||City||West Bengal: CID investigates the death of former bodyguard of BJP leader||A four-member Crime Investigation Department (CID) delegation visited Purba Medinipur on Wednesday to probe the death of former bodyguard of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari.The case is related to Adhikari's former bodyguard Shubhabrata Chakraborty, who had died under suspicious circumstances three years ago.The CID delegation arrived at Kanthi Police Station in Purba Medinipur district today. Sources said the CID team deliberated with Kanthi Police Station officials for half an hour and then took the case from the custody of police. The case has been filed by Shubhabrata Chakraborty's wife Suparna Kanjilal Chakraborty.After leaving Kanthi Police Station, the CID team went to the police barracks in Ward-17 of Kanthi where Subhabrata Chakraborty resided.After this, the CID team moved towards Suvendu Adhikari's house. Notably, there is a rest house for security and police personnel opposite Adhikari's residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/west-bengal-cid-investigates-the-death-of-former-bodyguard-of-bjp-leader-101626272286050.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Asks consent to operate inclined lifts in Signature bridge: Delhi tourism dept||Delhiites will soon have a bird's eye view of the city from the 154-metre-height of Signature Bridge as the tourism department has sought approval from concerned authorities to operate inclined lifts installed in legs of the pylon of the bridge. Officials of the Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) said that a glass facade (viewing gallery) has been built atop the bow shaped pylon - twice the height of Qutub Minar - of the country's first asymmetrical cable-stayed bridge. The height of Qutub Minar is about 73 metres.They said that four lifts have been built inside the legs of the steel pylon of the Signature Bridge out of which two are inclined lifts and two are vertical. These lifts will be used to ferry visitors to the viewing gallery situated at a height of 154 metres. Selfie points will be set up along the journey to the top. The glass gallery can accommodate around 50 people at a time.Officials said that though inclined lifts are operational in various projects, such as Eiffel Tower, in foreign countries across the world, it would be the first in India if permitted.A senior official of the DTTDC, on the condition of anonymity, said that for quite some time, the department has been trying to seek no-objection-certificate from the electrical branch of the labour department of the Delhi government to start operations."We have again written to the electrical wing of the labour department last week and requested them to inspect these elevators to provide the approval. We have also requested them to suggest if any improvements are to be done or any conditions they want to add for the operation. Both types of lifts (inclined and vertical) are ready for operations but need proper approval from the department," the DTTDC official told PTI.According to DTTDC officials, tourists will have to take inclined lifts from the base of the bridge to the middle of the bow-shaped pylon. From there, visitors will interchange the elevators and board into vertical lifts that will take them to the glass box.The all-glass viewing gallery will offer a panoramic view of the river Yamuna and the city and will have four levels with a spiral staircase. It will take about half-an-hour to transport people up to the deck as the speed of elevators will be very slow and only four people can be ferried in one lift in one go, officials said. "Because of the peculiar nature of lifts installed the pylons of the bridge we have to ensure proper safety measures for visitors. We are also studying foreign models where such practices are operational. We will ensure that all international safeguards are followed while operating inclined lifts in the bridge," the DTTDC official said.Another official of the department said that lifts in the Signature Bridge have been installed after following all international standards but the labour department was not giving NOC due to inclined nature of lifts. Another challenge that DTTDC officials are facing is to come up with a solution to control the heat inside the glass facade. Officials said that since it is all made of glass so in summers on a sunny day the temperatures inside can go up above 50 degrees Celsius."We are studying all international experiments to come up with an eco-friendly solution to control heat inside the glass chamber. We are hopeful of finding the solution soon," the official said.The Delhi government's plan to develop the Signature Bridge and area around it into a tourist hotspot includes the construction of a children's play zone, eateries, open-air plaza, toilet facilities and parking space on the western end of the bridge near Majnu Ka Tila (towards the Outer Ring Road). A 300m-long pedestrian walkway is also being developed to connect this recreational area with the bridge's existing sidewalk."Work on the development of walkway, parking and cafeteria is underway and is likely to be completed by the end of July. We are also developing selfie points for visitors to make it a popular tourist destination," an official said.The Signature Bridge was built at a cost of ₹1,518.37 crore by the Public Works Department (PWD). It was inaugurated for motorists in November 2018.The bridge, which connects Outer Ring Road with Karawal Nagar and Bhajanpura in northeast Delhi, boasts of 127 strands of steel cables and is projected as India's first 'asymmetrical cable-stayed bridge'.However, work on the construction of lifts and viewing gallery continued for more than a year. It was handed over to the DTTDC in 2020 for development of tourism activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/asks-consent-to-operate-inclined-lifts-in-signature-bridge-delhi-tourism-dept-101626267989389.html
14-07-2021||Pune||MahaMetro developing mobile app for last-mile connectivity||Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation limited ( MahaMetro) has started working on the last-mile connectivity for the Pune Metro service which will start at the end of this year. MahaMetro has started signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with transport service providers which will include mobile application in the last-mile connectivity. Till date, MahaMetro has signed a MoU with auto, cars and electronic two-wheeler providers. MahaMetro is ready to start passenger service of 12 kilometres in the month of October and November on both corridors (Vanaz –Ramwadi and PCMC-Swargate) of Pune Metro project. Before that, MahaMetro has signed an MoU with public and private transport services to provide last-connectivity to passengers. Atul Gadgil, director of MahaMetro said, “The MahaMetro will develop an application under the last-mile connectivity to provide feeder services to passengers which includes transport services like public and private players. We are signing agreements with those who want to get benefits mutually. Till date, we have signed MoU with AAP (Aam Aadmi Party) auto-rickshaw union. We are inviting all auto and car services to sign MoU with MahaMetro. We have nothing to do with fare structure. It is not our part. We just want to provide transport facilities to commuters to reach Metro stations and to their destination and vice-versa.” On the other hand, rickshaw panchayat, one of the leading unions of autorickshaw drivers, has raised objections to sign a MoU with MahaMetro.. Nitin Pawar, general secretary of rickshaw panchayat said, “MahaMetro doesn’t have the right to decide passenger fares. There is a government committee which has power to decide passenger fare. Metro is a private body and they will have to provide space and parking facilities to autos in their premises. MahaMetro will decide to give access to auto drivers of unions which will sign MoU with them. It is unfair and we are against it.” Hemant Sonwane, general manager of MahaMetro said, “It is open to all to sign a MoU with Metro. Till date, AAP auto union, Ola and Uber and e-scooter signed an agreement. It is only to provide detailed information of the metro schedule. It is knowledge sharing and not revenue sharing.” Passenger service will start from October-November Last week, the MahaMetro conducted a technical trial run between Vanaz to Anandnagar stretch on Vanaz to Ramwadi metro corridor. Due to Covid-19 pandemic situation, MahaMetro is already behind schedule. Therefore, MehaMetro has started concentrating on the Vanaz to Garware college stretch. It is a six kilometre of stretch and it is a priority stretch in the Vanaz-Ramwadi metro corridor In the month of January 2021, the MahaMetro completed a six-kilometre stretch between PCMC and Phugewadi of Pune Metro and successfully conducted a trial run on the PCMC to Swargate Metro corridor. Gadgil assured, “We are working simultaneously on Vanaz-Ramwadi and PCMC- Swargate corridors. We have an almost complete 6 kilometer stretch between PCMC (Sant Tukaram nagar) to Phugewadi on PCMC-Swargate corridor. In the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor, we will complete all works soon. We will be ready to start passenger service on both corridors of a stretch of six kilometres on each corridor in the month of October or November.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahametro-developing-mobile-app-for-last-mile-connectivity-101626278999871.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Storm water drain work on MG road creates traffic snarls||Major traffic snarls are being reported for the past few days on MG road after the administration began the work of laying down a 100-metre brand new storm water drainage line to prevent flooding of the Bata Chowk area. The work is likely to be completed within a week’s time. However, the Pune Cantonment board administration has said that the work is being done in larger public interests after city MP Girish Bapat sanctioned ₹15 lakh towards the work. MG road is the arterial road which connects suburbs like Hadapsar, Kondhwa, NIBM, Koregaon Park to the city and vice versa. Commuters alleged that the roadwork being carried out in monsoon was causing traffic snarls at the chowk and demanded early completion of the work. The board administration maintained that it was its endeavour to complete the work much before but due to lack of funds; the several developmental and infrastructural related works had been hit hard due to the shortage of money. Ameya Baviskar, a commuter said “The traffic coming from all the roads joining at Bata Chowk is getting blocked due to the road work. We demand that it be completed at the earliest and PCB administration must fully complete the work within a week so that further inconvenience is avoided.” PCB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Amit Kumar said, “The work was due for a long time and work is being carried out from city parliamentarian Bapat’s funds to lay a new drainage line for the area. It has been observed that the area was getting clogged in rainwater and causing inconvenience to the citizens after which we took up the work on war footing. More work will be done in the future aimed at improving the entire drainage infrastructure of the cantonment area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/storm-water-drain-work-on-mg-road-creates-traffic-snarls-101626277919804.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Shivaji Market awaits restoration six months after fire||The work of restoration of Chhatrapati Shivaji Market in Punefollowing a massive fire in March is yet to begin and likely to be delayed further due to lack of funds. The PCB had sought funds from the district administration after which the collector office agreed to pay ₹1.25 crore if the board paid the remaining ₹1.25 crore as part of the ₹2.50 crore funds required for the project. The board administration on June 30 took a decision to seek the pending taxes from the traders wherein an amount of ₹80 lakh is due as tax from the defaulters. PCB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Amit Kumar said, “After the joint meeting with the district collectorate officials, it was decided that the district collector’s office will give ₹1.25 crore and we will give the remaining amount. We issued notices to the traders and asked them to pay their pending tax which is around ₹80 lakh while we will contribute ₹50 lakh. The board is facing one of the severest financial crises in our history and trying our level best to ensure that developmental works don’t get affected. They had committed to that they will deposit the amount by July 12 but only ₹10 lakh has been deposited two days ago. Once the balance amount is ready, we will sanction the necessary funds. A meeting with the cantonment MLA has been convened on Thursday to resolve the restoration issue.” Shivaji Market Traders Association President Manzoor Shaikh said, “On June 29, we had a meeting with army officials and CEO regarding restoration of the market. The restoration work must not be stopped just for the sake of dues as deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar sanctioned ₹1.25 crore for the restoration work. We are creating awareness amongst the traders about the pending dues and we have paid around ₹15 lakh so far. We will offer all our support to the board for pending tax recovery. The board administration must not put a pre-condition that the traders must pay their pending dues as most of our traders have been badly affected by Covid-19 and facing huge business losses.” A massive fire broke out at the Chhatrapati Shivaji market on the night of March 15 which destroyed at least 25 shops in the fish and chicken section of the market. Fire tenders from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) were rushed to the spot and the fire was brought under control within an hour’s time. Chhatrapati Shivaji Market, a grade I heritage structure, has been a bustling marketplace since its construction in 1885 by British army officer Lt Gen John Ross as per the design by Gen Cecil D’Urban La Touche and WM Ducat. The heritage structure still awaits restoration owing to lack of funds from Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) which is facing a near bankruptcy of central government funds for the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivaji-market-awaits-restoration-six-months-after-fire-101626277859805.html
14-07-2021||Other||Nurmahal man poisons daughter, self after wife marries again||Jalandhar A 36-year-old man of Nurmahal killed his five-year-old daughter by giving her poison, and subsequently, ended his life too by consuming the same substance at Pandori Jagir village of Jalandhar on Tuesday evening after his wife shared pictures of her second marriage on the social media. His son, also given poison, has survived. Police have booked the wife of the man for abetment of suicide. They had married eight years ago, but the woman deserted her husband and child around two years ago, without taking a divorce and did not return. Both their families tried to ensure that they resume a normal life, but nothing worked. Police said three-four days ago, the woman got married with another man and shared pictures on the social media. “Her husband was depressed and shocked at this, and consumed poison. Before doing this, he also gave poison to his two children,” a police source added. A case has been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) at Nurmahal police station in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nurmahal-man-poisons-son-self-after-wife-marries-again-101626277800441.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Admin officer arrested for sexual harassment of student||An administrative officer at the Haribhai V Desai College in Pune was arrested for sexual harassment of a Class 12 student on Wednesday. The man was thrashed by the family members of the student and brought to Vishrambaug police station.The arrested man was identified as Abhijet Pawar (34) working in the administrative department of the college.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a teenager who recorded their conversation and informed her family members. The complainant has passed her Class 12 exams and is awaiting first year admissions, according to the police.A video of her relatives splashing black liquid across Pawar’s face and torso was shared on social media. A group of men are seen thrashing Pawar while he is soaked in the liquid.“The incident happened on Wednesday. They are heard talking about her performance and marks. He said she should work on increasing her marks. Then the girl said she plans to become a police officer and then he started speaking in a sexual tone and asked her to take her clothes off,” said Senior police inspector Vijay Tikole of Vishrambaug police station.The Principal of Desai College was also called to the police station.A case under Sections 354 and 509 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrambaug police station against Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/admin-officer-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-of-student-101626277439803.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai sees 619 fresh cases||With 8,602 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, Maharashtra’s tally reached 6,181,247 cases so far. As many as 170 more people succumbed to the illness in the previous 24 hours, taking the state’s death toll to 126,390, the latest data showed.The daily infections in Maharashtra have remained above the 7,000-mark in the last two days with 7,603 new cases on Monday (July 12) and 7,243 new cases on Tuesday (July 13).As many as 6,067 people were discharged from hospitals in the previous 24 hours and the cumulative recoveries in the state reached 5,944,801, the data showed. The medical workers in the state tested 226,163 new samples on the day and so far, 44,609,276 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state.Meanwhile, the capital city of Mumbai recorded 619 new cases of the disease on the day as the city’s tally reached 729,263. With 10 more fatalities, the city’s death toll climbed to 15,654, the data also showed.Also read | Slow pace of Covid-19 vaccination by private centres ‘cause of serious worry’: Centre tells some statesAccording to a bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai currently has 6,989 active cases of the disease. The recovery rate in the city stood at 96% and there are eight active containment zones within the city, the bulletin also showed. As many as 35,968 tests were conducted in Mumbai in the last 24 hours and so far, 7,628,469 tests have been conducted in the city, the BMC bulletin showed.The state is also battling a surge in the black fungus infections. A bulletin from the state health department on the day showed that 9,628 cases of the disease have been confirmed so far and 1,112 people have lost their lives to it. Currently, 2,900 patients are receiving treatment for the disease. Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Solapur and Mumbai are some of the districts where maximum cases have been identified, news agency ANI reported.Data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed that 37,516,773 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the state as of 7am on Wednesday. It includes 29,348,230 first doses and 8,168,543 second doses.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that he would meet with the Union health minister and request him to provide adequate quantities of the vaccine, news agency ANI reported. He also said that the state needed 30 million vaccine doses every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-619-fresh-infections-101626274703372.html
14-07-2021||Other||Your success will inspire younger generation of UP, Yogi tells Tokyo-bound athletes||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday wished success to all 10 Tokyo Olympics-bound athletes from Uttar Pradesh and promised them a grand felicitation when they come back from the Japanese capital next month. “I extend my best wishes for success to all our athletes who are going to participate in the Tokyo Olympics. Your success and achievements will inspire the younger generation of the state, and the government will felicitate all the athletes when they come back from the Olympics,” said Adityanath during a virtual interaction with the athletes on Wednesday. While promising full support of the state government to the Tokyo-bound athletes, the CM also congratulated the family members of the athletes. “I admire the contribution of the families of these athletes as they were the biggest supporters of their wards. After the Tokyo Games, I will meet family members of the athletes in person,” he said. Interacting with state athletes, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually met Indian athletes on Tuesday, the CM said these sportspersons deserve special praise for their continuous effort to qualify for the mega event even when the world was going though the corona crisis. While reiterating the supporting stand of the PM to sportspersons across the country through the Khelo India scheme, the CM said besides implementing different development schemes for sports in the state, his government was also implementing schemes of Khelo India adequately. “It’s great to see that most of our Tokyo-bound athletes of UP come from rural background, especially from western Uttar Pradesh, and that’s why the government is setting up a sports university in Meerut,” he said, adding, “The sports university will not only cater to the needs of the new generation of sportspersons, but also help the government generate new opportunities for sportspersons.” Out of 10 sportspersons, race walker Priyanka Goswami; javelin throwers Annu Rani, Seema Punia and hockey player Vandana Katariya – hail from Meerut, whereas shooter Saurabh Chaudhary (Meerut), Mairaj Ahmed Khan (Bulandshahr), pugilist Satish Kumar (Bulandshahr), rower Arvind Singh (Khabra) too come from the same region. Two others – javelin thrower Shivpal Singh and hockey player Lalit Kumar Upadhyay belong to Varanasi. “Under the one district one product scheme, the government has chosen Meerut for sports goods. In the last four years or so, the government has put its best foot forward for the development of sports and the process will continue further,” said the CM. Most of the athletes praised the UP Sports Directorate for extending full support to sportspersons, but a few demanded some changes in the state government’s policies regarding the prize money to athletes who do well at the international level. National record holder Priyanka Goswami demanded setting up of a synthetic track in Meerut and appointment of good coaches at the centre. Annu Rani urged the government for the construction of at least one ground in each district of UP, whereas Olympian Mairaj Khan demanded a shooting academy in western Uttar Pradesh. The CM advised them to submit their demands to the Sports Directorate after coming back from the Olympics and assured all possible solutions to their problems. “The government is setting up two shooting academies, one each at Lucknow and Varanasi, and we will invite shooters like Khan and Chaudhary to give their valuable suggestions for the same.” Showering special praise on Asian Games gold medalist Chaudhary, the CM said age was with the young shooter and success will take him ahead in future. “You have age with you and I am sure you will go a long way in your field and achieve many more successes,” he told Chaudhary. Addressing hockey player Upadhyay, the CM said a sportsperson doesn’t play for his or her own self, but brings name and fame for his/her city, state and country. “The government stands like a rock behind sportspersons of the state forever,” he said. Sportspersons need jobs, not just promises: PandeyUP Olympic Association secretary general, Anandeshwar Pandey, on Wednesday said sportspersons in the state needed jobs, and not just promises. “Leaders are encouraging sportspersons to do well at the Tokyo Olympics, but nobody is talking about their real needs. Athletes need jobs and not just assurances,” stated Pandey. Pandey, who is also the treasurer of the Indian Olympic Association, said around 186 posts of sub-inspectors and 1,120 posts of constables in UP Police are lying vacant. “Besides, several posts of gazzetted officers under sports quota in different departments and posts of regional sports officers and sports officers in the sports department are also vacant since long. This is when there is 2% reservation for sportspersons in the state.” “That’s the reason why talented sportspersons of UP are migrating to other states. We need to have a sports policy, which is pending since 2000,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/your-success-will-inspire-younger-generation-of-up-yogi-tells-tokyo-bound-athletes-101626272759456.html
14-07-2021||Other||Rural Amritsar lags urban areas in getting the jab||Amritsar Rural areas in this border district continue to lag urban areas in getting vaccinated. Even as 62% of the urban eligible population has got at least one shot, the corresponding figure for the rural areas is 38%. The district has a population of 26.5 lakh and 42% of the eligible population has been given the jab. In a silver lining of sorts, 40 of 846 villages in the district have been declared as fully vaccinated. The overall gap, however, between urban and rural response to getting the jab is worrying officials of the health department. Officials attribute the lower coverage to lack of awareness and misleading propaganda on social media. Residents in urban areas are keen to be vaccinated, they add. Limited supply of vaccination is also a factor. Health department officials add that 40% of the district’s population (around 1 lakh) is below 18, so the remaining 1.6 lakh people are the main target. In addition to the higher population in rural areas, residents of 50-odd slums that dot the city have also been laggards. Many residents here complain of not getting the time to line up in the vaccination queue, as they go for hard labour during the day. District medical officer Dr Karan Mehra, said, “The gap between the rural and the urban areas is due to the unwillingness of people living in the countryside. Some of them fear that vaccination would make them sick. As a third wave is predicted, they join get themselves inoculated.”He added, “We’ve arranged a special mobile van for Thursday, which will reach the slums and rural areas to clear people’s doubts.”Assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjeet Singh said, “We have been facing shortage of vaccines, but people must shun any apprehensions. We have to be careful for another four weeks to get a measure of control over the spread of the virus.” Previously too, the rural population had resisted testing. Finally, the Amritsar-rural police had to be roped in to ensure the health department could complete its target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rural-amritsar-lags-urban-areas-in-getting-the-jab-101626271439951.html
14-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand minister slammed after photo with mask hanging on foot goes viral||Uttarakhand minister Swami Yatishwaranand was slammed by critics on Wednesday after a photograph, in which his face mask was seen hanging on the thumb of his foot, went viral.The minister for sugarcane industries in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state was not wearing a mask on his face during the time and neither were the two other ministers, Bishan Singh Chuphal and Subodh Uniyal, nor the two other party leaders, who were all huddled in an indoor meeting. The date and the place of the meeting could not be confirmed immediately.After making the rounds on the social media on Wednesday, the photograph was picked up by opposition leaders, who slammed the leader and also the state government for allegedly not taking Covid containment protocols seriously.“The photograph showing cabinet minister Swami Yatishwaranand hanging his mask on foot just shows that he and his government put Covid-19 guidelines... under their feet,” said Qazi Nizamuddin, Congress MLA from Haridwar.Congress state spokesperson Garima Dasauni asked: “When lakhs of people lost their lives to Covid-19 pandemic in the country, what sort of message Swami Yatishwaranand, who is a cabinet minister in Uttarakhand government, is delivering to the people by putting his mask on [his] foot?”Dasauni said if people in responsible positions, such as the minister, are not following the guidelines then it was futile for the government to expect people to follow them.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is looking to make a mark in bipolar state politics, too condemned the minister.“It just shows how much the BJP leaders care about the Covid-19 guidelines when many died in the second wave due to the inadequate arrangements made by their government at the Centre. Swami Yatishwaranand should apologise for his behaviour to the public for his despicable act,”AAP’s state spokesperson Amarjit Singh Rawat said.The embarrassment follows state governments decision on Tuesday to cancel the Kanwar Yatra to destinations in the state to prevent the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-minister-slammed-after-photo-with-mask-hanging-on-foot-goes-viral-101626270900104.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||‘Delhi has gained control over second wave of Covid-19’, says health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday the national capital has gained control over the second wave and lauded chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for his efforts. He also said that the Delhi government is strengthening its infrastructure in its fight against the pandemic.Delhi has gained control over the 2nd wave of Covid-19. This has been possible due to timely action & active decision making by Hon'ble CM @ArvindKejriwal Ji. Delhi Government is actively strengthening its infrastructure in the fight against Corona. #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/EagC3ZlUsN“Delhi has gained control over the 2nd wave of Covid-19. This has been possible due to timely action & active decision making by Hon'ble CM @ArvindKejriwal Ji. Delhi Government is actively strengthening its infrastructure in the fight against Corona,” Jain said in a tweet. He also shared a video titled ‘Delhi model of Corona control’ which listed the various actions and measures taken by the Delhi government during the second wave.Also read | Delhi had more active cases of black fungus than those of Covid-19: Govt dataThe video showed initiatives such as the free vaccination in schools along with hospitals, awareness against vaccine hesitancy, the 1031 helpline number, construction of ICU beds, engaging the ministers in Covid-19 duty, providing food for workers and labourers, providing food grains to people, construction of integrated command and control centre for management of the coronavirus disease in 10 days, installation of oxygen cylinders, installation of oxygen plants in hospitals, drive-through vaccination facilities, plan to expedite vaccination process in Delhi, vaccination at the voting centre, importing oxygen cylinders from abroad, installation of oxygen depot and order for 6,000 oxygen cylinders.The single-day infections and fatalities count increased rapidly during the second wave in Delhi. Requirement for medical oxygen too ballooned in the national capital and many hospitals reported a shortage. At its peak, Delhi reported 29,395 cases on April 20 and the case positivity rate rose to 36.2% on April 22. The death toll was at its highest at 448 on May 3.The cases then began to recede and on Wednesday, the capital city reported 77 new cases of the disease and one fatality. Currently 688 active cases are present in the city, a bulletin from the health department showed. Earlier on Monday, Delhi reported 45 new Covid-19 cases which were the lowest in close to 16 months, news agency ANI quoted Jain as saying on Tuesday. He also mentioned that the positivity rate remained below 0.1% and urged the people to maintain precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-gained-control-over-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-health-minister-satyendar-jain-101626268209119.html
14-07-2021||Ranchi||Will work as Hemant Soren’s colleague, says Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais||Ramesh Bais, who took oath as Jharkhand’s 10th governor in capital Ranchi on Wednesday, said his entire focus will be on betterment of people and he will work in coordination with the chief minister of the state.Replying to a specific question about possible confrontation with the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) led state government owing to his long political career in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the opposition, Bais said, “I don’t care much about what others have to say about me. I believe in doing my work and I am confident that people of Jharkhand will be happy with my work.”Bais is a BJP veteran who represented Raipur, Chhattisgarh’s capital, seven times in Lok Sabha and was later made the governor of Tripura after the 2019 general elections. Bais said “party feeling” should be restricted till the time of election and development should be the only focus after it. The new governor said he held a constitutional post and would take Centre’s help for issues related to the state’s development as per the laid down procedures. “Today is my first day in office and I told the chief minister we can discuss the issues related to the state whenever he is free. I assured him that I would always work with him as a colleague,” he added. Bais took over the gubernatorial post from former governor Droupadi Murmu who served for more than six years in Jharkhand Raj Bhawan. In her last media interaction, Murmu said she had briefed the new governor about the controversial notification of Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) rules 2021 by the Hemant Soren government, transferring the authority to constitute the TAC from the office of the governor to the chief minister. Speaking to reporters after the governor’s oath ceremony, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “I hope the long (political) experience of the governor will be beneficial for the state.”Jharkhand Congress chief and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said he hoped the new governor would work for betterment of the tribes in the state. Congress is a partner in the state’s coalition government led by the JMM.“Jharkhand is a fifth scheduled state owing to its large tribal population. Governors are guardians of the scheduled areas. I hope he will work for the betterment of the tribes,” Oraon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/will-work-as-hemant-soren-s-colleague-says-jharkhand-governor-ramesh-bais-101626266039599.html
14-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand grants concession to national parties to build office in Dehradun||Uttarakhand on Wednesday allowed concession to national political parties for building offices in capital Dehradun and also extended the maximum age limit of candidates appearing in government recruitment examination by one year to offset the disadvantage caused by the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.“In the existing provision of Dehradun master plan-2025, there was concession in fees and other charges on the construction of government buildings. The government has now agreed to include all the national political parties in that provision after which they too will be provided the concession in construction of their offices,” Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said while giving out details of important decisions taken by the state Cabinet chaired by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is building a new state headquarters in Dehradun and its foundation laying ceremony was held virtually in October last year. The party’s current state headquarters is in a residential colony in the state capital and it cited the “inconvenience” caused to the residents as the reason for the shifting. Uniyal also explained the rationale for granting age concession to applicants for government jobs. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, many recruitment examinations were not held or postponed. Because of this, many aspirants crossed the eligible age [for appearing in the examination]. Hence, the government decided to extend them a concession of one year so that they are able to sit in the recruitment examinations. It will be applicable till June 30 this year,” he said. The government has also cleared creation of 501 new vacancies for management of three existing government medical colleges in the state. “The vacancies will be created for the government medical colleges in Dehradun, Haldwani and Srinagar. Apart from this, 44 new vacancies will be created in the super specialty hospital in Haldwani,” said Uniyal. He said the state government also decided to include as many specially-abled people as possible from the state in the national food programme. “Under this, those specially-abled persons with a monthly income of less than ₹4,000 will be provided ration under Antyodaya programme, while those having a monthly income of less than ₹15,000 would be included in the Primary Family programme and will be provided ration accordingly,” said Uniyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-grants-concession-to-national-parties-to-build-office-in-dehradun-101626264299564.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht jathedar alleges dera chief’s name dropped from FIR||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Wednesday questioned the Punjab government’s motive behind removing Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s name from a case registered in connection with the Bargari sacrilege incident while filing a chargesheet in a Faridkot court. “Recently, a new SIT formed by the state government has filed a chargesheet in connection with FIR number 128 by removing the dera (sect) chief’s name. It is causing suspicion. Politics is at play. Why was his name removed quietly? Is it for taking mileage in the 2022 elections?” the head of the highest temporal seat of Sikhs told reporters in Amritsar. Also read: Punjabi University lodges police complaint in fake billing caseHe said the special investigation team (SIT) should reply why the dera head’s name was allegedly taken out while filing the chargesheet. The statement assumes significance as the Akal Takht and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) rarely speak against the Sirsa dera head over his role in the sacrilege issue. The SIT, headed by inspector general of police (IG) SPS Parmar had filed a challan in connection with FIR number 128 against the six dera followers. The jathedar said, “When the Bargari sacrilege incident took place, I was the head-granthi at Sri Muktsar Sahib. I had witnessed the incidents and subsequent protests. The then SIT, led by deputy inspector general Ranbir Singh Khatra, had registered FIR number 63 in connection with the theft of the saroop from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Kotkapura. Besides Mohinder Pal Bittu, the dera head was named an accused in the FIR. Later, another FIR number 128 was registered regarding the sacrilege. The Punjab and Haryana high court termed both the FIRs as co-related. The SIT questioned the other accused named in FIR number 63, but not the dera chief, why?” Demands shifting dera chief to Punjab jail He said that he was surprised that Panthic organisations were also mum on the issue. “It is our demand that the dera chief be shifted from the Haryana jail to a Punjab jail for his strict questioning. There is a deep conspiracy, a conspiracy to win the 2022 elections. I appeal to all Sikh organisations to speak up against this. There may also be the involvement of the Centre to absolve him,” the acting jathedar said. Since August 2017, Gurmeet Ram Rahim is undergoing a 20-year sentence at Sunaria jail in Rohtak for raping two followers. In January 2019, a special CBI court in Panchkula had sentenced him and three others to life imprisonment for the murder of Sirsa-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati. Won’t allow politics over sacrilege The jathedar said, “We will raise this issue during a meeting of more than 100 Sikh organisations at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib on Friday. We will not allow any party whether it is the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party or the BJP to play politics over the issue.” Won’t name anyone without evidence: SIT head When contacted, IG Parmar said, “Ram Rahim was never named in FIR number 128 so there is no question of removing him. We have filed a chargesheet against six accused who were arrested in May and also named three members of the dera’s national committee as conspirators. They are absconding. It is a must to file a chargesheet within 60 days after the arrest of the accused. Our investigation is on and this is only the first chargesheet. More people will be named in the course of investigation and supplementary chargesheets will be filed. With the arrest of the three conspirators, we will try to find out at whose instance the crime was committed. If they name the dera chief or any evidence comes out against him, we will name him also. I will not name anybody without evidence as was done by some officers previously, because we have to prove it in court,” he said. He said politically motivated statements should be avoided and facts should be checked otherwise it leads to distrust among people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-jathedar-alleges-dera-chief-s-name-dropped-from-fir-101626264179412.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: A new era dawns, as a Peshwa appears on the scene||Pune as a city has suffered its set of misfortunes before the tide changed and was effectively revived under able rulers and administrators. The political scene in Deccan at the start of the 18th century was the peak of the Maratha-Mughal conflict. Rajaram Maharaj was left with two wives and two sons. The elder, Shivaji, was born of queen Tararani, a clever and resourceful woman. She immediately took steps to have her son, Shivaji II, set upon the throne and solemnly declared his father’s successor, with herself as Regent, the boy being 10-years-old.The defining battle between the Mughals under the leadership of Emperor Aurangzeb and the struggling Marathas under the leadership of queen Tararani was in full swing. With generous support and assistance from diplomats and commanders such Ramchandra Pant Amatya Bavadekar, Dhanaji Jadhav, Parshuram Pant Pratinidhi, Shankaraji Narayan Pant Sachiv, Tararani firmly took the reins of the Maratha kingdom in her hand. At this time the Marathas were largely split up into marauding bands. They roamed the country harassing the Moghuls and plundering. The loot they stored in various mountain fortresses. A partial account of their gains was rendered to the head of the state, but the major portion was embezzled or dissipated. They appeared more like a scattered band of horseback troops. This very fact, however, rendered them all the more formidable and destructive; guerrilla warfare being best calculated to succeed in that distracted epoch.Marathas were successful in conquering forts around Satara, such as Bhushangad, Parali-Sajjangad and also launched a camp in the north and conquered the area till the river Narmada. The joint efforts to keep Sinhagad fort however, did not succeed. Many forts around Pune, including fort Purandar and Sinhagad were successfully taken over by Aurangzeb and his sardars by bribing the killedars. Inspite of encouragement by queen Tararani to hold fort, the forts were surrendered, sometimes to prevent the wanton loss of Maratha soldiers. Purandar was named Azamgad and subsequently fort Rajgad and Torna were included in Mughal domains. Meanwhile, Prince Shahu and his mother, Yesubai, wife of Sambhaji Raje, were in the custody of Emperor Aurangzeb since Sambhaji Raje’s assassination. When the question of releasing Shahu was mooted, Aurangzeb arranged political marriages for the young prince, giving him as wives the daughters of the two most eminent Marathas in the imperial service, namely, the Shindes, patil of Kanherkhed and the Jadhavs of Sindhkhed. As the wedding present, Aurangzeb conferred the jahagirs of Akkalkot, Indapur, Supa, and Nevasa upon the bridegroom. Aurangzeb aimed to use prince Shahu effectively to subdue Maratha resistance in the Deccan.The battle for succession finally compelled Aurangzeb to withdraw from the neighbourhood of Pune and retire to Ahmednagar. History turned its page when Aurangzeb finally passed away in the spring of 1707, at the ripe age of 88, leaving a power vacuum and creating a tussle over succession amongst the Mughal princes. The ensuing war of succession resulted in accession of prince Muazzam, who ascended the Mughal throne with the title Bahadurshah. Tarabai and her followers were quick to profit by the withdrawal of the imperial army. In 1707, Lodi Khan, the Moghul left in command of Pune city, was defeated by Dhanaji Jadhav, one of Tarabai’s generals, but the city of Pune still remained in possession of the Mughals. Parts of Pune region witnessed alternative rule, by the Mughals and the Marathas. Mughal commanders feared the relentless Maratha attack under Dhanaji Jadhav as he took the fort Sangramdurg at Chakan.In order to deter Maratha advances, governors of Deccan, Azam Shah and Zulfikar Khan, suggested that young prince Shahu, son of Sambhaji Raje be released to create political tussle in Maratha camp over succession. Faction of Marathas such as Dabhades and Balaji Vishwanath Bhat were engaged in diplomatic talks at the Mughal court for release of Shahu Maharaj. Balaji Vishwanath Bhat, a kokanastha Brahmin from Diveagar village, who served the Siddhis of Janjira, had migrated to join the Marathas under Sambhaji Raje and Rajaram maharaj in 1680s. Between 1699 and 1702, he was Sar-subhedar of some part of Pune jahagir around Khalad and Belsar. He, later, was Subhedar of Daulatabad between 1704 and 1707. Balaji Vishwanath had a fallout with Dhanaji Jadhav’s son and went to join Shahu Maharaj as an assistant in 1708. He was instrumental in the diplomacy talks with Mughal camp and by lobbying with various Rajput and Mughal sardars, persuaded them to release Shahu Maharaj. Shahu Maharaj’s mother, Yesubai, and his two wives were retained as hostages. The young Maratha was told that, should he establish his authority, and show himself a loyal ally of the Moghuls, he would be given the territory which his grandfather, the great Shivaji Maharaj, had wrested from Bijapur, with an additional tract between the rivers, Bhima and the Godavari. Purandares, Balaji Vishwanath and many other Maratha Sardars rallied by Shahu Maharaj’s side to finally establish him firmly as a Maratha ruler in Satara in 1708. Queen Tararani was subjugated and her Kolhapur throne was brought under subordination in 1712. Shahu Maharaj asserted own authority on Pune by nominating his commandant, Balaji Vishwanath to look after his family’s Poona jahagir. Balaji Vishwanath chose to rule Pune from the town of Saswad where he stayed with sardar Purandare who was his close ally and oversaw the jahagir. With the success of the Maratha Empire and defeating the Siddis at Janjira, Balaji Vishwanath was awarded the title of Peshwa, the prime minister of the Maratha Empire on November 16, 1713.Hyderabad’s Nizam-ul-Mulk’s sardar, Rambhaji Nimbalkar had captured Pune in 1707. He officially received the jahagir of Poona from Daudkhan Panni, a Mughal sardar in 1713.It proved disastrous for Poona. Matters came to such a pass that the Mughal Governor actually ordered his troops to sack the place. On the order of “Rao Rambha”, Faujdar Baji Kadam and Shekdar (Mahalkari) Gundoji Naik looted Pune, mercilessly.The dual rule of the Mughals and the Marathas continued in Pune till 1715. Balaji Vishwanath managed to secure rights of chauthai (1/4th tax) and Sardeshmukhi, popularly known as “Swarajyachi Sanad” from newly crowned Mughal emperor, Faaruksiyar. However, Thanedar Rambhaji Nimbalkar refused to submit chauthai taxes to Marathas. Displeased with Rambhaji’s actions in 1715, Balaji Vishnwanath, on orders of Shahu, finally sent officer Vyankoji Dhamdhere to conquer Pune and over throw Rambhaji Nimbalkar. Balaji Vishwanath personally met Baji Kadam who was incharge of Pune then, and persuaded him to join the Marathas. Thus, without shedding blood or endangering masses, Pune was handed over to Marathas. Thus, Balaji Vishwanath’s swift actions freed Pune from Mughal rule and Nizam-ul-mulk’s tyranny. Balaji Vishnwanath established his official hold on Poona under the “Swaraj sanad” issued by the emperor of Delhi, Farukhsiyar. Power over Pune was extremely crucial as it meant rule over entire area including twelve mawal. Peace was finally restored and Pune citizens heaved a sigh of relief. In October 1719, Balaji Vishwanath obtained leave from Shahu Maharaj to retire to the village of Saswad. Balaji Vishwanath Bhat-Peshwa died on April 12, 1720 at Saswad.Balaji Vishwanath was succeed by young Bajirao Ballal, aka Bajirao I who was conferred the Peshwa position in a hereditary capacity by Shahu Maharaj. The promising Peshwa Bajirao I was a boon for Pune as well as the Maratha Empire, as we shall see further. In order to ensure everlasting peace for Pune, Shahu Maharaj ordered Bajirao I to make Poona his residence. It would then also become first line of defence for northern attacks and secure Satara, which was Shahu Maharaj’s headquarters. Pune was finally set on its course towards uninterrupted development, as the Peshwa decided to make Pune as his headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-a-new-era-dawns-as-a-peshwa-appears-on-the-scene-101626263699867.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 77 single-day Covid-19 cases; 1 death in 24 hours||Delhi recorded 77 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day, thereby taking the cumulative tally of the national capital to 1,435,281, according to the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Wednesday. During this time only one fatality was recorded following which the death toll of the city now stands at 25,021.As many as 71 recoveries have been reported in the past 24 hours, which took the total number of recoveries in Delhi to 1,409,572. Wednesday’s daily case count figure is a rise from Monday’s when the city witnessed the lowest single-day rise in over a year with 45 cases. Notably, Delhi did not release the Covid-19 bulletin on Tuesday, news agency PTI reported.In comparison to Monday’s numbers, the positivity rate has also seen a marginal hike from 0.08% to 0.10% on Wednesday. However, Wednesday’s fatality count is two less than Monday’s when three people succumbed to the virus. As many as 76,095 samples were tested in the previous 24 hours.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said that the administration has just over 168,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine left in stock, and announced that the vaccination centres will have to be shut from Wednesday. “We have the capability to administer 300,000-400,000 doses a day. But there is a shortage of vaccines. We have received a small stock of 150,000 Covishield doses on Monday night; we have around 168,000 doses which will not last beyond Tuesday or half of Wednesday,” he added.Meanwhile, recent government data showed that with 952 active black fungus cases, the national capital had more active cases of the post-Covid complication than that of Covid-19 till July 6. It also revealed that till July 6, Delhi’s overall tally of black fungus cases stood at 1,656.As per Wednesday’s health bulletin data, Delhi has administered 9,073,103 doses of Covid-19 vaccine till date, of which, 129,054 accounts for the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-77-single-day-covid-19-cases-1-death-in-24-hours-101626262805108.html
14-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka bans weekend entry at Nandi Hills after over 8,000 flock at hilltop||In continuation of instances of “revenge travel” that has lately plagued the northern hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, Nandi Hills – a popular destination for a weekend getaway from Bengaluru – witnessed an influx of tourists. After over 8,000 people flocked to the Hills, the Chikkaballapur district administration decided to reportedly ban entry during the weekends. The hills will remain closed from Friday 6pm to Monday 6am, reports suggest.The Karnataka government had imposed a lockdown soon after the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country. It was lifted in a phased manner and the Nandi Hills was thrown open to the public on June 21 even though it remained shut during weekends. However, the popular destination witnessed a rush of travelers on the very first weekend following the lifting of the weekend curfew on July 10.Nandi hills is an hour's drive from Bengaluru, and it draws a large number of people for offering a beautiful view of the sunrise and sunset.The Union home ministry also issued fresh guidelines on Wednesday, asking states and Union territories (UTs) to make officers personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of rules. It also mentioned that “massive crowds” are thronging at market places and hill stations, even as the R-factor (reproduction number that indicates the speed at which infection is spreading) is high in some states.The development comes at the backdrop of tourists’ influx in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. Visuals of people roaming around without wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing norms necessitated to prevent Covid-19 went viral in the media. This compelled the Uttarakhand administration to impose restrictions by making a negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for entry to the state, and also capping hotel occupancy at 50%.Meanwhile, three people of the same family in Uttarakhand’s Mussoorie have tested positive for coronavirus, nodal officer Dr Pradeep Rana said. As many as 17 others, who came in contact with the family have undergone RT-PCR tests and were awaiting reports. The family, on the other hand, have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bans-weekend-entry-at-nandi-hills-after-over-8-000-flock-at-hilltop-101626261393330.html
14-07-2021||Other||Meghalaya: IED blast at police reserve campus, no casualty reported||A wall of a building in the police reserve campus at Khliehriat, the district headquarters of East Jaiñtia Hills in Meghalaya was damaged following a suspected IED blast around 1.30am on Wednesday. Khliehriat is about 90km away from Shillong.Confirming the incident, district chief Ethelbert Kharmalki said police have swung into action to trace the perpetrators. “Fortunately, no one was injured. A building on the police reserve campus was partially damaged. A suo motu case has been registered,” he said.Also Read | PM Modi to review Covid situation in N-E statesDistrict police chief Jagpal Singh Dhanoa told HT that a special bomb squad unit from Shillong has reached Khliehriat and is gathering critical evidence that will assist in the investigation.Dhanoa said, “It is too premature to arrive at any deduction as of now, so let’s not talk about the conclusion. Please be assured that we are already on the job and will narrow down on all leads to solve this. The law will prevail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meghalaya-ied-blast-at-police-reserve-campus-no-casualty-reported-101626261479634.html
14-07-2021||Other||First tiger spotted in Goa’s Mhadei after four big cats were poisoned in 2020||A tiger was captured by camera traps in the last week of June in Surla village in north Goa, along the Karnataka border in the Mhadei sanctuary, for the first time after four tigers were poisoned in the area in January 2020. The tiger was captured by the department on June 23 and June 30, but evidence of its presence was visible earlier --a cow belonging to a villager was killed in the third week of June; it distinctly appeared to be the work of a tiger and not any other wild cat, said authorities. “An adult tigress was spotted atop the Surla plateau along the border with Karnataka. It must’ve moved in from Karnataka as part of routine foraging. The presence of tigers is well established in the area,” chief wildlife warden Santosh Kumar told HT. Also Read | Angry villagers attack forest guards after tiger killed two in Pilibhit Tiger ReserveThe Mhadei wildlife sanctuary was estimated to have five tigers in 2014, but subsequent counts placed the figure at three in 2018, the time of the last census. The sanctuary made news for the wrong reasons in January 2020, when an adult tigress and three male young adults were found poisoned to death. Forest officers arrested three male members of a tribal family and two more persons in connection with the suspected poisoning. All five were released on bail in a few days. The present spotting, while in the same wildlife sanctuary, is some distance away from where the four were killed in 2020. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which filed a report into the deaths of the tigers in the following months, said the management of the sanctuary left “much to be desired” and that without adequate strengthening of conservation efforts the place may become a “death trap for tigers.” “Unfortunately, even after more than two decades of declaring Mhadei as Wildlife Sanctuary, it is managed on a completely ad-hoc basis as there exists no management plan for such an important sanctuary of the Western Ghats,” the report noted. An NTCA team, during its field visits, observed that there was no proper protection mechanism inside the sanctuary, such as a network of well-connected anti-poaching camps (APC) at strategic locations manned by forest guards or watchers round the clock, which they said were “a very common feature of a well managed protected area (PA) or Tiger Reserve.”“The protected areas of Goa (Mhadei WLS and Mollem WLS) are part of the Western Ghats landscape complex which has the unique distinction of having the world’s largest tiger population. This landscape has several interconnected tiger reserves and protected areas along with reserve forests. However, factors like plantations, agriculture, industrial and infrastructure development activities like widening of roads and railway lines are threatening the existing habitat connectivity in the Western Ghats. Without upgrading the legal status of Goa’s protected areas to that of a tiger reserve and putting in place a strong protection regime in place, the state may become a death trap for tigers dispersing in this landscape,” the NTCA noted.Since the Goa government has been dragging its feet on acting on the NTCA report, an environmental NGO, the Goa Foundation, has approached the Bombay high court in Goa to direct the state government to act on the NTCA report and declare Goa’s wildlife sanctuaries as tiger habitats. The high court has asked the Union as well as the Goa governments to file detailed responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-tiger-spotted-in-goa-s-mhadei-after-four-big-cats-were-poisoned-in-2020-101626260099343.html
14-07-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC notice to Suvendu in Mamata's petition against Nandigram loss||A single-judge bench of the Calcutta high court on Wednesday issued notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari in the petition filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenging her defeat in the assembly election from Nandigram. Banerjee lost to Adhikari from Nandigram.The next date of hearing is August 12.Banerjee was also present online for the hearing. “The bench also ordered the Election Commission to preserve all records, and devices, such as EVMs, and video recordings,” said her lawyer, Sanjay Basu.The matter is being heard by justice Shampa Sarkar after justice Kausik Chanda recused himself from hearing the petition and imposed a fine of ₹5 lakh on the Trinamool Congress chief for the manner in which the recusal was sought.Also Read | TMC to move Election Commission over holding by-polls in West BengalBanerjee had moved the Calcutta high court alleging voting irregularities in her loss by 1,956 votes to her protégé-turned-rival Adhikari from Nandigram. It was her first electoral loss in 32 years.“The bench also noted that the election petition does not suffer from any defect as per Section 86(1) RPA,” said Basu.The TMC demanded a recount shortly after the results were announced in favour of the BJP candidate but the request was turned down by the Election Commission.Her case was initially slated to be heard by justice Chanda. However, Banerjee asked for transferring the petition to another judge citing “apprehension of bias” since justice Chanda had, before his elevation to the bench in 2019, represented the BJP and its leaders in court cases and was seen in photographs sharing a dais with BJP leaders including state unit chief Dilip Ghosh.“Such calculative, psychological, and offensive attempts to seek recusal need to be firmly repulsed and a cost of ₹5 lakh is imposed upon the petitioner,” justice Chanda had said in his order on July 7. The money will be used to fight Covid-19, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-petition-against-nandigram-loss-calcutta-hc-issues-notice-to-suvendu-101626258299755.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||8 wall painters injured in Navi Mumbai scaffolding collapse, contractor booked||At least eight workers painting a wall suffered injuries on Wednesday morning after the scaffolding supporting them collapsed at a posh residential complex in Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai. The painters were not wearing safety gear when the accident took place and hence the police have registered a case of negligence against contractor Santosh Ramkuti. According to the police, the accident took place at around 10.30 am when ten workers were painting the outer wall of Shailesh Tower at Nerul, sector 19A. All of a sudden, a bamboo pole in the scaffolding gave way, triggering the collapse of the entire scaffolding. “Around eight painters were injured in the accident and two of them suffered grievous injuries. All of them were rushed to DY Patil Hospital at Nerul. No resident from the building suffered injuries,” said a police officer. Sunil Gowli, inspector from Nerul police station said, “The contractor, Santosh Ramkuti had not provided the painters with safety gears for doing the work. Therefore, we have booked him for negligence under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are also taking statements from the painters who suffered minor injuries, and the residents of the building to get more details.” Located near Uran Phata off Sion-Panvel highway, Shailesh Tower is one of the posh residential complexes in Navi Mumbai, which was developed nearly two decades ago. It is just seven kilometers away from Seawoods railway station on the harbour line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-wall-painters-injured-in-navi-mumbai-scaffolding-collapse-contractor-booked-101626257879530.html
14-07-2021||Kolkata||Ex-Bengal Congress president’s son slams Adhir Chowdhury for poll defeat; quits||Rohan Mitra, son of former West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra, resigned from the Pradesh Congress committee (PCC) on Wednesday holding state president Adhir Chowdhury responsible for the rout in recent assembly polls. The Congress does not have a single legislator in Bengal for the first time since Independence. Chowdhury, who was the PCC president before Somen Mitra held the post, became president for the second time after the latter died in July last year. Rohan Mitra was a general secretary in the PCC but always had his differences with Chowdhury. On Wednesday, the young leader did not attend a meeting convened by Chowdhury and instead sent his resignation letter which was also released to the media. “Your attitude towards me since the very beginning has been pathetic…” Rohan Mitra wrote and accused Chowdhury of interfering in the state youth Congress elections in 2018 to stop him from becoming the youth wing president. Mitra also accused Chowdhury of being surrounded by people who insulted him and his father. “The sycophants surrounding you have not only brought [about] your downfall but also led to the ultimate downfall of the party in the state, with no visible sign of revival in the near future. The change in your tone and narrative towards the incumbent Trinamool Congress government and chief minister of West Bengal is proof of that. The people you have brought in and put in the position of leadership show how incapable you are as the face of the West Bengal Pradesh Congress,” Mitra wrote. The letter reached Chowdhury amid wide speculations that the central leadership might remove him from the post of leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha. Chowdhury was scheduled to attend a virtual meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi during the day, state leaders said. Chowdhury was busy in a series of meetings at the state Congress headquarters and could not be contacted till Wednesday afternoon. Somen Mitra and his wife Sikha Mitra joined the TMC in 2009 and represented the ruling party in the assembly and the Lok Sabha. However, both returned to the Congress in 2014. In his letter, Rohan Mitra also alleged that Chowdhury projected leaders who were partial towards the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/exbengal-congress-president-s-son-slams-adhir-chowdhury-for-poll-defeat-quits-101626255718949.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Harnessing happy hormones as lockdown blues turn green||The stay-at-home era had curtailed my sphere of activity and lowered my sense of achievement. The joy of completing a task and feeling good about it was fast waning as there were not many options to explore. I was looking for ways to boost my level of endorphins within the precincts of my abode. The lockdown blues turned green when I realised that I had an opportunity to execute those mundane jobs, which may have otherwise taken eons to materialise. One fine morning, I did it! I managed to move my desk to a new position in the study. Resetting the formidable furniture in the house was something I had wanted to do for a long time, and seeing my little efforts fructify, was exhilarating. It was as thrilling as moving the mountains. Brimming with new energy, the crusader in me went scouting around the house to reorient, reorganise and resettle all the corners. My family had conveniently slipped into comfort zone, and they refused to budge .They were the same people whom I had tricked into doing their own chores in the initial phase of the lockdown. But now they had absolved themselves of every responsibility, as if taking cue from our worthy politicians. So, there were a few sloth bears in the house, and my Tarzan was also on an unprecedented leave. The only one to share Jane’s enthusiasm was a scrawny house help, whom she did not want to burden too much. I was virtually out on a limb, treading the path of unknown challenges. I’ve heard that if the syllabus is tough, start with the easier chapters. Solving smaller problems gives a sense of achievement and builds confidence. I started with the no man’s land, the common areas of the house, and managed a decent facelift. The adrenaline was working and off I went to the attic to rummage through a few artefacts besides carpets that I had collected over the years. The cobwebs and dust stuck to me like long lost friends. Was I fazed, certainly not! I did not hesitate to dive into the deepest closet next, and discovered a few hidden treasures while cleaning it. The monkey ladder had once been my favourite swing in school, but now the simple steel ladder at home, seemed a daunting task. But I earned my prize when I climbed it to open the upper cupboard, and out tumbled my favourite cushions, that I had woefully assigned to the list of lost property. The changes in the house had brought in an air of freshness. Though I had ruffled a few feathers while shifting the furniture, no one was complaining. Instead, their smiling faces brought immense joy and I think I also heard a silent applause. Not the one to rest on my laurels, I was already eyeing my children’s bedroom furniture. Dragging them out of their couches would have meant war so I decided to cherish the peace that prevailed, for a while, for I knew, it was the lull before the storm. alkagaurkashyap@gmail.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based advocate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harnessing-happy-hormones-as-lockdown-blues-turn-green-101626255179065.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Pune Police book woman, others for wedding photoshoot without Covid-19 face mask||The Pune Police have registered a case against a woman for violating Covid-19 protocols as she was seen sitting on the bonnet of a car without a face mask. The woman, who was a bride, was getting her wedding photoshoot done. The incident took place on Tuesday morning in Pune's Dive Ghat area, and a video of the photoshoot has gone viral on social media.Besides the woman, the police have also booked the driver of the car, the cameraman, as well as others who participated in the photoshoot. The camera used for the shoot has also been seized. All the accused have been booked under sections 269, 188, 279, 107, 336 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), Maharashtra Covid-19 Management Act, and the Motor Vehicle Act (MVA).The Pune district is among the worst coronavirus-affected districts in the country. On Tuesday, it saw 861 fresh infections and nine deaths due to Covid-19. The district's cumulative infection count thus stands at 1.07 million, of which, 1.03 million patients have recovered. The cumulative tally also includes 17,782 deaths and 16,663 active cases.Also Read: Pune district reports 861 new Covid cases, 9 deathsMaharashtra on Tuesday saw its daily Covid-19 caseload fall for a second straight day as 7,243 people tested positive, taking the cumulative count of cases to 6,172,465. Also, 196 people succumbed due to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 126,220. Nearly 11,000 people also recovered, as the total number of recovered cases rose to 5,938,734.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-book-pune-woman-for-wedding-photoshoot-with-covid-19-face-mask-101626252619690.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Fraudulent withdrawal from Bihar lawmaker’s MPLADS account: Charge sheet filed||The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of Bihar Police has filed a charge sheet against fraudsters and obtained an arrest warrant against two in connection with fraudulent transactions of ₹89 lakh from Maharajganj lawmaker Janardan Singh’s Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLAD) fund by using cloned cheques. Arrest warrants have been issued against Ved Prakash Upadhyay of Jamshedpur and Shrawan Mallaya Teglapelli of Maharastra in this connection. Two of the accused, Sandeep Bhogilal Kothari and Ganesh Vitthal Gawade, were arrested by Maharashtra Police. As per EOU, two cloned cheques for ₹42 lakh and ₹47 lakh respectively were used at Bank of Baroda (BoB) branch in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra, to make the transactions from Sigriwal’s MPLAD account at Chhapra on November 4, 2020. Police said Sigriwal had also informed the Lok Sabha Speaker and Union ministry of home affairs about the fraudulent withdrawals. A First Information Report was lodged by Saran district planning officer Vidhanchandra Rai on November 25 last year, making the manager of BoB Chhapra branch an accused. As per the FIR, the planning officer had the original cheques and no SMS or verification call was received from bank before transacting the funds. Additional director general (EOU) Nayyar Hasnain Khan said police filed a charge sheet against Binay Kumar Singh of east Singhbhoom and Jagjot Singh, a B Tech passout from RBS Engineering College of Engineering and Technology, Jamshedpur. As per the charge sheet, Binay procured the SIM linked with the bank account illegally while Jajgot provided technical support through virtual numbers. Police recovered the SIM and other incriminating documents from Binay. Khan said the amount was first transferred in Kothari’s account who then shifted it to Gavde’s account from where it was withdrawn.He said that the role of some other employees of BoB Ahmadnagar was under scanner. The bank also launched departmental proceedings against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fraudulent-withdrawal-from-bihar-lawmaker-s-mplads-account-charge-sheet-filed-101626253258882.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi University lodges police complaint in fake billing case||After placing two of its employees under suspension in the fake billing scam, the Punjabi University authorities have lodged a formal complaint with Patiala’s senior superintendent of police Sandeep Garg. Garg has ordered a probe to be conducted by a deputy superintendent of police. Also read: Embezzlement: Punjabi University suspends two officials, sacks peonLast week, vice-chancellor Prof Arvind suspended two administrative wing employees, senior assistant Nishu Chaudhary and superintendent Raminder Kaur, besides terminating the services of a peon on contract after a three-member fact-finding committee found substantial evidence of embezzlement of funds. In May, the cash-strapped university’s internal audit department and finance wing red-flagged five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh. The stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be fake and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised were bogus. The committee probed the bank accounts of the senior assistant and others involved. The help of the university’s forensic department was taken to investigate the fake signatures and stamps. SSP Garg said: “I have asked the university authorities to submit the preliminary report with the police. The DSP (City-2) has been directed to conduct the inquiry.” According to the report, the senior assistant — who handled funds provided to the university under various heads and was posted in the same department for over a decade — used to create and submit the fake bills in the name of fake research scholars and assistants to siphon off the money. The funds included those provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for development schemes, non-UGC grant for research projects and scholarships given by the Union ministry of education besides those received under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan. It is learnt that the embezzlement went unchecked for six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-university-lodges-police-complaint-in-fake-billing-case-101626251458703.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Man, sons killed by brother, his family over a land dispute in Bihar’s Rohtas||A farmer and his two sons were killed at Khudaraon village in Rohtas district, south Bihar, late Tuesday evening. A land dispute between the farmer and hhis brother was the cause of the murders, police said.The deceased men were identified as Vijay Singh, 55, his older son Dipak Kumar Singh, 37 and younger son Kaju aka Rakesh Singh, 35.Superintendent of police Ashish Bharti and sub divisional police officer (SDPO), Sanjay Kumar reached the place Tuesday night and directed that the bodies be sent to the district hospital at Sasaram for a postmortem examination.Also Read | Six juveniles escape remand home in Bihar’s AurangabadPolice said that there was a dispute regarding a piece of land between Vijay Singh and his brother Ajay Singh. A civil suit and a proceeding under Section 144 CrPC was also pending and a prohibitory order had been issued by the administrative court, restraining both parties from cultivating the land. Both the brothers were living in the same house.Ajay Singh wanted cultivate the land and the local Circle Officer and SHO had unsuccessfully tried to resolve the matter.On Tuesday, Ajay Singh and his sons reached the disputed land to transplant paddy. Vijjay Singh and his sons objected and stopped them resulting in a scuffle but further violence was stopped by the villagers.About 6pm, when Vijay Singh and his sons were sitting in the courtyard, Ajay Singh, his wife and sons attacked them with swords, resulting in their death, as per the case registered with Darihat police station.Police recovered the murder weapon and arrested one of the sons Sonal Singh from a private hospital in Dehri. A forensic team has arrived from FSL Patna and raids are on to arrest the rest of the accused who are on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-sons-killed-by-brother-his-family-over-a-land-dispute-in-bihar-s-rohtas-101626249958677.html
14-07-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to open higher secondary schools on July 26||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said schools for Class 11 and 12 students will be reopened in the state from July 26 and the colleges four days later.“All the colleges will be reopened from August 1,” Chouhan said. He added schools for students of Classes 1 to 10 will be reopened from August 15 if the positivity rate does not increase. The positivity rate in the state went up 23% at the peak of the second Covid-19 wave. It has now decreased to 0.03%.Also Read | Man arrested for raising money for 19 ‘orphaned’ kids from MP in RaipurChauhan said the schools will be allowed to hold the classes with 50% capacity. “We are also analysing the condition to give permission to coaching institutes to restart their classes.”Educational institutes were closed in the state in March last year. On Tuesday, the government allowed the reopening of cinema halls with 50% capacity. It has also increased the guest limit to 100 at weddings and mourners to 50 for funerals.On Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh reported 23 Covid-19 cases. The state has 279 active cases across eight districts.The number of cases during the second Covid-19 wave peaked in April with up to 13,000 infections daily in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-to-open-higher-secondary-schools-on-july-26-101626249178610.html
14-07-2021||Patna||Six juveniles escape remand home in Bihar’s Aurangabad||Six juveniles in Bihar’s Aurangabad escaped from a safe house on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. They did so by breaking the iron rods, and grille before scaling the boundary wall of the newly constructed building. All the accused had been arrested for criminal offences and were between 12 and 17 years of age. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning when the security guard of the remand home found the iron rods on the window of one of the bathrooms missing. A headcount revealed that six boys were missing. Also Read | Farmers to get financial aid for crops damaged by Cyclone YaasThe building was newly constructed and has no CCTVs. For security, there are five armed guards, three homeguard jawans, and three private security guards.The officials of the remand home informed the district administration as well as Town police station which in turn launched a manhunt but failed to locate the boys.Assistant director of child protection Santosh Choudhary said a show cause has been issued against the security guard while Aurangabad district magistrate Sourabh Jorwal said he has sought an explanation from the remand home superintendent, Baijnath Kumar. He has instructed for five additional jawans to be deputed at the home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/six-juveniles-escape-remand-home-in-bihar-s-aurangabad-101626248158459.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Undertrial assaults Ambala deputy jail superintendent||Deputy jail superintendent Sanjay Bangar was assaulted and his uniform torn by an undertrial summoned to his office in Ambala Central Jail, police said on Wednesday. The incident occurred on Tuesday when undertrial Kavi Bisht, who has been lodged in the jail since his arrest in Mohali in 2019, was to be taken for court proceedings but he refused to go, the deputy jail superintendent, security, Dr Rajiv Kumar said. Also read: Panchkula: Robbery accused kept in jail for 16 months despite bailThe undertrial is in jail for his involvement in five cases of snatching and related crimes registered in different police stations, including Mohali. “Bisht misbehaved with the jail warder first, shouting that he won’t go for the hearing. Bangar asked him to comply, but he refused again. He was taken to Bangar’s office where in a fit of rage, he tore the deputy jail superintendent’s uniform and started abusing him. The jail security finally brought things under control,” Kumar told the police. Sub-inspector Balbir Singh, the in-charge at Baldev Nagar police station, said that Bisht was booked under Sections 174, 186, 332, 353 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/undertrial-assaults-ambala-deputy-jail-superintendent-101626247858616.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi witnesses light rain with gusty wind; temperature drops||The national capital on Wednesday afternoon witnessed another spell of light rainfall, which further lowered the temperature. Those living in CR Park and nearby areas reported receiving showers on Wednesday afternoon, along with gusty winds. The city received the first rain of the monsoon season on Tuesday, more than a fortnight after the usual onset date of June 27. The weather department said that parts of the capital recorded light rain overnight.The Safdarjung observatory recorded 29 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8:30am on Wednesday. Delhi recorded a minimum of 26 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 34 degrees Celsius. Light to moderate rainfall is expected in Delhi over the next six days, according to news agency PTI.Over the last one month, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had been struggling to accurately predict when the monsoon will reach the national capital. After several forecasts, the IMD on Monday acknowledged that "such type of failure by numerical models in the prediction of monsoon over the capital is rare and uncommon".It had earlier said that the monsoon would hit Delhi on June 15, which would have been 12 days early, but the wind system entered a break phase.The monsoon finally reached Delhi on Tuesday. Overall, the national capital has so far received 65 per cent less rainfall than normal, putting it in the category of "large deficient" states, stated the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-witnesses-light-rain-with-gusty-wind-temperature-drops-101626243755492.html
14-07-2021||Bangalore||KSRTC to resume Tirupati tour service, will use premium-class buses||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resume its Tirupati travel packages from July 16. The tour was disrupted due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and subsequent lockdown. KSRTC will be the first government-run body among the southern states to resume this service; private operators are arranging the same from other cities like Mysuru, Belagavi, Mangaluru and other tier-II cities.According to a report in Prajavani on Wednesday, the services opened following the easing of lockdown restrictions in Telangana and Karnataka from July 5. The report also released the schedule, saying KSRTC will operate club class services of Volvo B11R vehicles with air conditioning.The first schedule will begin from Shantinagar bus station and will have pick-up points at Jayanagar, Nagasandra, N R Colony, Kempegowda Bus terminus, Domlur, Maruthalli, ITI gate and K R Puram.The second schedule will leave from Vijayanagar TTMC and will pass through Navrang, Malleshwaram circle, Kempegowda bus terminus, ITI gate and K R Puram, said the report quoting a press release by the KSRTC.The fare will be ₹2,200 for adults and ₹1,800 for children between the age of 6 and 12 (from Sunday to Thursday). For the weekend tours, the fare will be ₹2,600 for adults and ₹2,000 for children.During the three-month lockdown, KSRTC had discontinued the air conditioned services complying with the standard operating procedures. Officials in KSRTC said that the vehicles which will be used have been maintained in their pristine condition and sanitised before being released to operate, so the travel is safer with the trnasport department, according to Prajavani.KSRTC has the largest fleet of premium classes of vehicles from the manufacturers such as Volvo, Mercedes Benz, Corona and Scania. Bengaluru-Tirupathi route is one of the most popular schedules among religious tour packages of KSRTC and is a major earner for the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ksrtc-to-resume-tirupati-tour-service-will-use-premium-class-buses-101626242488996.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to get moderate rain today; heavy spells expected in isolated places||Mumbai received 89.6mm rainfall from 8.30am on Tuesday to 8.30am on Wednesday, according to the automatic weather station in Santacruz, which is taken as representative of the entire city. South Mumbai recorded 111.2mm rainfall during the same period, according to the Colaba weather station.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said moderate to heavy rain in the city and suburbs, with a possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places, was likely later in the day on Wednesday.“Mumbai and Thane received heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places with Mahalaxmi receiving 129.5mm, Colaba 111.2mm, and Santacruz 89.6mm. Last night, it rained with few heavy spells in the city and around,” said a spokesperson for IMD.Also Read | Delhi-NCR may see ‘normal to slightly below normal’ monsoon this year: IMDThe city is expected to receive moderate rainfall during the day, which is expected to subside by evening. Rains will be accompanied by westerly and south-westerly winds of speeds between 11 to 17kmph gusting at about 30kmph.Mumbai has so far received 1,253.8mm of rain since June 1, which is about 48% in excess of the seasonal normal. In the first 12 days of July, the city recorded 148.3mm of rain, which is -55% of the normal (332.9mm). Officials said the deficit may be covered to a large degree during this week.The maximum temperature over the next two days is expected to hover around 28 degrees Celsius (down from around 31.5 degrees Celsius on Monday). The minimum temperature will be 23 degrees Celsius -- down from 25 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-moderate-rain-today-heavy-spells-expected-in-isolated-places-101626239697910.html
14-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC to move Election Commission over holding by-polls in West Bengal||A delegation of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) is likely to meet top Election Commission of India (ECI) officials this week to request them to hold by-polls in the state at the earliest. By-polls to at least seven assembly constituencies, including Bhabanipur in south Kolkata from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to contest, are pending.Banerjee, who lost the March-April assembly polls to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, needs to be elected by November to continue as the chief minister as per constitutional requirement.“A team of TMC parliamentarians, including Sudip Banerjee, Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, and Kalyan Banerjee among others, is likely to approach the ECI this week in this regard,” said a TMC leader on condition of anonymity.Also Read | Calcutta HC to hear Mamata Banerjee’s plea against Nandigram loss todayThe TMC returned to power for the third consecutive term in May, but Banerjee lost to Suvendu Adhikari by a narrow margin.Elections for two seats in Murshidabad were cancelled when the candidates died of Covid-19 in April. Later, two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Parliament members Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, who won the assembly polls, resigned. Two other TMC legislators died after contracting Covid-19. A third TMC lawmaker from Bhabanipur, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, resigned so that Banerjee could contest from the seat in the by-polls.“By-elections should be held as early as possible. The Covid-19 situation is under control. If the third wave arrives, then you cannot do anything. A week’s time for election campaigning will be enough,” Banerjee said earlier this week.The BJP hit out at TMC for seeking assembly by-polls while the ruling party has not held civic elections for over a year now. “Civic elections for over 100 civic bodies are pending. The ruling party has not even held college elections. It is very eager to hold the by-elections. Covid-19 cases are still being reported every day. The Madras high court made some observations and gave some directions on Covid-19 when assembly elections in (four) states and a Union Territory were being held. The Covid-19 situation has not changed a bit,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s Bengal unit head.TMC leader Saugata Roy questioned the BJP’s stand. “Why is the BJP so concerned about Covid-19? When assembly elections were held in eight phases in West Bengal and cases shot up alarmingly, the BJP did not say a word. Now the situation is under control and elections may be held.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-to-move-election-commission-over-holding-by-polls-in-west-bengal-101626238677733.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses interim bail for Chintan Upadhyay, co-accused||The Mumbai sessions court recently rejected a plea for interim bail filed by artist Chintan Upadhyay and his accomplice Pradeep Rajbhar, who are accused of murdering Chintan Upadhyay’s wife Hema Upadhyay, who was an artist as well, and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani.Both Chintan Upadhyay and Rajbhar had applied for interim bail in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The court, however, rejected their pleas, observing that they were safer in prison.The court observed that authorities have taken utmost care to ensure that Covid-19 did not spread in jails across the state. “Rather, as compared with the people in the society who are usually exposed to outside social atmosphere, the accused can be observed as comparatively secure in jail,” reads the order.Also Read | Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC asks NIA, prison authorities to study Stan Swamy’s medical reportsThe two had filed separate pleas for interim bail in view of the prevailing spread of Covid-19. The court has said that the court will try to expedite the trial. “Court is trying its level best to expedite the trial and to dispose of the matter. The routine is coming to the normal situation and either in this week or in next week, court will start full fledged working,” the court said in the order.Besides, the court on Tuesday asked the prosecution to bring witnesses to testify before the court from the next hearing, which is scheduled on July 27. The prosecution so far has 26 witnesses. However, due to the pandemic the trial has been stalled.As per the prosecution’s case, Hema Upadhyay and Bhambani were allegedly smothered to death by Vidhyadhar Rajbhar on December 11, 2015, with the help of other accused persons, allegedly at Chintan Upadhyay’s behest. The next day, a garbage collector discovered the bodies in a nullah. Chintan Upadhyay was arrested on December 22, 2015, for the murders. While one of the accused, Vidhyadhar, continues to be on the run, the other accused in the case – Shiv Kumar Rajbhar, Pradip Kumar Rajbhar, Vijay Kumar Rajbhar and Azad Rajbhar– were arrested during the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-interim-bail-for-chintan-upadhyay-coaccused-101626238198316.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR may see ‘normal to slightly below normal’ monsoon this year: IMD||Light to moderate rainfall is expected to continue intermittently in various parts of the city through Wednesday, after the monsoon finally entered the national capital on Tuesday after a delay of 16 days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that Delhi is likely to receive “light to moderate” rain on Wednesday but temperatures are expected to be 1-2 degrees higher than Tuesday. Srivastava added that Delhi-NCR may see a “normal to slightly below normal” monsoon this year. “There are various meteorological parameters such as easterly winds and monsoon trough, among others, a combination of which determines the intensity of the rainfall received in a particular area. Looking at the current parameters, it could be predicted that Delhi may have a near normal monsoon,” he said.“After July 14, the rain activity may slow down. It is expected to intensify again from July 17-19. Around this time, the monsoon trough is likely to shift northwards, passing over northern parts of Rajasthan, south Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh,” said Srivastava.Also Read | Delhi sees light rainfall; IMD announces arrival of monsoon“The normal day temperature for this time of the year is around 35 degrees Celsius. The day temperature may rise slightly over the next two days but is again likely to drop around July 17-19 with rainfall activity,” he said.IMD recordings show that on the intervening night of Tuesday-Wednesday, the Safdarjung observatory received 0.4mm rainfall and the Palam weather station got 0.2mm rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-may-see-normal-to-slightly-below-normal-monsoon-this-year-imd-101626236697828.html
14-07-2021||Other||Kerala governor to observe day-long fast against dowry||Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Wednesday morning began a day-long fast to raise awareness against dowry. The first such fast by a governor started at 8am and will continue till 6pm. Khan will also later attend a prayer meeting at Thiruvananthapuram’s Gandhi Bhawan. Many Gandhian activists are also observing the fast.Two weeks back, Khan visited the parents of a woman, who allegedly died by suicide after facing harassment over dowry. Khan later said he will take some initiative to end the practice of dowry that is rampant in parts of the state. He also released a video on Tuesday asking young people to say no to dowry while calling for gender equality and social justice.Also Read | Two more infected with zika in Kerala, tally climbs to 21The deaths of two newly married women in Kerala last month related to alleged dowry harassment provoked outrage. Activists and political leaders have asked the government to introduce stricter provisions in the existing law to curb the menace.A 24-year-old woman was found dead inside her husband’s house in Kollam last month. Another newly married woman allegedly set herself afire in Thiruvananthapuram. The parents of the two alleged that they were murdered, and their husbands were later arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-governor-observes-day-long-fast-against-dowry-101626235077593.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi had more active cases of black fungus than those of Covid-19: Govt data||Delhi had 952 active cases of the black fungus disease, also known as mucormycosis, till July 6, which is more than the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city at the time, according to government data. The data also showed that till July 6, the national capital's cumulative tally of black fungus cases stood at 1,656.Of the 952 active cases of black fungus, 402 patients received treatment at private hospitals, 302 at Delhi government-run hospitals and 248 at central government-run facilities, data further showed. At the time, there were 833 active Covid-19 infections in Delhi; by July 12, the number of active cases declined further to 693 as the Capital reported 45 new Covid-19 cases, its lowest daily caseload this year.Also, as per the figures, the total requirement of injections of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat serious fungal infections like black fungus, till July 6, stood at 150,000.Mucormycosis, cases of which were found in patients to have recovered from Covid-19, is among several post-Covid complications (including Avascular Necrosis) which have been reported from various parts of the country. Black fungus was declared as epidemic by the Delhi government on March 27.Also Read | Explained: What is avascular necrosis or bone death, a new post-Covid complication?Delhi's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally stood at 1,435,128, according to Monday's health department bulletin. Of these, more than 1.4 million patients have recovered, according to the bulletin.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-had-more-active-cases-of-black-fungus-than-those-of-covid-19-govt-data-101626231095524.html
14-07-2021||Jaipur||11 cases of Covid Kappa variant detected in Rajasthan: Health min Raghu Sharma||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said 11 cases of the Kappa variant of Covid-19 have been detected in Rajasthan. Of the 11 patients, four each are from jaipur and Alwar, two are from Barmer and one is from Bhilwara.Sharma said they received the reports of nine of the samples from IGIB lab in Delhi and two from the genome sequencing lab at SMS Hospital, Jaipur. Sharma said compared to the Delta variant, Kappa is mild. Also Read | Rajasthan man beats father to death for slapping his sonKappa is not a new variant. According to the World Health Organization’s site, which is tracking Sars-Cov-2, the Kappa variant was first detected in India in October 2020. The variant is identified as B.1.617.1, while Delta is represented as B.1.617.2.WHO, presently, has not classified this variant as a variant of concern. Like Lambda, which has already spread in 30 countries across the world, Kappa is a variant of interest.Last week, Uttar Pradesh had confirmed two cases of the Kappa variant. Meanwhile, according to the government, the Covid-19 recovery rate has reached 99% in Rajasthan. . Health secretary siddharth mahajan said the recovery rate has reached 99% and the active cases in state are 613. He said over 2.67 crore vaccine doses has been given in the state, Sent from my iPhone||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/11-cases-of-covid-kappa-variant-detected-in-rajasthan-health-min-raghu-sharma-101626233577628.html
14-07-2021||Jaipur||11 cases of Kappa Covid-19 variant found in Rajasthan||After Uttar Pradesh, cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) due to the Kappa variant have been detected in Rajasthan, news agency PTI reported quoting state health minister Raghu Sharma. According to Sharma, 11 cases of the Kappa Covid-19 variant have been detected in the state, of which four cases each are from its capital Jaipur and Alwar, two from Barmer, and one from Bhilwara.Also Read | What is Covid's Kappa variant found in Uttar Pradesh? All you need to knowOf these, nine samples returned positive test result for the Kappa variant from Delhi, while two tested positive at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital in Jaipur, Sharma elaborated further.Earlier, Uttar Pradesh reported two cases of this variant as genome sequencing of 109 samples, conducted at Lucknow's King George's Medical College, returned positive result for the Kappa variant in two samples while the remaining 107 were found positive with the Delta variant . Delta (also denoted as the B.1.617.2 strain) and Kappa (also denoted as B.1.617.1) were both first detected in India, last year.Also Read | Only Delta, Kappa variants found in gene sequencing by KGMU, says U.P. CM Yogi AdityanathAddressing a press briefing last week, Dr VK Paul, member, NITI Aayog, clarified that Kappa is a "variant of interest" (VoI), adding that it is not a new variant as its cases have been reported in the country earlier as well. Dr Paul further said that Kappa is of "much less intensity" and was first reported in February and March this year.On the Covid-19 front, Rajasthan reported 28 fresh infections on Tuesday while no new fatality took place due to the viral disease, a health department bulletin showed. With this, the western state's cumulative coronavirus infection tally has risen to 953,187 including 943,629 recoveries, 8,945 deaths and 613 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/11-cases-of-kappa-covid-19-variant-found-in-rajasthan-101626228393076.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Orange alert for Mumbai, IMD predicts heavy rainfall for 5 Maharashtra districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Mumbai and the neighbouring district of Thane, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places and a red alert for Pune, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur and Satara districts for Wednesday.The met department said a red alert indicates that extremely heavy rainfall more than 204.4 mm precipitation in 24 hours is likely at isolated places in ghat areas.“Westerly winds have been able to resume, bringing clouds that were depositing rain off shore into the city. Doppler radar images show intense rain bands over MMR, so chances of heavy rain cannot be ruled out till Thursday at least. The intensity of showers is expected to reduce considerably Friday onward,” a spokesperson with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai said.It further said that the intensity of rains is expected to reduce from Thursday onwards, adding that the rest of the state is expected to receive heavy rains at isolated places and also light to moderate showers.An IMD report said that earlier on Tuesday, Mumbai received 51.5 mm rainfall, while suburban areas recorded 54.6 mm rainfall. Coastal Raigad and Ratnagiri districts received 135.5 mm and 137.7 mm rainfall, respectively, between Monday and Tuesday, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/orange-alert-for-mumbai-imd-predicts-heavy-rainfall-for-5-maharashtra-districts-101626220429790.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Back story||Parked outside a narrow lane in Gurugram’s Bhim Garh Kheri, the handcart is stacked with bricks. Two labourers are carrying these to a house being built up the street. One of the men packs 18 bricks on his back and walks towards the construction site. The bricks aren’t tied together. The stack rests on a scrap of strong jute fabric, which seems to have once been part of a gunny sack. The man’s back is bent forward.He returns a few minutes later.Labourer Kishore, 22, says that “in the village, I would have worked as a mazdoor (labourer) on big people’s fields, earning about ₹200 daily. Here I earn ₹600.”Kishore lives with a dozen other labourers, all from the same district in Bihar.Doesn’t it hurt to carry bricks on one’s back?He shakes his head.No back pain?Kishore shakes his head.Does any colleague suffer from pain?“Sometimes the shoulders hurt, or the legs or feet, and then we (self) massage with pure mustard oil.”Kishore says there’s no old person in his group. “Everyone is in their 20s or 30s.”Labourers who, like Kishore, carry bricks on their backs, are spread across the Delhi region. Their work lies outside the confines of more formal construction projects, high-rises for instance, where the hired labourers are given safety gears. A group of such labourers lives behind the Delite Cinema, in central Delhi — one of them is a grey-haired man in his 50s. During a recent interaction, he was reluctant to give his name but described himself and his co-workers as “thele wale”, implying that they operate by transferring construction material (bricks/cement sacks) on their handcart, with usually the last portion of the transportation unfolding on their back. The grey-haired labourer disclosed that every labourer—middle-aged or young—suffers from body pain, which gets more discomforting during the winter months. If it pains too much, they take paracetamol, he said.The young Kishore returns to the cart, his bare back straight. He ponders for a long time when asked where the labourers go when they grow old and their bodies can no longer withstand extreme stress. “They go back home.” He thinks again for some time before adding: “By then their sons have grown up in the villages… they come to the city to work as labourers, and earn for the family.”The grey-haired labourer in Delhi had said the same thing.Kishore now picks up a water bottle from the cart. The bottle is wrapped in a green gamcha. While drinking, some water flows out of Kishore’s mouth, rushing down to his sweating neck. He goes back to packing bricks on his back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-back-story-101626220038192.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Miami-type multi-storeyed jail planned in Mumbai: Prison official||The Maharashtra prison department plans to set up a multi-storeyed facility in Mumbai that can accommodate up to 5,000 inmates to ease the pressure on Arthur Road Jail there which is crowded and offers no scope for expansion, a senior official said on Tuesday. Additional Director General of Police (Prisons) Sunil Ramanand said the prison being envisaged will be on the lines of the Miami Correction Facility in the United States of America to tide over the acute paucity of land in the metropolis. "The Women and Child Welfare department in Chembur has agreed to give us a 15-acre plot. If we get this land, we can build a multi-storeyed prison. Arthur Road Jail is overcrowded and cannot be expanded any further," he said. "There is urgent need to build prisons in the state. The number of inmates rose for 24,000 to 36,000 in the city in the last 10 years. Incidentally, 13,000 inmates are out on temporary bail due to Covid-19, so the current prison population is around 33,000. There are plans to build prisons in Pune, Hingoli, Palghar and Gondia," the ADG informed. Ramanand also said he had sought an amendment in the Code of Criminal Procedure so that producing inmates in court in virtual mode is also considered, as the current rules stipulate that evidence cannot be recorded if the accused is not physically present in court. "We have sought that the appointment of officials above the rank of deputy superintendent of prison should be done through competitive exams instead of walk-in interviews. We are also strengthening the canteen facility by adding ready-to-eat items, fish, chicken, branded eatables, dry fruits, fruits, mineral water, ghee etc. All these things will have to be purchased by the inmates. They are allowed to spend up to ₹4,500 per month and each one has an account into which their families can transfer money," the official said. Speaking on the coronavirus situation among inmates, the ADG said there are 69 active cases in the state's prisons currently, while 13 have succumbed to the infection. A total of 24,000 inmates across prisons in Maharashtra have been vaccinated against Covid-19 so far, he added. The High Court had recently appreciated the efforts of the prison department to implementing various measures to curb the outbreak among inmates, Ramanand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/miamitype-multi-storeyed-jail-planned-in-mumbai-prison-official-101626219543787.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi snatchers run amok, safe streets at premium||On February 27, at around 9.30pm, Simran Kaur, 25, was returning home with her mother and two-year-old daughter from a nearby market in Adarsh Nagar. Just a few metres away from her house, two men on a motorbike tried to snatch her necklace. When Simran resisted, one of them stabbed her with a knife. As Kaur collapsed, bleeding profusely, the two snatchers escaped. Kaur succumbed to her wounds in a hospital.Snatching is one of the most commonly reported street crimes in Delhi, with 3,829 cases registered till June 15 this year. Last year, 2,612 cases were registered during the same period. Experts say that the data does not reflect the real dimension of the problem because several snatching cases are registered as simple theft. This, they add, ignores two important aspects – first, unlike simple theft, snatching is an important indicator of the citizens’ safety on the streets, and the additional trauma that a victim of snatching goes through.Even statistically, a comparison of Delhi Police data on snatchings and robberies across the city in the past 10 years paints a disturbing picture. In 2011, 1,476 people became victims of snatching. This means every six hours at least one person was targeted by a snatcher. Over the years, the frequency of this crime has increased to at least one every hour in 2021.Similarly, with 562 robberies reported in 2011, at least three robberies were reported over every two days in 2011. This has now increased to one every four hours. Experts, especially former police officers, say it is time to draw up a plan that reigns in street crime to make the city safer.An analysis of these two most common street crimes recorded over the last few years also shows that they are not confined to any particular area. They are as rampant in gated colonies as is in open neighbourhoods and unauthorised colonies.What varies, however, is the purpose and expectations of the criminals in the targeted areas.For instance, in north Delhi’s Prashant Vihar, which has regularly featured in the top 10 list of snatching hot spots in the city, local residents cite secluded roads, easy access through arterial roads, and close proximity to unauthorised colonies and slum clusters as some of the primary reasons behind rampant snatchings and robberies.The ease with which snatchers operate in this area has prompted residents to change the way they move about. Manju Uppal, who lives in Sita Apartments at Prashant Vihar said: “There are many parks around the residential areas here, which are not well-lit, and are secluded especially after dark. There have been so many incidents of snatchings here that we have stopped stepping out wearing or carrying anything expensive.”Police officers who have investigated snatchings and robberies say that snatchers usually move on motorbikes, and operate in pairs. They said these criminals target people with high-end phones, women wearing jewellery in upscale areas such as Vasant Vihar, Greater Kailash, and Defence Colony, and businessmen carrying cash in busy markets such as Chandni Chowk, Gandhi Nagar, and Azadpur. In lower-income areas, gold chains and phones are the primary targets, the investigators added.Kamla Bisht, 42, is still going through the trauma she suffered when three snatchers, all minors, stabbed her husband multiple times on June 25 and left him to die on the streets of Sultanpuri’s Jalebi Chowk, when he tried to resist them from taking away his cell phone and wallet that had ₹700.The police said the boys were looking for money to buy liquor when they targeted Ravinder Bisht, 48.A police officer familiar with the details of this case said the juveniles may have been regular snatchers, but that there is no way for police to confirm this because the current law does not allow them to keep a record of juveniles. “90% of the juveniles who are apprehended for crimes in Delhi are snatchers. In fact, snatching is the gateway offence into the crime world. This is why it has become so common across the city,” said the officer who asked not to be named.Former Delhi police officer, LN Rao, who worked in the force for over three decades and retired as a deputy commissioner of police (DCP), said: “These snatchers are everywhere. These days when a young criminal needs money, all he needs to do is to go on the road and snatch a person’s phone or a woman’s necklace. Unlike other crimes, it does not need planning. It is time the police made a concerted effort to crack down on these hoodlums on the road.”Another retired Delhi Police officer, Ashok Chand, who headed the crime branch and the special cell units, said the current laws that deal with snatching are inadequate. “In Haryana, the law has been made stringent. These snatchers will only stop if they are put behind bars for a longer time. Also, it is important for police to crack every link of this crime ring. Not just the snatchers, the police should also crack down on the people who buy stolen items from these criminals,” Chand said.The Haryana government made snatching a non-bailable in 2015 by inserting sections in 379A and 379B of the Indian Penal Code and in schedule 1 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC).In Delhi, cases of snatching are currently registered under two sections — 379 (theft) and 356 (use of criminal force). The offender is given a maximum punishment of three years under sections of theft and two years for use of criminal force.The Delhi Police has proposed that like Haryana snatchers should be booked under Section 379 A (simple snatching without use of force) and Section 379 B (use of criminal force in snatching). The minimum jail term under 379 A is five years, which could go up to 10 years. Under 379 B, the minimum jail term is 10 years, and a maximum of 14 years. The amendments make snatching a non-bailable offences.The proposal is pending approval by the Lieutenant Governor.An HT analysis of the profile of snatchers arrested between 2018 and 2020 shows that at least 90% of those arrested were caught for the first time, and did not have a prior criminal record. Police registered them as “first-time offenders”, and noticed that they were often pushed into committing crimes either because of unemployment after being pulled out of schools or lured by other criminals in their neighbourhood — a trend that has become more worrisome since the Covid-19 outbreak.The story of one of Delhi’s most notorious gangsters, Sandeep Kala points to how street crime is a gateway to more heinous offences. Kala, who is currently one of the most wanted men in the city, accused of crimes such as murder, extortion and robbery, was first arrested in 2004 for snatching a mobile phone at Samaypur Badli.Several Delhi Police officers, who asked not to be named, agree that while other crimes such as burglary, vehicle theft, and even pickpocketing need expertise and logistical support, snatchings and robberies on streets only need a high-speed bike and some basic practice on how to snatch an item. It is the reason that many first-timers are involved in these street crimes.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said curbing street crime and making citizens safe is the topmost priority for the force. “In his first meeting with senior officers after taking charge on June 30, the police commissioner directed that street crime should be the top priority. Criminals should not be able to dominate any road in the city. Our personnel at the police stations regularly conduct street patrolling and area domination exercises. We are mapping crime by identifying trends, their occurrence, and preventing it at many levels. Our mobile patrolling teams keep a close watch on vulnerable stretches. All anti-snatching teams have been activated. The crime branch and special cell are also working on busting these snatching gangs. We are even cracking down on receivers of stolen property so that all members of a crime ring are put behind bars.”Biswal said the police are also making efforts to stop youngsters from taking to the crime. “While we are an enforcement and investigative agency, Delhi police also runs a programme to identify juveniles or teenagers who are vulnerable and could go the wrong way. Across the city, police stations have tied up with different agencies and we train them in different skills, and help them find jobs under our Yuva scheme.”He added that comparing data from two different years may not be enough to predict a trend because of the involvement of a lot of factors. “It will not be correct to compare number of cases compared to last year. We had the lockdown last year. Fewer people were on the roads.”Biswal added that the police have arrested snatchers this year till June 15, compared to the corresponding period last year.In this series, HT puts the spotlight on the Capital’s biggest crime challenges, and explores how the city can be made safer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/snatchers-run-amok-safe-streets-at-premium-101626218801692.html
14-07-2021||Other||Ironman Triathlon: 150 Indian athletes denied visas, asked to defer participation to 2022||Around 150 athletes who had enrolled for participating in Ironman Triathlon and half Ironman have received e-mails from event organisers to defer their participation to next year. The Indian athletes have been denied visas for the event, to be in Kazakstan on August 15, despite being fully vaccinated for Covid-19.The physically gruelling race involves 3.8 km of swimming, 180 km of cycling and 42 km of running in full Ironman in a single day.IPS (Indian Police Service) officers such as Krishna Prakash and Ravinder Kumar Singhal and model-turn-actor Milind Soman have completed the immensely difficult and physically gruelling race in the past.Several participants from Mumbai, Navi-Mumbai, Nashik, Aurangabad and Pune, apart from other parts of the country, were hoping to participate in the triathlon to be held in Kazakhstan. Police constable Ashwini Deore was keen to participate in the Kazakhstan triathlon as it was cheaper in Kazakhstan, as compared to western countries where it is held.“We have received e-mails from 2021 Ironman Kazakhstan and 2021 Ironman 70.3 Astana asking us to defer our participations to next year,” said Dr Arun Gachale, a paediatric from Nashik, who is one of the participants. “As swimming pools are closed, I have practiced in Owe dam at Kharghar that even had snakes, and today I received an email asking me to defer the participation. I have spent a lot of energy practising,” said Satish Patil, who works for a German company.Mahendra Chhoriya, a 43-year-old businessman, said participants from all countries, including Pakistan and China are allowed. China is the origin of the pandemic, but they have not been banned but instead Indians are banned, he said.“We have spent lot of energy and money preparing for the event. Every month, we have been running 200-300 km, cycling 600 -800 km and also spent several hours swimming. If they refuse to allow us this year, I am not sure if I will be in the same body shape the next year,” said Chhoriya.Another participant, Nilesh Zaware, said the athletes have written to the Prime Minister’s Office.“We are also communicating with them regularly to get quick updates as by Thursday, we have to give confirmation on the deferral to 2022 or else ₹50,000 that we had paid will go wasted as the organisation doesn’t refund the money,” said Zaware.Pune-based Omkar Jokar, a mechanical engineer, was to participate in the event along with a visually-impaired Aurangabad resident Nikit Dalal. The duo was to ride a cycle for 180km.“It was a special event and Nikit was very happy as we had prepared well and were confident of achieving our goals in time. We are not sure if next time we will get so much time to prepare,” said Jokar.Participants have also approached newly appointed minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Bharti Pawar. “Dr Pawar has assured us that she will take the issue at the earliest with sports minister Anurag Thakur and the ministry of external affairs (MEA), “ said Dr Gachale.Pravin Pawar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Dr Bharti Pawar’s husband, said, “We are following up the issue with MEA and are coordinating with them to chalk out a solution.”Ironman’s media cell did not revert to an email sent to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ironman-triathlon-150-indian-athletes-denied-visas-asked-to-defer-participation-to-2022-101626207295015.html
14-07-2021||Other||‘Elgar Parishad accused’s plea intends to stall fight against Maoist plague’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), in its affidavit filed against the petition filed by Elgar Parishad case accused Surendra Gadling and Sudhir Dhawale, has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that their plea is an exercise to impede and stall investigation that has been initiated to unearth the “Maoist plague”, which the agency is fighting in the country. The affidavit has also stated that the submission in the petition that the transfer of the probe from Pune Police to NIA would lead to the agency indulging in procuring false and fabricated evidence against the petitioner and other accused was a reckless one and made with the sole purpose of misleading HC. NIA has also submitted that as the accused are booked under scheduled offences, investigation can be taken over by the central agencies from state investigators at any point of time. The affidavit, which was submitted before the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, stated that in view of the gravity of offence and the inter-state link having implications on national security, the Central government has taken a suo motu decision to direct NIA to take up the probe into the case. The Pune Police, in its first information report (FIR) had alleged criminal conspiracy linked to banned organisation CPI (Maoist). The case was transferred to NIA on January 24, 2020. While arguing for the accused, advocate Satish Talekar stated that there were no compelling reasons for the transfer of the case to NIA after two years of registration of FIR and that there was no provision which empowered the Centre to transfer the probe after it had been completed and trial was set to commence. Talekar stated that the case was transferred due to mala fide and political expediency soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was ousted from power in the state and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition proposed to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter. In its affidavit, the Central agency has stated, “...The petitioners had gone to the extent of scandalising and questioning the credibility of NIA, which is fighting for the prevention of unlawful and terrorist activities in the country in which the Maoist plague has caused destruction at many levels.” The agency further said that the action taken against the accused was “solely based on incriminating material evidence” showing their involvement in the case and any commission of scheduled offences requires investigation from NIA and therefore the transfer of probe was justified. “By trying to cast mala fide against NIA, the petitioners raised a direct attack on the criminal justice system. The petitioners and the other accused in this case have made it a tradition to file writ petitions, public interest litigations (PIL) directly or through others, particularly when the investigation is in progress,” the affidavit stated, adding that such an exercise was nothing but “sheer abuse of due process of law”. HC is likely to hear the plea next on July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-accused-s-plea-intends-to-stall-fight-against-maoist-plague-101626207175056.html
14-07-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC asks NIA, prison authorities to study Stan Swamy’s medical reports||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Maharashtra prison authorities to study the medical reports of Elgar Parishad case accused Stan Swamy, 84, who passed away on July 5 after suffering a heart attack due to multiple health complications. Swamy died in Holy Family Hospital, Bandra, where he had been shifted from Taloja jail on May 28 based on an HC order.HC took on record a 300-page compilation of Swamy’s medical papers since the time was kept at Taloja jail after his arrest last October, along with a report of the Bandra hospital.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar had asked the authorities to respond to the contentions that the tribal and human rights activist had passed away due to lack of medical facilities and the apathy of the jail authorities and National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers. The bench that was earlier hearing the bail application of the priest directed the authorities to respond on the request of Swamy’s senior counsel Mihir Desai.Desai had urged the court to keep pending the applications by Swamy and had also sought to call for medical records.On Tuesday, chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai, representing state prison authority, placed on record a 300-page compilation of documents which included Swamy’s medical reports since the time he was brought to Taloja jail, as well as his post-mortem report.The court took on record the compilation of Swamy’s medical papers along with the report of Holy Family Hospital, and asked the parties to collect the same from its registry.On July 5, the court had also said that all necessary inquiries required to be made in the case of custodial death should be done by a competent authority. In light of that, the court told Desai to ask someone to participate in the probe undertaken by the magistrate under section 176 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Desai said he would respond and make submissions on the same during the next hearing.The HC posted further hearing to July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-asks-nia-prison-authorities-to-study-stan-swamy-s-medical-reports-101626207054991.html
14-07-2021||Other||Rona Wilson’s plea to quash charge sheet filed to delay trial: Pune Police||Pune Police in their affidavit submitted to the Bombay high court (HC) has opposed the petition filed by Elgar Parishad accused Rona Wilson. The petitions have sought quashing of the charge sheet filed against him on the grounds that he was framed on the basis of material that was allegedly planted on Wilson’s electronic devices. The affidavit stated that the petition was intended to delay the commencement of the trial, and as the forensic report of the US consultancy firm relied upon by the accused is not part of the charge sheet, it can be dealt with by the trial court and hence HC need not consider it. The US-based firm had no locus to give an opinion without permission of the court, it further stated and also said that its report could be relied upon at the time of leading evidence in the trial. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, which is hearing Wilson’s writ petition, was informed that Pune Police deputy commissioner Shrinivas Murlidhar Ghadge had filed an affidavit in response to the allegations made by Wilson. Apart from quashing of the charge sheet following the disclosure by Arsenal Consulting in its report that his computer was infected with a malware which was allegedly planted through an email on June 13, 2016 (two years prior to his arrest on June 6, 2018), Wilson has also sought compensation for malicious prosecution, harassment and defamation. Pune Police’s affidavit also stated that Wilson’s petition challenging the sanction granted by the Maharashtra government to prosecute him under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was premature and that he could not dispute the approval, as the sanctioning authority had granted it after following due procedure.While dealing with the issue of sanction, the affidavit stated, “If at all the petitioner wants to contend that the sanction is not proper and the authority granting the sanction has not followed the proper procedure, it is necessary to give the opportunity of being heard to the sanctioning authority and the prosecution at the time of trial.” The police said that the present petition is filed to cause delay in the trial as cognisance of the charge sheet has already been taken by the trial court and hence, sought dismissal of the petition.HC will hear Wilson’s plea on July 26 along with the plea of another co-accused, Shoma Sen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rona-wilson-s-plea-to-quash-charge-sheet-filed-to-delay-trial-pune-police-101626206994969.html
14-07-2021||Other||10-kg hashish cake, drugs seized from Mumbai psychologist’s home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday conducted raids at multiple places in Mumbai and arrested three people. In the first raid, Rahmeen Charaniya – a consulting psychologist affiliated to a well-known hospital in south Mumbai – was arrested and 10-kg brownie cake containing hashish, 320 grams of opium along and cash worth ₹1.72 lakh were allegedly seized a from his residence. NCB officers said the cake was being sold as hash brownie. According to an NCB officer, a team raided Charaniya’s residence in Mazagaon on Monday evening after receiving specific information. “He was allegedly involved in baking brownie cakes with a mixture of weed/hashish and opium and used to supply them in private parties of high-profile groups in the city,” said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. During interrogation, Charaniya revealed a man named Ramzan Shaikh used to supply hashish and weed to him. The officers then intercepted Shaikh in Crawford Market and allegedly seized 50 grams of hashish. “Hash brownie is made using hashish as an ingredient, and eaten for its psychoactive effects. Ingesting cannabis and hashish are among the most powerful ways to abuse cannabis-based drugs and produces. The effect lasts for at least six hours because in process of smoking, the THC (a psychoactive compound in cannabis) travels directly to the brain and leaves a more potent effect on receptors. This is why edibles are so much more hard-hitting than just smoking,” mentioned in the release. In another operation, the federal agency received information that a Nigerian national, Chukwu Emeka Ogboma alias Micheal, is allegedly involved in the illicit sale of cocaine at Nallasopara and its nearby vicinities. He was intercepted and during the search, the agency recovered an intermediate quantity of cocaine, said Wankhede. Ogboma is working for a syndicate based in Nigeria and delivers drugs based on the cartel’s directions. The seized contraband is a part of consignment sourced from South American countries like Peru, Brazil and Chile. NCB is investigating other syndicate members and trying to bust the supply chain from abroad, added Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10kg-hashish-cake-drugs-seized-from-mumbai-psychologist-s-home-101626206934974.html
14-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra panel report on NCP leader Eknath Khadse’s land deal missing?||Even as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating a case of money laundering against senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse in connection with a Pune land deal during his tenure as revenue minister in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government, a drama unfolded in the state secretariat on Tuesday after news of a probe report in the case being misplaced surfaced.The report was submitted by an inquiry commission under retired judge Dinkar Zoting to investigate the allegations of impropriety and conflict of interest in the land deal by Khadse.On Tuesday, a news report claimed that the report had been misplaced, leading to a blame-game in the state, with Opposition BJP quick to suspect that it was done to save Khadse, who joined NCP last October. Congress minister Aslam Shaikh said they will find out the report if at all it has been misplaced. There was no response from the government till late on Tuesday. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte did not respond to calls and messages. The chief minister’s office (CMO) did not deny or clarify on the claims. There were also two versions in the general administration department (GAD). “It is not true that the report is misplaced. Nothing of this sort has ever happened,” said a senior GAD official, requesting anonymity. Another GAD official said, “A copy of the report was missing but we have its second copy.” The commission had been appointed by then CM Devendra Fadnavis. It was asked to probe whether the land belonged to the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation – a state subsidiary – and if the deal was illegal. Though the commission submitted its report in July 2017 and was to be tabled in the legislature, it was never made public during Fadnavis’s tenure. Khadse himself had demanded that the report be made public. Leader of Opposition in the legislative Council Pravin Darekar said, “It appears that those in the state government want to bring Khadse in trouble. If there was a BJP government, we may have faced accusations of misplacing the report as the commission has reportedly given Khadse a clean chit.”Shaikh said someone is trying to settle scores with Khadse and hence, the senior leader is facing the probe, based on which he was sidelined. “After Khadse joined NCP, they [BJP] are trying to harass him through new means. Taking revenge from a leader like Khadse, who spent his entire life for the party and parted ways due to some reasons, is not fair,” Shaikh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-panel-report-on-ncp-leader-eknath-khadse-s-land-deal-missing-101626206814950.html
14-07-2021||Other||Row over Nana Patole’s statements: Congress seniors meet Sharad Pawar for damage control||After a rift between the state’s ruling parties over the ‘unwarranted’ statements by Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole repeatedly on few occasions, senior party leaders met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar as a damage control exercise at the latter’s Mumbai residence. Congress central leadership has reportedly expressed unhappiness over Patole’s remarks and has asked him to avoid needless controversies. Patole had kicked up a row last week after stating that he was put under surveillance by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar, and that his movements and chats were being closely watched. After a clip of him making these allegations at a party meeting on Saturday went viral, there were strong reactions from Congress’ allies NCP and Shiv Sena and even from within the party. He also had said that Pune district was neglected and funds were diverted to Ajit Pawar’s constituency Baramati. He went on to saying that NCP and Sena backstab Congress when it comes to releasing development funds for the bodies controlled by it.The statements had irked NCP and Sena leaders. Pawar had ridiculed Patole on Sunday by saying that he was “a small leader whose comments do not warrant a response.” Senior Congress leaders took the reaction from Pawar seriously, and it was brought to the notice of the central leadership. The state leaders raised the issue of frequent ‘misfiring’ statements by Patole which unnecessarily create rift between coalition partners, during their meeting with leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, and All India Congress Committee general secretary and Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil in the past two days. Kharge was in Mumbai on Monday.“The strong reaction by Pawar was taken seriously by the Congress. Patole’s statement related to the alliance in the forthcoming local body polls and a letter related to the probe in a tender related to the mining department held by the Shiv Sena, too, had created troubles within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi. His resignation from the speaker’s post, given without consulting two other parties, has already created bitterness within the alliance. The Congress leaders called on Pawar to ensure that further rift in ruling parties is averted,” said a senior leader who aware of the developments.Besides Patil, senior leaders and state ministers Ashok Chavan and Balasaheb Thorat met Pawar at his home. Patole was deliberately kept away from the meeting. He had a one-on-one meeting with Patil in the morning. Patil reportedly expressed his unhappiness over Patole’s tirade against MVA allies. However, later Patil downplayed the episode by saying that Patole’s statement was misconstrued in the media. “A wrong statement leads to disturbance within the ruling alliance, but Patole’s statement was mispresented in the media. He was speaking about the Central government and he himself has clarified it,” said Patil.Patole said he was misquoted, and the leak of the selective part of the video was a conspiracy to defame the party. He said that the meeting with Pawar was to persuade the Centre for the release of the empirical data on other backward classes. As the collection of the empirical data by the state backward classes commission was not possible in next three-four months before the local bodies’ elections, there was no option to get it from the Centre, said Patole. He also claimed that the state leaders were planning to meet CM to push for the data.Meanwhile, Patil held number of meetings with state and Mumbai Congress leaders over the past two days to discuss the party’s preparedness for the forthcoming local body elections. Twenty-four district councils, 22 municipal corporations and 144 municipal councils and panchayats are scheduled for polling till May 2022. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and former CM Prithviraj Chavan said that leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis misguided the legislature by saying there were 80 million errors in the Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC) data. He said that the Registrar General and Census Commissioner and Union home ministry have already clarified that SECC data has been thoroughly analysed and there was no error in 98.87% data. Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has stated that the letter by Centre in July 2015 to state governments had clearly stated that there were 80 million errors in SECC data. BJP said that of them, 67.3 million were latter rectified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-nana-patole-s-statements-congress-seniors-meet-sharad-pawar-for-damage-control-101626206695027.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rail services in Valley to resume from today||Rail services will be fully restored in Kashmir from Wednesday as the Covid situation has improved substantially in the Valley, officials said.Now, the trains will run the full length from Baramulla in north Kashmir to Banihal in south.“The existing train services between Budgam in central Kashmir to Banihal in south and back are being extended for full run up to Baramulla and vice versa,” the Railways said in a statement.The rail service in Kashmir is yet to be connected to the rest of the country and the trains run on a standalone route from Banihal to Baramulla – a distance of 137km.The Railways said that the existing two trains starting from Banihal will be extended to Baramulla from Wednesday whereas another train service will start from Baramulla from 8am.One extra train service will start at 3.10 pm from the north and will pick up the route of ex-Budgam at 4:15, it added. The train services, which were suspended on May 10 owing to Covid, were partially resumed from July 1.In Kashmir, trains used to run at 100% occupancy. In summers, 35,000 to 40,000 commuters used train services everyday while in winters, around 25,000 people travelled daily by train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rail-services-in-valley-to-resume-from-today-101626206455580.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||BRO officials, construction firm booked for substandard work in J&K||The J&K anti corruption bureau (ACB) on Tuesday registered case against officials of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and proprietors of a private company for substandard work on the national highway from Kitchama to Baramulla in north Kashmir and causing losses to the tune of ₹72.95 lakh. The case was registered for gross violations committed by project BEACON authorities. The project was allotted to Nowgam-based Mirza Infrastructure Builders.“The registration of the instant case is the outcome of joint surprise check which was conducted by ACB into the allegations of laying substandard macadam (black topping material) on national highway in Pattan town area and Baramulla town (from Kitchama to Baramulla) by BEACON authorities. It was found that the macadam work executed at various locations has been completely damaged besides shortfall in thickness of macadam laid on the said road,” the ACB said in a statement.The statement further said that besides, the quality of macadam laid on the said road was also not up to the mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bro-officials-construction-firm-booked-for-substandard-work-in-jk-101626206396705.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Authorities seal martyrs’ graveyard in Srinagar||Authorities sealed off the martyrs’ graveyard in the old city area here on Tuesday to prevent people from assembling to commemorate the killing of 22 persons, who were protesting against the autocratic rule in Jammu and Kashmir, by Dogra forces on this day in 1931. Strike was observed in parts of Valley as former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and the National Conference (NC) slammed the government for locking the gates of the graveyard. Shop and businesses were closed and traffic movement was thin owing to a spontaneous shutdown in Srinagar. However shops in many rural towns were open and vehicles were plying normally. “Today on the occasion of Martyr’s day, gates leading to their graveyards have been locked up. Attempts to distort & rewrite Kashmir’s history is being done only to create a sense of defeat & helplessness amongst Kashmiris,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.“Government imposed restrictions disallowed our visit to Mazare Shohada today. For the second consecutive year, we lowered our eyes in respect of and raised our prayers for the eternal peace of July 13 Martyrs 1931 at the Party headquarters itself,” NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said in a tweet.Later, a function was held at the NC headquarters that was attended by party president, Farooq Abdullah and other key leaders. Srinagar city mayor and Apni Party leader Junaid Azim Mattu also paid tributes to the martyrs while praying for peace. CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said, “The Naya Kashmir which was drafted with their blood was dismantled on August 5, 2019. It was due to the supreme sacrifices of July-13 martyrs that ultimately led a way for Naya Kashmir which is notable for its humanistic view of development.” Kashmiri Pandits observe ‘Black Day’
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases in J&K drop to 143, 150 test positive in HP||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported a single Covid-related death besides witnessing 143 fresh infections, lowest since March 23. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 416 with active positive cases dropping to 2,435. The UT had witnessed the highest-ever active cases (52,848) on May 13.On Monday, the UT had witnessed 155 cases and no death. Since June 25, the UT has recorded below-10 daily fatalities with one death each on June 9 and 11 and two deaths each on July 3, 4, 6 and 10.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,12,198, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 97.87%. Since the pandemic started, J&K has logged 3,18,991 cases and 4,358 deaths. Officials said that 53,410 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,138 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 832 deaths.After the most devastating month of May, the month of June reported 25,197 cases and 416 deaths related to the disease.Four die of virus in HimachalMeanwhile, Himachal on Tuesday recorded 150 fresh Covid cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,03,869 while death toll mounted to 3,480 after four more patients died of the contagion. Of the new cases, 40 were reported in Chamba, 30 in Mandi, 24 in Kangra, 23 in Shimla, nine in Solan, eight in Kullu, seven in Bilaspur, five each in Hamirpur and Una, two in Kinnaur and one in Sirmaur. One death each was reported in Chamba, Mandi, Kangra and Una. The recoveries reached 1,99,170 after 150 people recuperated. Active cases have come down to 1,203. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,100 cases followed by Mandi (27,455), Shimla (25,409), Solan (22,349), Sirmaur (15,354), Hamirpur (14,458), Una (13,374), Bilaspur (12,788), Chamba (11,576), Kullu (8,988), Kinnaur (3,280) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,738).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-in-j-k-drop-to-143-150-test-positive-in-hp-101626206337783.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pall of gloom descends on Kangra’s Rulehar village, epicentre of disaster||A pall of gloom has descended on Rulehar village of Boh panchayat, the hamlet known for producing pure dairy products, where a massive landslide triggered by a flash flood struck on Monday morning.A steady stream of mourners, who lost their kin in the disaster, was headed to the village even as the rescue workers struggled to find those missing.Swarn Singh, who lives in a village on the opposite hill, said it was an unusual night for the locals as the rains were unrelenting. “The small stream passing through the village was swollen, but nobody had thought that something like this would happen,” he added. “There was a huge noise like an explosion before and the hill above the village came crumbling down. It was terrifying,” he recalled.Brani Devi, a resident of Rulehar, said, “The water was flowing dangerously above normal level. About a dozen people were digging channels to divert the flow.” “About 11am, Bhimo Ram, who is among the missing and whose house is the first on the top of the village, started screaming and warned the people to run to safety. People outside rushed to a safer spot. However, those who were inside their houses got no time as debris swallowed everything within seconds. Bhimo, who alerted everyone, couldn’t get time to escape and disappeared as huge boulders rolled down the hill,” she said.Bhimo’s wife Masto Devi’s body was retrieved on Monday night. However, he, along with two other family members, is missing.Five houses were completely buried under the debris while seven others have been damaged.Balwan Singh, another resident, said a father-son duo and a 18-month-old girl were also among those missing.“My neighbour Subhash and his son ran a shop in the village. They had come home to have their meal. Subhash’s other family members were however lucky as they were with his pregnant daughter-in-law admitted to Tanda government hospital,” he added.  ₹4-lakh ex gratia for kin of the deceasedChief minister Jai Ram Thakur conducted a survey of Boh to take stock of situation and ongoing search and rescue operation.Later, he also met the affected families. He directed the district administration to carry out the search operation at war-footing.Thakur said the state government will provide every possible help to affected family. Kin of the victim will be given ₹4-lakh ex gratia. “People whose houses have been damaged will also be provided financial assistance for rehabilitation and rebuild their houses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pall-of-gloom-descends-on-kangra-s-rulehar-village-epicentre-of-disaster-101626206336723.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||194-kg heroin haul case: Accused tries to end life outside Amritsar STF office||Former member of the Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board (SSSB) Anwar Masih, an accused in 194-kg heroin seizure case, tried to end his life by consuming a poisonous substance outside the Punjab Police’s special task force (STF) office in Amritsar on Tuesday. The incident took place around 3pm when Masih was addressing a protest held by the Christian community members demanding quashing of case registered against him. Masih, also a former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader, was rushed to Amritsar Fortis Escorts Hospital. On Monday, the court of additional district and sessions judge Pushpinder Singh cancelled Masih’s interim bail that was granted on medical grounds following the recommendations of a high powered committee constituted by the Supreme Court to decongest jails during the first wave of Covid-19 in July 2020. The STF had opposed the bail. The SFT had recovered the contraband from a house that was on Masih’s name in February 2020 on the disclosure of one Sukhbir Singh, alias Happy, who was arrested with 6kg of heroin in Mohali. After the raid, the police had arrested seven people, including Masih and an Afghanistan national. During investigation, many more people were named in the case, including the racket’s kingpin Simranjit Singh, alias Sandhu. The heroin was smuggled from Pakistan via a Gujarat post, the investigation had found.The Afghan national was helping the other accused in processing the contraband. Masih had given his house on rent to another accused Sukhwinder Singh since December 2019. According to the STF, Masih was charging ₹80,000 per month rent from the accused and he was aware of the drug smuggling racket.Pressure tactics, say police Masih’s son Joel alleged that the STF officials were harassing his father. However, deputy superintendent of police (STF) Vawinder Mahajan, who is investigating the case, termed the incident a “drama”. He said: “The accused has been trying to put pressure on us and creating a scene to avoid going to the prison. We have enough evidences against him,” he said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-city 1) Harjit Singh said: “According to the doctors, Masih is out of danger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/194kg-heroin-haul-case-accused-tries-to-end-life-outside-amritsar-stf-office-101626206275562.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers reluctant to adopt DSR for paddy sowing due to abundant availability of water: PAU study||Farmers are unwilling to adopt the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique as an alternative to sowing of paddy with traditional puddling due to an “abundant availability of water”, a study conducted by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has revealed. The study, funded by the Punjab State Farmers’ and Farm Workers’ Commission, focused on the paddy crop pattern in 2020. The DSR helps save water consumption by at least 15% when compared to the traditional method and also saves in terms of labour cost. “Besides abundance of irrigation water, the farmers’ trust in the well-established paddy transplantation and no experience of DSR were also seen as the reasons behind non-adoption of the new method,” adds the report. Farmers’ commission member secretary BS Sidhu said it is not easy to bring behavioural changes as the traditional method has been practise for years. “The new method is a paradigm shift and it will take some time for the paddy growers to adopt it,” he added. Last year, paddy was sown through DSR method over 5 lakh hectare area in the state. The results are not encouraging this time as the agriculture department is way behind its targets of doubling the area. As per information gathered by the Ludhiana-based Remote Sensing Centre, the area recorded under DSR is more or less the same when compared with the previous season with the sowing nearing end. As part of the study, the experts gathered data from 11 districts — Hoshiarpur, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Sangrur, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Faridkot, Muktsar and Bathinda. The study covered 2 blocks with the highest reported area under DSR and 5 villages in each district where the method was majorly adopted, covering 110 villages of 22 blocks of the state. Of the 1,650 farmers approached for the study, 1,100 were those who adopted the DSR. The report concludes that more educated farmers who were associated with organisations such as kisan clubs and cooperatives tended to adopt the DSR method They are medium to large farmers with an average holding of 22 acres. The highest concentration of DSR was reported in south-western districts — Muktsar (72.5%), Bathinda (61.4%), Sangrur (57.3%) and Faridkot (56.0%). In Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib, the coverage was 40-50% while in Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts, it was between 30% and 40%. Three districts — Jalandhar, Ropar and Ludhiana — reported 70-80% of the DSR area that was replaced with traditional sowing last year. Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Muktsar, Bathinda, and Ferozepur districts recorded 35-60% such area. Poor initial germination, high weed infestation, poor crop look and the problem of rodents were among the primary reasons for ploughing of the area under DSR and switching to transplanting of paddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-reluctant-to-adopt-dsr-for-paddy-sowing-due-to-abundant-availability-of-water-pau-study-101626206162019.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||My expulsion from BJP pre-planned, started a new innings: Anil Joshi||Former Punjab local bodies minister Anil Joshi on Tuesday said that his expulsion from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was “pre-planned” and he has started a “new innings”. Joshi was expelled from the BJP for six years three days ago for alleged “anti-party activities”. He has expressed solidarity with the farmers agitating against the Centre’s three contentious agriculture laws and questioned the role of the party’s state leadership in handling the issue. “I have come to seek blessings for initiating a new journey. I urged the Guru Sahib to give me the strength to walk on the path of truth and honesty. I also request God to show us the path of serving the people of Punjab by rising above petty politics,” the ex-minister said after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple and the Durgiana Temple in Amritsar along with his supporters.“They (BJP leaders) might be thinking that they punished me but for me it is a medal I received for voicing for people’s rights. I raised my voice for 500 farmers who died during the agitation,” he said.On taking BJP leaders hostage and manhandling them by the agitating farmers at Rajpura, he said, “What happened at Rajpura was not good but it was a result of the stubbornness shown by the Union government on the issue of farm laws. The state party leadership has failed in handling the issue wisdom and maturity.”On the possibility of his joining a political party, he said, “I am still thinking what I can do for Punjab, my motherland.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/my-expulsion-from-bjp-pre-planned-started-a-new-innings-anil-joshi-101626206159360.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||PPCB submits records to VB in graft complaint against official after 3 reminders||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has submitted records to the Punjab vigilance bureau in connection with a corruption complaint against one of senior board officials after it was reminded thrice by the agency. The bureau was seeking official records of the numbers of environmental clearances and approvals given to different firms across the state from May 2020 to the same month this year.The VB is investigating a complaint against the board official over alleged faulty clearances given to industrial units, besides pending approval applications with the board. The agency had sought details of the units and time frame in which the approvals were given. Besides, the board was asked to hand over details of the officials who gave certain approvals. Information on the number of applications submitted with the board in the past one year was also sought. “The records are required to carry out a timely investigation,” said VB deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satpal Singh in the communique.“The reminders were sent on June 17 and 22. Later, another communique was sent on June 28 and the board was asked to submit the details by July 11,” said a VB official. PPCB chairman Satwinder Singh Marwaha said the bureau was seeking some official records. “We have handed over the same on time,” he said.Last week, principal secretary (science, technology, and environment) Anurag Verma had shifted a senior PPCB environment engineer for alleged corruption after he was accused of receiving ₹15 lakh bribe from Ludhiana-based industrialists and s ordered an inquiry. The money was taken for clearing the operations of common effluent treatment plants (CETPs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ppcb-submits-records-to-vb-in-graft-complaint-against-official-after-3-reminders-101626206155572.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Three killed in Dasuya pileup||Three people were killed in a crash involving three vehicles at Dasuya in Hoshiarpur district on Tuesday. The accident took place around 4.30am when a gravel loaded tipper rammed into a Mahindra Bolero Pickup from the rear, which in turn hit another tipper running ahead of it. The pickup was crushed between the tippers. All three occupants of the pickup died on the spot, police said. They were identified as Subhash Chander of Rasulpur Bet, the driver of the pickup, Damish Masih and Heera Masih of Krishna Nagar, Purana Shala, Gurdaspur. They were transporting timber to Hoshiarpur. On the statement of Subhash’s brother, a case of rash and negligent driving has been registered against the driver of the tipper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-killed-in-dasuya-pileup-101626206035569.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lawmakers’ pay, perks, pension need rationalisation: Parminder Dhindsa||Former Punjab finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Tuesday demanded a constitutional commission on the pattern of a pay commission to decide pay, perks and pensions for the current and former MLAs and MPs, accepting that these are exorbitantly high and need a rationalisation. He questioned the present system to renew the pay and pensions by the Vidhan Sabha itself, the members of which are the beneficiaries of their own decision. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Dhindsa also an MLA, said Punjab government’s acceptance of the recommendations of the sixth pay commission and the announcement to increase salaries and pensions is no less than a hoax. “The state government had announced a 259% increase. But if we look at the past performance of the government, it has so far remained silent on the payment of arrears of salaries and DA to the employees from January 1, 2016, to June 30, 2021,” he said. The former finance minister said as per the new notification, the government needs ₹25,000 crore to clear dues of around 5 lakh employees whereas only ₹8,000 crore is earmarked in the budget for the year 2021-22. “The finance minister had promised in his budget speech to clear all arrears but no mention of this has been made in the notification issued by the Punjab government,” said Dhindsa. He also criticised the cut in the house rent allowance and rural allowance. “NPAs of doctors, who are currently risking their lives, used to be the part of salaries. It has now been made an allowance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawmakers-pay-perks-pension-need-rationalisation-parminder-dhindsa-101626205798055.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt hits out at AAP, SAD over political funds charge||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for “lying blatantly” on the issue of political funding from private power companies.He said unlike the illegal donations made to these parties by various shell companies, the funds provided to the Congress have nothing to do with Punjab elections or the controversial power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the Akalis. Amarinder said that political donations by certain power companies were made not to the Punjab Congress but to the All India Congress Committee (AICC) back in 2009 and 2014, with no connection whatsoever to the incumbent government in the state. He slammed the SAD and AAP for spreading carnage of lies in a desperate attempt to mislead the people ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The PPAs in question were signed by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, and were legally binding so that his (Amarinder’s) government could not rescind the same without heavy penalties on the cash-strapped state, he added in a statement. On Monday, the AAP and SAD accused the Congress of taking funds from private companies running power plants in the state. While the AAP alleged that the Congress did not cancel the faulty PPAs due to funds received for the party, the SAD demanded a CBI probe. Dismissing their allegations, Amarinder said his government was exploring legal recourse to neutralise ill-effects of the PPAs without further burdening the state’s exchequer, which the Akalis, along with their BJP allies, had allegedly milked dry to fill their own pockets. He claimed that the donations taken by Arvind Kejriwal’s party during the 2014 elections were already under the scanner of the Enforcement Directorate as, unlike the funds donated to AICC by the private power companies, these were neither accounted for nor declared. Media reports recently said that the ED had registered a case pertaining to four cheques amounting ₹50 lakh, allegedly given to the AAP during the 2014 Delhi assembly elections. Last year, Delhi Police had registered a case of forgery, cheating against four companies, he said.Capt trying to lie his way out, alleges SADThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) accused chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of trying to lie his way out after his party was caught taking funds from private thermal plants. SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema asked the CM to explain how he had made a differentiation between the Punjab Congress and the AICC. “How can the Punjab Congress unit be a separate entity from AICC? It is surely subservient to it,” he said in a statement. He accused the chief minister of trying to fool Punjabis by admitting that money was taken but by the high command and not him even though he was part and parcel of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-hits-out-at-aap-sad-over-political-funds-charge-101626205795436.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 115 fresh cases, 5 more deaths||ChandigarhPunjab on Tuesday logged 115 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 5,97,821, while five more fatalities raised the death toll to 16,199, according to a medical bulletin.Two deaths were reported from Sangrur and one each from Bathinda, Faridkot and Fatehgarh Sahib. The death toll also includes one fatality which was not reported earlier, the bulletin said.The number of active Covid cases stands at 1,427 in Punjab.Jalandhar reported 22 new cases, followed by 16 in Ludhiana and 10 in Amritsar, according to the bulletin.The recovery count rose to 5,80,195 with 168 more people recovering from the infection in the state, it said.A total of 1,14,44,310 samples have been collected for Covid testing so far in the state, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-115-fresh-cases-5-more-deaths-101626205676668.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu moves HC against income tax dept||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has approached the high court, challenging Income Tax (appeals) commissioner’s decision to dismiss his plea on assessment done for the year 2016-17 by the department. According to the plea, he declared an income of ₹9.66 crore in October 2016. However, the assessment done under Income Tax Act 1961 by the department, which was completed on December 21, 2018, estimated it at ₹13.19 crore. Sidhu has told the court that he was intimated about the same through a notice served on him on March 31, 2019, against which he moved an appeal before the joint commissioner, income tax, Range-1, Amritsar, who acts as commissioner, income tax (appeals), seeking revision. However, the impugned order of dismissal of the revision plea was taken on March 27, 2021, which as per Sidhu was passed on “flimsy and untenable grounds”. Rather than divulging on merits, his appeal was dismissed in a completely arbitrary manner, he claimed, seeking direction to quash the March 27 order. The plea was taken up by the bench of justices Ajay Tewari and Vikas Bahl, but hearing was deferred till July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-moves-hc-against-income-tax-dept-101626205619579.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||YAD stages dharna near Bhagwant Mann’s house in Sangrur||Youth Akali Dal (YAD) activists held a ‘dharna’ near the residence of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann to oppose Delhi government’s plea in Supreme Court against Punjab’s thermal power plants, in Sangrur on Tuesday. The activists also marched to Mann’s house and handed over ‘proof’ of alleged AAP’s plan to close down four thermal plants in Punjab within seven days as petitioned in the apex court as well as letters written by Delhi environment minister to the Centre and the Central Pollution Control Board, demanding closure of the thermal plants. YAD president Parambans Singh Romana said, “We have come with proof to Bhagwant Mann’s house so that he does not get another chance to peddle lies by claiming the Delhi government only wanted the thermal plants in Punjab to be upgraded and not closed.” Mann said the Akali Dal has started rehearsals to hold protests once the AAP forms the government in Punjab in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yad-stages-dharna-near-bhagwant-mann-s-house-in-sangrur-101626205436877.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu takes a dig at AAP, says it recognised his vision for state||A day after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) challenged him to put out a tweet on the Congress taking money from private companies running power plants in Punjab, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday took a dig at the principal opposition party for daring to questioning him. Responding to the AAP’s post asking him to comment on Twitter on the Congress’ fund raising from power companies, Sidhu posted that the opposition party has always recognised his vision and work and knows who is really fighting for Punjab. “Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision & work for Punjab. Be it before 2017– Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption & Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present “Punjab Model” It is clear they know – who is really fighting for Punjab (sic),” he tweeted with an old video of AAP leaders Sanjay Singh and Bhagwant Mann extolling him. The video showed Sanjay Singh showering praise in 2017 after Sidhu had quit the BJP and there was talk that he may join the AAP and another visual was of Mann calling the former cricketer his role model. The MLA’s tweets were seen by some as an attempt to warm up to the AAP amid his ongoing rift with Amarinder . The Congress top leadership has held a series of meetings to find a way to accommodate Sidhu in the state unit. In another tweet, the Amritsar East MLA said: “If the opposition dares to question me, yet they can’t escape my Pro-People Agenda…This means they have resigned to their fate (sic)”. Sidhu also questioned the AAP’s digs at him lately. “Our opposition singing about me and other loyal Congerssmen – Tum Agar AAP mein aaoge toh koi baat nahin…tum agar Congress mein rahoge toh mushqil hogi (If you join the AAP, it is okay…if you remain in the Congress, it will be difficult),” he added. On Monday, Mann, while addressing a press conference, accused the ruling Congress of not scrapping the faulty power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed with private companies during the previous SAD-BJP government as it had received funds from them for the party. “Sidhu has been tweeting a lot. He should post a tweet on the funds received by the Congress from power companies,” the AAP leader said, taking a jibe at the former minister’s frequent tweets seeking annulment of power pacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-takes-a-dig-at-aap-says-it-recognised-his-vision-for-state-101626205435455.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda to have free legal aid clinic||BATHINDABathinda will soon have Punjab’s first 24-hour free legal aid clinic to ensure the police authorities do not abuse powers while producing an accused before a magistrate.At a quarterly meeting with the district administration on Tuesday, district and sessions judge Kamaljit Lamba asked officials to provide space to run a round-the-clock legal aid facility.Lamba said when an accused is produced before a court at odd hours, he or she should be represented by a lawyer. If the accused is unable to hire a lawyer, the district legal service authority (DLSA) will provide aid through its proposed 24-hour functional legal aid clinic, he added.Official sources said space for the new facility may be provided outside the district court complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-to-have-free-legal-aid-clinic-101626205255393.html
14-07-2021||Other||Electrocution at Delhi border: Ludhiana admn releases ₹5L compensation to family as farmers block road||Seeking compensation for the farmer who was electrocuted to death in Delhi during an ongoing protest against three farm laws, the farmers’ unions blocked Moga road near Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for three hours on Tuesday. They lifted the protest after the district administration handed over a cheque of ₹5 lakh to the kin of deceased Mohan Singh Billa, 45, of Kaunke Kalan village.The unions put the dead body on the road, thereby blocking traffic and raised slogans against the district administration. They announced that they would not cremate the body till the administration issued a cheque to the family of the deceased farmer. The commuters were harried a lot due to roadblocks. The police diverted the traffic to avoid a jam-like situation.After tehsildar Manmohan Kaushik handed over the cheque to the mother and wife of the deceased., the farmers lifted the protest and cremated the body.Jagtar Singh Daherka, block president of Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Dakonda), Inderjit Singh Dhaliwal, district secretary, along with Gurpreet Singh Sidhwan, Surjit Singh Dodhar, and Tara Singh Accharwal, addressed the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/electrocution-at-delhi-border-ludhiana-admn-releases-5l-compensation-to-family-as-farmers-block-road-101626205195883.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rahul meets Prashant ahead of Punjab rejig||Ahead of a likely organisational and government reshuffle in Punjab, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday met poll strategist Prashant Kishor at his residence.Other party leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, AICC general secretary Punjab-in-charge Harish Rawat and KC Venugopal were also present during the meeting where they are learnt to have discussed the party’s overhaul in Punjab and efforts to end factionalism in the state unit ahead of assembly elections.Kishor had earlier met Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on the impending changes in the Punjab Congress.Amarinder and former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who have been at loggerheads, have made a number of public statements against each other in recent months. Amid the tiff, the Gandhis have met Amarinder and Sidhu separately.There was no official word on what was discussed at the meeting with Kishor, which lasted about an hour, but sources said the new Punjab Congress body would be announced in the next few days and the discussions were focused on it.There have been hectic deliberations over the past few days over the likely changes in the Punjab government and the party’s state unit.Both Sidhu and Amarinder have also met the three-member AICC panel headed by Mallikarjun Kharge. The panel had earlier submitted its report to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi with its recommendations.Amarinder had then said any decision taken by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi would be acceptable to him and the party.The role for Sidhu in the organisation has remained a sticking point from the beginning as he is keen on the post of Punjab Congress chief, which is not acceptable to Amarinder, according to party sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rahul-meets-prashant-ahead-of-punjab-rejig-101626205136550.html
14-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana civic body to study door-to-door waste collection in Chandigarh||After studying the solid waste management models in Chennai, Delhi and Rajasthan recently, the municipal corporation (MC) will soon visit Chandigarh to study door-to-door waste collection.The decision was taken during a meeting conducted by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu, among other officials, in Chandigarh on Tuesday to discuss development projects being taken up in the city.The MC has been struggling with solid waste management since after the A2Z company terminated its contract with the civic body on February 4. While the civic body has roped in a third party temporarily for shifting the garbage generated in the city to the main dumpsite at Tajpur Road, the waste processing work at the main site has come to a halt. Over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is generated daily in the city. Over 16 lakh metric tonnes of garbage has accumulated at the dumpsite over years. The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) has been protesting against the failure of MC in taking up solid waste management.The MC committee had visited Vellore, Tamil Nadu in 2019, and Indore in 2020 to study solid waste management there but, no concrete steps have been taken yet.Mayor Sandhu said MC is studying the waste management models in different cities before hiring a firm to deal with waste in the city. The MC officials will study the model in Chandigarh in a few days and then submit a report. The MC will soon float the tenders to hire a contractor. A consultant firm will also be appointed for the installation of a ‘waste to energy’ plant at the main dumpsite to dispose of the garbage generated in the city.During the meeting, Ashu directed the officials to expedite the execution of development projects including laying of new athletic track at Guru Nanak Stadium, running the biogas plant in Haibowal Dairy Complex to its full capacity, and rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-civic-body-to-study-door-to-door-waste-collection-in-chandigarh-101626205135448.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding Congress councillor mows down 13-year-old boy in Ludhiana||A Congress councillor allegedly mowed down a 13-year-old boy and injured his mother near the Old Bus Stand here on Tuesday.The accused, Baljinder Singh Rimpa of Guru Nanak Pura , a Raikot councillor, left his vehicle and fled after hitting the victims – Seeta, 40, and her son, Nitin Verma – who were walking along the roadside. He was later arrested.The boy’s grandfather, Kundan Lal of Green City, Raikot, was with the victims when the accident took place. He said, “We had gone to a market near the Old Bus Stand and were walking along the roadside when a speeding car hit Seeta and Nitin. While Seeta was thrown onto the side, Nitin was crushed under the car. I managed to extricate Nitin from under the car with the help of onlookers and rushed them to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.”Both Nitin and Seeta were in a critical condition. While Nitin succumbed to his injuries, Seeta is stable.Kundal Lal alleged that Rimpa was driving under the influence of alcohol. He said the councillor’s minor son was also with him.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code.The ASI said a test was conducted to ascertain whether Rimpa was drunk or not. The report of the medical examination is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-congress-councillor-mows-down-13-year-old-boy-in-ludhiana-101626205015878.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Daljit Grewal rejoins AAP ahead of 2022 polls||A day after resigning from the Congress party over its “anti-people policies,” Daljit Singh Grewal (Bhola) rejoined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. AAP’s Punjab chief MP Bhagwant Mann, Punjab affairs co-incharge and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha attended Grewal’s reinduction in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Grewal said, “The Congress has failed to fulfil the promises it made during the 2017 polls. In Delhi, AAP has worked for the people and will surely form the government in 2022.”The return of AAP’s prodigal member can have major political repercussions in Ludhiana East. The former Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) protegee had joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of assembly polls in 2017 and contested from the Ludhiana East constituency. He had lost to Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar by 1,581 votes. Nonetheless, Grewal’s wife, Balwinder Kaur, was the lone AAP councillor elected in the 2018 Ludhiana municipal elections. Grewal left AAP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and joined Congress as the party’s state general secretary. However, he had remained at loggerhead with Talwar as he was hoping to get a party ticket from the constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daljit-grewal-rejoins-aap-ahead-of-2022-polls-101626204716191.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Will take a decision at an apt time, says Pankaja Munde||Upset over the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) decision to ignore her sister and Beed MP Pritam Munde Khade for a ministerial berth at the Centre and instead picking another Other Backward Classes (OBC) leader for the post, party leader Pankaja Munde on Tuesday trained guns on the party’s state leadership. Munde, who is considered as BJP’s OBC face in Maharashtra, ruled out a revolt against the party, but insisted that she has been avoiding a “Dharmayuddha” (war fought for principles) as much as possible and would take a decision at an appropriate time. Munde did not deny that she was unhappy over the party’s decision and blamed the BJP’s state leadership, but at the same time insisted that she had full faith in the party’s central leadership.Munde’s supporters see the party’s decision to elevate party’s Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad as a union minister a move to put forth a new OBC leader and to undermine the importance of Pankaja. They blamed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for the same. The supporters, many of whom apparently quit party posts in protest, had gathered outside Munde’s residence at Worli on Tuesday.“Time is the solution to everything. This is not the time to take any extreme decision. Why should we leave our own house, which has been built with our efforts? We will see if the roof comes crumbling down on us in the future,” she remarked. Pankaja is the eldest daughter of the late Gopinath Munde, who played a significant role in building the party’s base in Maharashtra. He was also regarded as the most influential OBC leader in the state and is often credited with changing the earlier perception of the BJP that it was a party of a few upper caste communities. After her father’s death in 2014, Pankaja has been fighting to retain his legacy in state politics. She was locked in a bitter power tussle with Fadnavis. Following Karad’s inclusion in the union cabinet last week, several of her supporters expressed their anguish on the social media and blamed Fadnavis, alleging that the move was aimed at undermining Pankaja’s leadership. Karad, once a confidant of the late Gopinath Munde, comes from the OBC community and also hails from the central Maharashtra region, just like Pankaja Munde. Pankaja, while addressing her supporters on Tuesday, said that though they are unhappy with the party decision and though the “sacrifice” and the “hardwork” done by them has not been honoured by the leadership, it was not time to quit the party. Pankaja also equated their fight against the “ill-intended detractors” within the party with the battle in Mahabharat. She slammed her detractors from the state unit of BJP without naming them.Munde said that she was targeted within the party for saying that she was the chief minister in the minds of the people, but what about the people who dream to become the prime minister. “I never said that I wanted to become CM. It was the wish expressed by the people. How did the news about my past remarks suddenly appear after BJP won power? I was targeted for the same, but what about the people who say they want to become the prime minister? They keep talking about the posts and ministerial berths I got, but conveniently forget about what was snatched away from me,” she remarked. Munde also hinted that many leaders in the state unit of the party were upset with the leadership in the state and were in touch with her. “Even the lieutenants of Kauravas in Mahabharat were not with them emotionally. They were mentally with the Pandavas,”she said. She also announced that the resignations submitted by her supporters were rejected by her. Her supporters openly spoke against party’s decision about not inducting Pritam in the cabinet.Munde said that she has full faith in the party’s central leadership and they will never let her down. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi, union home minster Amit Shah, party’s national president JP Nadda are our leaders and I have full faith in them. They have treated me with full respect. Even in our meeting with the central leadership on Monday, I told Naddaji about the discontent among party workers. He has shown full faith that I will convince you to calm down. This is a short pause in our political journey,” she said in an emotional appeal to supporters.Till late in the evening, the state BJP had not reacted to Munde’s remarks. There was no reaction from Fadnavis either. Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “It was a revolt by Pankaja Munde, although she has not said so directly. It was an attempt of show of strength and a warning of an extreme step. She has attacked Devendra Fadnavis without naming him and has praised the central leadership. Though BJP’s central leadership never gives in to pressure tactics, it may take a different stand in Pankaja’s case as she is an OBC face and enjoys a support base in parts of Marathwada and western Maharashtra. She can dent BJP if she decides to walk out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-take-a-decision-at-an-apt-time-says-pankaja-munde-101626204714851.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||‘No decision’ to declare wetlands as bird sanctuaries, says Maharashtra in RTI||Responding to a right-to-information (RTI) request from a Navi Mumbai-based environmentalist, the state revenue and forest department said “no decision” has so far been taken by the state wildlife board (SBWL) to declare wetlands in Sewri, Navi Mumbai and Uran as bird sanctuaries. These include 1,600 hectares across Sewri-Mahul on the city’s eastern seafront, Panje-Funde in Uran, and the TSC-NRI wetland complex in Navi Mumbai. The government’s response, dated June 11, and shared with HT this week by the applicant NGO, NatConnect Foundation, has drawn the ire of environmentalists, given that it is seemingly at odds with earlier commitments made by the state.The then Devendra Fadnavis government had, on December 4, 2015, announced via the official Facebook page of the chief minister’s office (CMO), “CM Devendra Fadnavis chaired the 10th meeting of the State Wildlife Board at Mumbai, in presence of forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. The board approved three bird sanctuaries in Mumbai region (Mahul-Shivdi, TSC land near Palm Beach and Panje Funde), which will help in conservation of flamingos.” The announcement is still available on the CMO’s official page.Mitigation measures suggested by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) were taken into consideration before giving approval to the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) project, the post read. “There is a need to give protected status to the wetlands of southern Mumbai... especially, the Uran mudflats, and the NRI-TSC wetlands, Panje-Funde wetlands,” the BNHS had noted in a 2015 report to the MMRDA, prior to the construction of MTHL, and which was considered by SBWL before it green lit the project. The minutes of SBWL’s December 2015 meeting clearly mentioned that the session had approved the wildlife mitigation measures as suggested by BNHS.However, almost six years later, there has been little movement toward bringing these wetlands under any kind of legal protection. Instead, the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary was declared in 2015 has been criticised for not including some of the most prime flamingo habitats within its 1,690 hectares delineation.“There was a public announcement to bring these satellite wetlands under the ambit of the wildlife act. If the plans have changed or scrapped, it calls for a public clarification. BNHS’ suggestion seems to have just slipped through the cracks. More worryingly, the minutes of the December 4, 2015 meeting of SBWL do not reflect any such decision. It makes one wonder if the Fadnavis government jumped the gun on announcing their decision, which had to be dropped later for whatever reason,” said BN Kumar, of the NatConnect Foundation.HT reached out to Fadnavis for a comment on this development, but did not receive a response until late on Tuesday.A senior government official privy to the matter, who did not wish to be identified by either name or department, threw some light on the issue. “The bird sanctuaries were approved in principle, but they would have been a challenging task to establish in Mumbai. The government would have had to draw a 10km eco-sensitive zone around the sanctuaries, and this would have jeopardised the MTHL project itself. Besides, there was no separate proposal tabled either by BNHS, or by MMRDA, or by the various land-owning bodies like CIDCO and JNPT to declare the water bodies as sanctuaries.”This view was echoed by Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell). In order to enhance protection for these satellite wetlands, the Maharashtra forest department last June approved and published an official document showing six ecologically sensitive areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as wetlands, as part of a 10-year management plan for the Thane creek flamingo sanctuary (TCFS). Six sites – Bhandup (11 ha) in Mumbai, Panje (124 ha), Belpada (30 ha), Bhendkhal (8 ha) in Uran, Training Ship Chanakya (13 ha) and NRI Complex (19 ha) in Navi Mumbai – were designated officially as satellite wetlands.Then, in July 2020, forest department wrote to the Cidco and the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) — who own the land on which this network of wetlands is located — seeking their comments on declaring these six water bodies as Conservation Reserves under the Indian Wildlife Act, which would deter any further development around them. Cidco and JNPT both rejected this proposal.In a response to the forest department, Cidco wrote that these sites “are developable land parcels” which “do not qualify to be declared as wetlands.” Cidco is also currently fighting a Bombay high court order which restricts it from developing the TSC-NRI wetlands into an 80 hectare golf course and residential complex. “As it is challenging to declare these areas sas sanctuaries, we have now asked BHNS to formally respond to the points raised by CIDCO and JNPT. Our view is that the wetlands should at least be given Conservation Reserve status. BNHS’ response is yet to come,” said Tiwari.Bivash Pandav, director, BNHS, said, “I have received the letter, but am presently not in Mumbai. I will review the matter and respond appropriately sometime after July 23.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-decision-to-declare-wetlands-as-bird-sanctuaries-says-maharashtra-in-rti-101626204474806.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Attempt to murder case lodged against mob for hurling stones at cops in Ludhiana||A day after a mob pelted stones at police personnel, injuring a woman station house officer and an assistant commissioner of police, an attempt to murder case was registered against unidentified persons on Tuesday. The mob had turned violent after a speeding tipper laden with sand crushed Kimti Lal, 25, to death at Rahon Road. The enraged gathering had vandalised vehicles, blocked traffic, and had turned on the police when they stopped them from torching the tipper. In his complaint, assistant sub-inspector Jasbir Singh, said, “On June 12, around 100 people gathered at Rahon Road after a tipper crushed a man to death. The enraged crowd tried to torch the tipper and blocked traffic on the road. When the police intervened, the accused pelted them with stones.” In the stone-pelting incident, sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur, Meharban station house officer, sustained injuries on her face, and ACP (east) Davinder Chaudhary suffered minor injuries.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage up to ₹50), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage up to ₹100), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against unidentified people at the Tibba police station. Police have procured video recordings made by bystanders and are scanning the clips to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attempt-to-murder-case-lodged-against-mob-for-hurling-stones-at-cops-in-ludhiana-101626204414846.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fans mourn sudden demise of Yashpal Sharma, friends remember his dedication||Chandigarh/Ludhiana
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccine shortage sparks worry over 3rd wave||Three weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced universal adult vaccination across the country to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra -- the state which has conducted the highest number of vaccinations – faces an acute shortage of vaccine doses. The Centre announced free vaccination for all adults starting June 21, which led to a record 8.5 million doses administered that day across the country. Maharashtra administered 552,921 doses the following day, its single-highest number till that day. However, unavailability of doses in the ongoing mass immunisation programme has sparked concerns about staving off the third wave effectively and reviving economic activities, many of which are dependent on vaccination as per the state’s unlock guidelines. On Tuesday, only 263,152 people were vaccinated across 2,734 centres in the state. “It is due to the shortage of vaccines from the central government that many of our vaccination centres in Mumbai and Maharashtra are closed,” said Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh.Though Maharashtra remains the state which has vaccinated the highest number of people – 37 million till date; its capacity, health minister Rajesh Tope told the Assembly last week, is 1 million a day – several districts have been forced to halt their vaccination on certain days after running out of vaccine supply. For instance, on July 11, other than Gondia, districts of Hingoli, Sindhudurg, Osmanabad and Wardha recorded zero vaccinations. “The cumulative supply of vaccines has improved compared to previous months. However, the vials are now supplied in lesser quantities on a weekly basis which is slowing down the vaccination process as the demand has increased drastically. Though we have a capacity to vaccinate [over] 1 million people daily we can’t meet our target due to the shortages. We are failing to meet the growing demands,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, Maharashtra Health Services. The state received 700,000 doses four days ago. Last week, the state passed a resolution seeking 30 million doses a month from the Centre. Tope said that the increased doses would help expedite the vaccination drive, which was “necessary for economic revival”. The financial capital of the country too is feeling the pinch. On July 12, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had only 120,000 vials of Covishield and 40,000 vials of Covaxin. The civic body has the capacity to inoculate 100,000 people daily. In Prabhadevi, citizens lining up from 4 am onwards on Tuesday for their shot were told that the centre had only 25 doses for walk-ins. Similarly, in Palghar, 2,000 citizens lined up for vaccination, but only 500 doses were available.“Last week, we got 85,000 doses of Covishield and on Monday, we got another 35,000 doses. As per protocols, the central government will procure 75% of the produced vaccines and the remaining 25% of the vaccines will be given to the private hospitals. So, we can’t do anything about this as the procurement process is centrally monitored,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. An analysis of data provided by the state health department shows that between June 18 and 30, 5.2 million people were vaccinated in Maharashtra. The number fell to 4.5 million over the following 12 days, between July 1 and 12. Officials attribute the dip to the disruption in the timely supply of vials to districts from the Union health ministry, which oversees the distribution of vaccines across the country. Shortage of vaccines is also damaging the efforts made by district health officials (DHO) and ASHA workers to quell vaccine hesitancy. Take the case of 67-year-old Sudarshan Bhede from Birsi village in Gondia. Bhede is among many residents of his village who hasn’t taken a single dose of anti-Covid-19 vaccines. On July 8, Parbhani Nene, a local ASHA worker, knocked on Bhede’s door and counselled him and his family members about the importance of vaccination. “Bhede is a senior citizen with cardiac ailment which makes him vulnerable to the virus. But due to his scepticism over the efficiency of the vaccines, he avoided taking the shots along with his family members. But after an hour of counselling, he finally agreed for the vaccine. I helped them get vaccination slots on June 11,” said Nene. But after travelling for two kilometres to reach the centre, they were informed that the vaccination drive was cancelled due to lack of vials. “I will again have to visit the family to convince them to visit the centre for vaccination. This is really discouraging,” she said. Dr Ajay Davale, district health officer, Wardha, said they are getting a supply of only 10,000-14,000 vials [per consignment] which is inadequate to meet the rising demand. “On Monday, I got 13,000 vials and on the same day, we finished all the doses due to the high demand. With rising awareness, we are getting better responses but we don’t have vials. On Tuesday (July 13), we had zero vaccination as I don’t have a single vial,” he said. Meanwhile, a few private hospitals like Wockhardt Hospital, Mumbai Central, and Shalby Hospital have procured Sputnik vaccine from the manufacturers directly. Dr Parag Rindani, regional head, Wockhardt Hospital they have enrolled 200 people for the first shot of the vaccine through the Co-WIN application. Dr T Jacob John, virologist and retired professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, blamed the central government for lack of preparedness before giving the emergency approval for the use of the vaccines. “In January, the Centre approved emergency use of Covishield. But even after seven months, districts are struggling to get vials. This shows how the authorities failed to estimate the demands in India. Despite rolling out nationwide mass immunisation programme, it is heartbreaking that many still continue to die of the infection, ”said Dr John. Staving off the third wave In the first 11 days of July, Maharashtra reported 88,130 Covid-19 cases amidst the looming fear of a third wave. As photos and videos on social media go viral showing with the relaxation of the lockdown, people are again violating the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which could be the precursor for the third wave. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce, said, “We need to focus on two things now— consistency in the supply of vaccines and breaking the hesitancy among people from the rural parts of the state. Double vaccination can lessen the impact of the third wave in the population.” In the last week of June, state Food and Drug Administration Minister Rajendra Shingne stated that nearly 50 lakh people including five lakh children could be infected in Maharashtra in a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Taking this into consideration, public health experts have raised the need to vaccinate as many people as possible before the third wave hits the state. Dr Sanghamitra Gawde, civil surgeon of Ratnagiri said, “After the flattening of the pandemic curve, we were instructed to boost vaccination in June and July before we face the third wave. But now, the vaccination process is completely dependent on the availability of the vials.” The Centre has so far provided 28,439,060 vaccine doses and the state government has purchased 2,510,730 doses, Tope told the Assembly last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccine-shortage-sparks-worry-over-3rd-wave-101626204236019.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sonali Mishra to be 1st woman to head BSF’s Punjab frontier||BSF inspector general Sonali Mishra will be the first woman commander to head the force’s formation along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, which is prone to narcotics and arms smuggling.Mishra, a 1993-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the Madhya Pradesh cadre, will be the new inspector general (IG) of the Border Security Force’s (BSF) Punjab frontier headquartered in Jalandhar, official sources said.The officer, at present, is heading the BSF intelligence wing known as the ‘G branch’ at its headquarters in Delhi.She has earlier headed the BSF formation in the Kashmir valley as the IG. There the paramilitary force guards the Line of Control (LoC) along Pakistan under the operational command of the Army.Punjab shares a 553-km border with Pakistan and the front is prone to narcotics and arms smuggling. The BSF Punjab frontier was raised with the birth of the border guarding force on December 1, 1965.It has multiple battalions guarding the area, which is marked by farms of Indian farmers beyond the border fence and the Attari-Wagah integrated check post at Amritsar. The check post is popular for its daily public flag lowering ceremony conducted by BSF troops and their counterparts, the Pakistan Rangers.The border areas under this frontier also witness illegal drone activity that take flight from across the border for reconnaissance missions and dropping of arms and drugs, similar to what is seen along the Jammu front.The current IG of the Punjab frontier Mahipal Yadav will replace Mishra in Delhi, officials said.The about 2.65-lakh personnel strong BSF guards a total of 6,300 kms of India’s land border with Pakistan and Bangladesh.Out of this, the India-Pakistan IB is about 2,290km long and it runs from Jammu to Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat on the western flank of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonali-mishra-to-be-1st-woman-to-head-bsf-s-punjab-frontier-101626204175271.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Robbery accused kept in jail for 16 months despite bail||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought explanation from a former Panchkula district and sessions judge about circumstances under which a robbery accused granted bail 16 months back had to remain in jail.The petitioner, Nishant, was booked in a robbery case in Panchkula on May 6, 2019. He approached the trial court and secured bail from the chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Panchkula, on February 13, 2020. However, this fact did not come to Nishant’s or his counsel’s notice, and he moved another bail plea before the sessions judge, Panchkula, on September 3, 2020, which was declined on September 15. It was against this order that he had moved the high court on October 26. The matter came to light in court when the accused filed a plea to advance the hearing, which was listed for September 14 this year. “It is very surprising that without verifying and going through the order passed by chief judicial magistrate, Panchkula, learned sessions judge, Panchkula, proceeded to dispose of the application for regular bail when it should not have been done as bail had already been granted to the petitioner,” justice HS Madaan observed, further lamenting that neither the counsel appearing for the petitioner nor the public prosecutor brought this fact to the notice of the sessions judge. It was incumbent upon the police authorities to assist the court properly and intimate it with regard to the order passed by the CJM, the high court said.‘Fix responsibility of persons at fault’Another fact that came to light was that the reply to the bail application before the sessions judge was filed by the prosecution. Also the CJM order was passed in presence of the accused, who was in custody, and his counsel, but surprisingly they didn’t come to know about the grant of bail and approached the sessions court.Justice Madaan observed that in the process, precious time of the sessions judge and high court has been wasted, and the accused has remained behind bars for more than 16 months on account of non-functioning of courts.The court has now sought explanation from Subhas Mehla, the then sessions judge, as to how this situation arose. The state’s counsel was also directed to bring this order to the notice of director, prosecution, Haryana, and director general of police, Haryana, so that responsibility of the persons at fault could be fixed and necessary action taken against them. The explanation has been sought by August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-robbery-accused-kept-in-jail-for-16-months-despite-bail-101626203875481.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Lawrence Bishnoi gang running extortion racket in jail||A businessman from Kerala who was lodged in the Model Jail, Chandigarh, has alleged that a co-accused along with gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide, who was in the same barrack, extorted ₹2 lakh from him. Complainant Philip Jacob along with five others, including Prabhat Thyagi, was arrested by the operation cell of Chandigarh Police in April for illegally dealing in remdesivir injections. After being treated for Covid-19, Jacob was moved to the Model Jail, also known as Burail jail, on May 1. After coming out on bail, he lodged a complaint at the Sector 49 police station on Monday. Jacob alleged that the extortion demands were initially made by Thyagi, who had been sharing details about Jacob’s business and financial details with other inmates in the barrack. Later, Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide Ankit Narwal, who was in the same barrack, allegedly threatened to kill Jacob in the jail if he didn’t pay up ₹40 lakh. Thyagi intimidated him further by saying that the Bishnoi gang has more than 6,000 shooters all over India and they would kill him on the date of court hearing, it was alleged.Narwal had shared the phone number of his brother Vikas with Jacob to make arrangement for the money transfer, stated the complaint. Jacob shared the number with his wife, who contacted Vikas and received details of a bank account in Rohtak. She then transferred ₹1 lakh to the account twice on June 18 and 22. According to sources, the account is in the name of Narwal’s mother Kamla Devi. According to the complaint, Jacob was supposed to pay ₹10 lakh while in jail, the remaining ₹30 lakh were to paid after he got out on bail.Police have registered a case against Narwal and Thyagi under Sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. “We will get the custodial remand of the duo on production warrants. Vikas and the account holder will also be questioned, but they are still at large,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP, south).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhlawrence-bishnoi-gang-running-extortion-racket-in-jail-101626203695472.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh logs 2 cases, lowest in 15 months||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported only two fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 15 months. It was on April 12 last year that the same number of cases had surfaced in the UT, according to data available with the health department. Meanwhile, no fatality was recorded on Tuesday. The death toll this month stands at one.The daily positivity rate in the UT was as low as 0.15%, while recovery rate stands at 98.5%.Tricity’s tally drops to single digitThe tricity’s Covid-19 tally also dropped to a single digit on Tuesday for the first time since April last year. Mohali recorded six cases and Panchkula just one. With both districts reporting no casualty, it was for the fourth time since July 3 and for the second consecutive day that the tricity’s daily death toll stood at zero.The active cases continued to decline, dropping from 200 to 175 in the past 24 hours. At 80, Mohali has the highest number of infected patients, followed by Chandigarh with 77 and Panchkula with 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19chandigarh-logs-2-cases-lowest-in-15-months-101626203335310.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cinema halls, spas to open in Chandigarh with 50% capacity||As the daily Covid-19 case tally hit a new low of two in Chandigarh on Tuesday, the UT administration decided to allow cinema halls and spas to open with 50% capacity from Wednesday.Even Rock Garden and museums, which were closed to stop the infection spread during the second wave, will reopen with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol. While Rock Garden was shut down on April 13, more restrictions were introduced in the following weeks with a partial lockdown imposed in Chandigarh from May 4. In the recent weeks, various curbs have been relaxed in view of the drop in infection numbers.The administration on Tuesday also increased the cap on the number of guests at social gatherings, such as weddings, to 200 or 50% capacity of the banquet hall, whichever is less. However, all adult attendees and staff should have received at least one dose of the vaccine or should have a negative RT-PCR report within last 72 hours.All decisions were taken during the Covid-19 review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.Govt schools, coaching centres to reopenGovernment schools are also set to open for Classes 9 to 12 from July 19. However, online teaching will continue and physical attendance will be optional. Students attending physical classes will have to carry their parents’ consent. Director, school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said a detailed order will be issued shortly. After the closure in March last year, schools were first reopened for Classes 9 to 12 in November, but were again closed in March this year.During the review meeting, it was also decided that coaching institutes will be allowed to function physically from July 19.However, all employees and students above the age of 18 should be administered at least one dose of vaccine. Coaching centres have also been directed to strictly follow all the Covid-19 protocol.Positivity rate on the downward trajectoryDuring the meeting, Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, said that 11,390 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the past one week and the positivity rate stood at 0.5%. Also, 71% of the eligible population in Chandigarh has been given the first dose of the vaccine while 17% are fully vaccinated, she said.Dr GD Puri of the PGIMER said that the institute has only 45 Covid-19 patients, and positivity rate among Chandigarh residents tested there in the past week dropped to 0.23%. Badnore advised the institute to start a genome sequencing lab at the earliest.At GMCH, Sector 32, positivity rate was found to be 0.2% in the past one week, said director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur. The hospitals also informed Badnore that OPDs and emergency services are returning back to normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cinema-halls-spas-to-open-in-chandigarh-with-50-capacity-101626203156249.html
14-07-2021||Other||Not getting benefits of govt schemes: Panipat woman, differently-abled daughter living under flyover||Whether it is summer, harsh winter or rain, Kamla and her differently-abled daughter Sanju are living in an unprotected environment under a flyover, barely 500m from Panipat mini-secretariat.Kamla, 66, hesitates to speak of their past and family but Sanju says her father used to drink and has left her mother. She adds that she was married to Badal, of Gharaunda in Karnal, but he too abandoned the mother-daughter duo.Even as the government has launched many welfare schemes for women and the economically weak, benefits of these schemes are not reaching them. They said nobody has come forward to offer help.They have two iron boxes, clothes, two charpoys, blankets, some utensils and a chulha. “Earlier they were living at a bus shelter, but from past few years, they are here. They were here even during the pandemic and lockdown,” said a police official deputed to monitor the traffic.“We have no home to go to,” the duo says.In May this year, the Haryana State Commission for Women took notice of them and officiating president of the commission, Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, has asked the district officials to furnish details of the two so that they can be provided benefits under government schemes.District women and child protection officer Rajni Gupta said, “We tried to collect details of their family and found out that Kamla’s husband Narender had left her and married another woman before his death about five years ago.Gupta added that Sanju’s husband lives with his maternal uncle in Gharaunda and is a labourer.She said Sanju does not live with him as she does not want to leave her mother.An official of the department of social justice and empowerment said as per their present status, Kamla is entitled for widow or old-age pension and Sanju is entitled for differently-abled monthly pension, besides ration and other benefits provided by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-getting-benefits-of-govt-schemes-panipat-woman-differently-abled-daughter-living-under-flyover-101626202743580.html
14-07-2021||Other||Farmers stage protest near BJP leader Manish Grover’s house in Rohtak||Hundreds of farmers, under the banner of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Tuesday staged a protest near BJP leader and former cooperatives minister Manish Grover’s house in Rohtak demanding registration of an FIR against him and a man accompanying him.The women protesters alleged them of making derogatory gestures at them outside Hisar’s Guru Jambeshwar University while leaving a BJP meeting on July 10.Activist Jagmati Sangwan said Hansi MLA Vinod Bhayana had sought an apology from farmers and the women protesters over the Hisar incident. He had clarified that they were travelling in Grover’s SUV when the incident took place.“Bhayana said he did not know the accused. It was the moral responsibility of Grover to reveal details of the accused who made derogatory remarks at the women protesters outside GJU in Hisar,” she said.“The women protesters had lodged an FIR against the accused at Hisar police station but police are yet to lodge an FIR against Grover and his aide,” she added.SKM leader Inderjeet Singh said the HIsar incident had revealed the real face of BJP towards women.“Why has Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar not taken action against cops for not filing an FIR and tracing the accused for passing derogatory remarks at women protesters,” Singh added.Heavy police force was deployed near Grover’s house to avert any untoward situation. Police had stopped farmers from reaching the BJP leader’s house by installing heavy barricades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-stage-protest-near-bjp-leader-manish-grover-s-house-in-rohtak-101626202617178.html
14-07-2021||Lucknow||No tie-up talks with Rajbhar, says AAP MP Sanjay Singh||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Sanjay Singh on Tuesday said his party will not contest UP assembly polls in alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP).In a series of tweets on Tuesday, Singh, who is Uttar Pradesh in-charge of AAP, said, Rajbhar was lying about his meeting with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.“No meeting has been fixed between Rajbhar and Kejriwal. Neither AAP will go for alliance with the SBSP. The reports of Rajbhar meeting with Kejriwal were baseless,” he said.Reacting to Singh’s tweet, Rajbhar said, “On the invitation of AAP, I have met Sanjay Singh four times in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to discuss the pre-poll alliances formula. I also had a talk with Kejriwal on phone to discuss the alliance. Kejriwal had invited me to Delhi to finalize the alliance on July 17.”Expressing surprise over Singh’s tweets, Rajbhar said, the SBSP was working towards forming an alliance of the smaller political parties to contest the 2022 assembly election. Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, an alliance of nine smaller political parties, has already been launched.All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party president Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party chief Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party president Anil Singh Chauhan are a part of the Morcha.The Morcha had invited the AAP, Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) and Bhim Army to join the pre-poll alliance.“If the opposition parties are serious about stopping the BJP from grabbing power in 2022 assembly election, then the like-minded parties should form an alliance to check the division of the anti-BJP vote,” Rajbhar said.AAP state unit president, Sabhajit Singh said the party had launched membership drive in the 403 assembly segments of UP in the run up to the assembly election.“We have set the target to make one crore members in a month. The party has appointed coordinators in all the assembly seats, party UP in-charge will visit two assembly segments each day to review the membership drive and gear up the cadre for the assembly election,” he said.Owaisi meetings in West UPMeanwhile, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi will address meetings in the West UP districts, including Ghaziabad, Sambhal and Moradabad, on July 15.AIMIM state unit president, Shaukat Ali said AIMIM chief will visit the three districts on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-tie-up-talks-with-rajbhar-says-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-101626202500518.html
14-07-2021||Other||Light rain brings respite to Haryana farmers||Rainfall on Tuesday in some parts of Haryana brought some respite from the scorching heat.As per reports of the meteorological and agriculture department located at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, drizzle was witnessed in parts of Ambala, Gurugram, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Fatehabad, Yamunangar, Rohtak, and Panchkula.Total 6.3mm rainfall was reported in state. Maximum 52.3mm rainfall was reported in Yamunanagar, followed by 24.3mm in Gurugram, 16mm in Charkhi Dadri, 15.4mm in Fatehabad, 10.6mm in Ambala, 9.8mm in Hisar, and 6.8mm in Kurukshetra.Officials of the meteorological department are predicting more rain in the next 24 hours in isolated places in state.The drizzle after a long dry spell brought down the maximum temperature to around 34 °C and provided relief to farmers, especially the paddy growers who are facing difficulties to protect their crop in lack of rain.RAIN EXPOSES POOR MGMT OF KARNAL ADMNThe first spell of heavy rain on Tuesday left many roads inundated in chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency, Karnal city. The showers brought to fore the shortcomings of the storm-water drains.Residents of the smart city faced problems as low-lying areas in city were flooded with rainwater, causing traffic jams and inconvenience to the commuters.Waterlogging was witnessed at multiple locations, especially in the sectors located along NH-44, Committee Chowk, railway road, Model Town and Sectors 13, 14, 5, 6, 9 and 7.Officials from the Karnal municipal corporation (MC) and a few councillors took stock of the situation and assured people that required steps will be taken to avoid such situation in future.Karnal MC joint commissioner Gagandeep Singh said waterlogging was reported in some areas of the city due to heavy rain.Officials were directed to take stock of the waterlogging situation in city and the water was pumped out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/light-rain-brings-respite-to-haryana-farmers-101626202495415.html
14-07-2021||Other||Ram Rahim shifted to AIIMS, Delhi||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, 53, who is currently lodged at Rohtak’s Sunaria jail for raping two of his disciples has been shifted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi for endoscopy on Wednesday.The jail officials said he was sent for endoscopy at AIIMS as the facility is unavailable at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.On June 3, Ram Rahim had undergone a CT scan at PGIMS after complaining of stomach ache.Also on May 12, he was brought to PGIMS after his blood pressure dipped. But he was taken back to the prison the next day. At that time, he had refused to undergo Covid-19 test.GOT PAROLE TO MEET AILING MOTHER IN MAYOn May 21, the dera chief was granted emergency parole in police custody from sunrise to sunset to meet his ailing mother at a private hospital in Gurugram.Before this, he was given a day’s parole on October 24, 2020 to meet his mother.State jails minister Ranjit Singh had justified the parole at that time saying: “There is a provision under the law that if there is an emergency in the family of the convict, he is allowed to visit his family under police protection.”The dera chief was sentenced to 20 years in jail in August 2017 for raping two followers. In January 2019, he was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, who was shot dead in October 2002 outside his house after his newspaper, Poora Sach, published an anonymous letter narrating how women were being sexually exploited by Ram Rahim at the Dera headquarters in Sirsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-rahim-shifted-to-aiims-delhi-101626202376421.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination in Haryana hits 1-crore mark||Haryana hit the vaccination milestone against coronavirus on Tuesday when the cumulative tally of population given either first or both the shots breezed past the 1-crore mark.As per the 2011 census, the population of Haryana is 2.54 crore. Ever since the vaccination drive started, it has kept a steady pace in state.According to state health minister Anil Vij, 26 lakh people above 60 years of age, and 26.60 lakh in the 45-60 age bracket have been inoculated so far.He said 38.27 lakh people in the 18-44 age group have also been administered the vaccine, besides healthcare and frontline workers.“Haryana successfully administering Covid-19 vaccine to over 1 crore people is a result of hard work of the entire health department. This is a big achievement and our vaccination drive will continue at the same pace until we inoculate the entire population,” Vij said.According to the health bulletin, 1,28,264 people were administered the vaccine on Tuesday, pushing the cumulative vaccination tally to 1,00,56,163.The total number of healthcare workers administered the vaccine till now is 4.14 lakh (2.46 lakh first dose and 1.67 lakh second dose). Around 3.79 lakh doses have been administered to the frontline workers till now (first dose to 2.43 lakh people and second dose to 1.36 lakh).Vij assured that Haryana is fully prepared to deal with the possibility of a third wave.Gurugram district leads in vaccination drive where 15.87 lakh people have been vaccinated followed by Faridabad (9.91 lakh), Ambala (6.96 lakh) and Karnal (5.45 lakh). Nuh district is at the bottom where just 1.25 lakh people have received the shot so far.36 FRESH CASES REPORTED ON TUESDAYOn Tuesday, Haryana recorded 36 fresh Covid cases and seven fatalities. While no new case was recorded in eight districts, one death each was reported in Hisar, Karnal, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Jhajjar.In the past 24 hours, 29,298 samples were tested for Covid. The recovery rate of Haryana is 98.64%, while total active patients in state till Tuesday were 8,872.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccination-in-haryana-hits-1-crore-mark-101626202257456.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dushyant announces to set up 5 new ESI hospitals in Haryana||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday announced to set up five Employees State Insurance (ESI) hospitals in state while the existing hospital in Gurugram will be upgraded to provide affordable treatment to workers and employees of the industrial sector.Not only this, buildings of two ESI dispensaries will be constructed and ESI hospitals and dispensaries located in ESIC (Employees State Insurance Corporation) buildings in state will be repaired as per requirement, he said after a meeting with the officers of the ESI and labour department.The minister said the issues of these two departments, which are pending with the central government, were discussed in detail. Officers were directed to follow up all pending issues and get them approved at the earliest so that the labourers in state can avail maximum benefit.He said a 100-bedded ESI hospital will be built in Bahadurgarh (Jhajjar) for the treatment of industrial workers.There are many industrial units in Bawal of Rewari district where thousands of labourers work. Keeping in view this factor, a 100-bedded ESI hospital will be built at IMT Bawal.Dushyant added that the new hospitals will be set up in Sonepat, Hisar and Rohtak as well for which, officers have been directed to identify land.He said as there are large number of industries in Sonepat, ESI dispensary buildings will be constructed in Badi village (Gannaur, Sonepat) and Rai (Sonepat) for treatment of labourers working there.He said there is demand for repairs in some ESI hospitals and dispensaries, for which, officers have been directed to get all these projects approved by the central government and get them completed at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dushyant-announces-to-set-up-5-new-esi-hospitals-in-haryana-101626202015946.html
14-07-2021||Lucknow||Act tough against those hoarding essential commodities: CM||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said strictest action should be taken against those traders who were hoarding essential commodities.“The central government has fixed the limit of storage of various essential commodities, yet there is information that some people have been violating the limits and engaging in hoarding. The food department should stay very active, carry out raids and act tough against such people,” Yogi said at a Covid review meeting here.The CM further said the Covid situation in the state was getting better each passing day and 43 districts did not report any fresh cases on Monday while 32 districts reported fresh cases in single digit. Aligarh, Lalitpur, and Shravasti had no active Covid cases, he added. “However, continue alertness all the more,” Yogi asked officers concerned engaged in Covid management in the state.He said in the last 24 hours, 2.35 lakh samples were tested for Covid of which only 59 tested positive. “Positivity rate is now mere 0.03% and recovery rate is 98.6%”, the CM said.Yogi said Covid vaccination was going on smoothly in the state and 3.77 crore vaccine doses had been administered so far of which 3.17 crore were first doses. The chief minister said in the last 24 hours, 149 patients had recovered and the state now had 1,489 active Covid cases of which 1,189 were in home isolation.Talking about public grievances, he said his “Janata Darshan” had resumed and now “Tehsil Diwas” and “Thana Diwas” should also resume. He said “Tehsil Diwas” will be organised statewide on first and third Saturday of every month while “Thana Diwas” will be organised on second and fourth Saturday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/act-tough-against-those-hoarding-essential-commodities-cm-101626201836465.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana prepares rehabilitation scheme for Khori residents of Faridabad||The Haryana government has prepared a scheme for rehabilitating people of Khori slum in Faridabad, who are being ousted from the forest land on orders of the Supreme Court.The slum-dwellers will get flats for economically-weaker sections (EWS) equipped with basic facilities such as electricity, water and toilets in Dabua Colony and Bapu Nagar area.Last month, the SC had ordered that encroacher of forest land should be removed within six weeks.Faridabad municipal commissioner Garima Mittal said Khori slum in Faridabad is not environmentally sound. “Keeping in view this human aspect, a rehabilitation plan has been prepared for the residents. A camp will be organised for people who want to join the rehabilitation scheme,” Mittal said.She said three documents have been included in the criteria set for residents of Lakarpur Khori area of Faridabad that have been included in the rehabilitation scheme.“In this, income of the applicant families should not exceed ₹3 lakh annually and name of head of the family should be registered in the voters list of Badkhal assembly constituency of Haryana as on January 1, 2021,” she added.She said people included in the voters list of the national capital region of Delhi will not be included in the scheme. In the second document, head of the family should have a ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ issued by the state government.Any member of the family should have an electricity connection issued by the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam.Mittal said those found eligible will be provided EWS flat in a 30 sq-m multi-storey building in Dabua and Bapu Nagar area.She said till the time the houses are not completed, ₹2,000 per month will be made available to the people concerned for renting any other house for six months.She said the EWS flat will be worth ₹3.77 lakh and this money has to be paid in fixed monthly instalments.She added that within 15 days of allotment of flat, ₹17,000 will have to be deposited in lump sum. After this, an amount of ₹2,500 will have to be paid in monthly instalments for 15 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-prepares-rehabilitation-scheme-for-khori-residents-of-faridabad-101626201835264.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Allowance cut: Emergency services in Ludhiana take a hit amid strike by doctors||Patients faced a harrowing time as doctors and nurses in state-run hospitals continued their strike for the second day on Tuesday against the recommendations of the state’s sixth pay commission pertaining to non-practising allowance and pension benefits. The Joint Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee (JGDCC), accompanied by the nursing staff staged a protest outside Mother and Child Hospital. With the nursing staff also on strike, emergency, Covid, post-mortem and medico and vetro-legal services were paralysed. Only the Covid vaccination drive went on uninterrupted. Outpatient and inpatient department services, elective surgeries and other non-emergency services remained suspended as over 400 doctors posted at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna, Jagraon, and 10 community health centres joined the protest.Patients demanded resumption of services saying that private hospitals were unaffordable. “At private practices, doctors charge anything between ₹250 to ₹500 for a checkup. The government and the doctors should think about the poor and end this impasse,” said Ranjit Singh, a resident of Field Gunj.“With nurses and doctors busy raising slogans, there is no one to attend to my father who is lying in the emergency ward,” said the irate son of a patient.16 test +ve for virusSixteen patients tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the district on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “So far, 87185 patients have tested positive for Covid, of which 84,933 have recovered, while 162 cases are active.”One Covid patients is on ventilator support. The district’s death toll count stands at 2, 090. No black fungus)case was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/allowance-cut-emergency-services-in-ludhiana-take-a-hit-amid-strike-by-doctors-101626201775316.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tikri border rape case: HC seeks status report of probe||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday directed the Haryana Police to file a status report of the probe into the alleged rape of a West Bengal woman, who was a participant at farmers’ protest at Tikri border.The HC bench of justice Rajesh Bhardwaj acted on plea of accused Anoop alias Anuj, who had approached the HC seeking an anticipatory bail.The status report and a response from the state government have been sought by July 23.The complaint, which became basis for an FIR, was filed by the deceased activist’s father and a case was registered on May 9.The West Bengal woman, who was first assaulted on April 28, had succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.As per police, the main accused in the rape of the 25-year-old woman, has admitted to sexually assaulting her twice — once on the train to New Delhi and then at the protest site.There are six accused who were with her on train from West Bengal to New Delhi, when she came to join the protest. HC dismissed the bail plea of another accused Ankur Sangwan on June 29, who is still at large. As of now, police have arrested only Malik.In the plea, Anoop said it was actually a case of molestation but serious charges of gangrape were filed against them by the police to oblige their political bosses.He claimed that no offence of rape is made out against anyone and even allegations of sexual harassment are against one Anil Malik, touted as the main accused by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikri-border-rape-case-hc-seeks-status-report-of-probe-101626201715111.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||AJL case: Hooda approaches HC for quashing of ED case||Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking quashing of the enforcement directorate (ED) probe of alleged money laundering in allotment of a plot to Associated Journal Limited (AJL), publisher of the National Herald newspaper.The plea will be taken up by the bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Vikas Bahl on Wednesday. An ECIR was registered by the ED on July 15, 2016. It filed prosecution complaint before the Panchkula trial court on August 26, 2019 and the trial court took note of it on September 26, 2019 and summoned Hooda as an accused.On July 5 this year, the trial court passed an order that it will hear arguments on framing of charges on the next date and decide plea seeking deferring of hearing in the case.The plea for the same was filed by Hooda in view of the HC staying trial against him in the CBI case into same controversy.He has argued that there is neither any legal sanction nor any material warranting his prosecution under the offence of money laundering. The complaint is liable to be dismissed as the same is violative of the constitutional protection granted under Article 20 (1) of the Constitution of India against retrospective operation of penal provision.He has claimed that no prosecution can be lawfully launched on the basis of a complaint which, admittedly from the respondent side, is subject matter of further investigation before the prosecuting agency.Hence, he has sought quashing of the August 2019 complaint and September 2019 proceedings under which cognisance was taken by the trial court.The money laundering probe was based on allegations that the property was allotted to AJL in 1982 but was taken back by the estate officer, Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) a decade later, October 30, 1992 since AJL did not comply with the conditions of allotment.In 1995 and 1996, an appeal and revisions were filed by AJL against resumption of the plot, but these were also dismissed by the HUDA administration and Haryana’s financial commissioner (town and country planning).However, when Hooda became the chief minister in 2005, he allowed re-allotment of the plot to AJL at old rates. At the time of registration of the CBI FIR, late Moti Lal Vora was chairman of AJL and Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi were among the shareholders. The newspaper was launched in 1938 by Jawaharlal Nehru.Initially, on May 5, 2016, the FIR was registered by the Haryana vigilance bureau regarding allegations of cheating and corruption against Hooda and others.In December 2016, the Haryana government recommended CBI probe. CBI has submitted a chargesheet against him in trial court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajl-case-hooda-approaches-hc-for-quashing-of-ed-case-101626201655650.html
14-07-2021||Noida||Children suffering from clubfoot disease treated free of cost at district hospital in Noida||Noida: Salarpur village resident Uday Pratap Singh and his wife were ecstatic when their son was born in 2019. However, their joy was short-lived as neighbours and locals in their area started cursing them on seeing that their son’s feet were bent inwards.“People in the locality started calling my son ‘witch’s son’ while some blamed me and my family for the condition. Some old women in the village said I must have “stepped out during an eclipse” while pregnant. People said my son will never be able to walk as this condition is not treatable,” said Uday Pratap, who works as a daily wager for a private firm.His son, Shivaay Singh, was born at the Gautam Budh Nagar District Hospital, where the Rashtriya Bal Swastha Karyakram (RBSK) scheme of the STATE OR CENTRE? the government was launched in February 2019 to provide free treatment for congenital talipes equinovarus (CTEV), commonly known as clubfoot disease for patients who are up to two years of age. Clubfoot is a debilitating birth defect that causes one or both feet to point inward and upward, making it difficult and painful to walk.After Shivaay’s birth, he was screened for congenital diseases at the hospital during a follow-up after which he was referred to the orthopaedic department. Here, Dr Brajesh Kumar Singh, the district nodal officer for RBSK’s clubfoot disease program and senior orthopaedic surgeon at the hospital, started his treatment.Today, Shivaay’s feet have been cured by as much as 70% and he is able to stand with support. He is one of the 46 kids undergoing treatment at the hospital under the program since 2019. Of these, 42 are from Gautam Budh Nagar while others have been from Ghaziabad and Delhi.“Once the disease is detected at birth, the treatment begins. This disease is treated in three steps. First, their feet are plastered for five-seven weeks. Second, tenotomy surgery of the child’s foot is done. Third, special types of shoes or braces are given to the child, which are to be worn till the age of four-five years,” said Dr Brijesh.Uday Pratap said had the treatment not been free of cost, he wouldn’t have been able to afford it.In order to make the program a success, an international non-profit, Miraclefeet, has been providing technical and logistical support to the district hospital which includes training doctors as well as providing latest technology for braces for the feet. The NGO works in partnership with the Uttar Pradesh Department of Family Welfare and the National Health Mission, Uttar Pradesh.“We fund and manage the support staff to educate and follow-up with families, and provide training, technical and organizational guidance, and innovative monitoring and evaluation tools to doctors involved in the treatment. Patients under the program are provided with MiracleFeet foot abduction braces,” said Saurabh Chauhan, program executive, Miraclefeet.An estimated 7,000 children are born with clubfoot in Uttar Pradesh every year, he said.According to Dr Brijesh, lack of awareness regarding clubfoot treatment is a major concern of health officials.“Whenever a child is found born with the disease, a loud and clear message has to be given to the parents that the disease is treatable with early intervention. The disease is difficult to treat only if the child has grown up to the age of four-five or above. Under the government’s program, treatment is given to children below two years of age for free,” he said.He added that in 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country, the program had to be stalled for at least nine months. “Otherwise, the number of patients under the program would have been at least 100,” he said.Follow-up treatments are another cause of concern. “Most of the parents are daily wage earners and during early stages of treatment, the child needs to be brought to the hospital every week. In many cases, parents fail to do so. This is where program volunteers have to go for home visits and convince the parents to bring the child to the hospital,” said Chauhan.The high cost of treatment is another deterrent for low-income families.“While plasters at early stages cost ₹500, the cost can go upto ₹10,000 as the plaster has to be changed every week till the child is at least 10 months old. The tenotomy surgery costs around ₹25,000. Besides, the braces that the child has to wear for at least three more years cost ₹18,000 each. As the child grows, they have to be changed at least twice a year,” said Dr Brijesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/children-suffering-from-clubfoot-disease-treated-free-of-cost-at-district-hospital-in-noida-101626201656276.html
14-07-2021||Noida||Pod taxi project to connect Noida airport with film city will cost ₹862 crore, says DPR||GREATER NOIDA: The pod taxi project, which is planned to connect the upcoming international airport in Jewar with the proposed film city, will cost about ₹862 crore, according to the detailed project report (DPR) submitted to the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Tuesday. The length of corridor for the ambitious project will be 14.5km, the DPR said. In March this year, Yeida had roped in the central government agency, Indian Port Rail and Ropeway Corporation Limited, to prepare a DPR of the pod taxi project that will boost the connectivity between the Jewar airport and the film city.“This important project will provide smooth connectivity to residential and industrial areas falling between film city and the Noida International Airport. We have started studying the DPR so that we can suggest any changes if required, and subsequently it will be sent to the UP government for approvals,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.Pod taxis, which are quite popular in several western countries, can accommodate four to six passengers per car.According to the Yeida officials, earlier the project was proposed to be built on an elevated corridor but the DPR has suggested it to be constructed on surface itself.“We had planned only one corridor for pod taxi from airport to film city and return commute. But the DPR has suggested that there should be two corridors for a hassle-free and fast commute,” said Singh.Since there will now be two corridors, the cost of this project has been pegged at ₹862 crore as against an initial estimate of ₹300 crore, said the officials.As per the DPR, the corridor will pass through various sectors such as 21, 28, 29, 30 and 32, among others, falling under the Yeida region. The officials said that the authority wants the pod taxi project to be completed by 2023 when the first phase of the Jewar airport is likely to be operational. The Swiss company -- Zurich International -- may start work at the site of the airport next month, while the work on the film city project will be started once the UP government gives its green signal to the DPR sent to it on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pod-taxi-project-to-connect-noida-airport-with-film-city-will-cost-862-crore-says-dpr-101626201534640.html
14-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad corporation’s board okays 15% hike in property tax||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) during its board meeting held on Tuesday gave a go ahead for a “pending” 15% increase in property tax. The decision will impact about 364,000 properties under the jurisdiction of the corporation, officials said.The corporation’s board also cleared a proposal related to handing over its 5,800 square metres of land at Makanpur to the health department for development of a government hospital in the trans-Hindon area of the city. “During the board meeting, it was decided that the pending hike of 15% in house tax should be implemented. The hike (5% each year) was pending for the past two financial years and the current year,” said MS Tanwar, commissioner, GMC. In 2016, the corporation board had decided to hike 5% in property tax each year in order to generate more revenues. The GMC earns about ₹150 crore on account of the property tax. However, during the financial years of 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22, the tax increase was put on hold due to different reasons, the officials said. The board also passed the budget for the current fiscal 2021-22, with ₹946 crore expenditure and an income of ₹1,197 crore. “With the clearance of the budget, we will fast-track different civic infrastructure projects. It was also decided that ₹1 crore will be spent in each of the 100 residential wards during the year. A library has been proposed in each of the five corporation zones. Besides, to plug the revenue leakage, it was decided that computerised charges deduction should be taken up at 37 parking lots operated by the corporation,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, accounts officer of the corporation. On the clearance of the proposal to give the land for a government hospital in trans-Hindon area, Tanwar said, “The land will be handed over free of cost to the health department for development of a hospital. The transfer would be done with the process of resumption through the state government.” The health department had been searching for a land for the development of a hospital for almost a decade amid demands from residents for a government medical facility in the trans-Hindon area. The move will pave the way for a 100-bed hospital at Makanpur (Indirapuram).The board meeting was held at Hindi Bhawan in Lohia Nagar in the wake of Covid protocols and several important issues were discussed, including the contentious issue of development of a multi-level underground parking at Ambedkar Park in Navyug Market. Meanwhile, as the board meeting commenced in the morning, hundreds of people from the colonies near Navyug Market walked to the meeting venue and staged a protest for about two hours, demanding shifting of the parking project to a different place. The officials said that the protesters were pacified with assurance that they will look for another place. “The board members have asked for change of place of the project. So, we will proceed in the matter after due deliberations,” said the municipal commissioner. The cost of project, which will be developed under the state smart city mission, is pegged at ₹44 crore. The corporation has already sent the detailed project report of the project that will accommodate 235 cars to the state government for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-corporation-s-board-okays-15-hike-in-property-tax-101626201474626.html
14-07-2021||Lucknow||UP govt allows SIs to head 50% police stations||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday announced that sub-inspectors (SIs) can now be made station house officers (SHOs) in half of all police stations in the state, relaxing an earlier order that stated that they could head only 33% of the state’s police stations. The order stated the sub-inspectors could be posed to head up to 50% of police stations in the district if eligible and efficient inspectors are not available.In a letter to the director general of police (DGP), additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said that earlier inspectors were posted as SHOs in two-thirds of police stations and SIs were allowed in the remaining one-third. Now, the policy has been relaxed to enhance the morale of hardworking and efficient police personnel, the letter stated.The fresh order will pave the way for posting more SIs as head of police stations.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-allows-sis-to-head-50-police-stations-101626201414603.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Patients with severe Covid develop thyroid dysfunction: PGIMER study||Patients with acute Covid-19 infection get more frequent and severe thyroid hormonal imbalances, revealed the medical experts of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Tuesday.In a study titled “Spectrum of endocrine dysfunction and association with disease severity in patients with Covid-19”, the experts of the department of endocrinology, PGIMER, suggested the hospitals to supplement low cortisol steroids to severe Covid patients, as they believe that the high steroid dose given without supervision, and continued indiscriminately, may worsen hormonal imbalance.The study was published in a scientific journal, Frontiers in Endocrinology, on July 2, 2021.Giving details, professor Sanjay Kumar Bhadada, the head of endocrinology department, PGIMER, said, “Experts associate severe Covid-19 infection with multiple pre-existing endocrine conditions such as diabetes, obesity and metabolic syndrome. But PGIMER has assessed the hormonal changes in the bodies of the patients and found that 50% developed thyroid dysfunction.“The health conditions of as many as 84 patients admitted in the dedicated Covid care centre of the hospital were assessed: 42% of the patients had moderate-to-severe-disease and even had low oxygen saturation and comorbidities, and 58% of the patients had a mild infection,” he said.“We evaluated various hormonal parameters of the patients within 24 to 48 hours of their admission to the hospital,” said Bhadada, adding that the department was studying the levels of hormonal imbalances to expand their research.A close follow up was, however, required to know whether the condition was transient or permanent, he added.Dr Liza Das, a research scientist, said that patients with severe Covid-19 were developing thyroid dysfunction, which could be hypothyroidism, euthyroid sick syndrome (ESS) or atypical thyroiditis.“Though ESS does not usually need treatment, both secondary hypothyroidism and thyroiditis need follow-up and timely management. Also, low cortisol and testosterone levels were more common in those with severe Covid-19 infection. These hormonal dysfunctions need to be recognised both during the acute state and on follow-up for timely management,” concluded Dr Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patients-with-severe-covid-develop-thyroid-dysfunction-pgimer-study-101626201176459.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Monoclonal antibody cocktail: Glimmer of hope against Covid-19||As the city’s management and medical experts prepare for an anticipated third wave of Covid-19, an experimental drug has offered a glimmer of hope against the virus. Known as monoclonal antibody cocktail, the drug’s response has been analysed in 199 patients who were admitted to Mumbai’s Seven Hills Hospital, and the findings are promising, say doctors. Their analysis underlined two important findings – persistent fever in patients resolved within 48 hours and the days of hospitalisation were reduced. This suggests that the drug could play a role in reducing the number of severe Covid-19 cases and thereby the fatality. More studies with larger sample sizes can provide a better understanding of the drug’s usefulness in the fight against Covid-19. Here’s everything that we know about monoclonal antibodies and the drug cocktail. What are monoclonal antibodies? When our bodies are attacked by an infection caused by viruses or bacteria, they produce natural antibodies or proteins to fight back. These antibodies are crucial in our immune system’s defence mechanism. Monoclonal antibodies are similar to natural antibodies except that they are laboratory-made. They are designed to target a specific disease and are often referred to as ‘designer antibodies’. Monoclonal antibodies have been widely used in cancer and autoimmune diseases. A 2020 review published in the Journal of Biomedical Science stated that antibody engineering has evolved dramatically since the first monoclonal antibody was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in 1986 and over the past five years, antibodies have become the best-selling drugs in the pharmaceutical market worldwide. Monoclonal antibody cocktail drug used for Covid-19 A monoclonal antibody cocktail drug is a combination of two or more monoclonal antibodies that are administered to patients. Last November, the US FDA issued an emergency use authorisation to REGEN-COV, which contains two monoclonal antibodies – casirivimab and imdevimab – to be administered together for treating mild to moderate Covid-19 patients. The cocktail is indicated for adults and paediatric patients (12 years of age or older weighing at least 40 kg) who were at the risk of progressing to severe Covid-19. India granted an emergency use authorisation to the drug in May and it is the same used by doctors at Seven Hills Hospital. The drug is available in India through a tie-up between Roche India and Cipla. There are other monoclonal antibody drugs in the fray for Covid-19. In June, India’s drug regulator gave an emergency use approval to American pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly’s antibody-drug combination – bamlanivimab and etesevimab. The same month, Indian company Zydus Cadila was granted permission to conduct clinical trials for its antibody-drug therapy. How does the drug work? The monoclonal antibodies mimic the actions performed by natural antibodies during an attack by a pathogen. For instance, casirivimab and imdevimab present in REGEN-COV are specifically made to target the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, designed to block the virus’ attachment and entry into human cells. “Thanks to its specific engineering of two neutralising antibodies which bind to different parts of the virus spike, the casirivimab and imdevimab cocktail remains efficacious against the widest spreading variants and reduces the risk of losing its neutralisation potency against new emerging variants,” said a release from Cipla. Doctors who have used the cocktail drug said that timing is the key to get good results. “One must also select the patients carefully,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Tanu Singhal, who practices at Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. She has administered the drug to two patients – a 75-year-old woman with multiple comorbidities and a 50-year-old man with hypertension – and found that their fever went away within 24 hours of drug infusion and they recovered well. “It’s ideal to give the drug within seven to 10 days and only to patients who are likely to progress to severe disease. It is an expensive therapy, therefore it’s crucial to choose the right candidates and not misuse it,” she said. Drugs like tocilizumab and itolizumab that were repurposed for Covid-19 are also monoclonal antibodies. While they are indicated in severe patients who have already developed inflammation, cocktail therapies like REGEN-COV have to be administered much earlier, in order to stop the patient from developing the inflammatory syndrome. A pack of REGEN-COV contains one vial of casirivimab (1,200 mg) and one vial of imdevimab (1,200 mg) and is priced at ₹1.19 lakh (inclusive of all taxes). One pack can be used for two patients, thus the cost per patient comes to ₹59,750. The vials need to be stored at 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius. Once opened, the vials should be stored at the same temperature and used within 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monoclonal-antibody-cocktail-glimmer-of-hope-against-covid19-101626201176995.html
14-07-2021||Noida||Man sends objectionable texts and photos of friend to her fiancé, booked||Greater Noida A 25-year-old man was booked on Monday for allegedly sending “objectionable messages and photographs” of his 24-year-old friend to her fiancé, police said on Tuesday. The suspect — identified as Sonu Sharma — is a resident of Hajipur village in Greater Noida. The woman’s brother filed a complaint against Sonu at the Jewar police station, police said.The complainant said that his sister was about to get married to a resident of Bulandshahr on July 17, and their engagement ceremony was held on June 20, 2021. “However, after a few days of their engagement, my sister’s fiance started receiving objectionable texts about her from a person named Parul Sharma (Sonu here), on Instagram,” said the complainant in the FIR.Later, Parul got the mobile phone number of my sister’s fiance through social media and sent him objectionable photographs, the complainant said, adding that after which he called off the wedding.“It appears that Sonu used a fake Instagram account to send those texts. My sister is deeply saddened over the leakage of her personal photographs, and about the marriage being called off. The suspect must be brought to justice,” said the complainant.A case has been registered against Sonu under Indian Penal Code sections 500 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) at the Jewar police station, said Umesh Bahadur, station house officer. “Primary investigation reveals that the suspect (Sonu) knows the victim. He had texted the woman’s fiancé to break off their wedding. We have launched a search to arrest the suspect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-sends-objectionable-texts-and-photos-of-friend-to-her-fianc-booked-101626201175194.html
14-07-2021||Other||Angry over delay in marriage, youth kills mother||: A youth accused of killing his mother was arrested by Kandhai police of Pratapgarh on Monday evening. Police claimed that the youth killed his mother for he believed she was not taking interest in facilitating his marriage and had even rebuked her for talking to a girl on phone. A murder case has been registered against the accused, station house officer (SHO) Neeraj Waliya said. Police said Lalbahadur, resident of Mangraura area, is an army personnel posted in Jammu. His wife Rajkumari, 44 lived with their son Suraj, 20 and a daughter at their native village. Police said Rajkumari had gone to cut grass for animals with Suraj on Monday evening. Suraj got busy talking to some girl on the phone and ignored his mother’s request to pick up a sack of grass. Enraged Rajkumari snatched away the mobile from Suraj, who in a fit of rage attacked his mother with a spade on her head. Police said locals heard him say that she neither took any interest in arranging his marriage nor was she letting him talk to any girl. Police said villagers later rushed Rajkumari to a private hospital where she died. Police said the family planned to cremate the body without informing police, but someone informed the police after which the body was sent for autopsy. Suraj was subsequently arrested after Suraj’s uncle registered an FIR against him. Meanwhile, Lalbahadur also reached village on Tuesday and performed last rites of his wife, police added. Villagers informed that only recently Suraj’s mother had seen a girl for him, but Suraj barged inside the girl’s home the same day. He also asked for mobile number of a girl during a marriage function, the villagers told the police. Police suspects that Suraj was suffering from some mental illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/angry-over-delay-in-marriage-youth-kills-mother-101626201115863.html
14-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra unveils revised policy for electronic vehicles||The Maharashtra government announced its revised electronic vehicle (EV) policy on Tuesday. It has proposed changes in the development control rules (DCR) to promote the setting up of charging stations at parking lots of housing societies and corporate parks.“We want to install charging stations to be set up at parking lots of housing societies, building premises, corporate parks and thus proposed changes in DCR, which is part of our policy. People would like to have charging stations close to their homes which will promote the use of electric vehicles in the state,” said Aaditya Thackeray, state environment and climate change minister while revealing the policy that was cleared by the state cabinet last week.“Urban local bodies will be encouraged to provide property tax rebates to residential owners for installing private charging infrastructure within their premises. Details will be announced soon,” states the Maharashtra State Electric Vehicle Policy 2021.“The developer is likely to be allowed floor space index (FSI) against the space used for charging stations so that they won’t have to face financial losses,” said an official, wishing not to be named.Thackeray said charging won’t be a problem because solutions are bound to come when demand for the electronic vehicle will increase. “The charging technology is constantly changing. With the new technology in place, vehicles can be charged with normal sockets and with the desired speed. Hence, it would be better if private charging stations are promoted. Apart from them, charging stations at government and corporation places will remain available… Bus depots can also be used for the same,” the environment minister said.In its revised policy, the state intends to set up 1,500 charging stations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 500 in Pune, 150 in Nagpur, 100 in Nashik, 75 in Aurangabad, 30 in Amravati and 20 in Solapur city. It plans to set up at least one public charging station in a 3 km x 3 km grid or a minimum of 50 charging stations per million population, whichever is higher, said Ashish Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, transport department.By 2025, the state also intends to provide full-scale infrastructure for electric vehicles on four major highways — Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway, Mumbai-Pune Express Highway, Mumbai-Nashik, and Nashik-Pune highway, he added.The revised policy will remain valid till March 31, 2025.The state government aims to boost the demand for electric vehicles and improve supply as well through incentives. The state government believes that incentives for automobile companies and subsidies for the buyers will help in encouraging its manufacturing and increase demand among the buyers.The new policy aims to electrify 10% of all vehicles by 2025. Also, public transport and last-mile delivery vehicles will see 25% electrification under this policy. Starting from April 2022, all new government vehicles be it owned or leased operating within the major cities will be only electric, stated the policy.It also intends to incentivise purchase of 100,000 electric two-wheelers, 15,000 e-autos, 10,000 cars, 20,000 goods carriers (both three and four-wheeler) and 1,000 e-buses. Maximum incentive against two-wheelers would be ₹10,000, three-wheelers ₹30, 000, three-wheeler (goods carrier) ₹30,000, four-wheelers ₹1.5 lakh, four-wheelers (goods carrier) ₹1 lakh and e-buses ₹20 lakh.All electric vehicles will be exempted from road tax and registration charges till 2025. Scraping of electric vehicles has also been incentivized by the state. For two-wheeler ₹7,000, three-wheeler ₹15,000 and for four-wheeler ₹25,000 will be given by the state government, stated the additional chief secretary.Maharashtra was one of the first states to unveil its electric vehicle policy in February 2018. However, it could not be implemented effectively due to the subsequent changes made by various central government departments.Apart from promoting electric vehicle production and sales, the policy also emphasises the requirement of batteries for electric vehicles. It intends to set up at least one gigafactory for manufacturing advanced chemistry cell batteries. It will also allocate money for promoting research and development, innovation and skill development in the state’s electric vehicle ecosystem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-unveils-revised-policy-for-electronic-vehicles-101626201114604.html
14-07-2021||Lucknow||Angry villagers attack forest guards after tiger killed two in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve||: Day after two villagers were killed in a tiger attack in Deoria range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve, enraged villagers on Tuesday attacked some forest guards who were there in search of big cats. Two forest guards were injured in the attack. The forest department has decided to lodge a police complaint against unidentified persons regarding the attack. “A team of forest guards conducting combing operations in the area were attacked by some miscreants. Our personnel escaped the attack with minor injuries,” said deputy director of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) Naveen Khandelwal. According to locals the incident occurred at around 8 am in the morning when the forest guards asked a group of men standing on the edge of the forest to vacate the area. “There were around a dozen men who hurled abuses towards the guards and tried to manhandle them. They got into the skirmish when more forest guards reached the spot,” said a local resident The incident took place hardly a kilometre away from the spot where two people were killed in a man-tiger conflict late on Sunday night. Another man who was travelling with the duo climbed on a tree and spent his night perched on the tree to avoid being killed by the big cat. After the bodies were recovered on Monday, forest department has set up motion sensor cameras in the area to identify and track the predator. Combing operation in buffer zone is also being conducted. As per forest officials, an adult female tiger, which was seen in the area with her cubs, was behind the attack. Forest officials believe that the big cat has moved towards the buffer zone after the attack. The forest department along with the local administration is also planning to launch awareness campaign in nearby villages to mitigate possibility of man-tiger conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/angry-villagers-attack-forest-guards-after-tiger-killed-two-in-pilibhit-tiger-reserve-101626201055239.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||45-yr-old shot dead in Dwarka district court||A 45-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by another man following an altercation outside an advocate’s chamber in Dwarka court complex in southwest Delhi on Monday night, police said. The incident took place on the fourth floor of the court building where the advocates’ chambers are located.No arrest was made in the case till late Tuesday evening.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that the victim was identified as Swikar Luthra, who had at least five criminal cases, including that of cheating and extortion, registered against him.“Luthra was brought dead in Ruprani Maggo hospital from Dwarka court’s advocate chambers. He had a gunshot wound in his back. We have registered a case of murder and are investigating it,” said DCP Meena.Dwarka Court Bar Association president YP Singh said that the incident took place around 9 pm outside advocate chamber number 444 on the fourth floor of the court’s building. “Two clients had come to meet the advocate (outside whose chamber the firing and murder happened) and an altercation broke out between them over some issue... One of them took out a firearm and fired four to five bullets, killing the other man on the spot,” said Singh.On Tuesday, Singh said, members of the bar council held a meeting with the district judge and other senior judges over the incident and the court’s security.Later in the day, members of the bar association held another meeting. “We decided in the meeting that all lawyers’ chambers will be closed by 5.30pm every working day. By 6pm, electricity connection in lawyers’ chambers and the facility of the elevators will be stopped. The decisions has been conveyed to the lawyers,” the bar association president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-man-shot-dead-inside-dwarka-court-complex-101626200935163.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Water crisis will be over soon, says DJB vice-chief||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairperson Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said the Haryana government has released the city’s “rightful share of water”, two days after the water utility filed a petition in the Supreme Court over the issue.“The Haryana government released 16,000 cusecs (the share of water the Capital is legally entitled to) of water to Delhi, two days after the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government filed a petition in the Supreme Court. The water released at the Hathinikund Barrage will reach the city’s water treatment plants (WTPs) over the next three days,” Chadha said in a statement.On Monday, Chadha visited the Wazirabad barrage, claimed that the water level in the Yamuna has slipped to its lowest mark since 1965, and blamed Haryana for the shortages that squeezed supply in the national capital with several areas in the central, south, west and New Delhi districts going without regular supply.On Tuesday, Chadha said the water shortage being faced by residents in several parts of the city will be resolved soon with enough water being available at Delhi’s treatment plants.“Soon after the petition was filed in the SC, the Haryana government released 16,000 cusecs of water to reach Delhi for its consumption. I would like to congratulate the people of Delhi for this victory,” he said.Chadha also expressed his regret for the water shortage faced by a large number of residents over the past few days.The Haryana government on Monday strongly denied the charges of withholding water.“First, they (AAP government) presented false figures during Covid second wave to procure oxygen, much above the requirement, and now Kejriwal is doing the same on the water issue to hide his own failures. They are levelling baseless allegations,” Haryana home minister Anil Vij said on Monday.DJB officials said that, at present, the water level is around 667 feet itself but will increase to normal as the water released from Haryana reaches it. “Also, with the monsoon showers expected over the coming days, the river may swell up like every year,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be namedDelhi’s daily water demand is 1,150 millions gallons per day (MGD), and the normal daily supply is 950 MGD. Currently, the city’s water treatment plants are producing less than 900 MGD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-releases-water-crisis-may-soon-be-over-raghav-chadha-101626200874552.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||First monsoon rain meets rush hour on Tuesday||When the first monsoon shower in Delhi met the morning rush hour on Tuesday, water-logging and traffic jams were reported from several arterial roads across the city. The much-awaited southwest Monsoon finally arrived in Delhi on Tuesday, bringing respite from scorching summer temperatures as 28.1 mm rainfall was recorded at the Safdarjung observatory between 8.30am and 5.30pm, according to IMD data.According to traffic police control room records, roads around the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) flyover, Defence Colony flyover, Som Vihar, Dwarka Link Road, Airport underpass, Janakpuri West Metro station, Ashok Vihar, Chhatarpur, Qutub Minar Metro station, Uttam Nagar T-point, Mathura Road near Sarita Vihar traffic signal, and Delhi Cantonment flyover saw ong queues of vehicles trying to negotiate the inundated stretches.“There was good rainfall in the morning. Water-logging was reported on several arterial roads, slowing down the traffic movement. We ensured that additional traffic policemen were deployed to assist and direct traffic,” said a senior traffic police official asking not to be named.Flooding was reported from the Pul Prahladpur underpass, near the Mehrauli-Badarpur Road. forcing the public works department (PWD) to stop traffic movement for some time.“As a precautionary measure, we had to stop traffic for about two hours due to heavy water-logging at the Pul Prahladpur underpass. It was caused due to the overflow of a DJB (Delhi Jal Board) sewer line,” a PWD official said.However, there was no water-logging reported at the Minto Road rail underpass, a spot that gets flooded during the rains every year --- often providing an iconic and customary photograph of a blood submerged in water. PWD officials said elaborate arrangements were made to avoid water accumulation under the bridge.People posted pictures and videos of water-logged streets on social media, blaming the authorities for the annual problem.“Traffic in a standstill near Qutub Minar metro station this morning. The first rain brings traffic jams and water-logging in Delhi,” tweeted Vaibhav Bisht.Another commuter, Vipul Malik, said: “Stuck at the Delhi Cantt flyover for the last 30 minutes. If this is what the first rain does to traffic, do not want to imagine the plight on roads for the next few months.”Shalini Gupta, a resident of Saket, said every year colony roads get submerged. “The claims made by civic agencies that they have cleaned the drains and ensured proper outflow of stormwater fall flat every year. Some accountability must be fixed,” said Gupta.South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Mukesh Suryan said, “We have cleaned all drains under our jurisdiction. It is the bigger drains falling under the jurisdiction of the Delhi government departments including PWD and the Irrigation and Flood Control (I&FC) that are choked. Since the smaller drains fall into the bigger drains, the overflowing sewer water flows back and floods residential areas,” he said.Senior PWD officials rejected claims by the municipalities. They said since the corporations do not remove solid waste properly, it chokes the storm water drains despite being cleaned. “We have completed our desilting process on time. Tonnes of solid waste is dumped in drains, which chokes them and cause water-logging on the roads,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-jams-in-delhi-as-first-monsoon-rain-meets-tuesday-rush-hour-101626200816818.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 16-year-old girl hacked to death with an axe, stalker arrested||A day after a 16-year-old girl was attacked and killed by a man wielding an axe near her home in south Delhi’s Moti Bagh, police on Tuesday said they have arrested her attacker, who was allegedly stalking her for the past several months.The 21-year-old suspect was identified by his single name, Pradeep alias Praveen. Police said he was harassing the girl for a relationship but she turned him down. Around two months ago, the girl’s father slapped him for troubling his minor daughter, the police said.“Pradeep was arrested from his sister’s house in Palwal, Haryana. He was stalking the girl for the past several months and the girl’s father had slapped him over this. This angered Pradeep and he wanted to take revenge. He purchased an axe from RK Puram a month ago and used it to attack the girl on Monday afternoon. The axe was recovered from the scene of crime,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh.Police said the attack on the girl was captured by a CCTV camera installed near the spot. The footage helped them deduce the exact sequence of events leading to the attack and establish the attacker’s identity. It is a key piece of evidence against Pradeep, they said.According to the girl’s younger sister, Pradeep was threatening the girl for the past the few days -- he had said he would kill her before her birthday on July 13. “Pradeep attacked her just a day before her birthday. He was harassing my sister. He once came to our house drunk at night and quarrelled with us,” the sister said.Police said the teenager lived with her parents and three siblings in a slum behind some government quarters in Moti Bagh. Her parents sold fruits and electrical items from a shop nearby, with her father sometimes working part-time at an embassy ( the family did not say which one). The 16-year-old girl was a class 11 student at a government school and she helped managed the shop in her free time, police said. That was where Pradeep saw her.Pradeep lived in a tenement nearly a kilometre away from the girl’s house, but he used to visit his friend’s shop, which is nearby her parents’ shop, the police said.On Monday around 1pm, the girl was walking towards her home in Moti Bagh and was about 200 metres from her home when Pradeep allegedly accosted her and attacked her with the axe, leaving her with severe head and face injuries. He fled the crime scene, but left behind the axe covered in blood, said DCP Singh.“The injured girl was rushed to Safdarjung hospital by the time the police reached the crime scene after being alerted by a passerby. She was alive at the time of her admission, but succumbed to injuries during treatment. The case that was initially registered as attempt to murder was later converted to murder,” the officer said.Police said that the CCTV camera footage from near the crime scene was shown to the girl’s family members, who identified her attacker as Pradeep. The investigating team then examined CCTV cameras on the route that Pradeep took after the crime. A search was conducted at his house but he was missing. Through technical surveillance and information collected through their informants’ network, Pradeep’s location was traced to his sister’s home in Palwal. A search was conducted there and he was arrested, they said.Delhi has reported at least five cases of rape and six cases of sexual harassment every day this year till June 15, according to the latest data uploaded on the Delhi Police’s website. During the corresponding period last year, the capital witnessed three rapes and four cases of sexual harassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-stalker-held-day-after-16-year-old-girl-dies-in-axe-attack-101626200695791.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccines in short supply, may shut jab sites: Delhi govt||The Covid vaccination drive in Delhi has again run into shortages, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday, declaring that around 500 jab centres will have to be closed from Wednesday if the city does not receive more stocks.Delhi currently has a vaccine stock of 168,000 doses to be administered through 1,374 centres, Jain said.Delhi last inoculated more than 200,000 people on June 29; and between June 30 and July 13, it has vaccinated more than 100,000 people only on six occasions, according to the data from the CoWIN dashboard.“We have the capability to administer 300,000-400,000 doses a day. But there is a shortage of vaccines. We received a small stock of 150,000 Covishield doses on Monday night. We have around 168,000 doses which will not last beyond Tuesday or the first half of Wednesday. We have to shut down vaccination centres because of lack of vaccines,” Jain said.Taking a dig at the Haryana government, Jain said, “We can’t function like Haryana and slow down the vaccination drive to hoard on stocks. We are vaccinating the maximum number of people as and when we are receiving the vaccines.”On May 31, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had accused the Delhi government of exhausting its share of vaccines soon.The vaccination drive picked up pace after a policy change from June 21, when the Centre took over the procurement and free distribution of vaccines to all adults. Union health ministry officials, however, said states should plan their drives according to the supply of vaccines.“We are running a marathon, not a sprint race; and need to understand its challenges... From about 250,000 doses daily average in January to the current 4 million doses, we have made significant progress. States are being informed about supplies well in advance and can plan vaccination coverage accordingly. In some time, there will be more doses available,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, during a press briefing on Friday on vaccine shortage.Though more than 128,000 doses were administered till Tuesday evening, according to the CoWIN dashboard, Delhi districts said that they had to close some of the centres due to rationing of doses.“There are intermittent shortages of vaccines as the supply is not regular. Districts are allocated doses only for two or three days at a time now, which is much lower than the demand. There is a sort of rationing; today we got some doses, tomorrow some other district will get it. This is the reason for the drop in vaccinations on some days,” said an official from South West district. “Today, our district received a fresh stock of doses so around 15,000 jabs were administered. Yesterday, we had managed only 4,000,” the official added.Another senior district official said the problem is likely to continue this month. “Today, we had to shut some of the vaccination centres. There have been days when we could run only a couple of centres because of the shortage of doses. And, this is likely to continue for the month because Delhi’s allocation for the month is low. Hopefully, with production being ramped up, more doses will be available from the next month,” the official said.No relaxation on CovaxinMeanwhile, a month after the Delhi government restricted use of its Covaxin stock only for those lining up for second doses, the authorities are yet to open Covaxin for first jabs. Officials said that it was unlikely to happen this month due to irregular supply.“There were talks of resuming Covaxin first dose, however, it is not being considered at the moment because there are still people who got the first jab in May and now need the second dose. In addition, the supply is not very stable. The government might open it up next month after those eligible for second dose have received it,” said another district official.Currently, only 20% of the Covaxin doses are being used as first dose, mainly for those older than 45. The proportion of Covaxin doses administered in Delhi fell from 30% at the beginning of June to 24% as on Tuesday evening, according to CoWIN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccines-in-short-supply-delhi-govt-says-may-have-to-shut-more-jab-sites-101626200575399.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Soon, Metro feeder e-buses with auto ticketing system||After a wait of nearly seven years since the last batch of feeder buses were inducted into the service, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) last week received 25 fully electric feeder buses with an inbuilt automatic fare collection system -- the first in the country.DMRC plans to induct a total of 100 such low-floor, air-conditioned e-buses out of which the first batch of 25 buses have undergone the necessary fitness tests conducted by the state transport department and are likely to be launched next month. The remaining 75 buses will be inducted gradually in a phased manner within this year, a DMRC spokesperson said. DMRC inducted the last set of feeder buses in 2014-15.“These buses can also operate without a conductor. They have machines where one will have to just tap the Metro smart card and the fare will be deducted automatically, and a receipt will be generated. Passengers will have to swipe the card twice -- during entry and exit -- to calculate the fare and automatically deduct the fare,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.DMRC currently has 174 CNG feeder buses, operated by private concessionaires, on around 20 routes to provide last-mile connectivity. With the induction of 100 new buses, DMRC will have 274 feeder buses plying on around 30 routes.DMRC executive director Anuj Dayal said the new buses have a seating capacity of 24. “They will operate on 10 routes covering 14 metro stations... The buses follow all urban bus specifications and are also equipped with GPS, CCTV cameras, panic buttons and so on. There will also be a digital passenger information system,” he said.However, a senior Metro official, on condition of anonymity, expressed apprehension over the sustainability of the system.“It remains to be seen if people cooperate, honestly swipe their cards... trials are on,” said the Metro official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soon-conductor-less-feeder-e-buses-along-metro-routes-101626200214520.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||Buildings near Metro station to get less parking space||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Tuesday approved dynamic parking norms for the national capital in a bid to address the issue of traffic congestion by limiting parking space, and encouraging people to use public transport.Under the new norms, all new buildings (except residential), coming up near Metro stations and multilevel car parking lots will have 10%-30% less parking space than what is allowed under the current policy.The new regulations were placed in the public domain for scrutiny and feedback in March. They will now be sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for notification, said a senior DDA official.The Supreme Court termed parking as one of the “most serious problems” while hearing a case in September 2019.“Currently, parking norms are based on the designated use of the premises. It has been observed that the surplus parking from buildings spills over to roads and results in congestion in public spaces. The new parking norms have been worked out based on the availability of the Metro network, other modes of public transport (including cab aggregators) and multi-level car parking facilities,” the official cited above said, requesting anonymity.According to the new rules, for any non-residential property located within 500 metres of a Metro station, there will be a 30% deduction in the permissible parking space. For properties located 500-800 metres from a Metro station, there will be a 15% reduction. For buildings coming up within one kilometre radius of a multilevel parking lot, there will be 10% deduction. The new deductions will also apply commercial centres and markets such as Connaught Place.The rules for plotted residential areas remain unchanged, but those for group housing societies have been altered. A second DDA official said the new policy will be applicable on ongoing projects, especially those in various stages of approval. However, deductions for Metro and multilevel parking lots will not apply to residential buildings or areas.“For residential areas, DDA has proposed to take the number of dwelling units as the baseline instead of the built-up area,” the second DDA official said.Currently, the scale used to calculate parking space for group housing is two equivalent car spaces (ECS) per 100sqm of built-up area. It will now be changed to one ECS per dwelling unit for societies where each house/flat has an area between 40sqm and 100sqm. “But in case of government housing, the norms of General Pool Residential Accommodation colonies will be adopted,” the second DDA official said.Transport expert Amit Bhatt, director transport at World Resources Institute (WRI) India, welcomed the new regulations. “It will encourage people to use public transport. A lot of cities world over are moving towards capping the maximum parking space. This should be done in Delhi too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-buildings-near-metro-stations-multilevel-lots-will-have-reduced-parking-space-101626200155139.html
14-07-2021||Delhi||DDA nod to cheap rental homes in city||To provide affordable housing, particularly to migrant workers and the urban poor, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Tuesday approved a proposal for the construction of affordable rental housing complexes (ARHCs) in the Capital. DDA officials said the scheme, which is modelled on the Centre’s ARHC guidelines, will be included in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021, and a proposal will be sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for notification.“The proposed ARHCs will ensure affordable and easily accessible rental housing in the vicinity to urban poor or migrant workers near their workplaces in Delhi. While the provision for ARHCs has been made in MPD-2041, we have decided to include this in the current master plan as well so that it can be implemented at the earliest,” said a senior DDA official. Under the plan, ARHCs will have a mix of dwelling units -- single and double bedroom -- and four-six bed dormitories, with common facilities. They can be developed on private or government land, or plots auctioned by DDA.Meanwhile, experts expressed apprehension over the sustainability of the model. “It is a good concept, but it is unlikely that many developers will invest because there is a huge gap between the rental yields versus the investment in developing these complexes. The project has to be financially viable... For this, there is a need to incentivise these projects,” said Mudassir Zaidi, executive director, Knight Frank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-approves-affordable-rental-housing-scheme-to-be-included-in-mpd2021-101626200154483.html
14-07-2021||Other||Eight fresh Covid cases, no death in Lucknow||LUCKNOW No fresh Covid death was reported during the last 24 hours while eight fresh cases surfaced in the city on Tuesday. There were 129 active cases in the city and 19 patients recovered from Covid infection during the day. Lucknow’s fatality count due to the virus remained at 2,651, as per the health department.So far 2,35,689 people had defeated Covid in the state capital. Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, CMO, warned against any sort of complacency in wake of the drop in Covid count. “It’s an important time for authorities and residents as the number of cases is dropping down to single digits. Our aim should be to get the figures to zero and for that people must follow Covid Appropriate Behaviour. They must follow social distancing and continue to wear masks at public places,” he said.KALYAN SINGH STABLEFormer chief minister Kalyan Singh, who was admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), is better now.“Since admission, his condition is improving and all his parameters are being monitored by a panel of senior doctors,” said RK Dhiman, PGI director.Meanwhile, minister for cooperatives Mukut Behari Varma and minister of state for excise Ram Naresh Agnihotri met Kalyan Singh on Tuesday to wish him a speedy recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eight-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-in-lucknow-101626198174345.html
14-07-2021||Other||PM to gift projects worth ₹1,583 cr to Varanasi||VARANASI Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation of 134 development projects worth around ₹1,583 crore during his visit to Varanasi on July 15. Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said the PM will inaugurate 68 development projects worth ₹744 crore and lay the foundation of over 65 projects worth ₹839 crore, besides addressing a public meeting at IIT-BHU ground during his visit to the temple city. These projects include the inauguration of Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICCC) ‘Rudraksha’, Mother and Child Heath Wing of the SSL Hospital (BHU), Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, operation of cruise boat from Rajghat to Assi Ghat, operation of RORO vessels in Ganga, installation of signages at all 84 ghats and others. Srivastava said the Prime Minister will launch the developmental projects during a programme at the IIT-BHU ground. After that, he will address people present in the programme. Thereafter, the PM will visit the VICCC and inaugurate it. Ambassador of Japan to India, Suzuki Satoshi, his wife Chikaga Suzuki, counsellor Kiyose Kazuhiro, secretary Oda Akari and a three-member-team of Japan International Cooperation Agency, led by its chief representative Matsumoto Katsuo will attend the inaugural ceremony of the VICCC. Special arrangements have been made to give a welcome to Suzuki Satoshi, added Srivastava. The PM will interact with around 300 prominent people of Kashi in the auditorium of VICCC. In December 2015, the then Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had visited Varanasi, along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Abe had gifted the VICCC project to the city. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) had funded the construction of the VICCC, which cost around ₹186 crore. Japanese company Fujita Corporation, which was given the contract to construct the centre, built it and handed it over it to the Varanasi Smart City recently for its management and operation. After inaugurating the VICCC, the PM will go back to the BHU, where he will interact with a team of 25 doctors regarding preparations to deal with the possible third wave of Covid, added Srivastava. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday instructed officials to make foolproof arrangements for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Varanasi on July 15. Reviewing the preparations, he inspected the IIT-BHU ground, VICCC ‘Rudraksh’ and later held a meeting with the officials in the Circuit House auditorium. “There must be impregnable security arrangements during the PM’s visit,” the CM told police officials. Yogi said police personnel in plain clothes should also be deployed and the required investigations at all the venues should be done in advance. He also instructed civic officials to run a special sanitization campaign in the entire city. “Make such arrangements that there is no water-logging at the meeting place in case of rain. Plastic ban should be enforced strictly. Proper arrangements of drinking water should also be in place,” said the CM. “Everyone coming to the meeting of PM should undergo thermal scanning and wear a mask,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-to-gift-projects-worth-rs-1-582-cr-to-varanasi-101626193074009.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Central team to check rising Covid cases in Maharashtra||On Monday, the central government deployed a multidisciplinary team of experts to keep a check on the state’s rising cases, especially the districts which continue to report a higher positivity rate. While central teams were sent earlier when the state saw its peak of the first and second Covid-19 waves, this is the first time the team is coming when the second wave is receding but districts like Kolhapur, Ratnagiri, Sangli and Satara where the RT-PCR positivity rate is still higher than 10%.The central government in its letter to the state has stated that four experts, Kunal Kumar, Nodal Covid officer for the state of Maharashtra and joint secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs; Dr Ajit Shewale, deputy director, National Center for Disease Control, Delhi; Dr Pranil Kamble, deputy director, Regional Office of Health and Family Welfare, Pune and Dr Satyajeet Sahoo, assistant professor department of pulmonary medicine, AIIMS (Nagpur).The four experts had been deployed to guide the state health machinery to specifically look into testing, contact tracing, including surveillance, containment operations, Covid appropriate behaviour, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics, including ambulance, hospital-wise case fatality rate and Covid vaccination progress. The team will assess the situation, suggest remedial actions, and report everything to the Centre and state every day starting from Tuesday.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, confirmed about the team’s deployment and said, “This is not the first time the central team has been deployed. However, this time the special focus is on the district with higher positivity rate especially Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Ratnagiri which have a higher positivity rate than the state average. The primary aim is to control the spread of the infection in these districts.”As per the weekly positivity RT-PCR report, while the state positivity rate is at 5.4% between July 5 and July 12, Kolhapur reported 10.5%, Ratnagiri (11.6%), Sangli (11.1%), Satara (11.4%) and Sindhudurg at 9.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/multidisciplinary-experts-deployed-to-control-rising-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-101626190733920.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Compulsory two vax dose rule leaves Pune players miss regular training||Pune: The mandatory two doses of vaccine and restriction of training timing till 4pm for indoor sports have made things difficult for sports academies in Pune. With players missing practice for the past 15 months, the latest Covid restrictions are keeping them away from court. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) order restricting indoor and outdoor sports till 4pm on all days is a move to break the chain of Covid infections. Players, coaches and support staff involved in indoor sports training need to take two doses of vaccination before getting permission to play. “Two doses are compulsory,” said Rubal Agarwal, PMC assistant commissioner. Many upcoming players who are not seasoned campaigners are missing training as they await for the vaccine dose. Professional players are undergoing practice as they have completed both the doses. “Whatever steps the government has taken, it is looking at the safety precautions and they are right on their path. But if you look at the technicality and if someone has taken a dose of Covishield and s/he cannot take the next dose till (28 days but before 84 days) then one should be allowed to practice. I pointed it to the state sports government officials and they have allowed the training,” said Nikhil Kanetkar, director, Nikhil Kanetkar Badminton Academy (NKBA) at the Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex in Balewadi. NKBA is maintaining vaccination details of all players who are coming for training. The academy is making sure that those who are due for second dose get it done at earliest. “One must understand that training and competition are two different things. And training is a continuous process and indoor sports also need regular training so we cannot hold it for long,” he said. Ranjeet Natu, Poona District Metropolitan Badminton Association (PDMBA), honorary secretary, said, “We were expecting a few more relaxations for players. Currently those who have taken two doses are only practicing at the courts. We will be writing to PMC to arrange a vaccination camp at PDMBA so we can provide doses to those who have yet not got it.” Chess coach Pavan Rathi said, “Chess is still not allowed to be played offline. Players are learning chess online, but permission for offline practice must be given now.” Extend play time till 7pm Pune Municipal Corporation has allowed sports training till 4pm which is making things difficult for sports academies as they cannot accommodate more players in limited timing and with online school going on till 3pm, many players are unable to continue with practice routine. “When we are targeting players for the 2024, 2028, 2032 Olympics then we cannot keep players under-18 without practice. Once timing is increased clubs can accommodate more players. Players (under-18) missing one more year of training will be a huge loss for the future,” said Kanetkar. “Due to the start and stop of academies, many new players are not joining sports. Timing is also one big factor as most of the clubs runs batches after 4pm and which is unavailable right now. Extension of timing will help players and academies,” said Neeraj Honap, table tennis coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/compulsory-two-vax-dose-rule-leaves-pune-players-miss-regular-training-101626190313839.html
14-07-2021||Pune||Five development plans to cover Pune city||PUNE: Pune could be the first city in Maharashtra to have five development plans (DP) for different areas. Experts fear that different rules for different areas may lead to confusion and haphazard urban growth. With the latest state government notification expanding the city limits, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is preparing a development plan for the newly merged 23 villages and the count of DP covering the city has touched five. Pune city has DP for old city limits, 23 villages which have bio diversity park (BDP) provision, Yeolewadi, 11 villages merged in 2017 and the latest for newly added 23 villages. A development plan is a long-term planning document that gives a conceptual layout for proposed future growth and development. It covers buildings, social settings and surrounding environments. The plan includes analysis, recommendations, and proposals for a site’s population, economy, housing, transportation, community facilities, and land use. The plan could be renewed every 20 years. Three DPs are already in place — for old city limits, 23 villages and Yeolewadi. The DP for 11 villages is in the pipeline and the municipal corporation has called a general body meeting on July 15 to start the process for newly merged 23 villages. Town planner Ramchandra Gohad said, “The government and municipal corporation’s policy for merging and demerging villages is responsible for this situation. In 2070, we suggested planning for fringe areas that were not part of the municipal corporation. Later, in the nineties, we suggested to merge 53 villages in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations with 38 villages in PMC and 15 in PCMC. Again, it was not accepted. The delay led to haphazard development in these fringe areas and now these villages have become part of the municipal corporation.” Gohad said, “At least now steps should be taken to carry out integrated planning for the whole area. The PMC area has become vast and there are challenges for providing municipal services like water, garbage management.” Urban planner Anita Benninger said, “Along with the various development plans, there are some other agencies like Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Collector, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) involved in the planning. They had given some permission. We need to review the limits and their jurisdiction for doing an integrated planning.” Oppn decry BJP’s call for GB meet The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to call a general body (GB) meeting on July 15 to chalk out DP process for the newly merged 23 villages. Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) that covered these villages has prepared a DP for these areas. Recently, municipal commissioner announced that to save time, PMC will adopt the DP from PMRDA and invite suggestions and objections. However, the BJP opposed the move stating that as these villages became a part of the municipal corporation, PMC has the right to prepare DP. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and leader of House Ganesh Bidkar took this stand. Criticising the BJP’s stand, NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “PMC has been preparing a DP for 11 villages for the last three years. PMRDA had prepared the DP when it was ruled by the BJP and now they question that same DP.” Congress leader Aba Bagul blamed the BJP for calling a general body meeting without discussing it with the opposition parties. “PMC can adopt the DP from PMRDA and carry the future process,” Bagul said. Five DP DP for old city limits DP for merged 23 villages which have BDP provision DP for Yeolewadi DP for merged 11 villages which got merged in 2017 DP for merged 23 villages which got merged in June 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-development-plans-to-cover-pune-city-101626189233894.html
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||All those missing in Kangra landslide presumed dead||Rescue workers dug through debris, looking for those missing after a landslide ripped through the remote Rulehar village of Boh panchayat in Shahpur subdivision of Kangra on Monday. Kangra SSP Vimukta Ranjan said four bodies were retrieved on Tuesday. With this number of casualties have gone up to five. The deceased are as Mamta, 21, Shakuntla, 60, and Kartik, 15, while the fourth one is yet to be identified. Body of Masto Devi was found on Monday. Five are still missing while as many people were rescued alive on Monday night. Ranjan said, “The National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) arrived around 10pm after road connectivity was restored. It has taken over the rescue work.” He said 11 houses were either swept away or damaged in the landslide. There was no trace of the missing, even as the rescue workers struggled to cut through the big boulders to find them, he added. Kangra DC Nipun Jindal said all the missing have been presumed dead. “Rescue operation is on but chances of survival of the missing are very bleak,” he said. Meanwhile, another NDRF team deployed in the Tatvani village in Shahpur rescued seven people who were stuck due to flooding. Earlier, emergency workers had rescued 80 people, including tourists and students, who were stranded at famous trekkers’ destination Triund. Girl drowns at Nagrota Bagwan, two missing in Dharamshala A girl drowned in a swollen stream at Kirchamba village of Nagrota Bagwan sub division. Her body was recovered on Monday night. A person is reported missing from Bhagsunag near Dharamshala, while another is missing at Samirpur village, where three cattle drowned in a stream. Chetru village, 10km from Dharamshala, bore the maximum brunt of Monday’s heavy rain as six houses, 10 shops and a bridge were damaged. A school in nearby Passu village was also damaged. Three houses and two vehicles were damaged at Maned village. There are reports of damage to houses in other parts of the state due to the heavy rain. Seven members of a family in Chaupal subdivision of Shimla district were rendered homeless after their house was damaged in a landslide. In Palampur, two houses and a school were damaged. Rail traffic halted, 184 roads blocked Rail traffic on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge line was halted due to landslides at several places. A total of 184 roads, including three national highways, were blocked following landslides. Traffic on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway remained disrupted due to the blockades. Both the routes from Mandi to Manali, the national highway and an alternative route via Kataula, were blocked. National highway 5 was also blocked near Jhakhri in Rampur. Yellow weather alert todayHeavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to continue in Kangra, Hamirpur, Mandi, Bilaspur, Shimla, Sirmaur and Solan over the next two days, said Shimla meteorological centre head Surender Paul. “This may trigger landslides and waterlogging in low-lying areas, runoffs in streams and disruption of amenities so people are requested to take safety measures,” he said. The weather office has issued yellow warning of heavy to very heavy rain on Wednesday and Thursday in the lower and middle hills||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rescue-on-for-nine-missing-after-landslide-in-himachal-s-kangra-101626154074048.html
14-07-2021||World||Protests in France against Covid-19 'health pass' rules||Police in Paris clashed with protesters railing against President Emmanuel Macron's plan to require a Covid-19 vaccine certificate or negative PCR test to gain entry to bars, restaurants and cinemas from next month.Macron this week announced sweeping measures to fight a rapid surge in new coronavirus infections, including the mandatory vaccination of health workers and new health pass rules for the wider public.In doing so, he went further than most other European nations have done as the highly contagious Delta variant fans a new wave of cases, and other governments are watching carefully to see how the French public responds. The police fired tear gas on several occasions as pockets of protesters overturned garbage cans and set a mechanical digger alight. Some protesters away from the skirmishes wore badges saying "No to the health pass".Some critics of Macron's plan - which will require shopping malls, cafes, bars and restaurants to check the health passes of all patrons from August - accuse the president of trampling on freedoms and discriminating against those who do not want the Covid shot."It's totally arbitrary and wholly undemocratic," said one protester who identified himself as Jean-Louis.Macron says the vaccine is the best way to put France back on the path to normalcy and that he is encouraging as many people as possible to get inoculated.There were protests in other cities including Nantes, Marseille and Montpellier.The show of discontent took place on Bastille Day, the anniversary of the 1789 storming of a medieval fortress in Paris which marked the turning point in the French Revolution.Among other proposals in the government's draft bill is the mandatory isolation for 10 days of anyone who tests positive, with police making random checks, French media reported. The prime minister's office did not respond when asked to confirm the detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-in-france-against-covid-19-health-pass-rules-101626284241272.html
14-07-2021||World||Pak minister opposes proposed restriction on changing religion before 18 years of age||Pakistan’s Minister for Religious Affairs Noorul Haq Qadri on Wednesday opposed a proposed restriction on changing religion before the age of 18 years.Qadri, who is also a member of the Senate Parliamentary committee on minorities’ rights, said the change of religion before 18 years of age is a matter of choice and no restriction can be imposed on it."We do not support a restriction on religious conversion before 18 years of age. There are several examples in Islam of religious conversion before 18 years," he said during a meeting of the committee.He said that the change of religion before 18 is a matter of choice and no restriction can be imposed on it and if someone aged 14 years wished to convert to some other religion, they could not be stopped.But the minister agreed that the issue of marriageable age can be regulated through laws and the Council of Islamic Ideology can be consulted for it.The issue of conversion has been in the limelight for several years due to the recurrence of such cases in the Sindh province which has a sizable Hindu population and from where such cases are frequently reported.Qadri supported the probe into cases of forcible conversion and said that it would be investigated if someone was "forcefully converting others in Sindh".To the question that a certain spiritual leader in Sindh, known as Pir Mian Mithu of Bharchundi Sharif, has been allegedly orchestrating conversion of minor Hindu girls, Qadri said that the pir should be called by the committee and informed that what he was doing was "damaging Islam and Pakistan".To highlight the issue of conversion, minority Senator Danesh Kumar told the committee that a religious leader in the Dalbandin area of Balochistan was incentivising conversion.The Senator claimed that the leader was luring the menial workers like local Sweepers that would not have to sweep after converting to Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-minister-opposes-proposed-restriction-on-changing-religion-before-18-years-of-age-101626282847933.html
14-07-2021||World||Facebook rolls out ‘expert’ feature for knowledgeable members of groups||Facebook is rolling out a new feature to let subject matter experts stand out in groups run by millions of admins and moderators around the world. The social media giant on Tuesday announced a new way to spotlight subject matter experts in Facebook groups. The group admins will be able to recognise knowledgeable members in their group by designating them as “group experts.”“Admins now have the ability to select specific members in their communities who stand out, empowering them to play a more meaningful role,” Facebook executive Maria Smith wrote in a blog post.“[A]dmins can collaborate with group experts to host Q&As, share perspectives on a topic and respond to questions,” she added.The group admins can invite any member to take the expert badge but the member will have the option to accept or reject the expert invitation. In case they accept the role, the group experts will receive a badge next to their names in the group, making it “easier for group members to spot informative posts and comments from designated experts.”Facebook has not specified whether there will be any kind of vetting process for appointing experts, indicating that any member of the group can be appointed as a subject matter expert. The new ‘expert’ feature without vetting process has raised concern about possible misuse by groups to further spread misinformation. However, a Facebook spokesperson has said that function was a “limited test” available to select groups initially, BBC reported.Smith said that Facebook is starting the test by giving some people in fitness and gaming the option to identify specific topics they’re knowledgeable about. Facebook group admins can then search for those specific topics, say yoga, and discover relevant people who are not yet members and invite them to join as group experts.“To make it easier for experts to engage with their followers, we’re introducing automatic invites, which allows them to invite their recently engaged Page followers to join groups they’ve created,” wrote Smith, VP of Communities for Facebook App.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-rolls-out-expert-feature-for-knowledgeable-members-of-groups-101626281999319.html
14-07-2021||World||‘Perfect storm of factors’: UN expert warns of deepening Covid-19 crisis in Myanmar, calls for international help||A United Nations rights expert has called upon the international community’s immediate assistance in tackling the Covid-19 crisis in Myanmar. He also listed three reasons, which he called the “perfect storm of factors”, that could potentially cause significant loss of lives in the country in the absence of emergency assistance.“An explosion of Covid cases, including the Delta variant, the collapse of Myanmar’s health care system, and the deep mistrust of the people of Myanmar of anything connected to the military junta, are a perfect storm of factors that could cause a significant loss of life in Myanmar without emergency assistance by the international community,” UN Special Rapporteur in Myanmar Tom Andrews said on Wednesday in a statement by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.Stressing the mistrust of the people in the junta, Andrews said that the international community “must help facilitate a non-junta, non-political body to coordinate a Covid response initiative that includes a vaccination programme that the people of Myanmar will trust.” He also said that the Myanmar military lacks the resources, capabilities and the legitimacy to control the crisis. “The crisis in Myanmar is particularly lethal because of the pervasive mistrust of the military junta,” he added.Also read | Myanmar faces huge spike in daily Covid-19 cases, oxygen supply crisisAndrews said that those willing to help should do so before the country turns into a super spreader of the disease. “Member states, international organisations, regional bodies and non-government organisations that are willing and able to provide much needed aid must do so before untold numbers perish and Myanmar becomes a super spreader of this deadly virus,” he said.He called on the military to account for the $350 million, which Myanmar received as Covid-19 aid from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) before the military took over power following a coup.Concerns on over-crowded prisonsVulnerable populations, including those in the country’s over-crowded prisons, are at greater risk, Andrews said.“Myanmar’s prison population, including the thousands of political prisoners who have been arbitrarily detained since the coup, are in grave danger. Prisoners, particularly those with underlying conditions could see their detention become a death sentence,” he said.“Myanmar’s neighbours are well placed to help and have a self-interest to do so, but there is no time to waste. Those with influence on junta leaders must immediately seek to secure their cooperation. The UN and others in the international community are positioned to provide immediate assistance to confront this rapidly deteriorating crisis,” he further said.Meanwhile, the Myanmar government on Wednesday said that the country would receive six million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from China by August 2021, news agency AFP reported. The military government has bought four million doses and another two million would be donated by China, AFP said, citing a senior official from the country’s information ministry.On February 1, the military deposed the democratically elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi in Myanmar. The leader has since then been detained by the military. Many protests have erupted in the country against the rule of the junta, which have been strictly opposed by the military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/perfect-storm-of-factors-un-expert-warns-of-deepening-covid-19-crisis-in-myanmar-calls-for-international-help-101626280836081.html
14-07-2021||World||Bush criticises complete pullout of US troops from Afghanistan||Former US president George W Bush has joined the growing chorus of criticism of the complete pullout of troops from Afghanistan ordered by President Joe Biden and publicly called it a mistake that would lead to “unbelievably bad” consequences.Bush had ordered US forces into Afghanistan in search of al-Qaeda perpetrators of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001. They had overthrown the brutal and regressive regime of the Taliban that was sheltering al-Qaeda, and stayed on to fight terrorist groups, many of whom fled to safe havens in adjoining Pakistan.“I think it is, yeah,” Bush said to German broadcaster Deutsche Welle (DW) when asked if pulling out of Afghanistan completely is a mistake. “Because I think the consequences are going to be unbelievably bad.”Bush has desisted from speaking on politics or policy since leaving office and has focused more on his artwork - he paints - and work with veterans. Former US presidents - with the exception of Donald Trump - tend to retire from public eye altogether and speak out rarely, only when deeply concerned.Criticism of the pullout, which is 95% done, is mounting in the US and abroad as the Taliban make aggressive military gains in Afghanistan foretelling the return of their reprehensible policies such as curbs on women from working or studying enforced by the regime ousted by the US-led international forces in 2001.India has been critical as well and worried, as an important stakeholder, and called the US withdrawal as a “politically expedient” move and called for “permanent and comprehensive ceasefire” with the UN taking the lead role.DW interviewed the former US president in the context of German Chancellor Angela Merkel stepping down after 16 years in office. The two had shared a warm and close relationship, which had reflected in dramatically improved ties from their first meeting in 2006. He speaks warmly of her in the interview.Bush is troubled, however, by the pullout of troops from Afghanistan and the likely fallout, most of it is already playing out. “I’m afraid Afghan women and girls are going to suffer unspeakable harm,” Bush said, speaking feelingly of the work he and the first lady Laura Bush had done with Afghan women and girls. “I spent a lot of time with Afghan women and they’re scared.”The former president also spoke worryingly of Afghan interpreters who worked with US and coalition troops. They face real danger of brutal retaliation from the Taliban. The Biden administration has said it is doing all it can to get them and their families out of the country and eventually to the US. But there are concerns this help may be a bit too late and too little.“I think about all the interpreters and people who helped not only US troops but Nato troops. It seems like they are going to be left behind to be slaughtered by the very brutal people, and it breaks my heart,” said Bush.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bush-criticises-complete-pullout-of-us-troops-from-afghanistan-101626272520219.html
14-07-2021||World||Twitter sees jump in govt demands to remove content of journalists, news outlets: Report||Twitter Inc saw a surge in demands over the course of last year from governments around the world to take down content posted by journalists and news outlets, data to be released by the social media platform for the first time will show.In its transparency report to be published on Wednesday and a copy of which was seen by Reuters, Twitter said verified accounts of 199 journalists and news outlets on its platform globally were subject to 361 legal demands from governments to remove content in the second half of 2020, an increase of 26% from the first half of the year.It declined to elaborate on which countries submitted the demands, or how many of the legal demands pertaining to journalists or news outlets the platform complied with.The new details in Twitter's biannual report on its enforcement of policy rules and the information and removal requests it receives comes as Twitter and other social media companies including Facebook and Alphabet’s YouTube are facing scrutiny from governments around the world over the content allowed on their platforms.On Monday, Cuba began restricting access to Facebook and messaging apps like Telegram amid widespread anti-government protests. Last month, Nigeria banned Twitter's service from the country and ordered television and radio stations not to use the platform to gather information.Twitter said in the report India was now the single largest source of all information requests from governments during the second half of 2020, overtaking the United States, which was second in the volume of requests.The company said globally it received over 14,500 requests for information between July 1 and Dec. 31, and it produced some or all of the information in response to 30% of the requests.Such information requests can include governments or other entities asking for the identities of people tweeting under pseudonyms.Twitter also received more than 38,500 legal demands to take down various content, which was down 9% from the first half of 2020, and said it complied with 29% of the demands.Twitter has been embroiled in several conflicts with countries around the world, most notably India over the government's new rules aimed at regulating content on social media. Last week, the company said it had hired an interim chief compliance officer in India and would appoint other executives in order to comply with the rules.In the updated transparency report, Twitter added that the number of impressions, or views of a tweet, that violated Twitter's rules accounted for less than 0.1% of impressions for all tweets globally in the second half of 2020, the first time the platform has released such data.Like other social media companies, Twitter has struggled to police hate speech, misinformation and other abuses on its service, with Chief Executive Jack Dorsey among the tech leaders who appeared in a hearing before Congress in March on misinformation.Major social media companies were most recently under fire this week over racist abuse on their platforms directed at Black players on the England soccer team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-sees-jump-in-govt-demands-to-remove-content-of-journalists-news-outlets-report-101626269569510.html
14-07-2021||World||Taliban flag raised above Afghanistan's border crossing with Pakistan in major advance||The Taliban fighters are reported to have taken control of one of the main border crossings with Pakistan, replacing the Afghan government’s flag with their own. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid on Wednesday said in a statement that the fighters have captured an “important border town called Wesh.”The control of the border crossing between the Pakistani town of Chaman and the Afghan town of Wesh could be the most strategic objective they have captured so far amid rapid gains across the country as US forces pull out from the region. The crossing is the second busiest entry point and the main link between its vast southwest and Pakistani ports.A Pakistani official said the Taliban militants have taken down the Afghan government flag from atop the ‘Friendship Gate’, reported new agency Reuters. While the Afghan government asserted that they were in control of the Spin Boldak border district in Kandahar province, Pakistani officials said the Taliban controlled the Wesh border posts."Wesh, which has great importance in Afghan trade with Pakistan and other countries, has been captured by the Taliban," a Pakistani security official deployed at the border area told Reuters.Also Read | China asks Taliban to make 'clean break' from terrorists, return to mainstreamAmid the Afghan government’s struggle to retain control of its territories, foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) discussed the issue which is said to have major implications for the regional security. During a meeting in Dushanbe, External affairs minister S Jaishankar presented a three-point roadmap for an end state in Afghanistan, including cessation of violence and terrorist attacks against civilians and state representatives.The minister said that the world and the Afghan people want an “independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous nation”, adding that the challenge is to act seriously on these beliefs as there are forces at work “with a very different agenda.” He stressed the need to reach an “acceptable compromise” that reflects the Doha process, Moscow format and Istanbul process.Meanwhile, the Taliban have seized other major border crossings, in Herat, Farah and Kunduz provinces in the north and west, threatening regional security. Taking to Twitter, Afghanistan vice president Amrullah Saleh said that the Taliban were forcing members of a small ethnic minority to either convert to Islam or leave their homes in the northern province of Badakhshan. The Taliban’s rapid advances have also caused concern for the rights of women and girls as they were barred from school and most work under the group’s harsh version of Islamic law.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-flag-raised-above-afghanistan-s-border-crossing-with-pakistan-101626266339285.html
14-07-2021||World||Homecoming of Pope Francis after undergoing colon surgery||Pope Francis on Wednesday left the Rome hospital where the head of the world's 1.2 billion Catholics had undergone an operation on his colon on July 4.The 84-year old was whisked away from the Gemelli University Hospital in a car with tinted windows and was later spotted returning to his home within the Vatican's walls.He stopped off on the way at the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore for a quick prayer to "express his gratitude for the success of his surgery", Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said in a statement.The pope also prayed at the central Rome church for "all the sick, especially all those he had met during his stay in hospital," Bruni said.Francis had been admitted to hospital after suffering from a type of diverticulitis, an inflammation of pockets that develop in the lining of the intestine.The Vatican initially said he would be in hospital for about a week, and the pope led the Angelus prayer from his hospital window on Sunday.On Monday, Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said he would stay for a "few more days". It was not immediately clear whether Francis's schedule would immediately return to normal.The pope managed to do some work from hospital, and retained all his powers as pontiff while away.A special chamberlain, known as "the cardinal camerlengo", stood ready to take over in the event of death, as he does at all times, according to the Catholic News Service.'More tired'As if to ward off questions about his stamina, the Vatican announced on the day Francis was admitted to hospital that he would travel to Hungary and Slovakia later this year.He also hopes to attend the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow in November, according to Scotland's bishops, and there is a reported trip to Greece also being planned.The pontiff, who suffers from sciatica, confessed however after a trip to Iraq earlier this year that travelling made him "a lot more tired" these days.His chronic nerve condition, which he has dubbed "a troublesome guest", causes, back, hip and leg pain and has occasionally forced him to cancel official events.Francis almost died when he was 21 after developing pleurisy -- an inflammation of the tissues that surround the lung -- according to biographer Austen Ivereigh.He had part of one of his lungs removed in October 1957.He has also previously sought support for anxiety, according to Argentinian journalist and doctor, Nelson Castro, but deals with it nowadays by listening to Bach or sipping "mate", a popular Argentinean herbal drink.The pope's abilities to manage stress may be tested later this month when 10 people including a cardinal go on trial at the Vatican for charges including embezzlement.Cardinal Angelo Becciu was not only a high-ranking prelate but was one of Francis's close aides before he was fired last year and stripped of his cardinal rights.Although Francis's predecessor, ex-pope Benedict XVI, officially stepped down due to his advancing age, many speculated whether stress may have played a part, his resignation coming on the back of the so-called Vatileaks scandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/homecoming-of-pope-francis-after-undergoing-colon-surgery-101626264307914.html
14-07-2021||World||India's active regional diplomacy with Afghanistan as 'very encouraging': Russia||India has huge interest in Afghanistan and it is for New Delhi to decide its extent of involvement in the conflict-ridden country, a senior Russian diplomat said on Wednesday amidst growing security concerns over the Taliban fighters rapidly seizing control of a large number of areas, forcing many countries to scale down their presence there.Deputy Chief of the Russian mission here Roman Babushkin, at a press conference, also said the Taliban is a "current reality" in Afghanistan and the formation of an inclusive government with representation from all ethnic groups could pave the way for peace and stability in the conflict-ridden country.Noting that both Russia and India are supportive of the dialogue process in Afghanistan, he said they are actively monitoring the evolving situation in that country.Afghanistan is going through a critical period and that there is no military solution to it, the diplomat said."Taliban is a current reality in Afghanistan. It is a party in the intra-Afghan talks which we believe should be a solution for normalisation and establishment of an inclusive government that should be involving all major ethnic groups," he said replying to a volley of questions.India has huge interest in Afghanistan and it is for New Delhi to decide its extent of involvement in that country, he said.The Russian diplomat said India has been involved in active regional diplomacy on Afghanistan and described it as "very encouraging".India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by August-end, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country.The Taliban fighters are rapidly seizing control of a large number of areas in Afghanistan, forcing many countries to scale down their presence there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-active-regional-diplomacy-with-afghanistan-as-very-encouraging-russia-101626257268401.html
14-07-2021||World||President Rouhani: Iran can enrich uranium to 90% purity if needed||Iran said on Wednesday it could enrich uranium up to 90% purity weapons grade if its nuclear reactors needed it, but added it still sought the revival of a 2015 deal that would limit its atomic activities in return for a lifting of sanctions. "Iran's Atomic Energy Organisation can enrich uranium by 20% and 60% and if one day our reactor needs it, it can enrich uranium to 90% purity," President Hassan Rouhani told a cabinet meeting, the semi-official Mehr news agency reported.The nuclear deal caps the fissile purity to which Tehran can refine uranium at 3.67%, well under the 20% achieved before the agreement and far below the 90% suitable for a nuclear weapon. Iran has long denied any intention of developing nuclear weapons.Iran has been breaching the deal in several ways after the United States withdrew from the agreement in 2018, including by producing 20% and 60% enriched uranium.Rouhani, who will hand over the presidency to hardline cleric Ebrahim Raisi on August 5, implicitly criticised Iran's top decision makers for "not allowing" his government to revive the nuclear deal during its term in office."They took away the opportunity to reach an agreement from this government. We are sorry to miss this opportunity," the state news agency IRNA quoted Rouhani as saying.Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, not the president, has the last say on all state matters such as nuclear policy.Like Khamenei, Raisi has backed indirect talks between Tehran and Washington, which started on April 9 in Vienna aimed at bringing back the arch foes into full compliance with the accord. Washington quit the deal three years ago, saying it was biased in favour of Iran, and reimposed crippling sanctions on Iran.The talks in Vienna adjourned on June 20 and no date has been set yet for the next round of the negotiations. Iranian and Western officials have said that significant gaps still remain to be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-rouhani-iran-can-enrich-uranium-to-90-purity-if-needed-101626262371004.html
14-07-2021||World||UAE officially launches embassy in Israel||The United Arab Emirates formally opened its embassy in Israel on Wednesday, inaugurating its diplomatic offices in Tel Aviv less than a year after the two countries announced they would establish open relations.Speaking at the ceremony, Israeli President Isaac Herzog said the embassy opening was “an important milestone in our shared journey toward a future of peace, prosperity and security for the Middle East.”The Emirati embassy's inauguration came two weeks after Israel cut the ribbon on its embassy in Abu Dhabi during Foreign Minister Yair Lapid's visit to the UAE in June.Israel and the UAE formally established diplomatic relations last year after decades of clandestine ties. The two countries signed the U.S.-brokered normalization agreement on the White House lawn in September, and a flurry of bilateral economic and cooperation deals in the months since.The UAE Embassy is situated in the same tower as Israel's stock exchange in the heart of Tel Aviv's business district. Most countries maintain embassies in Tel Aviv because of Jerusalem's disputed status — one of the thorniest issues in the Mideast conflict. The U.S. moved its embassy to Jerusalem in 2018, and a handful of countries have followed suit.Israel captured east Jerusalem in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed it in a move unrecognized by most of the international community. The city is the seat of the Israeli parliament, Supreme Court and many government offices. The Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as capital of a future independent state.The UAE's ambassador to Israel, Mohamed Al Khaja, told reporters that the embassy will be “a base for our task to continue to build on our new partnership, to seek dialog, not dispute, to build a new paradigm of peace and to provide a model for a new collaborative approach to conflict resolution in the Middle East.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-officially-launches-embassy-in-israel-101626255906160.html
14-07-2021||World||China asks Taliban to make 'clean break' from terrorists, return to mainstream||After the Taliban spokesperson called Beijing a “welcome friend”, China has asked the Islamist militant group to make a “clean break” from all terrorist forces. China has been wary of Afghanistan becoming a hub for the al-Qaida-backed Uyghur Muslim militant group the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a separatist outfit waging an insurgency in volatile Xinjiang province.During a media briefing at Dushanbe, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi on Tuesday pitched for restarting intra-Afghan negotiations and prevention of all kinds of terrorist forces gaining ground in the war-torn region. Wang said that the Taliban should make a "clean break" with all terrorist forces and return to the mainstream of Afghan politics.Wang also praised the Afghan government which is fighting the Taliban fighters to defend its territories. The Chinese foreign minister said that the government headed by President Ashraf Ghani has done a lot of work for national unity, social stability and improvement of people's livelihood, which should be justly evaluated.Wang’s statement on the Taliban came ahead of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Dushanbe. The issue of Afghanistan dominated the meeting on Wednesday where external affairs minister S Jaishankar joined his counterparts from the SCO states - China, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.“Afghanistan, public health and economic recovery are pressing issues. Combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of SCO. Must stop terror financing and deter digital facilitation,” Jaishankar tweeted after addressing the meeting.Last week, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen told Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post that the group would guarantee the safety of Chinese investors and workers, claiming that it controls 85% of Afghan territory. Shaheen also reportedly assured China that it would not host Uyghur militants from the Xinjiang province.“We have been to China many times and we have good relations with them,” SCMP quoted Suhail as saying. "If (the Chinese) have investments, of course, we will ensure their safety.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asks-taliban-to-make-clean-break-from-terrorists-return-to-mainstream-101626254774269.html
14-07-2021||World||Former US President George W Bush says Afghanistan troop pullout is a 'mistake'||Former US president George W. Bush on Wednesday criticised the withdrawal of NATO troops from Afghanistan and said civilians were being left to be "slaughtered" by the Taliban."Afghan women and girls are going to suffer unspeakable harm. This is a mistake... They're just going to be left behind to be slaughtered by these very brutal people, and it breaks my heart," Bush told German broadcaster Deutsche Welle.The former Republican president, who sent troops to Afghanistan in autumn 2001 after the September 11 attacks on New York's World Trade Center, said he believed German Chancellor Angela Merkel "feels the same way".Bush said Merkel, who is set to retire from politics later this year after 16 years in power, had brought "class and dignity to a very important position and made very hard decisions".US and NATO forces began withdrawing from Afghanistan in early May and are due to completely pull out by September 11, some 20 years after they arrived in the war-torn country.Most of the 2,500 US and 7,500 NATO troops who were in Afghanistan when US President Joe Biden detailed the final withdrawal in April have now gone, leaving Afghan troops to fight an emboldened Taliban seemingly bent on a military victory.The country is facing a crisis as the insurgents snap up territory across the countryside, stretching government forces and leading to a fresh wave of internally displaced families, complicated by a renewed outbreak of Covid-19.The United Nations said on Sunday the rising conflict is causing "more suffering" across the violence-wracked country as it called for continuous financial aid.Biden has insisted, however, that it is time for US involvement in the war to end and for Afghans to chart their own future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-us-president-george-w-bush-says-afghanistan-troop-pullout-is-a-mistake-101626253261307.html
14-07-2021||World||China operating military flights from South China Sea bases: Report||As China begins the construction of world’s first commercial small modular reactor (SMR), the country’s military has deployed electronic warning and surveillance aircraft and helicopters on two disputed islands in the South China Sea, the Washington Times reported.Satellite images procured by the publication reveal deployment had begun in May and June of PLA KJ-500 airborne warning and control aircraft to Mischief Reef in the Spratly Island. Moreover, other satellite captures show the stationing of a Y-9 transport aircraft and Z-8 helicopter to Subi Reef in June and this month. Last year, KQ-200 anti-submarine warfare aircraft were deployed on Fiery Cross Reef.The reefs are part of a triangle of South China Sea military bases, which can house all kinds of warplanes and bombers, and even comprise docking facilities capable of handling most Chinese warships, the Washington Times reported.The satellite visuals of the military aircraft were captured by J Michael Dahm, a former Navy intelligence officer, who is currently associated with the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory – also known as APL.Speaking to the Washington Times, Dahm said that the most vital change in military posture in 2021 is the “appearance of Chinese special mission aircraft and helicpters at Subi and Mischief Reefs,” indicating that China has commenced routine air operations from its bases.The deployments were found after the publication of a research report, revealing the locations of anti-aircraft, land-attack strike missiles, and anti-ship on three of China’s seven-island reefs – including Mischief and Subi, by Dahm.He added that surveillance aircraft, island-based anti-surface, anti-air missile systems, and strike fighters are expected to be employed to “Cover and defend Chinese naval forces,Strike fighters, surveillance aircraft and island-based anti-surface and anti-air missile systems “will likely be employed to cover and defend Chinese naval forces, giving them the ability to project military power deep into the South China Sea and Southeast Asia,” according to the Washington Times report.Although the Spratly Island is claimed by Taiwan, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, and China, it has largely been dominated by China since 2018. Tensions emerged there this week after a Chinese warship pulled off an unsuccessful attempt – as per the US Navy - to force the guided-missile destroyer USS Benfold to leave the area near the Paracel Islands in South China Sea’s northern tip.The APL report by Dahm pointed out that the island reefs are equipped to render the Chinese Army with “superior battlespace awareness and a decided information advantage in any future military conflict” in the South China Sea, according to the Washington Times report.The APL report further warns that China could deploy anti-ship ballistic missiles to the islands since each of the three airfields is equipped with 24 aircraft hangers for jet fighters.Phillip Orchard, an analyst at Geopolitical Futures, a consulting group, said that the Chinese bases in the South China Sea provide Beijing strategists with key military outposts. However, in an “actual, prolonged conflict with the US and its allies, the tactical value of the Spratlys would rapidly diminish”.This development could trigger a response not just from the US, but also from other East Asian nations who are concerned over China’s expansionist drive. Orchard said that this “show of force” demonstrates that the seven artificial island bases that China has built in the Spratly Island since 2013 can be put to good use in “scenarios short of war,” as per the Washington Times report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-operating-military-flights-from-south-china-sea-bases-report-101626252671446.html
14-07-2021||World||Sputnik V Covid vaccine's single dose triggers strong antibody response: Study||According to a study, a single dose of the Sputnik V vaccine may be enough to evoke strong antibody response against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, in already infected people.The new study, published in the journal Cell Reports Medicine, examined whether a single dose of Sputnik V vaccine would achieve greater public health benefit than two doses by allowing protection of a larger population more quickly, reports news agency PTI.Previous studies have found that two doses of Sputnik V, a vector vaccine produced using a combination of two adenoviruses, results in 92 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 infection."Due to limited vaccine supply and uneven vaccine distribution in many regions of the world, health authorities urgently need data on the immune response to vaccines to optimize vaccination strategies," said study senior author Andrea Gamarnik of the Fundacion Instituto Leloir-CONICET in Buenos Aires, Argentina."The peer-reviewed data we present provide information for guiding public health decisions in light of the current global health emergency," Gamarnik added.The researchers noted that the evidence from other vaccines offers support for the one-shot approach. The AstraZeneca vaccine, for example, shows 76 per cent efficacy after a single dose, and the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines may induce sufficient immunity in previously infected individuals after one dose, with no apparent benefit of an additional dose, they said.The researchers compared the effects of one and two shots of Sputnik V on SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody responses in 289 healthcare workers in Argentina. Three weeks after the second dose, all volunteers with no prior infection generated virus-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies.However, even within three weeks of receiving the first dose, 94 per cent of these participants developed IgG antibodies against the virus, and 90 per cent showed evidence of neutralising antibodies, which interfere with the ability of viruses to infect cells.The research further showed that IgG and neutralising antibody levels in previously infected participants were significantly higher after one dose than those in fully vaccinated volunteers with no history of infection.A second dose did not increase the production of neutralising antibodies in previously infected volunteers. "This highlights the robust response to vaccination of previously infected individuals, suggesting that naturally acquired immunity might be enhanced sufficiently by a single dose, in agreement with recent studies using mRNA vaccines," Gamarnik noted.The researchers stated that further studies are needed to evaluate the duration of the immune response and to assess how antibody levels relate to vaccine protection against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-s-single-dose-triggers-strong-antibody-response-study-101626246299596.html
14-07-2021||World||13 killed, including 9 Chinese nationals, in Pakistan bus blast: Officials||Nine Chinese workers were among 13 people killed on Wednesday when a blast on a bus sent it careering down a ravine in north-western Pakistan, officials said.The bus was carrying Chinese engineers, surveyors and mechanical staff to the Dasu dam site in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, which is under construction."The blast sparked a fire in the engine plunging the vehicle into a ravine, a local government official told AFP, requesting not be named.He said a further 28 Chinese nationals were injured.A senior local police official, who also asked not to be named, confirmed the incident and said "it was a heavy blast but its nature is not known yet".The Chinese embassy in Pakistan posted a statement on Wednesday, saying that "a certain project of a Chinese firm in Pakistan suffered an attack, which caused the deaths of Chinese nationals".It urged Chinese firms to strengthen their security procedures.Security of Chinese workers has long been an issue of concern in Pakistan, where Beijing has poured in tens of billions of dollars in recent years, and large numbers of Chinese nationals are now based in the country to supervise and build infrastructure projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-killed-including-6-chinese-nationals-in-pakistan-bus-blast-officials-101626245502631.html
14-07-2021||World||UAE allows mosques to hold Eid Al-Adha prayers for 15 minutes, releases new guidelines||The United Arab Emirate’s (UAE) National Emergency Crisis and Disasters Management Authority (NCEMA) on Tuesday granted permission to mosques for holding Eid Al-Adha prayers. Such prayers can be held at open-air spaces, the authority said.Mosques and prayer areas have been asked to open their doors to the public 15 minutes before the prayer starts, adhering to all Covid-19 guidelines. The duration of prayers, including sermons, have been limited to 15 minutes.“Eid Al-Adha prayer will be conducted, provided that the maximum period of Khutbah is 15 minutes while adhering to all previously applicable precautionary measures. The doors of prayer areas and mosques will be opened 15 minutes prior to the start of Prayer,” the authority announced.“We recommend all worshippers to bring their own prayer mat. Social distancing markers will be placed on prayer spots,” NCEMA added.Authorities have asked mosques to close their doors immediately after prayer concludes and not allow mosques and prayer areas located on outer roads and gas stations to hold prayer meets. “We confirm that the doors of mosques will be closed directly after prayer. Also, service facilities, such as washrooms, Wudu places and water dispensers shall continue to be closed. Mosques and prayer areas on the outer roads and gas stations will continue to be closed,” the release stated.#NCEMA: We announce the Eid Al-Adha protocol, to ensure that we witness the next Eid with blessings, and good health.#TogetherWeRecover pic.twitter.com/uaeJWAurPIInfected individuals and their close contacts have been barred from attending prayers. Children and those above 60 or with comorbidities have also been asked to pray within the safety of their homes.NCEMA has also released guidelines for slaughterhouses, urging the authorities at the local level to "assess the procedures of slaughterhouses, and livestock markets".Emiratis have also been cautioned against sharing Al-Adahi meat or sacrificial meat with their neighbours due to the pandemic. “We recommend that performing Al-Adahi (sacrifices) through delegating the UAE official charities to kill and distribute the meat, or via relevant smart apps,” the authorities stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-allows-mosques-to-hold-eid-al-adha-prayers-for-15-minutes-releases-new-guidelines-101626244218492.html
14-07-2021||World||Indonesia’s Covid cases surge past India, marking new epicenter||Indonesia surpassed India’s daily Covid-19 case numbers, marking a new Asian virus epicenter as the spread of the highly-contagious delta variant drives up infections in Southeast Asia’s largest economy.The country has seen its daily case count cross 40,000 for two straight days -- including a record high of 47,899 on Tuesday -- up from less than 10,000 a month ago. Officials are concerned that the more transmissible new variant is now spreading outside of the country’s main island, Java, and could exhaust hospital workers and supplies of oxygen and medication.Indonesia’s current numbers are still far from India’s peak of 400,000 daily cases in May. India, with a population roughly five times the size of Indonesia’s 270 million people, saw daily infections drop below 33,000 on Tuesday as its devastating outbreak wanes.Indonesia reported 907 deaths daily on average in the past seven days -- compared to just 181 a month ago -- while India reported an average of 1,072 daily fatalities.Developing countries are struggling to contain the virus -- especially delta’s rapid spread -- even as vaccine rollouts are allowing life to return to normal in countries like the US and UThe outbreak in Indonesia underscores the consequences of an unequal global distribution of vaccines that has seen richer countries gobble up more of the supply, leaving poorer places exposed to outbreaks of variants like delta. World Health Organization director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has called the growing divide a “catastrophic moral failure.”Indonesia has administered vaccines to cover just 10% of its population and India 14%, compared to 46% of the European Union’s population and 52% in the U.S., according to Bloomberg’s Vaccine Tracker. Lacking enough immunizations, the developing world is bearing the brunt of rising case counts and death tolls, with global fatalities reaching 4 million earlier this month.Covid Deaths Reach 4 Million as India Eclipses U.S., U.K.Indonesia’s country’s positive Covid test rate has reached about 27%, while India’s rate is 2%. Larger numbers indicate a government is only testing the sickest patients, and that there are high levels of undetected infection in the community. Experts say both nations are under-counting cases and deaths by a wide margin given their lack of testing infrastructure.Curbs imposed on Java and tourism spot Bali from July 3-20 haven’t eased people’s movements as much as the government had expected.Residents’ mobility has only eased by 6% to 16% since the restrictions were put in place, whereas authorities had expected a 20% drop, Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin said in a hearing with lawmakers on Tuesday. The government had earlier said that a 50% reduction in mobility was needed to reduce Covid’s spread.“Our hospitals can’t endure it anymore if we fail to reduce movement by at least 20%,” Sadikin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesias-covid-cases-surge-past-india-marking-new-epicenter-101626239294324.html
14-07-2021||World||India asks Canada to lift ban on direct flights||India has officially asked the Canadian government to lift its ban on direct flights from New Delhi. That prohibition has been in place since April 22 and has been extended twice.The request for early resumption of flights under the air corridor arrangement that came into place last summer was sent by India’s high commission in Ottawa to Global Affairs Canada, Canada’s foreign ministry, in the form of a formal diplomatic communiqué, a note verbale.The current ban will expire on July 21 unless extended for a fourth time by the department of transportation. The original April decision came as India faced a devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and due to fears in Canada over transmission of the Delta variant by air passengers.India’s high commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria, who is visiting Toronto, told the Hindustan Times, “We have pointed out to the Canadian authorities that there is a huge demand and inconvenience to both Indian and Canadian passengers, particularly students. As well, we have pointed out the dramatic recovery in India and the drop in cases.”Bisaria also held meetings with officials from Air India and Air Canada. Before the ban was enforced, the two national carriers were operating almost daily flights between New Delhi and the Canadian cities of Toronto and Vancouver. Both airlines are believed to be keen on resuming services at the earliest.After meeting Air India’s representative in Canada, Bisaria tweeted, “Important to rapidly normalise mobility for economic recovery, for achieving normalcy in business and education.” He also emphasised on “normal mobility” during a meeting with provincial leaders of Ontario, including cabinet minister Victor Fedeli and associate minister Nina Tangri.The communiqué focused on infection rates dropping in India, as the vaccination programme has expanded and positivity rate has gone well below 5%. Comparing the two main hubs for the air corridor, an Indian official said while Delhi now has around 50 new cases each day for a population of nearly 20 million, the province of Ontario, where Toronto is located, accounts for approximately 150 every day at this time. India has said that factual data, along with the inconvenience being caused to Indian and Canadian citizens should be factored in as the Canadian government decides on the ongoing ban.Indian officials have also stressed on the difficulties being faced by students who wish to commence studies in Canada for the semester beginning in September and need to arrive well in time to prepare.The suspension was originally announced on April 22 and was scheduled to last for 30 days. However, it was subsequently imposed for two additional periods of 30 days each, latest of which will expire this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-asks-canada-to-lift-ban-on-direct-flights-101626238017793.html
14-07-2021||World||US vaccine shipment on hold as India sorts legal hurdles||The United States said on Tuesday it is waiting for India to resolve some legal issues to ship its share of the 80 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines President Joe Biden has committed to donate towards fighting the pandemic around the world.“India has determined that it needs further time to review legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations,” state department spokesperson Ned Price said. “Once India works through its legal processes, our donations of vaccines to India will proceed expeditiously.”India is slated to receive these vaccines through the WHO-led Covax programme, and not directly from the United States in a bilateral arrangement. Talks are currently under way regarding regulatory issues and liability issues, according to people familiar with the matter.President Biden has announced he will donate 80 million doses of Covid-19 from the domestic US stockpile to countries around the world either directly or through the WHO-led Covax programme. America has also placed an order for 500 million Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for distribution around the world.Several countries in India’s neighbourhood have already received these donated US vaccines - Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, the Maldives, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. “Roughly 40 million doses have been delivered worldwide so far,” said Price.Asked if the US was considering lifting travel restrictions on India in view of the improved situation, the state department spokesperson said, “That is something that we are taking a close look at - the US government, I should say, is taking a close look at. There are expert groups that have been formed. And “experts” in this case refer primarily to medical professionals, because for us this is not a decision about politics; this is a decision about public health and the safety of the American people but also the safety of the global travelling public.”In other words, the restrictions will remain in place till these experts deem it otherwise.The White House had announced restrictions on travel from India in April on the recommendation of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention “in light of extraordinarily high Covid-19 caseloads and multiple variants circulating in India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vaccine-shipment-on-hold-as-india-sorts-legal-hurdles-101626236817708.html
14-07-2021||World||Study sheds light on why mosquitoes bite some people more||The rainy season has arrived, which will see a spurt in mosquito bites. The tiny creatures leave a reddish - and sometimes puffy - bump on the skin where they bite. The bump is usually a hard and itchy one.But people always want to know if mosquitoes prefer some of them more than the others. According to scientists, yes. A research published in the Time magazine in 2014 said that people will O blood type have more probability of being bitten by mosquitoes.Dr Jonathan Day, a medical entomologist and mosquito expert at the University of Florida, told Time there’s evidence that O blood type attracts mosquitoes more than others (A or B).Dr Day also said that the human skin keeps secreting various chemicals, including lactic acid which attracts the mosquitoes. And some people produce more of such chemicals, making them easy target for the mosquitoes, said the expert.He also said that mosquitoes use carbon dioxide (CO2) to identify bite target. Dr Day said that all vertebrates produce carbon dioxide which makes it easier for the mosquitoes to target them.He added that pregnant women and obese people, who have a higher resting metabolic rates are more attractive to mosquitoes.Mosquitoes are the carriers of many disease like dengue, chikangunya and malaria. And the spread of the disease increases during the monsoon time. However, much to the relief of general public, they cannot spread the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).According to US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, there is no data to suggest that Covid-19 is spread by either mosquitoes or ticks. It is mainly spread from person to person through droplets people spray when they talk, cough or sneeze. The World Health Organisation has also said that a mosquito bite won’t give you the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/study-sheds-light-on-why-mosquitoes-bite-some-people-more-101626234746708.html
14-07-2021||World||Covid-19 cases rising again in US, daily count doubled in 3 weeks||The Covid-19 curve in the United States is rising again after months of decline, with the number of new cases per day doubling over the past three weeks. This is driven by the fast-spreading delta variant, lagging vaccination rates and Fourth of July gatherings, according to news agency Associated Press.Covid-19 infections climbed to an average of about 23,600 a day on Monday, up from 11,300 on June 23, according to Johns Hopkins University data.On 17 of the past 18 days, the seven-day Covid-19 case average was higher than the 14-day average, also suggesting cases have been rising nationally.Even with the latest surge, Covid-19 cases in the US are nowhere near their peak of a quarter-million per day in January.Health authorities in places such as Los Angeles County and St. Louis are requesting even immunised people to resume wearing masks in public.Department officials are also recommending that people who are above 65 years of age and those with chronic underlying conditions stay away from large indoor gatherings because of a 150 per cent rise in hospitalizations over the past three weeks.According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly all recent Covid-19 cases and deaths from the disease are among unvaccinated people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-rising-again-in-us-daily-count-doubled-in-3-weeks-101626228984651.html
14-07-2021||World||Deuba takes oath as Nepal PM day after apex court verdict||Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba on Tuesday took the oath of office and secrecy from President Bidya Devi Bhandari, a day after the Supreme Court overturned Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s May 21 decision to dissolve the House of Representatives.The ceremony, initially set to be held at 6:00 pm (17:45 IST), was delayed after Deuba said he would not take the oath of office until the President revises the notice of his appointment.A five-member Constitutional Bench led by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana, in its order, said that Deuba must be appointed the Prime Minister in line with Article 76 (5) of the Constitution.However, the president’s office has failed to disclose the article under which Deuba is being made the prime minister in the notice, local media reported.Deuba is required to seek a vote of confidence from the House within 30 days of his appointment as the Prime Minister, as per the constitutional provisions.The new leader’s immediate task is to procure Covid-19 vaccines and control the spread of the coronavirus that has infected more than 658,000 people and killed nearly 10,000 of them - figures experts say fail to reflect the true toll.“The biggest challenge of the new leader is to free every citizen from suffering from COVID-19 by inoculating them,” said Prakash Sharan Mahat, a senior leader of Deuba’s party.The Supreme Court on Monday overturned Prime Minister Oli’s May 21 decision to dissolve the House of Representatives and ordered the appointment of Deuba as prime minister.The Constitutional Bench said that Oli’s claim to the post of PM was unconstitutional.Oli on Tuesday, however, accused the Supreme Court of “deliberately” passing a verdict in favour of the Opposition parties. Addressing the nation, the 69-year old also underlined that despite being “the people’s choice”, he is resigning from the post as the apex court has given an order to appoint Deuba as the prime minister in his place.He said the court’s “misinterpretation” of Article 76 (5) is sure to lead the country toward a party-less system. “It is sure to ignite malpractices and deteriorate discipline. The court has crossed its jurisdiction and decided over political matters,” Oli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deuba-takes-oath-as-nepal-pm-day-after-apex-court-verdict-101626221432522.html
14-07-2021||World||4 killed and one presumed death in Canada crane collapse||A crane that collapsed in Kelowna, British Columbia, on Monday killed four people and left another missing presumed dead, Canadian police said on Tuesday.The crane was in the process of being dismantled when it collapsed, Royal Canadian Mounted Police Inspector Adam MacIntosh told a press conference, causing an evacuation of nearby buildings and a state of emergency in the city of Kelowna, located roughly 400 km (248.55 miles) east of Vancouver, to be declared.The four deaths were people associated with the construction site. Three died at the scene and one died of injuries in hospital.The fifth person not yet confirmed dead was a worker in an adjacent building who is buried under the rubble. Police expect the body to be recovered on Tuesday afternoon.Two people who went to hospital with injuries have since been released.The airspace over the disaster area has been closed until 7:59 p.m. EDT, Transport Canada said on Twitter on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-killed-and-one-presumed-death-in-canada-crane-collapse-101626216630021.html
14-07-2021||World||Deaths climb to 72 in South Africa riots after Zuma jailed||The death toll climbed to 72 from rioting in South Africa on Tuesday, with many people trampled to death during looting at stores, as police and the military fired stun grenades and rubber bullets to try to halt the unrest set off by the imprisonment last week of former President Jacob Zuma.More than 1,200 people have been arrested in the lawlessness that has raged in poor areas of two provinces, where a community radio station was ransacked and forced off the air Tuesday and some Covid-19 vaccination centres were closed, disrupting urgently needed inoculations.Many of the deaths in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal provinces occurred in chaotic stampedes as thousands of people stole food, electric appliances, liquor and clothing from stores, police Maj. Gen. Mathapelo Peters said in a statement Tuesday night.He said 27 deaths were being investigated in KwaZulu-Natal province and 45 in Gauteng province. In addition to the people crushed, he said police were investigating deaths caused by explosions when people tried to break into ATM machines, as well as other fatalities caused by shootings.The violence broke out after Zuma began serving a 15-month sentence for contempt of court on Thursday. He had refused to comply with a court order to testify at a state-backed inquiry investigating allegations of corruption while he was president from 2009 to 2018.The unrest spiraled into a spree of looting in township areas of the two provinces, although it has not spread to South Africa's other seven provinces, where police are on alert."The criminal element has hijacked this situation,” said Premier David Makhura of Gauteng province, which includes Johannesburg.More than half of South Africa's 60 million people are living in poverty, with an unemployment rate of 32%, according to official statistics. The pandemic, with job layoffs and an economic downturn, has increased the hunger and desperation that helped propel the protests triggered by Zuma's arrest into wider rioting.“We understand that those unemployed have inadequate food. We understand that the situation has been made worse by the pandemic,” an emotional Makhura said on the state South African Broadcasting Corp.“But this looting is undermining our businesses here (in Soweto). It is undermining our economy, our community. It is undermining everything.”As he spoke, the broadcast showed police trying to bring order to the Ndofaya shopping mall, where 10 people had been crushed to death in a looting stampede. Gunshots could be heard in the background.Makhura appealed for leaders of political, religious and community organisations to urge people to halt the looting.The deployment of 2,500 soldiers to support the South African police has so far failed to stop the rampant looting, although arrests were being made in some areas in Johannesburg, including Vosloorus in the eastern part of the city.At least 1,234 people were arrested in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, authorities said, but the situation was far from under control.Looting continued Tuesday in shopping malls in Johannesburg township areas, including Jabulani Mall and Dobsonville Mall in Soweto. There also were reports of looting in KwaZulu-Natal.In Daveyton township, east of Johannesburg, more than 100 people, including women, children and older citizens, were arrested for stealing from shops inside the Mayfair Square mall.Some of those arrested were bleeding from shattered glass on floors slippery from spilled milk, liquor, yogurt and cleaning liquids that had been stolen from shops.Running battles carried on as security and the police fired stun grenades and rubber bullets to push back rioters, who were entering the shops by going through delivery entrances, emergency exits and climbing on roofs.By late afternoon the police managed to secure the mall, but rioters remained outside, throwing stones at the police and shouting for the release of those arrested.In Soweto, the Chris Hani Baragwanath hospital reported that the number of injured people coming to the emergency ward had tripled from the daily average.The unrest forced the government to close some COVID-19 vaccination centers disrupting urgently needed efforts to inoculate thousands of those aged 50 and older per day.In Johannesburg's Alexandra township the Pan Africa shopping centre continued to be ransacked and was set on fire on Tuesday.The Alex FM radio station which has served the Alexandra community for 27 years was broken into at 2 am Tuesday and thieves stole equipment worth 5 million rand ($350,000), forcing the station off the air, station manager Takalane Nemangowe said."Our on-air presenter and security guards got out safely through the back door," Nemangowe told The Associated Press. “But the looters cleaned out our offices. They took all our broadcasting equipment, computers, laptops, microphones, everything.”Authorities have repeatedly warned people, including Zuma supporters and relatives, against using social media to encourage the riots. Police minister Bheki Cele said Tuesday that about a dozen people have been identified as having instigated the riots.The Constitutional Court, the country's highest court, heard Zuma's application to have his sentence rescinded on Monday. Zuma's lawyer argued that the top court made errors when sentencing Zuma to prison. After 10 hours of testimony, the judges said they would announce their decision at a later date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deaths-climb-to-72-in-south-africa-riots-after-zuma-jailed-101626211378837.html
14-07-2021||World||Trudeau treads lightly after Cuba cracks down on street protests||Justin Trudeau said Canada would press for greater liberty in Cuba, but stopped short of condemning a wave of arrests and an apparent attempt to shut down social media after unprecedented street protests roiled the communist nation.The Canadian prime minister, whose father was a friend of Fidel Castro’s, spoke out a day after U.S. President Joe Biden warned the Cuban government against a heavy-handed response to the demonstrators.“Canada has always stood in friendship with the Cuban people,” Trudeau said Tuesday when asked about Havana’s moves to quell dissent. “We have always called for greater freedoms and more defense of human rights in Cuba. We will continue to be there to support Cubans in their desire for greater peace, greater stability and greater voice in how things are going.”Canada never broke relations with the Caribbean nation after the revolution that swept Castro to power in 1959 and almost brought the U.S. and Russia to nuclear war in the early 1960s. Before the pandemic shut down travel, Canadian travelers were the biggest source of foreign tourism to the island.Two years ago, Trudeau’s government attempted to use its cordial ties to persuade Cuba to mediate in the political crisis in Venezuela amid Washington’s attempt to oust Nicolas Maduro from power.But the prime minister’s friendly tone toward Cuba has raised eyebrows in the past, and his main political rival seized on his latest comments. “We can’t afford more of Mr. Trudeau’s glowing admiration for dictatorships,” Conservative Leader Erin O’Toole said in a statement that condemned “terrible acts of oppression, murder, and tyranny” by the Cuban regime.When Fidel Castro died in 2016, Trudeau hailed the former Cuban president as a “legendary revolutionary and orator” who “made significant improvements to the education and health care of his island nation.” Though he acknowledged Castro was a “controversial figure,” he made no mention of human rights at the time -- prompting a viral parodies and criticism from Cuban-American senators including Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz.Sunday’s protests saw thousands of people fill the streets of Havana, Santiago de Cuba and other cities, decrying rising prices, the lack of basic goods and frequent blackouts. They represent the biggest challenge yet to the leadership of Miguel Diaz-Canel, who took over as president from Fidel’s younger brother, Raul Castro, in 2018 and as head of the all-powerful Communist Party this year.The Cuban government hasn’t said how many people have been detained. But Cuba Decide, a pro-democracy group on the island, said in a tweet Tuesday that more than 150 have been locked up by police and state security.Prior to Trudeau’s remarks, Foreign Minister Marc Garneau’s press secretary declined a request for comment on the protests. A spokeswoman for Global Affairs Canada said later Monday the government was monitoring the situation in Cuba and was concerned by recent events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trudeau-treads-lightly-after-cuba-cracks-down-on-street-protests-101626209621984.html
14-07-2021||World||Mehul Choksi's arrival a speculation, says Antigua||A day after the Dominican high court granted bail to Mehul Choksi and allowed him to travel to Antigua and Barbuda for medical treatment, a senior official in Antiguan government said fugitive businessman’s arrival at the island was “mere speculation”.Lionel Hurst, the chief of staff to Antigua Prime Minister Gaston Browne, told Hindustan Times over phone – “Choksi is still in Dominica. We have not been informed (of his arrival). There have been no arrangements (yet) to receive him (in Antigua). All these are mere speculations about (him) arriving on a private medical jet”.Hurst, however, refused to comment on whether Antiguan government has made a decision on Dominican court order or not yet.Choksi, on a surety of Eastern Caribbean dollars 10,000 ( ₹275,000), has been allowed by Dominica high court to travel to Antigua to get medical treatment till he is fit to travel back. The “illegal entry” proceedings against him have also been adjourned by the court till he is fit to stand trial, the court said in its order on Monday.He is expected to take an air ambulance to Antigua on Wednesday.The court’s order has put Antigua in a spot as Browne has repeatedly said since Choksi went missing on May 23 that his government will not accept the businessman back.People familiar with the developments told HT although Antigua cannot stop his flight to land in its territory considering he is a citizen there, the cabinet led by Browne is likely to discuss the issue on Wednesday.“Dominica still has jurisdiction over him and we have no idea when or if he will actually be repatriated to Antigua. We have not made any decision whether to accept or deny him entry here. Such decisions are taken by the cabinet in consultation with the ministry of legal affairs,” said a senior official in Antigua, requesting anonymity.This officer went on to say that Dominica’s courts have no jurisdiction over Antigua.“I think the courts in Dominica cannot order the authorities of Antigua to do something. But we have not received any communication yet,” the officer added, insisting not to be named.The 62-year-old businessman, wanted in India for cheating Punjab National Bank (PNB) of ₹7,080 crore, has been in the custody of Dominican authorities for illegally entering the island on May 24 and faces charges on this count. He was admitted to the Dominica-China Friendship hospital soon after and has been under treatment since May 31.His lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said on Monday after the ruling – “Dominica courts finally upheld the rule of law and rights of a human to be treated in the medical facilities of his choice. And all attempts by various agencies did not bear fruit. There is solace in saying that all clever foxes end up as fur coats”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/choksis-arrival-a-speculation-says-antigua-101626208449242.html
14-07-2021||World||Taliban warn Turkey against plans to stay||The Taliban warned Turkey on Tuesday against plans to keep some troops in Afghanistan to guard Kabul’s main airport after the withdrawal of foreign soldiers, calling such a strategy “reprehensible” and warning of “consequences”.Ankara, which has offered to run and guard the airport in the capital after Nato withdraws, has been in talks with the US on financial, political and logistical support. “If Turkish officials fail to reconsider their decision and continue the occupation of our country, the Islamic emirate... will take a stand against them,”the Taliban said.A senior insurgent leader also said on Tuesday that the Taliban do not want to battle government forces inside Afghanistan’s cities and would rather see them surrender.Hours after Amir Khan Muttaqi ’s message, a rush hour blast in the centre of the Afghan capital killed four civilians and wounded five others.Clashes continued in the southern province of Kandahar, said Attaullah Atta, a provincial council member, with the Taliban being pushed back after a bid to break into a city prison, while the defence ministry said Afghan forces had cleared Qala-i-Naw, the Badghis province capital, after days of fighting with the insurgent group.Muttaqi’s message came the on same day a video emerged that CNN said it had verified showing a group of Afghan commandos being gunned down by Taliban fighters back in June after surrendering. As the situation deteriorates, France has became the latest country to urge its citizens to leave Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-warn-turkey-against-plans-to-stay-101626205537615.html
14-07-2021||World||Gene-editing stops virus transmission within human body||Scientists have used CRISPR gene-editing technology to successfully block the transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in infected human cells, according to research released on Tuesday that could pave the way for Covid-19 treatment.Writing in the journal Nature Communications, researchers in Australia said the tool was effective against viral transmissions in laboratory tests, adding that they were hopeing to begin animal trials soon.CRISPR, which allows scientists to alter DNA sequences and modify gene function, has already shown promise in eliminating the genetic coding that drives the development of cancer among children.The team in Tuesday’s study used an enzyme, CRISPR-Cas13b, that binds to relevant RNA sequences on the coronavirus and degrades the genome it needs to replicate inside human cells. Lead author Sharon Lewin from Australia’s Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity said the team designed the CRISPR tool to recognise Sars-CoV-2. “Once the virus is recognised, the CRISPR enzyme is activated and chops up the virus,” she said.Face recognition tech fights Covid in ChinaFacial recognition tech linked to personal health codes has been rolled out in the Chinese city of Ruili bordering Myanmar as authorities seek to squash a Covid-19 outbreak.This is the first publicly reported instance in China of facial recognition being used to track a person’s movements and health status as they enter and exit residential areas, supermarkets, transport hubs and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/geneediting-stops-virus-transmission-within-human-body-101626205213510.html
14-07-2021||World||92 killed in Covid hospital fire in Iraq||The death toll from a fire that tore through a Covid-19 hospital in southern Iraq rose to 92, health officials said on Tuesday, as authorities faced accusations of negligence from grieving relatives.More than 100 people - patients and visitors - were injured in the blaze on Monday night in Nassiriya, officials said.An investigation showed the fire began when sparks from faulty wiring spread to an oxygen tank that exploded, authorities said.It was Iraq’s second such tragedy in three months, and the country’s president on Tuesday blamed corruption for both. A statement from the prime minister’s office called for national mourning.Rescue teams were using a heavy crane to remove the charred and melted remains of the part of the city’s al-Hussain hospital where Covid-19 patients were being treated, as relatives gathered nearby.France sees record 1mn single-day jab sign-upsParisNearly 1 million people in France made vaccine appointments in a single day, as President Emmanuel Macron cranked up pressure on the public to get vaccinated. An app that centralises France’s vaccine and other medical appointments, Doctolib, announced on Tuesday that 926,000 people had made appointments on Monday, a daily record since the country rolled out vaccines in December.Malaysia closes virus-hit mass vaccination centreKuala LumpurMalaysia shut down a mass vaccination centre in Shah Alam city on Tuesday after more than 200 medical staff and volunteers tested positive for Covid-19. Officials urged people vaccinated at the centre to isolate for 10 days.US FDA warns of disorder from J&J’s Covid vaccineWashingtonThe US drug regulator FDA has warned of an “increased risk” of an immunological disorder called Guillain-Barré syndrome among those administered Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine, which has seen major manufacturing glitches and suspended use.(With inputs from Yashwant Raj)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/92-killed-in-covid-hospital-fire-in-iraq-101626204942798.html
14-07-2021||World||GOP state voting restrictions 'un-American,' Biden declares||President Joe Biden declared that preserving voting rights is “a test of our time” Tuesday as Texas Democrats took dramatic action to stymie their state's latest effort in a nationwide Republican push to tighten ballot restrictions.Biden, who has proclaimed protecting ballot access the central cause of his presidency, has faced sharp criticism from allies for not doing more, though political headwinds and stubborn Senate math have greatly limited its ability to act.Speaking at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, Biden called the efforts to curtail voting accessibility “un-American” and “un-democratic" and launched a broadside against his predecessor, Donald Trump, who baselessly alleged misconduct in the 2020 election after his defeat. Biden called passage of congressional proposals to override the new state voting restrictions and to restore parts of the Voting Rights Act that were curbed in recent years by the Supreme Court “a national imperative."Biden's remarks came a day after Texas Democrats decamped for Washington in an effort to deny their GOP-controlled Legislature the necessary quorum to pass a bill placing new restrictions on voting in the state.The lawmakers, who arrived in the nation's capital Monday night, said they were prepared to stay in Washington — out of the reach of Texas law enforcement — until a special legislative session concludes early next month. It marks a dramatic new showdown over voting in America.Standing near the steps of the U.S. Capitol for a news conference ahead of a meeting with Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, the Democrats promised to “stay out and kill this bill.”However, state Rep. Chris Turner, the leader of the Texas Legislature’s House Democrats, predicted that their efforts would ultimately be futile unless congressional Democrats take bolder action to overcome a Senate Republican blockade of the sweeping federal voting bill. The legislation, known as the For the People Act, would create national standards for voting that could roll back some of the restrictions that have been approved or are advancing in the Republican-led states, including Texas.“We can’t hold this tide back forever. We’re buying some time. We need Congress and all of our federal leaders to use that time wisely,” Turner said.Several states have enacted new voting restrictions, and others are debating them, as the GOP has seized on Trump’s false claim of massive voter fraud in the 2020 election as a rationale for curtailing ballot access.“No other election has ever been held under such scrutiny, such high standards,” Biden said of the 2020 race.Some GOP-led states have worked to roll back the vote-by-mail expansion that was put in place in the past presidential election due to COVID-19 fears. Others have tried to strengthen voter identification requirements and curtail hours and locations for early voting and ballot drop-offs.Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott said he would keep calling special sessions through next year if necessary to pass his state's legislation, and raised the possibility of Democrats facing arrest upon returning home.Biden’s speech in Philadelphia, to be delivered at the National Constitution Center, is intended as the opening salvo of a public pressure campaign, White House aides said, even as legislative options to block voting restrictions face significant obstacles.“He’ll lay out the moral case for why denying the right to vote is a form of suppression and a form of silencing,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Monday. “He will redouble his commitment to using every tool at his disposal to continue to fight to protect the fundamental right of Americans to vote against the onslaught of voter suppression laws.”Asked whether Biden thinks the Texas legislators are doing the right thing by leaving the state, White House deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said “he applauds their courage." She said that in the administration's view, the Texas bill is an “assault on democracy.”Democrats on Capitol Hill have already tried to respond with a sweeping federal voting and elections bill that Senate Republicans have united to block. Most Republicans have similarly dismissed a separate bill, the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act, which would restore sections of the Voting Rights Act that the Supreme Court has weakened.Those roadblocks have increased focus on Senate filibuster rules, which, if left in place, would seem to provide an insurmountable roadblock, requiring 60 votes in the evenly split, 100-member chamber to even bring up controversial legislation. Republicans have been unanimous in opposition to eliminating the filibuster, and it would take elimination or at least modification for the bills to have a chance of passage.Moderate Democrats including Sens. Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona also have so far expressed reluctance to changing the Senate rules.Many Democrats have expressed frustration with the lack of a greater White House push to change the filibuster, with civil rights activists stressing that Biden was elected with broad support from Black people whose votes are often put at risk by voting restrictions. House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, a longtime Biden ally, urged this week that the filibuster be modified for voting rights legislation.Biden, himself a veteran of the Senate, has offered some support for filibuster changes. But he has not put his full political weight behind the issue, believing it counterproductive in both the legislative and political fights over voting. He and Vice President Kamala Harris, who is leading the administration’s efforts on voting rights, met last week with some of the civil rights leaders, who made clear that they expected a legislative solution.Harris is to meet with the Texas lawmakers this week, her office said.“Our backs are against the wall. This is the moment. We have no more time,” said Sherrilyn Ifill, president of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, after the meeting. “I told the president: We will not be able to litigate our way out of this threat to Black citizenship.”Although not abandoning hope of legislative action, the West Wing has been shifting focus to other measures to protect voting, including legal remedies pursued by the Justice Department and action in individual states, according to officials. There also will be an emphasis on boosting voter turnout, with aides pointing to success Democrats had in getting out votes last year during the height of the pandemic.Officials concede, though, that turning out voters is always harder in a nonpresidential election year. Some frustrated aides, seeing the reality in the Senate, believe too much of a focus has been placed on federal legislative measures and think that civic and business groups can also play a role in fighting the voting restrictions. They note that an outcry in Georgia helped water down some of the GOP’s proposed plans there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gop-state-voting-restrictions-un-american-biden-declares-101626204277173.html
14-07-2021||India||Assam could have become another ‘Udta Punjab’: Himanta Sarma on drugs menace||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Wednesday that the state was on its way to becoming like Punjab, where thousands had fallen victim to trade of illicit drugs. Replying to a question by Asom Gana Parishad MLA Prodip Hazarika during zero hour of the ongoing budget session of the assembly, the CM cited the example of a popular Hindi movie to stress the point. “We had seen a movie called ‘Udta Punjab’ where we got a glimpse of the situation in that state due to the menace of drugs. The rate at which illicit drugs were being traded in our state we were going towards becoming Udta Assam,” Sarma said. Reacting to the accusations of state police becoming trigger-happy, the CM said tough action against criminals who try to escape from custody or attack policemen will continue till he was in charge. The CM said that though Assam was earlier a transit route for drugs originating from other parts of the northeast and areas bordering a neighbouring country to other parts of India, the situation has changed in recent years with the use of the contraband increasing in the state. “Accounts of recovered drug addicts have revealed that the contraband is easily available in prisons, hospitals and is even delivered at home through a network. This continued even during the [Covid-19] lockdown. It made us decide to take action,” said Sarma. Though, police had been acting against drug trafficking in past, it intensified after the new government took office in May this year. In 2016, 10 kg of heroin was recovered, 5 kg in 2017, 7 kg in 2018, 23 kg in 2019 and 27 kg in 2020. “This shows that availability of drugs is increasing since police are able to seize only around 10% of the illicit commodity. After I took charge, Union home minister Amit Shah asked me to take action against drugs, human trafficking and cattle smuggling. We then decided to adopt a policy of zero-tolerance on these issues,” the CM said. In the past two months, 1,021 cases have been registered and 1,897 persons arrested for involvement in trafficking of illegal drugs. During the same period, over 27 kg of heroin, 12,823 kg marijuana, 41 kg opium, 78,000 bottles of cough syrup, over 1.3 million psychotropic tablets called Yaba, 3 kg morphine, 3 kg crystal methamphetamine, 33 kg poppy straw and ₹1.80 crore in cash were seized. Sarma said that the seized drugs would be publicly burnt at four locations on July 17 and July 18 to send a message of zero-tolerance against drugs. He said all states in the northeast are working in a coordinated manner against illicit drugs. The CM said that drugs were being used by criminals as payment to smuggle arms, fake currency and other contraband. He said the menace was also responsible for a lot of social problems and crimes. Without taking names, the CM said several terror outfits of the region were involved in use and trade of illegal drugs. He, however, added that the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) had no role in it. “When such a massive operation is underway, some people will try to divert attention and even blame the police by calling it trigger happy,” he said while reacting to accusations by opposition parties and human rights activists. Sarma cited instance of an alleged drug kingpin, who was arrested in a kidnapping case, killed in police firing while trying to escape from custody after arrest. He informed that since his government assumed office, seven alleged drug traffickers have been injured in firing while trying to escape from custody. “Police action will continue on anyone who tries to escape from custody or attempts to attack policemen. I am not going to compromise on it. If criminals attack policemen, they have to shoot in self-defense,” he said. A complaint has been filed in National Human Rights Commission by a Delhi-based lawyer Arif Jwadder accusing Assam police of targeting criminals in fake encounters. The Assam Humam Rights Commission has also issued notice to the police on shootings and encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-could-have-become-another-udta-punjab-himanta-sarma-on-drugs-menace-101626284700945.html
14-07-2021||India||Zika virus cluster found in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, health minister says efforts intensified as tally reaches 23||Kerala health minister Veena George on Wednesday said a cluster of the Zika virus infection has been detected within a three-kilometre radius of Anayara locality in Thiruvananthapuram and the government is taking measures to exterminate mosquitoes in the area to further prevent the spread of the disease. The minister also said that a control room has been established at the district medical office in Thiruvananthapuram, where all 23 cases of the disease in Kerala have been reported from.The minister made the remarks in a release following a special review meeting convened to discuss the outbreak of the Zika virus disease, news agency ANI reported.Health minister George said that activities against the disease, like fogging for mosquitoes, would be intensified in the affected areas. “Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation has intensified activities. District admin will also be engaged. They will do fogging for [the] next 7 days. A control room has started functioning from the DMO office,” news agency ANI quoted her as saying, after the meeting.The government is also carrying out counselling to people in a bid to increase awareness. People have been asked to exercise caution against the Zika virus and not to panic, as the disease spreads.She also said that sources for breeding of mosquitoes must be destroyed apart from the fogging activities. She further directed that the breeding of the insect should not be allowed near the vicinity of houses and other institutions. “Do not let even a drop of water stagnate. Special care should be taken to prevent mosquitoes from breeding inside the house,” she said.The review meeting was convened after four additional cases of the Zika virus disease were detected in the state on Tuesday. So far, 23 people have been affected by the disease, George had said earlier in the day. Following the rise in cases, the state government has also flagged a high alert in all districts of the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-cluster-found-in-thiruvananthapuram-in-kerala-health-minister-says-efforts-intensified-as-tally-reaches-23-101626283810317.html
14-07-2021||India||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to lead charge in Lok Sabha as Congress looks to corner Centre over number of issues||Amid speculation over Congress looking to replace Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in Lok Sabha, the news agency PTI on Wednesday reported that he will continue as the leader of the lower house.This comes as the Congress is looking to corner the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over various issues like alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis, border disputes with China, farmers' agitation and the Rafale deal during the monsoon session of the Parliament. The Congress leaders are also set to raise the issue over rising fuel prices in the Parliament.The monsoon session of the Parliament is set to commence from July 19 and will continue till August 13.The debate will be led by Chowdhury and another senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, respectively, as per the report. It was discussed in the meeting of the Congress parliamentary strategy group, chaired by Party's interim president Sonia Gandhi.Former prime minister Manmohan Singh and senior leader Rahul Gandhi were also present in the meeting. Congress's deputy leaders in both houses, Gaurav Gogoi (Lok Sabha) and Anand Sharma (Rajya Sabha), and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal were also part of the virtual meeting.Chowdhury will lead the charge in the Lok Sabha, PTI also reported citing sources. The opposition party had rejected reports claiming that the Congress might be looking to replace Chowdhury, as unfounded, it also reported.As per the PTI report, the Congress leaders also decided to raise the issues of unemployment, price rise and the condition of the economy during the monsoon session and demand a discussion on those.The opposition party will also raise the issue of an alleged attack on cooperative federalism and constitutional rights.The meeting lasted for over an hour and also saw the participation of Congress chief whips in both houses Jairam Ramesh and K Suresh, besides Manickam Tagore and Manish Tewari.The Congress is now working on its floor coordination strategy with other opposition parties to strongly raise the issues in Parliament. A meeting to discuss the same is likely to take place later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-to-lead-charge-in-lok-sabha-as-congress-looks-to-corner-centre-over-number-of-issues-101626283628465.html
14-07-2021||India||Taliban current reality, can gain legitimacy by ending terror: Russian diplomat||The Taliban movement is a “current reality” in Afghanistan as it will shape the formation of the next government in Kabul but the group will gain legitimacy only when it effectively deals with the problem of terrorism, a senior Russian diplomat said on Wednesday.Russia is closely coordinating with India on the situation in Afghanistan because India is a “big player” in the region and has supported the economic and social development of the war-torn country with investments of more than $3 billion, Russian deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin told an online news briefing.Against the backdrop of the Afghan government looking to countries such as India, the US and Russia for air support, especially helicopters and logistics, to bolster its fight against the Taliban, Babushkin ruled out any military intervention. He, however, said Russia is keeping open the option of helping Central Asian states bordering Afghanistan under the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) if instability spills over the frontiers.“The Taliban is a current reality in Afghanistan. It’s a party [to the] intra-Afghan talks, which we believe should be the solution for normalisation and establishment of an inclusive government which should be involving all major ethnic groups,” he said.“Let us realise that there is a common approach supported by everyone – that Taliban should deal with the problem of terrorism and other related issues in order to become legitimate, in order to [get] delisted [at the UN Security Council], in order to go ahead with the future Afghanistan and creation of the inclusive government,” he added.Noting that the Taliban and al-Qaeda are both banned by Russia, Babushkin said his country believes all terrorist organisations are illegal and should be eliminated. “We are quite committed to tackle the threat of terrorism in Afghanistan...The Russian position is consistent when it comes to international terrorism,” he said.Babushkin said it was for India to decide on the role it intends to play in Afghanistan, while the world community should motivate all Afghan stakeholders to start the intra-Afghan talks as envisaged in the 2020 deal between the US and the Taliban. “Everyone welcomed the understanding between the US and Taliban, and Russia is in favour of implementation of these commitments,” he said.Any inclusive government formed through talks should ensure Afghanistan remains independent, sovereign, united, peaceful and democratic, he added.Babushkin evaded a direct reply to a question on India establishing contacts with some elements of the Taliban and said, “Taliban is present in Afghanistan...and certainly it would be useful to deal with everyone in the region so that the national interests would be better ensured.”Asked about the possibility of India and Russia working together to help the Afghan forces with air support and servicing of Russian-origin military hardware, Babushkin said there was no military solution and ruled out any military intervention.Babushkin acknowledged that Russia is concerned about the instability in Afghanistan spilling over into Central Asian states and is keeping open the option of cooperation under the CSTO, which includes Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.“We will be acting through the CSTO, a collective security organisation, by supporting our allies to fortify their borders with Afghanistan if it would be required...We are watching the situation so that we could support our allies by providing necessary military equipment as well as by intensifying joint exercises,” he said.Babushkin also said India and Russia are set to hold their first 2+2 meeting of foreign and defence ministers this year, ahead of the annual summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-current-reality-in-afghanistan-can-gain-legitimacy-by-tackling-terror-russian-diplomat-101626283140886.html
14-07-2021||India||Railways’ 1st redeveloped station to be inaugurated by PM Modi||Gandhinagar Capital railway station, the country’s first redeveloped station in line with the Narendra Modi government’s plan to modernise railway stations through Public Private Partnerships, will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister on July 16.“The Station has been provided with world class amenities, at par with modern airports. Special care has been taken to make it a Divyang friendly station... with a special ticket booking counter, ramps, lifts, dedicated parking space etc. The complete building is designed and provided with Green Building rating features. The state-of-the-art external façade will have daily theme based lighting with 32 themes. The station will also house a five star hotel,” the PMO said in a statement on Wednesday.Station redevelopment is planned by leveraging real estate potential of separable land and air space in and around the stations, through private participation. These redeveloped hubs will be called Railopolis.For the Gandhinagar Capital station, a joint venture special purpose vehicle (SPV) namely Gandhinagar Railway and Urban Development (GARUD) was formed with equity contribution of government of Gujarat (GoG) and Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC) in the ratio of 74:26 respectively.The station facilities include segregated entry and exit through landscaped area, Divyang friendly special ticket-booking counter, ramps, lifts, dedicated parking space, inter-faith prayer hall – a first for Indian Railways, dedicated exclusive art gallery with live LED wall display lounge.It also has a state of the art external façade with daily theme-based lighting, separate baby feeding room, centralised AC waiting lounge with variable control.In October 2019, the government had decided to set up a committee to draft a blueprint for transferring operations of 150 trains and 50 railway stations to private players. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant in a letter to then railway board chairman VK Yadav, chairman, Railway Board had stated that an empowered group be formed to drive the process in a time-bound manner.HT in March reported that Centre may first lease out 90 railway stations on Public Private Partnership basis through IRSDC, the Indian Railways’ nodal agency for station redevelopment. The Railway Board is also mulling whether the provision of security infrastructure should be excluded or whether the railways should replicate the airport model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-1st-redeveloped-station-to-be-inaugurated-by-pm-modi-101626281161883.html
14-07-2021||India||India surpasses the US in sending legal requests for info, says Twitter report||NEW DELHI: India has surpassed the United States as the country that sent the most number of legal requests seeking information about accounts from Twitter, the social media company’s latest transparency report covering the period from July to December 2020 said on Wednesday.The number of legal information requests from India accounted for 25% of the global volume and 15% of the global accounts specified, up from 21% and 25% respectively in the January-June, 2020 period.Twitter’s global legal policy head Vijaya Gadde, in a Spaces conversation on the platform, said that it does not always cede to a government’s information requests. “Sometimes the requests are incomplete, broad in scope or the accounts have been deleted, in such a situation Twitter can challenge the requests,” she said.The report said that Twitter produced some or all of the requested information in response to 30% of the information requests globally, which came to 4,367 in all.India also emerged as the country that sent the second-highest number of takedown requests after Japan. Hindustan Times in June first reported that the number of blocking orders issued under section 69(A) of the IT Act had risen from 3,600 in 2019, to over 9,800 in 2020. In the first five months of 2021 (until May), the number increased to 6,000.Section 69(A) of the IT Act allows the government to act against social media posts and accounts that may pose a threat to public order or India’s sovereignty and integrity, defence of India, security of the State, and friendly relations with foreign states.Twitter’s latest transparency report also added that accounts of 199 verified journalists and news outlets from around the world were subject to 361 legal demands, a 26% increase in such requests since the previous reporting period. “And, 94% of the total global volume of legal demands originated from only five countries (in decreasing order): Japan, India, Russia, Turkey, and South Korea,” it added, without giving country-wise data.The company has recently been locked in a conflict with the Indian government over compliance with the new social media and intermediary guidelines, for which the deadline ended on May 25. It recently appointed a resident grievance redressal officer and released an India-specific grievance redressal report, prompting one of its foremost critics, former union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad to say it was “assuring to see that Twitter was making an effort to comply”.The confrontation between the Union government and Twitter began in January when protests by farmers escalated in Delhi and its surrounding regions. Twitter refused to take down content relating to the protests. These included accounts of journalists and activists. In the second round, Twitter restricted access to posts instead of accounts. The actions prompted the government to serve the platform with two non-compliance notices, threatening penal action if it did not accede to them.Speaking about takedown requests in general, Gadde said Twitter challenges such requests if they fall under certain categories identified in its policies, including political speech. “They can be challenged if they are consistent with local values, or even local laws. Understanding the context of these requests and taking a call is challenging task,” she said.Twitter also added a new category called “impressions”, under which it captures how many times a tweet was viewed before it was removed. “In total, impressions on violative Tweets accounted for less than 0.1% of all impressions for all Tweets globally, from July 1 through December 31. During this time period, Twitter removed 3.8 million Tweets that violated the Twitter Rules; 77% of which received fewer than 100 impressions prior to removal, with an additional 17% receiving between 100 and 1,000 impressions. Only 6% of removed Tweets had more than 1,000 impressions,” the report stated.Raman Chima, Asia-Pacific policy director at Access now said India’s rise to number one when it comes to information requests is an alarming trend. “US has always been number 1 on the index, being the country that others have pointed to when it comes to justifying requests,” he said. “Moreover, a vast number of requests sent by US are court orders. India being number one represents an alarming increase in requests being sent, even worse there is no judicial oversight when it comes to such orders. This is also happening at a time when significant concerns are being raised around those who dissent in India by the government. The Indian government must justify and explain how the orders are being sent. It also becomes even more critical for an independent oversight, under the new data protection law to be installed in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-surpasses-the-us-in-sending-legal-requests-for-info-says-twitter-report-101626279781282.html
14-07-2021||India||OBC sub-categorisation commission’s term extended by 6 months||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday extended the term of the commission examining the possibility of sub-categorisation within the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the Central list by six months beyond July 31 this year to January 31 next year, a government statement said.“The proposed extension of tenure and addition in its terms of reference shall enable the Commission to submit a comprehensive report on the issue of sub-categorization of OBCs, after consultation with various stakeholders,” the statement issued after the Cabinet committee meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said.The commission, which took charge on October 11, 2017, is headed by retired Delhi high court chief justice G Rohini. The commission is constituted of Centre for Policy Studies director Dr J K Bajaj as a member and two other ex-officio members. It was set up to examine the possibility of creating categories within OBCs for the reservation to ensure “equitable distribution” of representation among all OBC communities.Its objectives include working out a mechanism, criteria, norm and parameters through a scientific approach for sub-categorisation within the OBCs and identifying the respective castes or communities or sub-castes or synonyms in the Central List of OBCs and classifying them into their respective sub-categories.Currently, OBCs are granted 27% reservation in government jobs and educational institutes. The demand for sub-categorization comes from the notion that only a few affluent communities among the castes included in the Centre list of OBCs enjoy a major part of this 27% reservation.There are 2,633 Other Backward Castes in the Central List and earlier this year the commission proposed to divide them into four subcategories numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4 and split the 27% into 2, 6, 9 and 10%, respectively. If accepted, the recommendations are also likely to have a major impact on politics, especially in north India where the rise of powerful OBC groups such as Yadavs defined the 1990s.The commission, commonly known as Rohini Commission, had also recommended complete digitisation of all OBC records and a standardised system of issuing OBC certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-sub-categorisation-commission-s-term-extended-by-6-months-101626279420499.html
14-07-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Rudraksh, the symbol of Indo-Japan friendship in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday inaugurate the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre, built by financial assistance from Japan, by planting a Rudraksh plant on its premises, a senior official of Varanasi Nagar Nigam said. The VICCC has been named Rudraksh in recognition of the ancient city’s connection with Lord Shiva.On the eve of its inauguration, the centre has been decorated keeping both the Japanese and Indian cultures in mind. Bamboo, pebbles, small bonsai trees, mats, lanterns, ceramic pots, rice paper, straw have been used for decoration in addition to ornamental lights and flowers of different sorts. Over a tonne of marigold flowers have also been used.During his Varanasi visit in December 2015, the then Japan prime minister Shinzo Abe gifted the VICCC project to the city. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) funded around ₹186 crore, the cost of the project. Besides, a Japanese company Fujita Corporation was given the contract to construct the convention centre.Japan’s ambassador Suzuki Satoshi, his wife Chikaga Suzuki, counsellor Kiyose Kazuhiro, secretary Oda Akari and a three-member-team of JICA, led by its chief representative Matsumoto Katsuo, will also be present on the occasion.As many as 108 Rudraksh have been installed at the convention centre and its roof is shaped like a Shiva Linga, officials said, adding that the entire building will glow with LED lights at night.The two-storey convention centre has come up in the posh Sigra area on 2.87 hectares of land and has a seating capacity of 1,200 people.The official said the Rudraksh centre will further boost the city’s tourism potential as it ideal for holding international conferences, exhibitions and music concerts among other events and the gallery is done up with murals depicting Varanasi’s art, culture and music, they added.Built with assistance from the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the VICCC is an environment friendly building, fit for obtaining level 3 Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA).The CEO of Varanasi Smart City project, Gaurang Rathi, said the centre was equipped with a state-of-the-art building management system and boasted a gallery, meeting rooms, and parking for 120 four-wheelers. Its main hall can be partitioned into smaller chambers or spaces as and when required, he said.Professor Kaushal Kishore Mishra, dean, faculty of social sciences at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), said, “The VICCC is a symbol of India-Japan friendship in Varanasi.”In September 2017, Prime Minister Narendra Modi named Varanasi Convention Centre as Rudraksh during the India-Japan annual summit at Ahmedabad, where the centre’s design was launched.“I have named it Rudraksh – the symbol of love, and a Prasad of Lord Shiva to humanity. This Rudraksh will be a garland of love of Japan for Varanasi. It will also be a tribute to our shared Buddhist heritage present at Sarnath,” Modi had then said.Thereafter, its construction began in 2018 and it was completed in April 2021 before it was handed over to Varanasi Smart City Limited on May 31.During his visit to Varanasi, Modi will also inaugurate and lay the foundation stones of multiple development projects worth over ₹1,500 crore, an official aware of PM’s schedule said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-rudraksh-the-symbol-of-indo-japan-friendship-101626277200567.html
14-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre asks states to withdraw all cases under Section 66A of IT Act and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre directs immediate withdrawal of all cases under Section 66A of IT ActThe Union home ministry on Wednesday asked state governments and police chiefs to immediately withdraw cases registered under the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act and to stop registering such cases. Read moreAl-Qaeda terror module: 3 more, suspects nabbed in LucknowThree more terror suspects linked to the alleged al-Qaeda module busted in Lucknow on Sunday were arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) from different areas of state capital on Wednesday, said Prashant Kumar, additional director general (ADG) of police. Read moreNeena Gupta twirls in Masaba's dress, says she wore 'acche kapde' for Instagram after many daysActor Neena Gupta on Wednesday shared a video where she is seen twirling in a dress designed by her daughter, fashion designer Masaba Gupta. Taking to Instagram, Neena shared a post in which she is seen in an off-shoulder off-white dress posing candidly and sporting a big smile. Read moreRavichandran Ashwin roars back with five-wicket haul, claims 6/27 in 15 overs for Surrey against Somerset in County gameIndia's premier spinner Ravichandran Ashwin has warmed up for the five-Test series in style, picking up a five-wicket-haul and finishing with 6/27 off just 15 overs for Surrey against Somerset in a County Championship match at The Oval. Read moreA snow leopard is hiding in this pic. Tweeple are struggling to see it, can you?Photographs of animals doing some activities are always a delight to watch and sometimes can amaze one. Some photos can leave one scratching one’s head too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-asks-states-to-withdraw-all-cases-under-section-66a-of-it-act-and-all-the-latest-news-101626275536398.html
14-07-2021||India||India and China agree to hold early meeting of military commanders||India and China agreed on Wednesday to hold an early meeting of military commanders to resolve outstanding issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) even as foreign minister S Jaishankar bluntly told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that normalisation of bilateral ties depended on restoring peace in the border areas.While conveying India’s position to Wang during their first in-person meeting since last September, Jaishankar made it clear that any unilateral change of status quo on the LAC was unacceptable. The two ministers met for an hour on the margins of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe.The discussions “focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector”, Jaishankar tweeted.“Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties,” he said in another tweet.In an indication of some forward movement on the military standoff that began in May last year, Jaishankar tweeted that he and Wang had agreed on “convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders”.The external affairs ministry said in a statement that the ministers referred to the agreement reached at the last meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on June 25 to hold another round of talks between military commanders, and “agreed that this should be convened at the earliest”.The statement added, “They also agreed that in this meeting, the two sides should discuss all the remaining issues and seek a mutually acceptable solution.” There was an understanding the two sides would “continue to ensure stability on the ground and neither side will take any unilateral action that could increase tension”.Jaishankar recalled both countries had agreed that prolonging the existing situation on the LAC was not in the interest of either side, and said it was “visibly impacting the relationship in a negative manner”.The meeting was held against the backdrop of reports of fresh tensions on the LAC, including a protest by Chinese troops and civilians against celebrations at Demchok on the Indian side to mark the birthday of the Dalai Lama on July 6.Last month, India again blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to change the status quo on the LAC for the military standoff, and dismissed Beijing’s contention that New Delhi’s policies were to blame for the tensions. China has also called for the border issue to be delinked from other aspects of the bilateral relationship, such as trade and investment.There has been lack of progress in disengagement and de-escalation of frontline troops following a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February.Jaishankar and Wang had a detailed exchange of views on the current situation on the LAC and other issues related to the overall bilateral relations during their meeting, the external affairs ministry said.Recalling their last meeting in Moscow, Jaishankar “emphasised the need to follow through on the agreement reached then and complete the disengagement, resolving the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh at the earliest”.The two ministers had agreed on a five-point roadmap at the Moscow meeting, including quick disengagement of border troops, maintaining proper distance and easing tensions, and abiding by all agreements on boundary affairs.Jaishankar pointed out to Wang the successful disengagement at Pangong Lake this year had “created conditions for resolving the remaining issues”, the statement said. “It was expected that the Chinese side would work with us towards this objective,” the statement said, adding that Jaishankar had noted the situation in the remaining areas was “still unresolved”.Assessing the overall relationship, Jaishankar said maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas was the foundation for developing ties since 1988. “The attempts to change status quo last year that also disregarded commitments under the 1993 and 1996 agreements have inevitably affected ties,” he said.He said it was in the mutual interest of the two sides to work towards an early resolution of the remaining issues on the LAC, while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols.Jaishankar and Wang have also spoken on the phone in February and April this year and there have been further rounds of diplomatic and military talks, but these contacts have not resulted in forward movement on disengagement at friction points such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.China’s People’s Liberation Army has continued the deployment of troops and heavy equipment on the LAC and inducted the army’s air defence units in its air force command chain, establishing a joint air defence system for the first time. It has also ramped up the construction and refurbishment of airports, helipads, missile bases and air defence facilities all along the LAC.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the fact that the two foreign ministers met not because of a bilateral initiative but on sidelines of a regional gathering would indicate this was “more like a symbolic meeting than anything substantial that would contribute to the lessening of tensions”.He added, “The goodwill generated through this meeting can only be sustained when the military commanders meet, which would reveal the true intentions of the Chinese side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-at-border-required-for-normal-bilateral-ties-jaishankar-tells-chinese-fm-101626274800375.html
14-07-2021||India||Al-Qaeda terror module: 3 more, suspects nabbed in Lucknow||Three more terror suspects linked to the alleged al-Qaeda module busted in Lucknow on Sunday were arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) from different areas of state capital on Wednesday, said Prashant Kumar, additional director general (ADG) of police.The three, identified as Shakeel Hussain, 35, Mohammad Mustakeem, 44 and Mohammad Mueed are accused of helping Minhaz Ahmad and Maseerudeen in their plan to carry out serial blasts, said the ADG. Minhaz and Maseerudeen were arrested on Sunday for plotting to carry out terror strikes in the state including using “human bombs” before Independence DayUP ATS stated that the names of the trio surfaced during interrogation of the terror suspects arrested earlier, following which, the three were brought to the ATS police station for verification and later arrested after their active involvement in the conspiracy was established during questioning.Mustakeem helped Minhaz and Maseerudeen in arranging terrorism-related material while Mueed provided a pistol to Minhaz and Shakeel also helped in arranging pistol from a firearms dealer, said the ADG.Shakeel’s family members alleged that the UP ATS framed him as they had not found anything objectionable from his possession. They said he was earning a livelihood by driving an e-rickshaw.“He has a clean record and never got involved in criminal activity in the past. He is being framed because of being from a particular community,” the family alleged.Shakeel’s family and his neighbours also had a confrontation with the reporting crew of two news channels.A UP ATS official said the three will be produced before the special ATS court and their custody will be sought for further interrogation.Minhaz and Maseerudeen are already in 14 days’ custody of UP ATS since Tuesday morning, after they were arrested from a motor workshop cum residence of Minhaz on Dubagga bypass road on Sunday morning. They were accused of planning to carry out strikes at different parts of Lucknow, Kanpur and other parts of the state before Independence Day..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alqaeda-terror-module-3-more-suspects-nabbed-in-lucknow-101626273660089.html
14-07-2021||India||Jaishankar discusses 'outstanding issues along LAC' with Wang on sidelines of SCO meet||Foreign minister S Jaishankar met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) meeting in Tajikistan's Dushanbe on Wednesday to discuss 'outstanding issues' along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two neighbouring countries.Jaishankar outlined that any unilateral change of status quo on the LAC was not acceptable and that normal bilateral ties would depend on restoration of peace and tranquillity in border areas.Taking to micro-blogging platform Twitter, Jaishankar said his discussions with Wang during the hour-long meeting “focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector."Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders.The ministry of external affairs said Jaishankar and Wang also had exchanges on issues related to the overall India-China relations. In another tweet, Jaishankar said that he and his Chinese countepart agreed on “convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders”.Jaishankar reportedly told Wang that disengagement in Pangong Tso area in Ladakh earlier this year had created conditions for resolving remaining issues.Jaishankar and Wang are in Dushanbe to attend meetings of the SCO foreign ministers and the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan.This was Jaishankar and Wang's first face-to-face bilateral meeting since September last, when the two ministers held talks on the sideliens of another SCO foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-talks-outstanding-issues-along-lac-with-wang-on-sidelines-of-sco-meet-101626272801030.html
14-07-2021||India||‘Vision for Kashi to build quality infra for next generation’: PM Modi before Varanasi visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate various development projects worth more than ₹1,500 crore during his visit to Varanasi on Thursday, he informed on Twitter. Taking to the micro-blogging site to announce the visit to his parliamentary constituency, PM Modi said, "These works will further ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal."Key projects that PM Modi would inaugurate in Kashi include multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway."Our vision for Kashi is to build quality infrastructure for the coming generations. In that spirit, will be laying the foundation stone for CIPET, rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission and mango as well as vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyaon," he also wrote on Twitter.PM Modi will also inaugurate a convention centre Rudraksh in Varanasi. "Constructed with Japanese assistance, this state-of-the-art centre will make Varanasi an attractive destination for conferences thus drawing more tourists and businesspersons to the city," he also informed.Japanese company Fujita Corporation was given the contract to construct the convention centre Rudraksh. It built the centre and handed it over to the Varanasi Smart City recently for its management and operation.The Prime Minister will also address a gathering at the IIT-BHU ground, where he will inaugurate the developmental projects.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday instructed officials to make foolproof arrangements for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Varanasi on July 15.He also reviewed the preparations for the visit and inspected the IIT-BHU ground, VICCC ‘Rudraksh.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vision-for-kashi-to-build-quality-infra-for-next-generation-pm-modi-before-varanasi-visit-101626270166255.html
14-07-2021||India||DA for Central govt employees, pensioners hiked to 28% from July||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday increased the dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) for Central government employees and pensioners from 17% to 28% with effect from July 1, 2021, ending a 18 month long freeze since January last owing to Covid-19 pandemic.“In view of the unprecedented situation which arose due to the Covid-19 pandemic, three additional installments of Dearness Allowance (DA) to Central Government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensioners, which were due from 01.01.2020, 01.07.2020 and 01.01.2021, had been frozen,” said the newly appointed information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur.Thakur said the hike represents an increase of 11% over the existing rate of 17% of the Basic Pay/Pension. “The increase reflects the additional installments arising on 01.01.2020, 01.07.2020 and 01.01.2021. The rate of Dearness Allowance/Dearness Relief for the period 01.01.2020 to 30.06.2021 shall remain at 17%,” he added.An official familiar with the matter said that the DA is allocated with reference to the inflation but the pandemic caused the government to freeze the allowance at 17%. “There is some relief that it has begun, but there is also a disappointment that arrears have not been allocated,” the official said.Thakur said that the move is expected to cost the government approximately ₹34,400 crore and impact around 4.834 million Central government employees and 6.526 million pensioners.The Central Cabinet also announced a financial commitment of ₹9,800 crore over the next 5 years for animal husbandry schemes such as Rashtriya Gokul Mission, National Programme for Dairy Development (NPDD), National Livestock Mission (NLM) and Livestock Census and Integrated Sample Survey (LC & ISS). “This would leverage total investment of ₹54,618 crore in livestock sector including share of investments by state governments, state cooperatives, financial institutions, external funding agencies and other stakeholder,” the government said in a press release.It further stated that “the Rashtriya Gokul Mission will help in development and conservation of indigenous breeds and will also contribute in improving the economic condition of the rural poor. The National Programme for Dairy Development (NPDD) scheme is targeted towards installation of about 8,900 bulk milk coolers, thus providing benefit to more than 800,000 milk producers and 20 LLPD (lakh litre per day) milk will be additionally procured.”It has also approved a scheme to provide ₹1,624 crore over five years as subsidy to Indian Shipping companies in global tenders floated by Ministries and Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSE) for import of government cargo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/da-for-central-govt-employees-pensions-hiked-to-28-from-july-101626268559778.html
14-07-2021||India||Union minister Piyush Goyal appointed leader of house in Rajya Sabha||Union minister Piyush Goyal was appointed as the leader of the house in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Goyal replaces Thawar Chand Gehlot, who moved to Karnataka as the governor of the state following the recent cabinet reshuffle.The appointment also takes significance as the monsoon session of Parliament is set to commence on July 19. It will conclude on August 13.Goyal has been a member of the upper house of the parliament since 2010. Until now, he was the deputy leader of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the Rajya Sabha. He holds key portfolios in the cabinet including commerce and industry, food and consumer affairs.After the recent rejig in the Union cabinet, Goyal was given additional charge of textiles. Prior to becoming a minister in 2014, Goyal was the treasurer of the party. He was also engaged by the BJP in poll management activities and logistics during the election.According to reports, other names that were considered for the post of floor leader includes labour minister Bhupendra Yadav and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Meanwhile, parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi has called an all-party meeting ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. This meeting is scheduled to be held on July 18, in which the central government will appeal to the opposition parties for the smooth functioning of the house.It is to be noted that the monsoon session of Parliament will last for a total of 26 days, but excluding holidays, it will work for only 19 days. In these 19 days, the central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is preparing to present 30 bills on the table of Parliament. Out of these 17 bills are new and the rest are amendment bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-piyush-goyal-appointed-leader-of-house-in-rajya-sabha-101626265956095.html
14-07-2021||India||West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 30, lets Metro to run 5 days||West Bengal government on Wednesday extended the ongoing restrictions aimed at curbing the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases till July 30.The Mamata Banerjee-led government, in its revised Covid-19 guidelines, decided to allow Kolkata Metro to operate five days a week — between Monday and Friday — with 50% seating capacity from July 16. In its revised guideline, which will come into effect from July 16, the West Bengal government said all educational institutions will continue to stay shut for physical classes while the movement of public transport is allowed with 50% capacity and after adhering to Covid-19 necessiated health and safety protocol.The government continued to impose a restriction on the movement of people and vehicles between 9pm and 5am except on grounds of health services, law and order and transport of essential commodities and agricultural produce."Intra-state local train movement shall remain closed except for staff special trains for movement of emergency and essential services personnel, " the latest order read. The revised guidelines permit retail shops in malls and market complexes to remain open as per usual operational hours with 50% workforce and limited entry for customers. However, restaurants and bars can operate only till 8pm.The government continued to allow a gathering of 50 people for wedding and 20 for funerals.While the state goverment continued to put a temporary ban on cinema halls, spa and swimming pools, it allowed the althetes to practise in pools between 6am and 10am. However, salons and beauty parlours are allowed to operate with 50% capacity and after following Covid-19 protocol."Banks and financial institutions shall remain open for restricted hours between 10am and 3pm and for operations of ATMs," the guidelines read.Political, social and entertainment-related congregrations remain prohibited in the latest guidelines, too. Fully vaccinated morning walkers can continue to access parks between 6am and 9am. The West Bengal government had imposed lockdown-like restrictions in the state owing to the second wave of the pandemic from April 30, soon after the final phase of the eight-phase assembly election concluded on April 29. As the cases grew, the state government imposed complete lockdown between May 16 and May 30. The restrictions were then extended in phases till June 15, again till July 1 and with certain relaxations till July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-july-30-lets-metro-to-run-5-days-101626264546952.html
14-07-2021||India||Piyush Goyal to be new leader of House in Rajya Sabha||Union minister for commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal will take over as the leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, said a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader aware of the developments. Goyal will succeed Thaawarchand Gehlot who has been appointed the Governor of Karnataka. There is no word yet on who will be Goyal’s deputy in the Upper House. The 57-year old Goyal, who was earlier the deputy leader in the House, was in contention for the post along with his Cabinet colleagues finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and education minister Dharmendra Pradhan. The leader of the House has the mandate to organise government meetings and business in the House and also has the role to engage and coordinate with the Opposition parties. The leader also has a key role to play in ensuring the smooth functioning of the House; putting forth the government’s view and giving assurances on behalf of the government on issues raised by the members. Also Read | Adhir may be replaced as Cong leader in LS? Here are the likely contendersIn his capacity as the deputy leader of the House, Goyal played a key role in reaching out to assuage the concerns of the Opposition during and after the passage of the contentious farm bills that led to the disruption of Parliament proceedings as some of them protested the passage of the bills and later demanded their roll back. He also played an instrumental role along with his now Cabinet colleague and RS MP Bhupender Yadav in helping the party, which does not have a majority in the Upper House, face no hurdles during the passage of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill and the bill to ban triple talaq, said a party colleague. Goyal, who was recently also given charge of the textile ministry, has also been inducted in five of the eight Cabinet committees that were reconstituted after the expansion and the rejig of the Union council of ministers. Incidentally, he is not a member of the Cabinet committee on parliamentary affairs that has the mandate to draft the schedule of sessions, scrutinises non-government business and takes a decision on the bills and resolutions to be presented. “He is friendly and reaches out... Often meeting Opposition members for coffee in the Central Hall,” said an Opposition MP in the Upper House. Union minister for parliamentary affairs, Pralhad Joshi tweeted, “Congratulations to @PiyushGoyal ji on being appointed the Leader of House in Rajya Sabha. He has been entrusted by PM @NarendraModi ji with key responsibility. Wishing him continued vigour in the service to the nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-to-be-new-leader-of-house-in-rajya-sabha-101626265439764.html
14-07-2021||India||DA hike, MoUs and focus on Ayurveda: Key Cabinet decisions announced today||The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday announced several key decisions, including a hike in Dearness Allowance for central government employees and the continuation of the centrally sponsored scheme National AYUSH Mission. The DA and DR benefits for central government employees and pensioners have been increased from 17% to 28% with effect from July 1, 2021.The Cabinet has also approved the eleventh extension of the term of the Commission constituted under Article 340 of the Constitution to examine the issue of sub-categorisation within Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the Central List by six months beyond July 31, 2021, and up to January 31, 2022. The government said that the proposed extension will enable the Commission to submit a comprehensive report on the issue of sub-categorisation of OBCs, after consultation with various stakeholders.Here are some of the other important decisions announced by the Union Cabinet:Also Read | DA for central govt employees hiked to 28% with effect from July 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/da-hike-mous-and-focus-on-ayurveda-key-cabinet-decisions-announced-today-101626262626671.html
14-07-2021||India||17 injured in road accident in J&K’s Poonch||At least 17 people were injured after a bus collided with a truck near Khanater in Jammu & Kashmir’s Poonch district on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported. The injured have been admitted to a local hospital in Poonch for treatment.The driver of the bus, who also sustained injuries, have reportedly been shifted to Government Medical College in Jammu for specialised treatment.Jammu & Kashmir have witnessed a number of road accidents in recent months. In June, four people, including a child and two women, were killed and four others were injured when a Jammu-bound vehicle from Srinagar carrying labourers from Chhattisgarh plunged into a gorge near Khooni Nallah in Ramban district.This is a developing story and further details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-injured-in-road-accident-in-j-k-s-poonch-101626261994451.html
14-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Calcutta HC issues notice to BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata petition against Nandigram loss: Calcutta HC issues notice to SuvenduCalcutta high court on Wednesday issued notice to BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in the petition filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenging her defeat in the assembly election from Nandigram. Read moreDA for central govt employees hiked to 28% with effect from July 1Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) benefits for central government employees and pensioners have been increased from 17% to 28% with effect from July 1, 2021, Union minister Anurag Thakur said. Read moreSlow pace of Covid-19 vaccination by private centres ‘cause of serious worry’: Centre tells some statesThe Union ministry of health and family welfare told the health secretaries of 15 states and Union territories (UT) that the slow pace of Covid-19 vaccination by private centres in these states is a “cause of serious worry.” Read moreVirat Kohli, Kane Williamson, Joe Root react after ICC confirms WTC 2 fixture and point systemVirat Kohli, Kane Williamson and Joe Root, the captains of the top three teams of the inaugural edition of the World Test Championship (WTC) reacted after ICC set the bowling rolling for the second edition of WTC. Read moreAnushka Sharma, Kareena Kapoor congratulate new mom Dia Mirza, bless 'little one' AvyaanNew mothers Anushka Sharma and Kareena Kapoor Khan were among they several film industry personalities who congratulated actor Dia Mirza, after she announced on Wednesday that she and her husband, Vaibhav Rakhi, welcomed a baby boy in May. Read moreNew Land Rover Discovery launched at ₹88.06 lakh, gets style updates and moreJaguar Land Rover on Wednesday announced the launch of the latest Land Rover Discovery in the Indian market at a starting price of ₹88.06 lakh (ex showroom). Read moreShilpa Shetty in ₹2k sequin mini skirt and trendy white shirt promotes Hungama 2Actor Shilpa Shetty Kundra has left social media buzzing with her latest song Chura Ke Dil Mera, from her upcoming film Hungama 2 that also marks her return to acting after over a decade. Read morePet rat learns to stack its bowls. ‘Starting a ratstaurant?’ wonder netizensThe video shared on social media shows Olive the rat showing off an awesome trick he's learnt. The clip shows him stacking bowls perfectly, actions that earn him some tasty treats. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-calcutta-hc-issues-notice-to-bjp-leader-suvendu-adhikari-and-all-the-latest-news-101626260857770.html
14-07-2021||India||SC to hear army veteran’s PIL on closure of all sedition cases||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the assistance of the attorney general on an army veteran’s plea to strike down the sedition law as unconstitutional and quash all proceedings under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pending with the police and courts across the country. The petition will be heard on Thursday.The top court is already hearing a petition and a clutch of applications challenging the constitutional validity of Section 124A IPC. But what sets this petition apart is its prayer to quash all complaints lodged under this law and to stop police from further investigating case to the extent that the offence relates to sedition.The petition filed by SG Vombatkere, a former army officer, was argued by advocate PB Suresh. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana directed a copy of the petition to be given to attorney general KK Venugopal and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday.Section 124A of the IPC makes any speech or expression that “brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India” a criminal offence punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. The offence is not bailable. The Supreme Court in 1962 had upheld the validity of this provision in Kedar Nath Yadav v State of Bihar.Also Read | Minority schemes do not defy Hindus’ rights, Centre tells SCThe petition said, “A statute criminalising expression based on unconstitutionally vague definitions of ‘disaffection towards Government’ is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to free expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and causes constitutionally impermissible ‘chilling effect’ on speech.”Vombatkere further stated that in 1962, when this law was upheld, there was a restricted definition of fundamental rights which now needs a relook. He sought a declaration that “all subsisting criminal proceedings before any court” under Section 124A of IPC should be closed and all complaints and investigation reports relating to the offence under Section 124A be quashed.The petition filed through advocate S Prasanna said, “No authority including any state or central police must take any step in furtherance of investigation or prosecution of any cases in respect of and to the extent that the accusation is of an offence under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code.”The other petition challenging Section 124A before the apex court is being heard by a bench headed by justice UU Lalit. It has been filed by two journalists – Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh respectively. The court has already issued notice to the Centre and sought assistance of the attorney general. In this matter, the Foundation of Media Professionals, journalist Shashi Kumar and law professor Sanjay S Jain have filed applications to declare Section 124A IPC unconstitutional. This matter is expected to come up for hearing on July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-army-veteran-s-pil-on-closure-of-all-sedition-cases-101626260819459.html
14-07-2021||India||Slow pace of Covid-19 vaccination by private centres ‘cause of serious worry’: Centre tells some states||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday told the health secretaries of 15 states and Union territories (UT) that the slow pace of Covid-19 vaccination by private centres in these states is a “cause of serious worry.” The ministry also directed the states to review the status and progress of Covid-19 vaccine procurement by the private centres on a daily basis.“Highlighting the slow pace of vaccination through the PCVCs, States were advised to review status and progress on vaccine procurement by PCVCs on a daily basis. They were advised to ensure speedy and effective coordination between the PCVCs and the vaccine manufacturers to remove bottlenecks, if any. It was pointed out that advance visibility of the COVID vaccines to the States by the Union Health Ministry is in turn required to be communicated to the citizens by States,” the ministry said in a statement. The remarks followed a high-level meeting chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan with the health secretaries of 15 states and UTs.Health secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Telangana, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana along with nodal officers from Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India were present in the meeting.Also read | India has administered at least 385 million Covid vaccine doses till nowThe ministry highlighted four main concerns to the states and also gave related advisories to the states and UTs. It said that many private vaccination centres have not placed an order for the number of Covid-19 vaccines allocated for them. It also advised the states to review the status daily and place orders quickly with the vaccine makers.The health ministry noted that the payment towards the quantity of vaccines ordered has not been made in some cases where the order has already been placed while in other cases no payment has been made for the entire order. States and private centres were asked to reduce the gap between the quantity procured and the delay in payment.While in some cases the quantity of vaccines paid for has not been fully lifted by the states and the private centres and in some other cases, the quantity procured has not been fully administered, the ministry further said. In these scenarios, the ministry asked the states to ensure that all doses dispatched were procured and all unutilised doses to be administered quickly.“States were again informed of the usage of the CoWIN platform as the backend management tool for the order placements. States and UTs are required to aggregate this demand,” the ministry further said in its statement. It also said that while five workshops have already been organised to orient nodal officers and private centres for using the CoWin platform, it asked the states to indicate if more such sessions were needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slow-pace-of-covid-19-vaccination-by-private-centres-cause-of-serious-worry-centre-tells-some-states-101626258432749.html
14-07-2021||India||Will exam fees for Class 10, 12 be refunded? HC gives CBSE 8 weeks to decide||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has been directed by the Delhi high court to decide if it would refund the examination fees taken for class 10 and class 12 board examinations. The high court has given eight weeks to CBSE to take a decision on then issue.The board exams of the two classes were cancelled due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The high court's order came on a petition filed by Deepa Joseph, mother of a Class 10 student studying in a CBSE affiliated school in New Delhi. She had paid ₹2,100 as examination fee.Joseph's counsel contended that since the board examination have been cancelled, at least some part of the examination fees ought to be refunded to the students. He based claimed that CBSE's expenditure has been reduced.But Justice Prateek Jalan disagreed with the advocate and remarked: “If CBSE is not doing anything, you take the marks-sheet from schools and go”.The CBSE's decision would be open to challenge if Joseph is not satisfied, the court clarified as it disposed of the petition.While the CBSE Class 10 exams were cancelled in April, the Class 12 board examinations were cancelled after a meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 1.The CBSE has said that it will release the results for both the classes later this month (by Jly 31). It has also announced an alternative assessment method instead of regular evaluation.The CBSE result 2021 will be available on the official website of the Board. This is the first time in the history of board exams, the result will be released without holding examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-exam-fees-for-class-10-12-be-refunded-hc-gives-cbse-8-weeks-to-decide-101626258284529.html
14-07-2021||India||DA for central govt employees hiked to 28% with effect from July 1||Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) benefits for central government employees and pensioners have been increased from 17% to 28% with effect from July 1, 2021, Union minister Anurag Thakur announced on Wednesday. The much-awaited announcement comes as a major relief for lakhs of central government employees and pensioners after DA and DR was put on hold last year in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.At least three additional instalments of DA to central government employees and DR to pensioners were due from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021."In view of the unprecedented situation, which arose due to the Covid-19 pandemic, three additional instalments of Dearness Allowance to the central government employees and Dearness Relief to the pensioners... were due," Thakur said."Now the central government has decided to increase the Dearness Allowance to central government employees and Dearness Relief to the pensioners with effect from July 1, 2021, to 28%, representing an increase of 11% over the existing rate of 17% of the basic pay," he added announcing the cabinet's decision.Thakur, the minister of sports, youth affairs and minister of information and broadcasting, told a press briefing that the move is expected to cost the government approximately ₹34,400 crore. The decision will impact around 48,34,000 central government employees and 65,26,000 pensioners, the minister said. The rate of DA and DR for the period January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, will remain unchanged at 17%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/da-for-central-govt-employees-hiked-to-28-with-effect-from-july-1-101626257642201.html
14-07-2021||India||Modi, Solih take stock of bilateral relations between India, Maldives||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maldives President Ibrahim Solih on Wednesday reviewed bilateral relations and discussed cooperation focused on the Covid-19 response and post-pandemic recovery. These issues figured in a phone conversation between the two leaders. Modi described the Maldives as a “central pillar in India’s Neighbourhood First policy and its maritime vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR)”, according to the external affairs ministry. The conversation provided the leaders an “opportunity to take stock of the overall state of bilateral relations and provide further momentum and guidance to the ongoing substantive cooperation between the two countries”, the ministry said in a statement. Also Read | Maldives opens for Indian tourists from July 15, here’s all you need to knowFollowing the talks, Solih tweeted: “During our conversation we discussed on a host of important issues of concern to both Maldives and India from Covid19 response to cooperation in our post pandemic economic recovery.” Modi added in a tweet: “Spoke with President @ibusolih of Maldives. Assured him of India’s commitment to support Maldives in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. We also reviewed progress of bilateral development projects.” Solih also thanked Modi for India’s cooperation and support in the fight against the pandemic. Both leaders reviewed progress in India-supported development projects in the Maldives and expressed satisfaction at the rapid pace of their implementation despite constraints due to the pandemic. Modi also conveyed his congratulations to Solih on the election of Maldives foreign minister Abdulla Shahid as president of the UN General Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-solih-take-stock-of-bilateral-relations-between-india-maldives-over-phone-101626257579118.html
14-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 385 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 385 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, July 12, even as Uttarakhand decided to suspend Kanwar Yatra after warnings from health experts. In what could be a boost to the vaccination drive, Serum Institute of India signed a deal with the developers of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine to manufacture 300 million doses of the vaccine in India..Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 385,019,469 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,410,974 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,549,982 were given the first dose while 119,121 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 115,950,619 persons across the country have received their first dose and 4,019,089 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of the vaccine in the age group 18-45 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the same age group for the first dose.Meanwhile, India reported 38,792 new cases in the last 24 hours, said the ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday. The country has also reported 41,000 recoveries and 624 deaths, the ministry said.The tally of positive cases stands at 30,946,074, including 30,104,720 recoveries and 411,408 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-385-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626254219431.html
14-07-2021||India||'If Covid appropriate behaviour not maintained...': MHA sends advisory to states||The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued advisory to states and union territories over "blatant violation" of Covid-19 norms, saying there is a need to "guard ourselves against complacency and laxity, which has crept in as positivity has declined".It also asked states to make officers personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour.“If the norms of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour are not maintained at any establishment/premises/markets etc, such places shall be liable for the re-imposition of restrictions, for containing the spread of Covid-19 and the defaulters shall also be liable for action under the relevant laws,” the advisory sent by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said.It said that people have been found violating the Covid-19 norms in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. "Massive crowds are also thronging the market places, violating the norms of social distancing," the ministry said.It also said that the increase in R-Factor (reproduction number which indicates the speed at which infection is spreading) in some of the states, is a matter of concern."You may be aware that any increase in ‘R’ factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid-19," the advisory said."It is emphasised that the second wave of Covid is not yet over. We ought to remember that while the reach of vaccination is increasing considerably, there is no room for complacency and hence COVID appropriate behaviour must continue in line with our philosophy of ‘dawai bhi kadai bhi'. Testing needs to be continued with the same vigor, as adequate testing is extremely essential in terms of checking the virus and early identification of cases," it further said.The home ministry advisory came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with chief ministers of northeastern states, where he expressed concern about the rush of tourists at popular destinations.“We often hear the argument that we must enjoy before a third wave hits. People must understand that the third wave will not arrive on its own,” Modi said.At a press briefing on Tuesday, a health ministry official said that people are violating Covid protocols across the country.Photos have surfaced in recent weeks of people rushing to Musoorie and Nanital in Uttarakhand and roaming around with little regard to social distancing norms or wearing of masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-covid-appropriate-behaviour-not-maintained-mha-sends-advisory-to-states-101626251909317.html
14-07-2021||India||Amrita Sher-gil’s painting second-highest priced Indian artwork to be auctioned||A 1938 oil on canvas by Amrita Sher-gil titled In the Ladies Enclosure, has become the second-most expensive work by an Indian artist after VS Gaitonde’s 1961 canvas, Untitled.The 21.5 x 31.5” canvas fetched ₹37.8 crore ($ 5.14 million) at the summer live sale of Mumbai auction house Saffronart held on Tuesday. The amount, which was a little less than the higher bid limit of ₹40 crore, includes buyer’s premium.The work broke multiple records; besides being the second-highest sum for any Indian artwork sold at an auction, it is also the highest sum fetched by the any of Sher-gil’s works at an auction till date.Also Read | Palaeolithic cave paintings found in corner of NCR could be among oldestAccording to Saffronart’s website, the provenance of the canvas was traced back to the Majithia family collection. It was acquired by the present owner (unnamed, who put it up for auction) in 2005 from the Vadehra Art Gallery in New Delhi. A 1961 Gaitonde oil on canvas sold for ₹39.98 crore at a Saffronart auction held earlier this year in March; Arvind Vijaymohan, chief executive officer of art market intelligence and advisory firm Artery India confirmed that this record has not been challenged as yet in auction sales.Sher-gil’s work, which depicts women and a girl performing different chores, was made after the artist returned to India after studying and practising art in Paris. Her emphasis on domesticity and the quotidian, particularly of the women inhabitants of a home, revitalised Indian art. The modern Indian artist is deemed a national treasure, which implies that her artworks cannot be taken out of the country.“It is a rare work of the artist from that particular period to emerge in the art market and we are honoured to have played a part in creating a new benchmark with this auction,” Saffronart co-founder and chief executive officer Dinesh Vazirani said in a post-auction press release issued on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amrita-sher-gil-s-painting-second-highest-priced-indian-artwork-to-be-auctioned-101626251818815.html
14-07-2021||India||When will central govt employees get their DA dues? Decision soon||Central government employees get a dearness allowance of 17 per cent at present, the rate which has been continuing since 2019, as the consecutive revisions of the DA were stalled owing to the Coronavirus pandemic. Reports said a decision in this regard may be taken soon, while the Cabinet may announce a 3 per cent hike in the DA which cumulatively will take the figure from 17 to over 30 per cent. The Union Cabinet met on Wednesday afternoon, making it the second meeting of the cabinet in less than a week. The first meeting was held a day after new ministers took their oath.Dearness allowance is revised twice a year -- in January and July. Since 2020, three increments are due as of now, as the July 2021 increment has not yet been announced. Four increments are likely to take to DA from 17 per cent to around 31 or 32 per cent. The last time the DA was hiked was in 2020. A 4% hike was announced following which central government employees are entitled to get 21% DA. But the increment was not implemented and the rate was not revised in 2020 and 20201. If the government includes all these hikes and if the DA increases 3% thrice, then the amount might go over 30%. In March, then finance minister of state Anurag Thakur had told the Rajya Sabha that the three pending installments of DA (January 2020, July 2020, and January 2021) will be restored from July 2020. In June, a meeting was held between finance ministry officials, the National Council of Joint Consultative Machinery, and the department of personnel and training in June. Reports said that it was decided in the meeting that DA dues will be resumed from September. Central government employees were expecting their DA dues from this month as a fake order claiming the same was doing the rounds on social media. But the ministry later busted this as fake order.Central government employees are looking forward to two announcements: the DA hike announcement and the timeline in which it will be disbursed. It has been reported that the dues might be given in three installments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-central-govt-employees-get-their-da-dues-decision-soon-101626250948802.html
14-07-2021||India||Health minister rebuts reports of shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, explains situation with 'real analysis of facts'||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday responded to reports of shortage of doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in some states, explaining in a series of tweets, the situation based on an "actual analysis of the facts."वैक्सीन की उपलब्धता के संदर्भ में मुझे विभिन्न राज्य सरकारों और नेताओं के बयान एवं पत्रों से जानकारी मिली है। तथ्यों के वास्तविक विश्लेषण से इस स्थिति को बेहतर ढंग से समझा जा सकता है। निरर्थक बयान सिर्फ लोगों में घबराहट पैदा करने के लिए किए जा रहे हैं। (1/6)"To ensure vaccination in government and private hospitals, the Centre provided 114.6 million vaccine doses to state governments in June. For July, the availability of doses has been increased to 135 million," a rough translation of Mandaviya's tweet, posted in Hindi, read. In a subsequent tweet, he said that the Union government, on June 19 itself, informed the states how many vaccine doses will be made available to each of them.Also Read | Covid-19: States say jab crunch hitting vaccine drive"After this, on June 27 and July 13, states were informed in advance about the number of doses available, in batches, each day for the first and second fortnights of July. Therefore, states are well aware how many vaccine doses they will get and when. The central government did this so that state governments can carry out vaccination at district-level without any inconvenience to the people," the minister posted further.जुलाई में राज्यों में वैक्सीन के कितने डोज उपलब्ध कराई जाएगी, इसकी जानकारी केंद्र सरकार ने राज्यों को 19 जून, 2021 को ही दे दी थी। इसके बाद 27 जून व 13 जुलाई को केंद्र की ओर से राज्यों को जुलाई के पहले व दूसरे पखवाड़े के लिए उन्हें हर दिन की वैक्सीन उपलब्धता की जानकारी..(3/6)Indirectly blaming states for "mismanagement" of vaccination drive, if there is one, Mandaviya remarked that it is "very clear" what is the problem and who is responsible for it, despite being informed in advance by the government.मीडिया में भ्रम व चिंता पैदा करने वाले बयान देने वाले नेताओ को इस बात पर आत्मनिरीक्षण करने की जरूरत है क्या उन्होने शासन प्रक्रिया व इससे सबंधित जानकारियों से इतनी दूरी बना ली है कि वैक्सीन आपूर्ति के संदर्भ में पहले से ही दी जा रही जानकारियों का उन्हें कोई अता-पता नहीं है ( 6/6)"Politicians making misleading comments in the media need to introspect if they have distanced themselves so much from administrative process and information related to it that they are not aware of information being provided in advance with regards to the supply of vaccine," Mandaviya concluded.Also Read | Jumla hai, vaccine nahi: Rahul Gandhi slams centre over vaccine shortageWith the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic declining, experts have expressed concerns over a possible third wave, and called for ramping up of the vaccination drive. However, in recent days, several states, including Maharashtra and Delhi, have complained about a shortage of vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-mandaviya-rebuts-reports-of-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-explains-situation-based-on-real-analysis-of-facts-101626249305326.html
14-07-2021||India||3 test positive for Covid-19 in Mussoorie as tourists flock hill stations||Three people in Uttarakhand's Mussoorie tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 20 days after the state government relaxed curbs in the state. According to Nodal Officer Dr Pradeep Rana, all three belong to singe family living in Cantonment Board area and have been quarantined.The official also said that 17 others, who were recently in contact with the Covid-positive patients, have undergone RT-PCR tests. Their results are expected in a day or two.Mussoorie and Nainital have been in the news due to heavy rush of tourists in the popular hill stations amid warnings about a third wave of Covid-19. Various videos on social media showed long queues of vehicles on roads leading to Mussoorie and Nainital and many tourists violating social distancing norms while roaming around in these towns.The photos of the rush in hill stations were also displayed by the Union health ministry at one of its briefings, where it warned tourists against carelessness. Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul said this is a serious cause of concern.Prime Minister Narendra Modi too expressed concern about people rushing to tourist spots during his interaction with the chief ministers of the northeastern states. The government has identified the regions of concerns where the rate of spread of the infection is higher than the national average.As part of the Uttarakhand government's efforts to reduce crowding, about 8,000 tourist vehicles headed to Mussoorie and Nainital were sent back over the weekend.According to Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Nilesh Anand Bharane, check-posts have also been set up at the state border and tourists have been informed that they must have negative RT-PCR tests, prior hotel bookings and registration on the online portal.The Uttarakhand government has, meanwhile, extended the overall curfew in the state till July 20. A cap of 50 people has also been imposed for weddings and funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mussoorie-as-tourists-flock-hill-stations-101626250665272.html
14-07-2021||India||Farmers will take their protest to Parliament: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait announced on Wednesday that farmers will be taking their protest to Parliament once the monsoon session starts on July 19. “200 people will go there (towards Parliament) by bus. We'll pay the fare. We'll sit outside Parliament while proceedings will continue in the House. It'll be a peaceful protest. Today we'll have a meeting and we'll plan a strategy,” Tikait told news agency ANI.The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, said in a press release that farmers and leaders from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, and Karnataka who have been protesting at Delhi borders will be taking part in “methodical and peaceful protest” outside Parliament.Calling on non-NDA MPs to take up the farmers' call, SKM said letters will be issued on July 17 to their offices or official residences to ensure they take up the farmers' cause inside the House. "If opposition parties are serious about their support to the farmers, they must take on the Union Govt. in the same spirit of resolve that the farmers are showing by the seven-month-long protest on the streets and borders of Delhi," the SKM said.Also Read: Will farmer leaders contest upcoming assembly polls? A hint from Rakesh TikaitFarmers, who have been protesting at three borders in Delhi for well over seven months now, have been preparing their protest site for the monsoon months. Tent roofs have been reinforced with metal, battery-powered lights have been procured, and cleaning drives to avoid stagnation of water have been undertaken by the farmers, reported PTI.Farmers are also planning to take their protest to Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the two states due for polls in 2022. “The BJP has a stronghold in these two states, which makes the party believe it is powerful in the whole country. Unfortunately, the opposition is not doing its job, so the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has emerged as the opposition. We are planning to take out rallies in these two states in September to ensure that the BJP does not win the elections there,” farmer leader Avtar Mehma told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-will-take-their-protest-to-parliament-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-101626248692532.html
14-07-2021||India||Man arrested for raising money for 19 ‘orphaned’ kids from MP in Raipur||A man has been arrested for allegedly bringing 19 tribal children from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh to Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, passing them as orphans, who lost their parents to Covid-19, and seeking donations for them, police said. The poor families of the children were allegedly promised good money for letting them accompany the man to Raipur, they added.Additional police superintendent (Raipur) Tarkeshwar Patel said the accused Naresh Mahanand claims to be an evangelist. He added they were probing whether the children were brought to Raipur for conversion.Patel said Mahanand is the director of an NGO. He added they have arrested him under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 420 B (fraud) and the Juvenile Justice Act for bringing the children illegally to Raipur. Patel said as most of the children have parents and were brought to Raipur on the pretext of providing them with a good life.Police said Mahanand ran a campaign on social media and also distributed pamphlets requesting financial support for his orphanage. Mahanand claimed his organisation was taking care of the orphaned children, they added.Chhattisgarh and Madhya Police were investigating whether Mahanand is part of a bigger and organised network.Investigators said prima facie parents of the children are believed to have been under the impression that Mahanand’s organisation was working on behalf of the government. The mother of one of the 19 said last month they came to know that the organisation is working with the government for Covid 19-affected people. “They promised us that the kids will get a good education, so we handed our children to a manager of the organisation,” said the mother of the 11-year-old.Some of the 19 lost their parents to Covid 19 and their guardians sent them to Raipur. The children were brought back to Mandla in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. A 10-year-old boy among them said they were locked in a house and not allowed to go anywhere. “There were two employees in the house, and they would provide us very poor-quality food. We mainly got boiled pulses to eat and poor-quality rice.”Patel said they received a complaint from a woman and child development officer two days ago that an unregistered organisation brought the 19 children from Madhya Pradesh and was seeking donations in their name, saying they were orphaned during the pandemic. “We found the children living in a very poor condition. We rescued them.” He added the children were produced before a Child Welfare Committee, which recommended the charges to be invoked in the case.According to the 2019 National Crime Records Bureau report, 30 children went missing daily in Madhya Pradesh. Most of such missing cases were reported from the state’s tribal areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-raising-money-for-19-orphaned-kids-from-mp-in-raipur-101626248698654.html
14-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh CM says Covid under control, announces reopening of schools||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state is under control. He also announced the opening of schools from July 25."Covid-19 is under control for now. We're monitoring the situation. Preparations are being done for third wave," Chouhan said."Schools will begin for classes 11 and 12 from July 25 at 50 per cent capacity," the chief minister added.The daily cases of Covid-19 have been steadily falling in Madhya Pradesh over the past few weeks. From a peak of over 13,000 cases in April-May, the state recorded 23 fresh cases and two fatalities on Tuesday. This took the state-wide tally and death toll to 7,91,583 and 10,508, respectively.A total of 7,80,796 patients have recovered from the infection so far, leaving the central state with 279 active cases, the state government's health department said.Of the 52 districts in the state, only nine reported fresh cases on Tuesday. Among them, state capital Bhopal recorded 11 new infections, Indore four, Sagar two and Gwalior, Jabalpur, Niwari, Rajgarh, Sehore and Seoni one each.With 72,511 swab samples tested during the day, the total number of tests conducted in the state crossed the 1.3 crore mark, according to Madhya Pradesh government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-says-covid-under-control-announces-reopening-of-schools-101626247651702.html
14-07-2021||India||Will offer free electricity if we win: Kejriwal in Goa||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday promised up to 300 units of free electricity per household in Goa and free power to farmers if his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is voted to power in the 2022 assembly elections in the state.“I have come to give a guarantee that if our party comes to power, each family, each month will get 300 free units (of electricity). Just like in Delhi, the bill will come to your home but the amount to be paid will be zero. No tax, no surcharge,” said Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to the poll-bound state.He said in Delhi, 73% of the people were availing free electricity. “In Goa, 87% of the state will have to pay zero electricity bills,” he said. “These are real promises not like other parties who give chunavi jumla (poll rhetoric). This is my guarantee.” Kejriwal promised to fix Goa’s power distribution infrastructure to ensure a 24-hour power supply.Kejriwal has made similar promises in poll-bound states of Uttarakhand and Punjab. His pledge in Uttarakhand came after the hill state’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) promised to provide the first 100 units of electricity for free and the next 100 at a 50% discount.In Goa, Kejriwal said before AAP came to power in Delhi, the city experienced seven to eight hours of power cuts even in the summers. “There are problems in the Goa distribution network, just like in Delhi. We changed the transformers, cables. It took 2-1/2 years, but today we get 24-hour electricity.”Kejriwal said his party wants clean politics in Goa. “Your politics is corrupt. Two years back on July 10, 10 Congress MLAs (members of legislative assembly) defected to the BJP. The people gave the mandate to Congress (in 2017), but the government was formed by the BJP. The party (BJP) that had 13 MLAs has 27 today. Then why have elections at all? There is no meaning to the elections. This is cheating. It is not right,” he said.The Congress emerged as the single largest party in the state in 2017 with 17 lawmakers in the 40-member House. But BJP formed the government with the help of the Goa Forward Party, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Independents taking nine MLAs on board. In 2019, 10 Congress lawmakers defected to the BJP and two in 2018 and one is 2017 itself.Kejriwal called for “new politics” and a new political party for it in Goa. He said AAP is strengthening its organisation in Goa and represented a real alternative to the two major political parties--BJP and Congress.The defections are emerging as a major issue ahead of the polls in Goa. Congress has decided to move a resolution in the assembly for strengthening the anti-defection law.Also Read | Amid poll push, Kejriwal meets MGP chief in Goa“He can spend the next six months in Goa along with his whole cabinet and even run the Delhi government from here while simultananeously campainging but it will be to no avail. It will not make a difference to us,” state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said. “We will win the upcoming elections on our own strength and with the blessings of the people,” he added.Congress senior spokesperson and national media panelist Trajano D’Mello said that since the AAP would not be coming to power in Goa they are free to make any promises no matter how unrealistic.“Since he has said that if AAP is coming to power they will give free electricity, he is already conceding that he will not be coming to power. Besides, if he is serious about his promise why doesn’t he start paying people’s electricity bills already like they have begun distributing ration already? D’Mello asked.Independent commentator Prabhakar Timble said that the party’s announcement would not cut much ice with Goa’s electorate especially the segment that AAP is targeting since the problem of exhorbitant power bills is not something that is an issue in Goa.“In Delhi the average electricity bill is above ₹5,000 in the non summer months so power bills were a genuine complaint. Here the rates are reasonable,” Timble said. “Besides the very constituency that AAP is targeting and who are cheering him on will not stand to benefit from the measure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-promises-free-24x7-power-to-goa-if-elected-101626246358540.html
14-07-2021||India||Afghanistan’s security situation dominates SCO meeting in Dushanbe||India on Wednesday called on members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to act against terrorism and terror financing during a meeting in the Tajikistan capital that was dominated by the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan. External affairs minister S Jaishankar raised these issues when he joined his counterparts from the SCO states – China, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan – for the meeting in Dushanbe. The meeting is also being attended by representatives from countries with observer status with SCO, including Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar. Also Read | Jaishankar, Wang Yi likely to meet today on margins of SCO meeting in Dushanbe“Afghanistan, public health and economic recovery are pressing issues. Combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of SCO. Must stop terror financing and deter digital facilitation,” Jaishankar tweeted after addressing the meeting. Jaishankar also welcomed the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan later in the day, and urged the need for early universal vaccination against Covid-19. He also spoke on reformed multilateralism. The meeting in the 20th year of the existence of SCO is “an opportune time to reflect on achievements & deliberate on challenges”, he said in a tweet before the meet. Before the meeting, the foreign ministers of SCO states called on Tajik President Emomali Rahmon. Shortly after arriving in Dushanbe on Tuesday, Jaishankar met Atmar and discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan and cooperation in the fight against terrorism and for establishing peace and stability in the region. The meeting provided an opportunity for the two sides to compare notes on developments in Afghanistan, especially the security situation, amid the rapid drawdown of US and foreign forces and the Taliban’s violent campaign to capture territory. The Afghan foreign ministry said in a statement that Atmar and Jaishankar discussed the political and security situation, the peace process, and “India’s cooperation with Afghanistan in various fields, including the joint fight against terrorism and the establishment of lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan and the region”. Atmar referred to the escalation of Taliban attacks on civilians and Afghan forces in “collusion with foreign fighters and regional and international terrorist networks”, and said that “overcoming this common threat was of vital importance to regional security”. He underscored India’s constructive role in strengthening regional consensus on the Afghan peace process and preserving the achievements of the past two decades. Jaishankar expressed concern at the escalation of violence and stressed the need to end bloodshed in Afghanistan, the statement said. He assured Atmar of India’s continued cooperation in “strengthening regional and global consensus to achieve a political settlement in Afghanistan”. In a separate meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Atmar described the “presence of foreign fighters and regional and international terrorist networks alongside the Taliban” as a major threat to the region. Atmar emphasised the need for “practical cooperation between regional countries, particularly Pakistan, in closing shelters and ceasing funding sources of the Taliban, and encouraging the group to resume meaningful talks and find a political solution”. The Taliban have stepped up attacks on rural areas of numerous provinces, especially in northern Afghanistan, and taken control of key border crossings and regions bordering Iran, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. The violence has coincided with the US saying it has completed 90% of the withdrawal of its troops and that the process will be completed by August 31. India has repeatedly expressed concern at the spike in violence across Afghanistan and called for a comprehensive ceasefire while efforts continue to find a political settlement. Jaishankar has also asserted the need for having a legitimate government in Kabul amid fears that the Taliban will try to capture power by force. New Delhi pulled out all its diplomats, staffers and security personnel from its consulate in Kandahar over the weekend after fierce clashes erupted between the Taliban and security forces in and around the southern Afghan city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistans-security-situation-to-dominate-sco-meeting-in-dushanbe-101626245218741.html
14-07-2021||India||On allowing Kanwar Yatra, Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, UP govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took suo moto cognizance of the decision of Uttar Pradesh government to allow Kanwar Yatra amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. It has issued notices to both the central government as well as the Uttar Pradesh government, and scheduled the hearing of the matter for July 16.The development comes amid the UP government’s decision to go ahead with the Kanwar Yatra, even when Uttarakhand has scrapped the annual pilgrimage this year. Senior officials of the UP administration indicated that they could make a negative Covid-19 test report mandatory.“It’s status quo in UP. We are talking to kanwar sanghs and everything will be done within the Covid-19 protocol. Even if devotees come from other states to UP, they will have to follow those protocols,” additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Kumar Awasthi said on Tuesday.Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgirmmage wherein Lord Shiva devotees travel either on foot or bicycle to fetch the holy water of the Ganga from Uttarakhand’s Haridwar to their village shrines. This year the yatra is scheduled to start from July 25 onwards.Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand government cancelled the Kanwar Yatra this year in view of the Covid-19 crisis, with chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami saying that people’s lives are their “first priority”. “We don’t want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid-19,” he added. The decision came after Dhami chaired a meeting on Tuesday evening.The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) state secretary Dr Amit Khanna, in a letter to Dhami, requested the newly-appointed chief minister to refrain from holding the Kanwar Yatra. “After the first wave, we became off-guard and could not follow the guidelines of the central government…which was a gross negligence on our part…and consequently lost several of our kind in…the second wave of Covid pandemic,” he stated, as reported by Livemint.Khanna further pointed out that keeping in mind the previous failures, the Kanwar Yatra should not be allowed to keep Uttarakhand “safe from third Covid wave”.On July 6, Uttarakhand had decided to stop all Kanwar Yatra devotees from entering the state, but took the decision to review the move two days later after UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath called Dhami. Notably, both the states go into Assembly polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-allowing-kanwar-yatra-supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-up-government-101626244301871.html
14-07-2021||India||What is cytomegalovirus infection, new post-covid complication doctors found?||Sporadic cases of cytomegalovirus (CMV) are being reported from Delhi, Pune, Bengaluru making it the latest post-covid complication. In Delhi, six people have been diagnosed with this infection at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals in a month. A similar infection has been reported from Bengaluru and Pune.Here is all you need to know about this infection:What is the infection? Cytomegalovirus infection is a common herpes virus infection which may or may not have symptoms. It is a double-stranded DNA virus which remains latent in the body. All those who have so far reported this infection have Covid not even a month before. And by the time, this infection got detected, they tested negative for Covid. Symptoms: Patients may not have any symptoms, so it is difficult to detect the infection. It may have severe symptoms involving the eyes, brain, or other internal organs. This is not a new infection and, like most other post-covid complications, this is not exclusive to Covid. As mucormycosis is a fungal infection which may attack when the blood sugar is very high, cytomegalovirus infects when the immunity is compromised. The patient may have fever, difficulty in breathing if the infection attacks the lungs. The infection is common among those who suffer from HIV, low CD4 counts or are cancer post-transplant patients on immunosuppressive medicines etc. As reported by news agency PTI, doctors have said this virus exists in 80-90 per cent of the Indian population, but it never shows any symptoms due to inherent immunity. Covid, high dosage of steroids for treatment result in an immuno-compromised situation, giving this virus the opportunitIn June, Delhi's Ganga Ram Hospital reported five cases of cytomegalovirus-related rectal bleeding, one of whom died.In May, Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav died of the same infection as he was recovering from Covid-19. He developed fibrosis in the lungs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-cytomegalovirus-infection-new-post-covid-complication-doctors-found-101626242115746.html
14-07-2021||India||Bahrain bans travellers from India, 21 more nations amid Covid-19. Check list||As many as 16 new countries have been included in Bahrain’s Red List, which prohibits travellers arriving from these nations from entry unless they are citizens or residency visa holders of the kingdom, the Bahrain News Agency (BNA) reported. India was already existing in the earlier released list, and after the new additions, a total of 22 countries are now part of it.The rule will also be applied on travellers who have transited via any of the Red List countries at any point in the previous 14 days.According to the Khaleej Times, the BNA said that the civil aviation affairs has updated the number of Red List countries following a “review of the latest recommendations of the National Medical Taskforce for Combating the Coronavirus (Covid-19)”.Travellers who are exempted from the aforementioned rule, however, need to mandatorily exhibit a negative Covid-19 test report, accompanied by a QR code, administered within 48 hours of their departure from the starting countries. These passengers will also need to compulsorily quarantine for 10 days, and undergo further testing for coronavirus upon arrival in Bahrain and on the 10th day of the isolation period, the Khaleej Times reported.The BNA added that the mandatory quarantine will be relevant for both vaccinated and non-vaccinated travellers from all countries barring the ones included in the Red List. They will have to be isolated either in their homes or in places licensed for Covid-19 isolation, according to a Reuters report.The designated quarantine venues are licensed by the National Health Regulatory Authority (NHRA), and will be available for those individuals who have an address in Bahrain – registered either in their or an immediate family member’s name, the Khaleej Times report mentioned.Notably, children aged six or below are exempted from the rule.Here is the list of all 22 countries included in the Red List:1. India2. Pakistan3. Nepal4. Sri Lanka5. Bangladesh6. Vietnam7. Mozambique8. Myanmar9. Zimbabwe10. Mongolia11. Namibia12. Mexico13. Tunisia14. Iran15. South Africa16. Indonesia17. Iraq18. Philippines19. Panama20. Malaysia21. Uganda22. Dominican Republic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bahrain-bans-travellers-from-india-21-more-nations-amid-covid-19-check-list-101626242905597.html
14-07-2021||India||Lightning strikes Gujarat's Dwarkadhish Temple; flag torn||Gujarat's Dwarkadhish Temple in Devbhumi-Dwarka district was struck by lightning on Tuesday afternoon. It damaged the flag atop the shrine, though no harm was caused to the famous Lord Krishna's temple or the people near or inside the temple, videos that recorded the incident showed. The lightning struck the temple amid heavy rains.Union home minister Amit Shah held a telephonic conversation with the Devbhumi-Dwarka district administration after the lightning strike, news agency PTI reported.Jagat Mandir of Lord Dwarkadheesh witnessed a long spell of lightning with thunder showers. No damage or loss except the flag getting torn. Lord Dwarkadheesh is always a saviour. Jay Dwarkadheesh!#Dwarka #Gujarat #Rains #Monsoon #Lightningstrikes pic.twitter.com/VA65y9pXaeAccording to a statement issued by Shah's office, the lightning has not damaged the temple structure and no one was injured in the incident.The statement added that Shah held a telephonic conversation with the temple management and with the district collector on learning about the lightning strike.Two videos of the incident have surfaced on social media. Though the lightning did not damage the structure, one of the videos showed that the flag atop the temple was torn.Around 80 people have been killed in lightning strikes in the past 24 hours in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Of these, 11 are visitors who were killed on Sunday when lightning struck them at Amer Fort near Jaipur.According to National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), thunderstorms accompanied by lightning strikes (usually in the pre-monsoon and monsoon months) are the single-largest killers among natural disasters (extreme weather events) in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-strikes-gujarat-s-dwarkadhish-temple-flag-torn-101626238335840.html
14-07-2021||India||First-ever study to check human anthrax cases underway in Odisha’s Koraput||Bhubaneswar’s Regional Medical Research Centre has started a study across 14 blocks in Odisha’s Koraput for coordinated interventions to check animal-to-human transmission of anthrax. The study is likely to be completed by end of next year. It will test the effectiveness of public health interventions to check the disease transmission in Koraput, the epicentre of anthrax in Odisha. Of the 30 districts of Odisha, 19 are reported as endemic for human anthrax. In all 19 districts, anthrax was diagnosed among livestock. In four districts—Koraput, Rayagada, Malkangiri, and Sundergarh—human anthrax cases were reported. Among the three types of anthrax, the cutaneous form was most common across the state.Koraput has accounted for 300 human anthrax cases and 10 deaths over the last six years. Around 1,208 cases and 436 deaths were reported during the period.Anthrax is a zoonotic disease that affects the lungs, intestines, and skin. It is considered fatal if patients are not diagnosed early and treated promptly with antibiotics. The disease can transmit from animals to humans.“In the study, we will use a package of interventions to show which one works better to eliminate human anthrax cases as elimination of animal anthrax cases is difficult as it is difficult to control animals. Human anthrax can be eliminated through behavioural change, awareness, regular vaccination of animals. We will see if we vaccinate animals properly and cut down the cases,” said Debadutta Bhattacharya, one of the scientists involved in the study.Bhattacharya said anthrax is endemic in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh and that this is the first such study.Conventional butchering practices, unsafe handling and disposal of the contaminated carcasses, and poor vaccination coverage are seen among the main reasons behind anthrax outbreaks in Odisha’s tribal districts. In the Kashipur block of Rayagada district, dead-cattle meat is also consumed, which is also among the causes of the infections.Bhattacharya said they plan to enrol 2,640 adults across 112 villages in Koraput for the study and provide capacity building training on awareness. “We would establish a state-level laboratory for timely diagnosis and management of human anthrax cases. Surveillance network will be strengthened to track the cases in early-stage and risk zoning will be done for focused surveillance in endemic areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firstever-study-to-check-human-anthrax-cases-underway-in-odisha-s-koraput-101626242038208.html
14-07-2021||India||Jumla hai, vaccine nahi: Rahul Gandhi slams centre over vaccine shortage||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at the government over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine in several states.The Congress leader tweeted, “Jumla hai, Vaccine nahi (There is rhetoric, there is no vaccine)”, in Hindi using the hashtag “WhereAreVaccines”. He tagged a media report claiming that Delhi, along with many other states, was facing a shortage of vaccines, which the Centre has denied.Congress leader P Chidambaram, too, hit out at the government regarding the vaccination programme on Tuesday, citing shortages reported by Delhi and Odisha.“Vaccine shortage is a fact. Vaccine production is exaggerated. Vaccine import is a mystery. Vaccinating the entire adult population by December 2021 is an empty boast,” the former Union minister said.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 case count up to 38,792; 624 deaths reported“Will the new health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tell the nation the truth about the vaccination programme?” Chidambaram asked.Chidambaram said the numbers of ministers is increasing (in the new Union Cabinet) but not the Covid-19 vaccine stock in the country.Communist Party of India (Marxist) Sitaram Yechury on Sunday also hit out at the Centre, saying that a “bulky Cabinet” was not going to be useful if public investments were not increased.The Opposition’s constant attack comes amid the weekly pace of vaccination declining to nearly 60% of what it was in the week after June 21, when the Centre entirely took over vaccine procurement from the states. The slackening has resulted in several states complaining of a shortage and an inability to cater to demand.On Tuesday, at least three states-- New Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu-- reported shortage of vaccines, with some saying they had to shut down vaccination centres, even as the Union government denied there were constraints in supplies.“We are running a marathon, not a sprint; and need to understand its challenges. We are regularly hand-holding states and vaccine manufacturers . The production of vaccines is being augmented gradually. In some time, there will be more doses available,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, while replying during a press briefing on states facing vaccine shortage last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jumla-hai-vaccine-nahi-rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-over-vaccine-shortage-101626241438096.html
14-07-2021||India||'Kejriwal jo kehta hai...': Delhi CM promises free electricity in Goa if AAP wins 2022 polls||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday made four major announcements for the power sector in Goa, on the second and final day of his two-day visit, ahead of the assembly elections which are likely to take place early next year.Also Read: Ahead of 2-day visit, Kejriwal says Goa wants changeKejriwal described his announcements as a "guarantee.""My first four guarantees to you are in the power sector. My guarantee means that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will fulfill it. This is not just a promise for elections, unlike other parties which say we made the promise only for elections. Whatever Kejriwal says, he does," the AAP national convenor said.Goa is ready for change, AAP National Convenor Shri @ArvindKejriwal making an Important announcement | LIVE https://t.co/4FSI6I65zkThe Delhi chief minister's first "guarantee" was that every family will get up to 300 units free electricity every month, drawing loud applause from the audience. "After AAP comes to power, your electricity bill will be sent to your house with the following message on it: amount to be paid, zero," Kejriwal remarked, adding that "73% of Delhi gets zero electricity bill."Also Read: Amid poll push, Kejriwal meets MGP chief in GoaOnce the announcement is implemented after the AAP government is formed, 87% of Goa will start getting zero electricity, he further said.The second "guarantee" was that all old or pending electricity bills will be waived off. "We will start on a clean slate. Whatever I'm saying in Goa, we have implemented it successfully in Delhi," Kejriwal said.Announcing his third "guarantee," the AAP chief said there will be uninterrupted, 24x7 power supply in Goa. He elaborated, "In Delhi, me and my power minister ensured that it gets power supply 24 hours a day. It was a result of the hard work put in by us. We will do the same in Goa."Kejriwal's fourth "guarantee" was for farmers, who, he said, will be given free electricity.In recent days, Kejriwal has visited states which will hold assembly elections in early 2022. On June 29, he was in Punjab, where the Congress is in power, while on July 11, he visited Uttarakhand, which, like Goa has a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government. In both states, he made almost the same promises as he did in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-jo-kehta-hai-ahead-of-2022-elections-delhi-cm-s-guarantee-to-goa-101626240119481.html
14-07-2021||India||Pralhad Joshi calls all-party meeting day before monsoon session begins||Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi has called an all-party meeting on July 18, a day before the monsoon session of Parliament begins. The meeting will take place at 11am.An executive meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Parliamentary Party is also expected tp be held on the same day, according the news agency ANI. The floor leaders of BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is also scheduled for the same day, ANI further reported.The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to start from July 19. It will be the first session after the second wave of Covid-19. It will conclude on August 13 with 19 days of business.Around 17 bills are listed for introduction in Lok Sabha, including and five bills for consideration and passage, and a similar number of bills are expected to be introduced in Rajya Sabha as well during the session.The dates for the monsoon session were decided after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla took stock of preparations earlier this week. The timings of the session will be from 11 am to 6 pm for both the Houses.Birla said that those who have not been vaccinated against the coronavirus will be requested to undergo an RT-PCR test before entering the premises of Parliament during the session.Also Read: UV technology to mitigate Covid spread in Parliament soon, says ministerSo far, 444 members of the Lok Sabha and 218 members of the Rajya Sabha have reportedly been vaccinated against Covid-19.Congress president Sonia Gandhi has called a meeting of the party's Parliament Strategy Group on Wednesday evening to discuss the various issues to be taken up by the party during the monsoon session of Parliament.The leaders will discuss the party's strategy to take on the government during the session, people aware of the developments said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-pralhad-joshi-calls-all-party-meeting-day-before-monsoon-session-begins-101626239937921.html
14-07-2021||India||'Only rhetoric, no vaccine': Rahul Gandhi continues jibe against Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter on Wednesday to hit out at the Centre over the shortage of vaccines as he said that there is only rhetoric, not the vaccine. Tagging a media report that claimed that Delhi and many other states were facing a shortage of vaccines though the Centre had denied it, Gandhi tweeted “there are ‘jumlas’ (rhetoric) but not vaccines,”.Congress has been a staunch critic of the Centre's vaccine policy since the vaccination drive was rolled out. When Mansukh Mandaviya replaced Dr Harsh Vardhan as the health minister in the recent reshuffle, Rahul asked, "Does this mean no more vaccine shortage?"Government-run vaccination centres in the national capital have been facing a vaccine shortage. Many centres have asked beneficiaries not to come for vaccination until further information is available. Delhites are worried about missing their second dose.Centres that have been closed in the last few days due to a shortage of Covishield especially are: NDMC near Bengali market, Ishani Govt Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Navyug school at Pandara Park, Anglo Arabic Sr. Secondary at Ajmeri gate, Guru Govind Singh school at Deputy Gunj, Sarvodaya Vidyalaya at Mori gate, GBSSS at Rajouri Garden, Tihar Jail Gate no 6, SDMC school No 4 in Tilak Nagar, CGSH at Paschim Vihar and Govt Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya at Naraina, reported ANI.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said about 1.5 lakh Covishield vaccines were received on July 12, and are likely to be used up by July 13. "Vaccine availability is low. We received 1.5 lakh Covishield vaccines yesterday, which will be used up by tomorrow, after which centres will be closed. We have to repeatedly shut centres. We can't work on Haryana's model to save jabs," Jain said.Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh have been witnessing a decline in vaccination rates. Even states like West Bengal, Maharashtra, Rajasthan which inoculated a record number of people on July 13 asked for more vaccines as a crunch is setting in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-rhetoric-no-vaccine-rahul-gandhi-continues-jibe-against-centre-101626239647731.html
14-07-2021||India||Urdu one of the most beautiful languages in the world: V-P Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has called Urdu one of the most beautiful languages in the world. Addressing an event in Hyderabad where he was presented a copy of the book ‘Urdu Poets and Writers - Gems of Deccan’ authored by senior journalist JS Iftekhar, Naidu said that Hyderabad in particular and the Deccan region as a whole have been ancient centres of Urdu.Iftekhar’s book is an anthology of prose and poetry on the life and works of 51 outstanding poets and writers of the Deccan region. The book traces the rich literary and cultural traditions of Deccan, right from the time of Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah, the founder of Hyderabad, to the present times.Naidu also received books on former prime minister Late PV Narasimha Rao from Mamidi Harikrishna, Director of Telangana state language and culture department, ‘Manavottama Rama’ authored by Satyakasi Bhargava and ‘Nallagonda Kathalu’ authored by Mallikarjun.Applauding the Telangana government for publishing a book on the late PM, Naidu urged all the state governments to bring out such books on regional icons to create awareness among the younger generation.The Vice President stressed the need for writing and popularising the country’s rural folklore and local stories in order to preserve them for future generations, read the statement. He also called for similar initiatives in children’s literature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urdu-one-of-the-most-beautiful-languages-in-the-world-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-101626239637807.html
14-07-2021||India||Jaishankar, Wang Yi likely to meet today on margins of SCO meeting in Dushanbe||External affairs minister S Jaishankar is expected to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in the Tajikistan capital on Wednesday, people familiar with developments said. Jaishankar and Wang are in Dushanbe to attend meetings of the SCO foreign ministers and the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan. Besides the India-China standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that has dragged on for more than a year, they are expected to discuss the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan. There was no official word from both countries on a meeting between the two foreign ministers. This will be their first in-person bilateral meeting since last September, when they held talks on the margins of another SCO foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow.Also Read | Ahead of SCO meeting, Jaishankar meets Afghan counterpart The meeting in Moscow had resulted in a five-point roadmap for resolving the standoff on the LAC, which is yet to be fully implemented. Under that roadmap, the two sides had agreed not to let differences to become disputes, and to quickly disengage on the LAC and maintain proper distance between their troops and ease tensions. The two ministers further agreed that both countries would abide by all existing agreements and protocols on boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquillity in border areas and “avoid any action that could escalate matters”. They also agreed to continue talks through diplomatic and military channels, and to work towards new confidence building measures for the border areas once the situation eases. After a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February, the two sides have been unable to make headway on disengagement of troops at other friction points in the Ladakh sector despite more rounds of diplomatic and military talks. The Indian side has sought to play down the prospect of a meeting between the two foreign ministers in Dushanbe because it is unlikely to result in any significant forward movement in addressing the situation on the LAC, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Jaishankar has repeatedly said China’s unilateral actions, including massing troops on the LAC, attempting to alter the status quo and the clash at Galwan Valley last year that resulted in the first fatalities since 1975, have disturbed overall bilateral relations. He has also said a normal relationship can be restored only if there is peace and tranquillity on the border. China, on the other hand, has called for the border issue to be set aside while the two countries take forward relations in other areas such as trade and investment. This has been taken as a sign in New Delhi that Beijing isn’t interested in speedily resolving the LAC standoff. The situation in Afghanistan too is expected to figure in the meeting between the two foreign ministers. China has sought to play a role in the war-torn country by holding meetings with the Taliban and other players but its efforts have not led to any success. Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi too is in Dushanbe for the SCO meeting, but the people cited above ruled out any possibility of a meeting between him and Jaishankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-wang-yi-likely-to-meet-today-on-margins-of-sco-meeting-in-dushanbe-101626239217907.html
14-07-2021||India||'Misinformation': Army on reports of collapse of border talks with China||The Indian Army has "strongly rebutted" a news article published in a leading English daily which claimed that talks with China in East Ladakh to resolve the border standoff have collapsed. It said that the article has been published with uncorroborated facts.This comes on the day when external affairs minister S Jaishankar is scheduled to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe where the two leaders are expected to discuss the ways to fast track de-escalation and disengagement in East Ladakh.The army said that the article falsely claims that there have been clashes in the Galwan Valley near the Line of Actual Control (LAC), calling the intention of the reporter "malafide". It said that ever since the disengagement agreement in February this year, there has been no attempt by either side to occupy the areas from where the disengagement had been undertaken.The article claimed that clashes took place closer to the place of skirmish in June last year.The army further said that both India and China are continuing the negotiations to resolve the border issues, and regular patrolling in respective areas is on. It said that activities of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) is being continuously monitored by the Indian Army.The situation on ground continues to be as hithertofore, said the army.The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020, was the first deadly skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades, and pushed the bilateral relationship to breaking point. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead.Since then, the two armies have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-rank officers, but the negotiations have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers from friction points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misinformation-govt-on-reports-of-collapse-of-border-talks-with-china-101626238226440.html
14-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala to observe complete lockdown on July 17 and 18||The Kerala government has announced a complete two-day lockdown in the state which is witnessing an upswing in its daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to an official order, Kerala will observe the lockdown on July 17 and 18.Also Read: India’s daily Covid-19 case count up to 38,792; 624 deaths reported"There will be a complete lockdown on 17th and 18th July 2021 with the same guidelines as issued for 12th and 13th June 2021," the Kerala government stated in its order, adding that banks and other financial institutions, too, will remain closed on the two days.Also Read: India’s 1st Covid patient tests positive againThe order further stated that the present categorisation of local self-government institutions (LSGIs) according to the seven-day test positivity rate (TPR) will continue. It added that exceptions and restrictions already applicable to the respective LSGI categories -- A, B, C and D -- will continue. Also, according to the order, shops in all three categories can open till 8pm on days on which these are already allowed to function.LSGIs under category A are those with TPR of up to 5%, while those under category B have a TPR of up to 10%. The corresponding figures for LSGIs in category C and D are up to 15% and above 15% respectively.On Tuesday, Kerala reported 14,539 fresh Covid-19 infections and 124 deaths, according to a statement released by state health minister Veena George. Its cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has thus risen to 3,087,673, including 2,957,201 recoveries and 14,810 deaths due to the viral disease. On Friday, prime minister Narendra Modi will on Friday chair a virtual interaction with chief ministers of six states, including Kerala, over the current coronavirus pandemic situation in the respective states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-kerala-to-observe-complete-lockdown-on-july-17-and-18-101626236170275.html
14-07-2021||India||India’s daily Covid-19 case count up to 38,792; 624 deaths reported||India recorded 38,792 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, which took the cumulative infection tally in the country to 30,946,074, according to the Union health ministry's bulletin on Wednesday morning. With 624 new fatalities reported in the same period, the death toll now stands at 411,408, according to the ministry's update at 8am. The country also saw 41,000 people getting discharged from the hospitals, after which the total number of recoveries reached 30,104,720.The active case count further dipped to 429,946, constituting 1.40 per cent of India’s overall caseload. The situation is worrying in comparison to Tuesday's figures when 31,443 new cases were logged in. Although Wednesday’s death count is 1,396 less than Tuesday’s – when a sharp increase was seen due to data correction by states like Madhya Pradesh. On Sunday, 895 fatalities were reported and the count went down further to 724 on Monday.As many as 435,973,639 samples have so far been tested for Covid-19 in the country, of which, 1,915,501 accounts for the last 24 hours, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data.Meanwhile, during his meeting with the chief ministers of the northeast states on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the overcrowding of tourists in hilly regions of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, terming it “not right”. “I would like to emphasise that the crowds that are emerging at hill stations and markets without masks or without following protocols are a matter of concern,” he said.At a press briefing later on Tuesday, Union health ministry official Luv Aggarwal said that adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour or lack of it is what will “prevent or cause any future waves”. “We talk about the third wave as if it’s a weather update,” he added.India’s vaccination coverage has exceeded 38.5 million, with more than 3,410,974 Covid-19 vaccine jabs administered to beneficiaries till Tuesday 7pm, according to the Union health ministry. Notably, India commenced its nationwide vaccination drive on January 16 this year, while the new phase of universal free-of-cost vaccination campaign kickstarted on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-case-count-up-to-38-792-624-deaths-reported-101626232535816.html
14-07-2021||India||IBPS exam process to be stopped for now, says ministry amid language row||The finance ministry on Tuesday said the ongoing process of holding the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection -- a test for the recruitment for 3,000 clerical posts in 11 banks -- amid a language row which broke out from Karnataka for not keeping Kannada as a language. The finance ministry issued a statement clarifying its stand and said that the process will be kept on hold as of now.The row erupted as former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah took to Twitter and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of betraying Kannadigas. "Latest notification by IBPS is an example of BJP's anti-Kannada stand. Central government should immediately address this and ensure justice to Kannadigas," he tweeted.Being elected to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka, @nsitharaman has constantly betrayed Kannadigas and Kannada.She has continued the same with respect to IBPS exams. She is unfit to represent people of Karnataka in Rajya Sabha. She should resign if she has any shame.#IBPSExamTaking finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman's name specifically, Siddaramaiah said that though the minister represents Karnataka in the Rajya Sabha, she has "constantly betrayed Kannadigas and Kannada". "Karnataka has elected 25 MPs to Lok Sabha. What are these MPs doing? Though slavery is abolished, BJP Karnataka MPS are behaving like slaves of Narendra Modi," Siddaramaiah wrote."IBPS had called for applications to fill more than 3000 vacant clerk positions in about 11 nationalised banks. Out of these, 407 posts are in Karnataka. Injustice to Kannada will result in huge unemployment by leaving out Kannadigas in the competition. Candidates were able to write IBPS exams in regional languages before 2014. After BJP came to power, rules were changed to allow English and Hindi only," Siddaramaiah wrote.Reports said in 2019 Sitharaman had assured that banking exams will be held in local languages. Rejecting the claim, the finance ministry said that the finance ministry's assurance was made in the context of exams for Regional Rural Banks, not IBPS. "With a view to provide a level playing field to the local youths for availing employment opportunities, the Government in 2019 decided that for recruitment of Office Assistant and Officer Scale I in RRBs, examination will be held in 13 regional languages including Konakani and Kannada, besides Hindi and English. Since then, examination for these recruitments are being conducted in regional languages also," the ministry said."In order to look into the demand for holding examination for clerical cadre in Public Sector Banks (PSBs) in local/regional languages, a Committee has been constituted to look into the matter in its entirety. The Committee will give its recommendations within 15 days. The ongoing process of holding the examination initiated by IBPS will be kept on hold until the recommendations of the Committee are made available," it said.This year, IBPS will select clerks for Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Canara Bank, Central Bank of India, Indian Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Punjab National Bank, Punjab and Sind Bank, UCO Bank and Union Bank of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ibps-exam-process-to-be-stopped-for-now-says-ministry-amid-language-row-101626234586639.html
14-07-2021||India||Maharashtra lags in meeting Covid vaccination target for want of supply||Maharashtra faces an acute shortage of vaccine doses, sparking concerns over being effective in staving off the third wave and reviving economic activities, many of which are dependent on vaccination as per the state’s unlock guideline.The Centre announced free vaccination for all adults starting June 21, which led to a record 8.5 million doses administered that day across the country. Maharashtra administered 552,921 doses the following day, its single-highest number till then. Also Read | Orange alert for Mumbai, IMD predicts heavy rainfall for 5 Maharashtra districtsOn Tuesday, only 263,152 people were vaccinated across 2,734 centres in the state. “It is due to the shortage of vaccines from the Central government that many of our vaccination centres in Maharashtra are closed,” said Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh.Though Maharashtra remains the state which has vaccinated the highest number of people – 37 million till date; its capacity, health minister Rajesh Tope told the Assembly last week, is 1 million a day. Several districts have been forced to halt their vaccination on certain days after running out of supply, he said. For instance, on July 11, other than Gondia, districts of Hingoli, Sindhudurg, Osmanabad and Wardha recorded zero vaccinations.“The supply of vaccines has improved compared to previous months. However, the vials are now supplied in lesser quantities on a weekly basis which is slowing down the process as the demand has increased drastically. Though we have a capacity to vaccinate [over] 1 million people daily, we can’t meet our target due to the shortage. We are failing to meet the growing demands,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, Maharashtra Health Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-lags-in-meeting-covid-vaccination-target-for-want-of-supply-101626235377717.html
14-07-2021||India||Hyderabad woman offers ₹30,000 reward for information on missing pet cat||Serina Natto, a cat owner from Hyderabad, announced a reward of ₹30,000 for any information about her cat ‘Ginger’, who went missing last month from a pet hospital in the city, reported news agency ANI."The cat went through a family planning surgery on June 17 at a pet clinic. After the surgery, the swelling was observed at the spot of stitches and was again admitted into the same pet hospital on June 23," Natto told ANI.The hospital informed her on June 24 that the cat went missing following which she tried to lodge a police complaint at Raidurgam police station but the police refused to do so. "I tried to file a complaint at Raidurgam police station in this regard but the police denied to file the complaint," she alleged.Another feline was in the news recently following the devastating Florida condo collapse. Binx, a cat, who had lived on the ninth floor of Champlain Towers, was found safe near the rubble and returned to its owners, reported the Associated Press.“I’m glad that this small miracle could bring some light into the lives of a grieving family today and could provide a bright spot for our whole community in the midst of this terrible tragedy,” Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava said during a press conference. She added that volunteers have set up live traps in the surrounding areas with hopes of rescuing pets who might have escaped the devastating tower collapse.Fire fighters had also launched a search for another missing cat, Coco, who was left behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-woman-offers-rs-30-000-reward-for-information-on-missing-pet-cat-101626233464017.html
14-07-2021||India||BSF fires at suspected Pak drone in Jammu’s Arnia||Border Security Force (BSF) troops fired on a suspected Pakistani drone along the India-Pakistan border at Arnia in Jammu late on Tuesday.“..a blinking red light was observed by our troops in Arnia sector at about 9.52pm at the height of 200 metres on the Indian side. Alert troops fired from their position towards the red blinking light due to which it returned,” said BSF (Jammu frontier) deputy inspector general SPS Sandhu. He said the area was searched but nothing has been found so far.Drones were spotted hovering over areas such as Kaluchak military station in the region for four days after an attack using two such devices on June 27 left two personnel injured at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu. A new security threat has emerged from across the border with drones being used for the first time to carry out attacks at military installations.Also Read | 3 terrorists, including LeT commander, killed in Pulwama encounter: PoliceThe IAF has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu & Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region.The Kaluchak military station was attacked in 2002 by three armed terrorists from Pakistan. The three first attacked a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on the Jammu-Pathankot highway and killed seven passengers before storming the station, where they killed 23 people.At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since the 2019 abrogation of Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-fires-at-suspected-pak-drone-in-jammu-s-aria-101626233637570.html
14-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: 11 cases of Kappa Covid-19 variant found in Rajasthan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.11 cases of Kappa Covid-19 variant found in RajasthanAfter Uttar Pradesh, cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) due to the Kappa variant have been detected in Rajasthan, news agency PTI reported quoting state health minister Raghu Sharma. According to Sharma, 11 cases of the Kappa Covid-19 variant have been detected in the state, of which three cases each are from its capital Jaipur and Alwar, two from Barmer, and one from Bhilwara. Read more.3 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama: PoliceThree terrorists who are yet to be identified were killed early on Wednesday in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, the police said. The encounter started on Tuesday night after security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in Pulwama town. Read more.Punjabi Sufi singer Manmeet Singh's body found in Kangra after flash floodThe body of Punjabi singer Manmeet Singh has been discovered from the Kareri lake area in Kangra district, as rescue operations went on Tuesday night following the flash flood. Reports said Manmeet Singh, one of the singers of Sain brother, a music group known for their Sufi songs, came to Dharamshala a few days ago along with some friends. On Monday, they went to Kareri from Dharamsala. During the torrential rains, Manmeet Singh is believed to have slipped and fallen into Kareri lake. His body is now being sent to Amritsar. Read more.US says it's waiting for India's nod to dispatch Pfizer, Moderna vaccinesThe United States said it is waiting for the Indian government to give a green signal for dispatching the anti-Covid vaccines that the US is donating to several countries across the world. "We are ready to ship those vaccines expeditiously when we have a green light from the Government of India,” State Department spokesperson Ned Price said, as reported by news agency PTI. US vaccines have reached Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, and Bangladesh. But for India, it is taking time as there are some legal hurdles for emergency import, Ned Price said. Read more.Covid-19: Modi flags crowding in hills as 3rd wave triggerThe crowds at hill stations and markets where people are not wearing masks or following Covid-19 protocols are a matter of concern, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, calling the scenes that have played out in several parts of the country as “not right”. Read more.Watch: Bride goes to marriage ceremony on SUV's bonnet, booked; video goes viralA bride was booked along with few others for a stunt violating the Motor Vehicle Act in Maharashtra’s Pune on July 13. The woman was en route to her wedding ceremony sitting on the bonnet of a moving SUV. Watch here.Mary Kom's favourite punch, Sindhu ice cream rule: PM Modi talks to OlympiansPM Narendra Modi interacted with Tokyo Olympics-bound athletes on Tuesday. He hailed the struggles of Indian athletes during the virtual interactive session. PM Modi spoke to boxer MC Mary Kom, badminton ace PV Sindhu among others. Watch here.Britain's Johanna Konta pulls out of Tokyo Olympics after testing positive for Covid-19Britain’s Johanna Konta has decided to withdraw from the Tokyo Olympics after testing positive for Covid-19 that affected her preparations, she said through a tweet on Tuesday. Read more.Indian-origin contestant Justin Narayan wins MasterChef Australia 13, takes home USD 250,000Indian-origin contestant Justin Narayan has won the season 13 of MasterChef Australia. The trophy found its way to Justin after beating three other contestants on the show during the grand finale. One of the three contestants had a Bangladesh connection. Read more.Pooja Bhatt on tackling questions about possible second marriage: 'My life is not incomplete'Actor-director Pooja Bhatt has opened up on marriage and how many women, despite big achievements, have to come home to the question 'khaane mein kya hai (what's there to eat)?'. She also spoke about her personal life and how she faced questions about her getting married again. Pooja added that her life is not incomplete 'because I choose to live the way I do'. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-11-cases-of-kappa-covid-19-variant-found-in-rajasthan-101626230957460.html
14-07-2021||India||UV-C technology to mitigate Covid spread in Parliament soon: Minister||The Parliament will soon be equipped with a radiation technology to mitigate the airborne transmission of Covid virus. Union minister of state for science and technology, Jitendra Singh, held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss installation of Ultraviolet-C radiation (UV-C) system ahead of the monsoon session set to begin on July 19.“The modalities of installing the latest UV-C [Ultraviolet C] disinfection technology were discussed...The technology has been developed by the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), affiliated to the Union ministry of science & technology,” a statement from the ministry read.Also Read | BJP leaders meet to fine tune strategy ahead of monsoon sessionThe technology will first be installed in the Central Hall, Lok Sabha Chamber and Committee Rooms 62 and 63.UV-C radiation, which has been used for years to impede the spread of bacteria, is a known disinfectant for air, water, and non-porous surfaces. However, the minister added, that Covid appropriate behaviour will still need to be followed.While CSIR has said that the technology has been “developed according to the requirements for deactivation of SARS COV-2 virus”, United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) says the effectiveness of UV-C against the SARS-CoV-2 virus is unknown.However, the statement from the ministry has said that UV-C “deactivates viruses with appropriate dosages using 254nm UV light.” “Use of UV-C may also help in ameliorating the fungal infections being witnessed during the current wave of the pandemic,” it said.Meanwhile, a senior public health expert said the radiation technology installation is another “much-hyped” attempt for the mitigation of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uvc-technology-to-mitigate-covid-spread-in-parliament-soon-says-minister-101626232377463.html
14-07-2021||India||LeT commander Abu Huraira, 2 other terrorists killed in Pulwama encounter: Police||Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Abu Huraira and two other terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir early on Wednesday, the police said."#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: #Pakistani LeT commander Aijaz @ Abu Huraira killed alongwith 2 local #terrorists. #Congratulations to Police & SFs," Inspector General of Police Kashmir, Vinay Kumar, tweeted.The encounter started on Tuesday night after security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in Pulwama town.The operation was launched following information about presence of terrorists there, a police official said, according to news agency PTI.He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated.Arms and ammunition have been recovered and search operation is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama-police-101626229724340.html
14-07-2021||India||PM Modi chairs in-person Union Cabinet meeting today after more than a year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired the first Union Cabinet meet today, the first physical meeting in almost a year. The meeting which started at 11am will witness the Cabinet come together for an offline gathering for the first time since April of last year when the coronavirus pandemic started.The Union Cabinet has been meeting regularly since April via video conferencing. PTI reported that the Union Cabinet has decided to meet in person because of the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, which will begin from July 19. The session will continue for 13 days and will also mark a return of the pre-coronavirus timings of the House from 11am to 6pm.Also Read: The reshuffle is meant to secure Brand ModiThe Prime Minister is also scheduled to chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers at 4pm today via video conferencing. This is the second time the Council of Ministers will be meeting after the recent reshuffle. The first one was held on July 8 right after its expansion a day before.Following the reshuffle of the ministries, the Modi government has brought on board Union ministers Smriti Irani, Bhupender Yadav and Sarbananda Sonowal as the new members of the Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs headed by the Prime Minister himself. Former Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Harsh Vardhan are no longer a part of it.Union ministers Arjun Munda, Virendra Kumar, Kiren Rijiju and Anurag Thakur have been included in the rejigged Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs. The Cabinet Committee on Investment and Growth has also been rejigged and now comprises PM Modi, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal, Narayan Rane, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Ashwini Vaishnaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-in-person-union-cabinet-meeting-today-after-almost-a-year-101626229944100.html
14-07-2021||India||PM Modi, Jaishankar to chair UNSC meetings during Indian presidency next month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla will all chair high-level meetings on topics of global importance including maritime security, UN Peace Keeping operations and counter-terrorism during the Indian presidency of the UN Security Council (UNSC) next month.While PM Modi is expected to chair the meeting virtually, both EAM Jaishankar and foreign secretary Shringla will fly to New York next month to guide one month tenure of Indian Presidency in 2021. India has a two-year tenure till end of 2022 as a non-permanent member of UNSC.Foreign secretary Shringla flew to New York this morning for a two-day meetings with the officials at the UN and finalising the Indian plans after discussion with the UN Permanent Representative TS Tirumurti in New York. During his official meetings on July 15-16, Shringla is expected to meet visiting French foreign minister Jean Yves Le Drian, UK minister of state and all the top dignitaries of the UN. He returns to India next Monday after attending two important UNSC sessions. Currently, India’s close ally France is the president of the UNSC.Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has decided to take its UNSC tenure very seriously with both Jaishankar and Shringla expected to visit UN quite often during the two-year period. Subject to the state of global pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be addressing the UNGA and other important meetings on the side-lines in September.While topics like Afghanistan have now taken a priority over Libyan and Syrian crisis, the UNSC will be discussing the unfolding security situation in Kabul with the fundamentalist Taliban putting the Islamic nation to sword through military conquest. “Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq and Syria catch the attention of UNSC frequently and hence discussions on these burning topics will take place during Indian presidency,” said a UN diplomat from New York.High level discussion on maritime security will be very important for the UNSC in the context of Indo-Pacific and freedom of navigation for unhindered global trade. Cooperation in counter-terrorism will also take priority as Afghanistan could emerge as a new epicentre of terrorism as Pakistan based terrorists groups will use the depth areas for training and targeting countries like India, US, UK and Israel, which had happened when Taliban seized Kabul in 1996. India, incidentally, currently heads the 1267 committee of the UN which designates global terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-jaishankar-to-chair-unsc-meetings-during-indian-presidency-next-month-101626229194175.html
14-07-2021||India||3.90 lakh global Covid cases in 3rd wave: What government's chief advisor says||Amid the ongoing apprehension of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Tuesday said the third wave is already there in the world and the wave has already recorded 3.90 lakh daily cases, 40 per cent of the number of cases reported in the second wave, which recorded around 9 lakh Covid-19 daily cases. "Our task is to ensure that the wave does not come in India," VK Paul said during the official briefing of the Union health ministry.Citing global data, the Union health ministry said that the United Kingdom, Russia, Bangladesh, Indonesia are seeing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, which is indicating at a new wave of the Coronavirus pandemic.Here are 5 things that you must know1. In India, there is no sign of any fresh wave overall, as the country is registering a decline in the number of daily cases. On Tuesday, India recorded 31,443 new cases, which was the lowest in 118 days.2. But in some states, the situation is not improving, the ministry has said. According to the health ministry's data, Kerala is now reporting 30.3 per cent of India's total caseload. In April, this share was 6.2 per cent. In May and June, these shares were 10.6 per cent and 17.1 per cent, respectively.66 districts, over 10% Covid positivity rate: What these 2 maps tell about India's present situation3. Similarly, Maharashtra is now contributing 20.8 per cent of the total number of cases, while this share was 26.7 in April. Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha are also contributing more to India's total number of cases than they were in April and May -- when the second wave of the pandemic began.4. Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh are seeing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.5. According to Union health ministry data, some states have recorded a decline in the number of cases, but the decline has stopped and the situation has moved towards a plateau.The health ministry on Tuesday cited four reasons why people avoid masks and said that all these reasons are baseless and wearing a mask is one of the ways to stay off the infection. Among the reasons, cited by the ministry, people refuse to wear masks complaining of breathing problems, discomfort, while many believe that masks do not help in the prevention of Covid-19 and also mask is not required if social distancing is maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/390-lakh-global-covid-cases-in-3rd-wave-what-government-s-chief-advisor-says-101626227647821.html
14-07-2021||India||US says it's waiting for India's nod to dispatch Pfizer, Moderna vaccines||The United States said it is waiting for the Indian government to give a green signal for dispatching the anti-Covid vaccines that the US is donating to several countries across the world. "We are ready to ship those vaccines expeditiously when we have a green light from the Government of India,” State Department spokesperson Ned Price said, as reported by news agency PTI. US vaccines have reached Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, and Bangladesh. But for India, it is taking time as there are some legal hurdles for emergency import, Ned Price said.The US earlier announced to share 80 million doses from its domestic stock with countries around the world. Under India's share, it is supposed to get 3-4 million doses of Moderna and Pfizer from the United States. While Moderna has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India, Pfizer has not yet applied for an emergency approval in India yet.When will Moderna and Pfizer Covid vaccines reach India? Latest updatesWhat are the legal hurdles?"Before we can ship those doses, however, each country must complete its own domestic set of operational, of regulatory, and legal processes that are specific to each country. Now, India has determined that it needs further time to review legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations," Price said."Once India works through its legal processes, our donations of vaccines to India will proceed expeditiously. We would need to refer you to the Government of India on the status of its discussions with COVAX, which, in this case, is helping to facilitate that delivery,” he said."More broadly in the region, throughout South Asia, we're donating millions of vaccines to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, the Maldives, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Roughly 40 million doses have been delivered worldwide so far,” he added.Legal indemnityThe vaccine doses that will be available to India now are part of US donation and no agreement on commercial supplies of these vaccines in India has been made yet. As DCGI approved Moderna, Cipla will import the vaccines from the US. But there has been no decision on legal indemnity as yet. Moderna and Pfizer have wanted legal protection in India which will shield them from legal cases in the country.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-it-s-waiting-for-india-s-nod-to-dispatch-pfizer-moderna-vaccines-101626221374276.html
14-07-2021||India||Punjabi Sufi singer Manmeet Singh's body found in Kangra after flash flood||The body of Punjabi singer Manmeet Singh has been discovered from the Kareri lake area in Kangra district, as rescue operations went on Tuesday night following the flash flood. Reports said Manmeet Singh, one of the singers of Sain brother, a music group known for their Sufi songs, came to Dharamshala a few days ago along with some friends. On Monday, they went to Kareri from Dharamsala. During the torrential rains, Manmeet Singh is believed to have slipped and fallen into Kareri lake. His body is now being sent to Amritsar.Senior superintendent of police, Kangra, Vimukt Ranjan said it was reported on Monday that Manmeet Singh was missing.At least nine persons died and eight others went missing due to the flash floods in Himachal Pradesh on Monday. According to the data provided by the state revenue department and the state disaster management authority, 142 roads are blocked in the state, at present.After the flash flood on Monday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur took an aerial survey of the state and assured that the state government will provide new hoises at the Boh Valley, which has been damaged the most in the flash flood. "A village in Boh was severely hit during heavy rains on Monday. I am sad to hear that a woman has lost her life in this landslide. Nine people are still trapped under the debris. We are trying our best to rescue them,” he said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjabi-sufi-singer-manmeet-singh-s-body-found-in-kangra-after-flash-flood-101626220988686.html
14-07-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: EAM S Jaishankar meets Chinese counterpart, discusses 'outstanding issues along LAC'||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to chair the first in-person Cabinet meeting in over a year. Elsewhere in the world of business, Indian multinational restaurant aggregator and delivery platform Zomato is all set to launch its Initial Public Offering, news of which has created quite the buzz in investor circles.Follow all the updates here:Assam decides to sell liquor online in Guwahati on experimential basisAssam minister Pijush Hazarika on Wednesday said the state Cabinet has decided that liquor will be sold online in Guwahati for a month on an experimental basis. "If it succeeds, we will expand it to the entire state," ANI quoted Hazarika as saying.Kerala health minister lists efforts to control spread of Zika virusThiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation has intensified activities. District admin will also be engaged. They'll do fogging for next 7 days. A control room has started functioning from DMO office: Kerala Health Minister Veena George after chairing a review meeting on Zika virus pic.twitter.com/PY6PWacKBZKerala health minister Veena George said that the Thiruvananthapuram municipal corporation has intensified its efforts against the spread of Zika virus disease, reports ANI.Foreign minister Jaishankar meets Chinese counterpart on sidelines of SCO meeting, discusses border issuesHighlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders.External affairs minister S Jaishankar concluded an hour-long meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in the sidelines of the SCO meeting in Dushanbe."Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas is essential for development of our ties.Agreed on convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders," Jainshankar tweeted.Rahul Gandhi, Congress members walk out of Defence Committee meeting over discussion of border issues, reports ANICongress leader Rahul Gandhi and party's Members of Parliament (MPs) walked out of the Defence Committee meeting over the discussion of border issues: SourcesCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and other members of the party walked out of a Defence Committee meeting over the discussion of border issues, reports ANI. Congress demanded a discussion on Line of Actual Control (LAC) and it was not allowed by the chairman, ANI further says. Suvendu Adhikari moves SC seeking transfer of Mamata Banerjee's petition against Nandigram lossBJP leader Suvendu Adhikari has moved the Supreme Court seeking the transfer of Mamata Banerjee's petition, against her loss in Nandigram, from Calcutta HC.PM Modi to visit Varanasi on Thursday, inaugurate projects worth ₹1,500 crorePrime Minister Narendra Modi will visity Varanasi on Thursday to inaugurate developmental projects worth ₹1,500 crore. "Tomorrow, 15th July, I will be in Kashi to inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs. 1500 crore. These works will further ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal," he tweeted.RJD to stage protests across Bihar on July 18, 19 against rising fuel pricesRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said that the party will stage protests against rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG at all blocks of Bihar on July 18 and at all district headquarters on July 19, reports ANI.DA for central government employees to be hiked from 17% to 28% from July 1: Anurag ThakurDearness allowance for cental government employees to be hiked from 17% to 28% from July1, Anurag Thakur announces at Cabinet briefing.BJP's Piyush Goyal appointed as the Leader of House in the Rajya SabhaBJP leader and Union minister Piyush Goyal appointed as the Leader of House in the Rajya Sabha.Union cabinet approves Rebate of State and Central taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) on export of apparels, garmentsThe Union Cabinet approves continuation of Rebate of State and Central taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) on export of apparel/ garments and made-ups. The move will boost export in global markets, says Union Minister Anurag Thakur.MHA issues advisory to states/UTs over Covid-19 appropriate behaviourMinistry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an advisory to states and union territories asking them to guard against complacency and observe Covid-appropriate behaviour. The ministry flagged hill stations and public transportation for violating Covid norms.Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to remain leader of Congress in Lok SabhaThere is no change in the post of Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha party during this session, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will remain the leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha, Congress sources told ANI.Delhi experiences heavy rainfall due to southwest monsoon#WATCH | Delhi: The national capital receives heavy rainfall, visuals from outside 7 LKM. Southwest #Monsoon has covered the entire country, including Delhi. pic.twitter.com/ddVh5Y2QtMWholesale price-based inflation eases marginally to 12.07% in JuneWholesale price-based inflation eases marginally to 12.07 pc in June, against 12.94 pc in May: Govt dataShanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Foreign Ministers meet begins in TajikistanShanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Council of Foreign Ministers meet has begun in Tajikistan. External Affairs Minister (EAM) S Jaishankar said Afghanistan and post-Covid recovery will be important concerns.Pralhad Joshi calls all-party meeting on Sunday before the monsoon sessionParliamentary Affairs minister Pralhad Joshi has called an all-party meeting at 11 am on July 18 right before the monsoon session starts from July 19, reported ANI.Kerala Governor fasts against dowryKerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has started his fast against dowry, which is being organised by Gandhian organisations, reported ANI. He will join the protest at Gandhi Bhavan from 4.30 pm to 6 pm today.India records 38,792 new cases of Covid-19, 624 deathsIndia recorded 38,792 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total tally of cases to 30,946,074. 624 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 411,408.Lashkar commander Abu Huraira, 2 other terrorists killed in encounterPakistani LeT Commander Aijaz alias Abu Huraira was killed along with 2 local terrorists: IGP Kashmir to ANI2 unidentified terrorists killed in encounter in J-K’s PulwamaTwo unidentified terrorists were killed in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama today during an encounter, Kashmir Zone Police told news agency ANI. Operation is currently underway and more details are awaited.Delhi reports 76 Covid-19 cases, 2 deathsDelhi reported 76 new Covid-19 cases. The number of active cases in the national capital now stands at 688. 2 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 25,020.Not a single drop of water is being held: Haryana CM on Delhi water crisisHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar hit out over Delhi government's claims of the state holding back its fair share of water from the Yamuna leading to a water crisis in the national capital. "Delhi CM has a habit of promoting&praising himself. We're releasing water as per SC's order. Not a single drop of water is being held. We require 1.5 times more drinking water but we give it to them. Delhi & Haryana aren't different, we're neighbours," he told ANI.Encounter underway in PulwamaEncounter breaks out at Pulwama town of South Kashmir. Police and security forces are on the job. Details awaited: Jammu & Kashmir Police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-14-2021-101626220255193.html
14-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Modi flags crowding in hills as 3rd wave trigger||The crowds at hill stations and markets where people are not wearing masks or following Covid-19 protocols are a matter of concern, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, calling the scenes that have played out in several parts of the country as “not right”.Modi made the remark during a meeting with the chief ministers of the North-East states, where cases have increased in recent weeks while most other parts of the country have shown a drop in new infections.“I would like to emphasise strongly that the crowds that are emerging at hill stations and markets without masks or without following protocols are a matter of concern. It’s not right,” he said, according to a transcript of his speech shared by the government.“We often hear the argument that we must enjoy before a third wave hits. People must understand that the third wave will not arrive on its own,” Modi said, adding that questions must be asked on how we can together stop the next wave of infections.The Prime Minister’s remarks came at a time when tourist hot spots have recorded large crowds, forcing some to cap the number of guests permitted at hotels and guest houses.At a press briefing later on Tuesday, a health ministry official said people are violating Covid protocols across the country. “Be it Chennai, Delhi, Chandigarh, or the state of Maharashtra, there is a section that does not observe Covid safe behaviour. The third wave may be caused because of this behaviour,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.“We talk about the third wave as if it’s a weather update. What we fail to understand is that adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour or lack of it is what will prevent or cause any future waves,” he added.Overall, India’s headline Covid numbers have fallen roughly 16% in the last fortnight. The seven-day average of new cases was around 49,000 on June 27, coming down to around 41,000 on July 11. But six states — five in the North-East and Kerala — have bucked this trend, with cases as well as positivity rate being high.Modi raised this concern when he met the chief ministers of Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Assam via video conferencing. All of these regions are reporting a rise in new cases.The PM said it was important to catch signs of an outbreak early. “We need to keep a watch on coronavirus variants. It’s a virus that keeps evolving and because of that, our challenges become harder – which is why, we must keep a close watch.”Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the state was following a micro-containment strategy, an approach the PM endorsed. Sarma, officials in Guwahati said, told Modi that he was confident that Assam’s positivity rate would be brought down to below 1% soon. Assam has been recording around 2,500 new cases and around 25-30 deaths daily for more than two weeks now.Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma said at the meeting that the state did not record a wave when the nation was going through one, and it used the opportunity to augment infrastructure. “We got to prepare the required infra, augment oxygen generation capacity and others in advance,” the CM said, while expressing concern over growing numbers in rural areas.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh thanked the PM for the support and cooperation to the states. Manipur has been recording around 800 new cases daily and 10-15 deaths. The state has around 7,500 active cases.Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb briefed Modi about the Covid vaccination progress and steps taken to control Covid. Tripura, with a positivity rate of over 5%, will take the required steps to reduce the positivity rate as well as number of cases, he said, according to officials.Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu informed the PM that during the past week the state recorded case fatality ratio of 0.57%, which is lowest among all north-eastern states.Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio highlighted pandemic control measures by citing the total lockdown that began in May, and said the state has now begun its first phase of “unlock”.The situation in the North-East was also flagged by government officials, who were speaking at the routine health briefing on Tuesday. “It is important that there must be no slacking of efforts if cases remain at high level in any geography, no matter how limited,” said Aggarwal.He added that 55 districts in the country currently have more than 10% positivity rate.“The only way to stop the pandemic in its tracks is by ensuring that people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour that includes wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing and observing good hygiene, along with vaccination,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-modi-flags-crowding-in-hills-as-3rd-wave-trigger-101626212345425.html
14-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh govt insists Kanwar yatra will go on||Uttar Pradesh will continue with the kanwar yatra despite Uttarakhand cancelling the pilgrimage this year, senior officials said on Tuesday, indicating that the state government could make negative Covid reports mandatory for devotees.The fortnight-long yatra, in which Shiva devotees travel to Haridwar and carry Ganga water back to local shrines, is set to begin from July 25.On Tuesday, Uttarakhand scrapped the event over fears of a Covid surge.“It’s status quo in UP. We are talking to kanwar sanghs and everything will be done within the Covid protocol. Even if devotees come from other state to UP, they will have to follow those protocols,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi.Uttar Pradesh, where assembly polls are scheduled early next year, had asked Uttarakhand to allow the yatra but the request was turned down.A senior government official said the yatra was likely to be limited within the state. “Traditionally, UP devotees also do yatra within the state. They go to places like Varanasi, Barabanki, Ghazipur, Unnao, Ayodhya, Bijnor etc,” said the official on condition of anonymity. Uttarakhand is also likely to allow tankers from UP to carry back water from the Ganga.“The state is also going to introduce Covid-19 RT-PCR negative test report mandatory for the pilgrims,” added the official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-insists-kanwar-yatra-will-go-on-101626208794541.html
14-07-2021||India||Siddaramaiah attacks BSY, PM over banking exam row||Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition in Karnataka, on Tuesday, lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister BS Yediyurappa over The Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) exams.“@BSYBJP’s followers call him Huli (Tiger) but in reality, he is ili (Mouse). He hides in burrows when he has to stand up in front of @narendramodi . Let him resign if he cannot ensure justice to Kannadigas,” Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said in a post on Twitter.He put in a hashtag #IBPSMosa (IBPS cheat) in his post.The tirade by Siddaramaiah continued on an emotive issue in Karnataka where the language of the state, Kannada, has been sidelined in favour of Hindi, which has been resisted by groups and political parties.In a recent notification the IBPS had stated that except for the English language test, other papers will be available in only one other language: Hindi.“@narendramodi is betraying Kannadigas by not allowing candidates to take IBPS exams in Kannada. The latest notification by IBPS is an example of @BJP4India’s anti-Kannada stand.Central govt should immediately address this & ensure justice to Kannadigas,” Siddaramaiah said in his post. The former Karnataka chief minister also lashed out at union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, a member of the upper house of parliament nominated from Karnataka and other Lok Sabha members from the state for continuing to put up with the imposition of Hindi.“Being elected to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka, @nsitharaman has constantly betrayed Kannadigas and Kannada. She has continued the same with respect to IBPS exams. She is unfit to represent the people of Karnataka in Rajya Sabha. She should resign if she has any shame,” Siddaramaiah said.He even said that the MPs from Karnataka were “behaving like slaves” of the prime minister.In a statement on Tuesday, the Press Information Bureau said that reports indicated that only two languages (English and Hindi) would be used for IBPS exams “despite the fact that 22 languages were recognized by the Constitution of India”.“In the above context, it may be clarified that the Finance Minister’s statement referred to above was made in the context of Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) only. With a view to providing a level playing field to the local youths for availing employment opportunities, the Government in 2019 decided that for recruitment of Office Assistant and Officer Scale I in RRBs, the examination will be held in 13 regional languages including Konakani and Kannada, besides Hindi and English. Since then, examination for these recruitments is being conducted in regional languages also,” according to the PIB statement.It added that a committee has been constituted to look into demands for other languages to be used in holding examinations for public sector banks.“The Committee will give its recommendations within 15 days. The ongoing process of holding the examination initiated by IBPS will be kept on hold until the recommendations of the Committee are made available,” the PIB said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-attacks-bsy-pm-over-banking-exam-row-101626203214772.html
14-07-2021||India||Behavioural intervention can influence households to save water: IIM-B study||Bengaluru : At a time when large urban centres like Bengaluru are facing acute water shortage issues due to growing population and rapid concretization, a new research by the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB) states that behavioural interventions alone can influence household water conservation that persists over the long term. In the research, the authors conducted a field experiment that implemented a habit change in an affluent community in Bengaluru.“Humans are creatures of habit. When people act in a particular way repeatedly, such as taking a shower every day, they do it in an automatic mode without much conscious thought. That is why attempts to persuade people to conserve water by appealing to their better senses have had limited success. People may get influenced by these messages temporarily, but the force of habit eventually takes over and behaviour change is short-lived,” said Kanchan Mukherjee, one of the authors of the research, on Tuesday. The research was conducted by Vivek, a recent PhD graduate, Deepak Malghan, Associate Professor of Public Policy, and Mukherjee, Professor of Organizational Behaviour, according to the statement. The multi-year study implemented a framework for habit change, where automatic, unconscious behaviour, like taking a shower or brushing one’s teeth while leaving the tap on, were first brought into one’s conscious awareness through appropriate messaging. “The intervention, which lasted for only five weeks, yielded 15-25% reduction in household water consumption. More importantly, the effect lasted for the entire observation period of two years after the intervention was stopped, establishing the potential of using behavioural methods to achieve significant long-term reduction in water consumption,” according to the statement. The authors said that the results can serve as a powerful tool to address growing freshwater scarcities in cities. “These findings also expand the scope of behavioural interventions to numerous other settings, such as in the larger environment and resource sectors, without the political and social difficulties associated with price-based policies,” said Malghan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behavioural-intervention-can-influence-households-to-save-water-iim-b-study-101626203154784.html
14-07-2021||India||Karnataka HC defers order in Twitter India case||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday deferred the pronouncement of its judgment in the petition filed by Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari against the notice issued to him by the Uttar Pradesh Police in relation to the Ghaziabad assault video. The judgement has now been posted for July 20. The UP Police had insisted that Maheshwari appear before them in person while he had offered to give a statement over video conferencing with regards to a video that alleged an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad was a victim of hate crime. Police said that their investigation later revealed that the incident was over a personal dispute and booked nine people, including Twitter India, for allegedly circulating false information to fan communal tension. Justice G Narendar said that the judgement will be pronounced after he has gone through the precedents cited in the case. He said the bench wanted to go through them again to ensure there are no errors in the verdict. “I want to take more time to go through the citations. Regarding the question of jurisdiction, I would like to go through the judgments in detail. I don’t want to make an error. I will dictate order next Tuesday,” the bench said. The UP government had contested the jurisdiction of the Karnataka high court in hearing the case and deciding on the matter. The alleged offence was committed in Uttar Pradesh, the prosecution pointed out, questioning the grounds under which the court is hearing out the case. Twitter last month was also issued a second notice by the Ghaziabad police to seek “account details” of the suspects accused by cops of posting and promoting the alleged Loni assault video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-defers-order-in-twitter-india-case-101626203094791.html
14-07-2021||India||K’taka police to get special investigators to collect forensic evidence||Bengaluru: In a first in the country, Karnataka Police is set to have its own unit of specialised investigators trained in forensic sciences to collect evidence from and protect any crime scene. According to senior police officers familiar with the development, chief minister B S Yediyurappa has already given permission for the project and an official order to recruit 206 Scene of Crime Officers (SCOs) is likely to be issued anytime soon.“So far, the local police were doing this job. To make investigations more effective, there was a need for experts to gather evidence from crime scenes. The government has sanctioned 206 posts. Initially, the officers will be used only for cases of serious nature,” home minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Speaking on the new initiative, additional director-general of police (crime and technical services) R Hitendra said a similar system exists in police departments across the world but not in India. He added that police officers who have been trained in evidence collection and securing crime scenes are often engaged in other duties such as maintaining law and order.“The police constables or other officers have a duty of securing crimes scenes as it is not possible for forensic science labs (FSL) to come to the crime scene for all cases. So, we are creating a dedicated unit of people who are trained in forensic sciences,” he said. Sharing the police’s plans for the separate unit, Hitendra said it will comprise candidates who are trained in forensic sciences and will not be part of the police force. “Our current plans are to have one SCO for every police circle (a group of two to three police stations in rural areas). We are not planning a SCO for every police station since there are not enough major crimes taking place in the rural parts of the state. So, having one officer for each circle should take care of the requirement. Also, the government is also open to providing more officers, if need be,” he said. “Crime scene management is a crucial part of any investigation. How the evidence is searched, catalogued and transferred can have a big impact on the investigation. There is a big difference between a trained forensic officer searching for evidence and police constables doing the same. This project provides the police force with more trained forensic experts for investigations,” an FSL officer said, wishing not to be named. “At the same time, since experts in the firearms and physics section are available only at the FSL in Bengaluru, they have to travel to crime scenes across Karnataka, and many times, may not be able to visit the scene immediately. Having more people trained in the collection of ballistic evidence would help in quicker investigations,” the officer added. In 2015, the state police had tried to reorganise the FSL and create a crime scene management section. As part of this, 33 district scientific aid units (DSAUs) were to be set up and some selected police personnel were to be trained at evidence collection. The plan, however, never took off. “Poor handling of evidence by investigating officers has many a time resulted in destruction of crucial evidence before they are taken up for analysis. Crucial evidence may be missed or collected evidence may be degraded owing to improper handling and packing,” an internal document of Karnataka police on evidence collection read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-police-to-get-special-investigators-to-collect-forensic-evidence-101626203034788.html
14-07-2021||India||Shekhawat vows ‘justice’ to K’taka in Mekedatu project||Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the Union jalshakti minister on Tuesday said that justice will be done to the state of Karnataka in all irrigation projects, including the construction of the Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project.“We will look deep into the issues of the state of Karnataka, and we will organise a meeting in Delhi for that after having studied all these things, and I assure you that justice will be given to the state of Karnataka,” Shekhawat said.The Union minister was speaking to reporters in Bengaluru after a meeting with Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and other senior members of his cabinet.Shekhawat said that all irrigation projects in the state were discussed in the meeting and that he had asked the state government to look into all the pending projects, including Mekedatu, Kalasa-Banduri and all other projects.The statement comes as a shot in the arm for the Yediyurappa-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government which has been on a collision course with the newly elected Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin and his demands that the Mekedatu project not be approved.“We have discussed in detail almost all the irrigation projects, including Mekedatu. So, definitely in the coming days, we are going to complete all the things, and he is going help us from the Centre and (is) ready to help us in all respects,” Yediyurappa said.Karnataka and Tamil Nadu for generations have fought over the Cauvery river water, and have now locked horns over the project, which the upper riparian state is adamant to construct at the earliest as a way to satiate its drinking water needs, including that of its biggest city, Bengaluru.The Mekedatu issue has evoked emotions on both sides of the border as it is an extension of the century-old Cauvery river water dispute that has defined generations in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, two of India’s most industrious and progressive states.Karnataka has maintained that the Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project is to generate 400 MW of power and additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking and domestic needs in the state and particularly Bengaluru.Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s minister for home, law and parliamentary affairs added that the chief minister has appraised the Union minister of the Mekedatu issue and has urged for clearances, which are pending before the Centre.“DPR (detailed project report) has been submitted to CWC (central water commission) and details have been referred to (the) Cauvery monitoring board. So, honourable minister (Shekhawat) is aware of the whole issue, and he has promised to look into the whole issue and give justice to Karnataka,” he said.The contentious issue of constructing a Mekedatu project has even blurred the ongoing tussle between the ruling BJP and the opposition with the latter, assuring full support to take up the infrastructure project despite Tamil Nadu’s stand.DK Shivakumar, the president of the Congress party in Karnataka, on Tuesday, said that the Union minister should help the state like has done for others in the country.“On this auspicious occasion, we should fix a good time and do the Bhoomi Puja,” Shivakumar said on Tuesday.He added that all tenders can be called post that and get all necessary clearances.Though Shekhawat said that the party is different from the state, Shivakumar took a jibe at the BJP and its promise of speedy development due to the “double-engine” government (BJP at the Centre and the state).Shivakumar also added that the members of Parliament from Karnataka have a lock on their mouths as none of them has raised the issue with the Centre that benefits the state.Shekhawat also reviewed the project that proposes to provide tap water connections to all households in Karnataka. Under the Jal Jeevan mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government has proposed to provide functional household tap water connections to 157 million rural households by 2024.“Government aims to provide 9.1 million rural households, 55 LPCD potable water through FHTC. Under this scheme, during 2021-22 it is intended to provide FHTCs to 2.5 million households and 2.7 million households in 2022-23 and to cover (the) remaining 1.72 million households by the end of December 2023,” according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shekhawat-vows-justice-to-k-taka-in-mekedatu-project-101626202974703.html
14-07-2021||India||22 Covid deaths reported from Manipur||IMPHAL: Manipur on Tuesday recorded one of the highest single-day total fatalities, 22 Covid 19 patients in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s Covid 19 death toll to 1309, a government official said.The victims are from Imphal West (5), Kakching (5), Bishnupur (4), Imphal East (3), Chandel (2), Churachandpur (1), Thoubal (1) and Kangpokpi (1)districts. The state reported 796 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state’s total infection tally to 79,417. The total number of active cases have increased to 7,706.The new positive cases were detected from 15 districts in the state, the maximum from Imphal East (199), Imphal West (165) and Churachandpur (120).On the other hand, with 588 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur reached 70,402. Thus, Manipur’s recovery rate stands at 88.64%, the government official said.As of Tuesday, 9,67,449 people have been tested for Covid-19 while 7,04,532 persons were screened at the entry points of the state at the various testing centres in the state, it said.So far the state has given 8,90,643 doses of Covid vaccines including 7,94,672 first and 95,971 second doses to the residents.Meanwhile, the Manipur police on Tuesday detained 140 persons across the state for violating health protocols and released them after giving warning. An amount of ₹45,300 was also collected as fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-covid-deaths-reported-from-manipur-101626202795279.html
14-07-2021||India||8 BJP MLAs quit as Bengal House panel heads over Mukul Roy’s appointment||Eight legislators of the Bharatiya Janata Party resigned as heads of various assembly panels in West Bengal to protest MLA Mukul Roy’s appointment as the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC).Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari objected to Roy’s elevation, citing that he recently crossed over to the ruling Trinamool Congress last month after winning the polls on a BJP ticket, and cannot be considered a BJP legislator.A BJP delegation, led by Adhikari, also called on governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to seek his intervention in the matter on Tuesday. “This (making Roy the PAC chairman) is violation of rule 302 of the rules of procedure and conduct of business in the West Bengal Assembly. We have sought the intervention of the Governor in this regard...,” said Adhikari.Roy was made chairman of the PAC on July 9.Soon after the meeting, Dhankhar tweeted: “A Delegation of opposition MLAs led by the Leader of Opposition #WBLA Shri @SuvenduWB called on WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan Kolkata today at 4 PM. Leader of Opposition submitted a representation as regards irregularities relatable to PAC Chairman #WBLA.”Adhikari added that the copies of the memorandum would also be sent to the President of India and Lok Sabha Speaker.The TMC, however, hit back saying that appointment of PAC chairman is the domain of the Speaker. “Adhikari should know that appointing the PAC chairman is the speaker’s domain and prerogative. The Governor can do nothing. He may approach anyone from President to Lok Sabha Speaker...” said Tapas Roy, TMC deputy chief whip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-bjp-mlas-quit-as-bengal-house-panel-heads-over-mukul-roy-s-appointment-101626202554658.html
14-07-2021||India||Amid poll push, Kejriwal meets MGP chief in Goa||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Goa for a two-day visit on Tuesday and met Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) chief Deepak Dhavalikar and his brother Sudin at a city hotel, sparking talks of a possible alliance ahead of the 2022 assembly elections.AAP workers welcomed Kejriwal at the airport in the afternoon, after which he went to a hotel in Dona Paula locality near Panaji. After the meeting, Sudin told reporters that it was just a “courtesy” visit.“There is nothing about an alliance. We discussed the good work he has done and the good work I have done with regard to water supply in Goa,” Sudin said.“For a long time we had not met each other... He had even come to Goa once (recently) but we couldn’t meet. I was supposed to go to Delhi but I didn’t get the time,” he added.The MGP was part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led ruling alliance in the state, but it broke the alliance after two of its MLAs “defected” to the BJP in a midnight move ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.During his visit, Kejriwal will review the AAP organisation in the coastal state and also meet several leaders of the party, a senior AAP functionary said.“There were a series of meetings lined up with the local leadership of the AAP including one-on-one meetings,” AAP state convener Rahul Mhambre told HT.Kejriwal is scheduled to address a press conference in Panaji on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-poll-push-kejriwal-meets-mgp-chief-in-goa-101626202314667.html
14-07-2021||India||Centre set to appoint National Maritime Security Coordinator||Two decades after the recommendation by the Kargil Group of Ministers (GoM), the Union government is set to appoint a National Maritime Security Coordinator (NMSC) to interface between the civilian and military maritime domains with the objective of enhancing India’s security architecture and energy security. The maritime security coordinator will work under the National Security Adviser (NSA), and be the principal advisor to the government on maritime security domain, people familiar with the matter said.According to officials in South Block who asked not to be named, the ministry of defence and military affairs has sought the Union Cabinet’s approval to create post of NMSC, and a serving or recently retired Vice Admiral of the Indian Navy is likely to be appointed to the role. NMSC has been a long-pending requirement since the Kargil GoM recommended it, and its need was most felt during the 2008 Mumbai attack, when maritime security agencies were unable to thwart the intrusion by Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) gunmen from Pakistan.Also read| Covid-19: Modi flags crowding in hills as 3rd wave triggerThe appointment of NMSC will fill the need of the hour as the Navy, Coast Guard, and state maritime boards tend to work in silos with overlapping jurisdictions and are constantly at odds with each other, experts said.While India has suffered from sea blindness over the years with land-based security doctrines, historically and geostrategically, it has 7,000km of coastline and over 2 million km of exclusive economic zone. Over 70% of Indian trade, including vital crude oil, is transported through sea, and the protection of sea shipping lanes is vital to India’s security with the Narendra Modi government on June 16 clearing the Deep Ocean Mission for blue water economy.With China moving towards a sea-based security doctrine and penetrating into the Indian Ocean through Pakistan and Myanmar, the post of NMSC will be vital for maritime and energy security as Beijing plans to reach to eastern sea board of Africa through Indian maritime domain, security experts said.The creation of NMSC is part of PM Modi’s Act East Policy vision, that also includes SAGAR (Security and Growth of All in the Region), the Deep Ocean Mission, and the Sagarmala project to make India’s 12 major ports world class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-set-to-appoint-national-maritime-security-coordinator-101626202194603.html
14-07-2021||India||No Bol Bam yatra this time too, orders Odisha government amid Covid concerns||Bhubaneswar: The Odisha government on Tuesday announced that it will not allow Kaudia/Bol Bam devotees to collect water from any religious places at Shiva Temples during the month of Shravan even as the Union health ministry said Odisha is among the top five states reporting Covid-19 cases.Special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said the Bol Bam devotees will not be allowed to carry water from any religious place or any other source and walk on any public road to take the water to their local shrine during the Odia month of Shravan beginning July 23. The state government order came even though Odisha reported 1930 cases in the last 24 hours with daily positivity rate slipping to 3.09 per cent. However, on Tuesday the state reported 68 Covid deaths, its highest single-day Covid death taking the total deaths to 4730.The state has banned all kinds of social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and closed all religious places till July 16 and was apprehensive that congregation of Bol Bum devotees at Shiva temples across the state could lead to a possible rise in infection.“On further assessment of the situation and in the interest of the health of general public, the state government do hereby order that congregations by Bol Bom would remain prohibited and they are not allowed to carry water from religious places or any other sources and also not allowed to walk on public roads and pour water in temples during the Odia month of Shravan (July/August), 2021,” said the order by special relief commissioner Pradip Jena.PM Modi has convened a review meeting on July 16 of several states including Odisha, where the Covid situation in several coastal districts including Khordha, Cuttack and Puri remains a matter of concern.The total positivity rate hasn’t stablised yet in Bhubaneswar where it rises to 8% on some days, and slips below the 5% mark on others. Experts have attributed some of these differences of the positivity rate to inconsistent testing.“TPR is not coming down and deaths are going up. In Maharashtra and Kerala, a third wave has started without announcement and if the TPR remains like this in Odisha, there is every possibility of the Covid virus undergoing another mutation and triggering a third wave,” said noted microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra. “The government should clarify the inconsistency in test figures, deaths and TPR.”Though the lockdown is currently operational in 10 districts till July 16, public health director Niranjan Mishra said any decision on further extension would be taken considering the case load and positivity rate. “People need to avoid gathering, especially indoor gatherings. If the guidelines are not followed, the possibilities of the third wave will increase,” he said.Meanwhile, director of Medical Education & Training Dr CBK Mohanty said the state government should impose stricter measures to monitor the flow of people through interstate mobility to keep the infection rate under control in Odisha. “There has been a dip in the infection rate in Odisha for the last few days. But we shouldn’t be complacent, rather keep track of the people entering the State from other Covid-affected states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-bol-bam-yatra-this-time-too-orders-odisha-government-amid-covid-concerns-101626202136015.html
14-07-2021||India||Population policy chorus grows in BJP-ruled states||Karnataka may emulate Uttar Pradesh and Assam, two other states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, by bringing in a population control law, and two BJP MPs Ravi Kishan and Rakesh Sinha are expected to move private member’s bills on the same subject in the coming session of Parliament as more states and lawmakers warm up to the concept of such a law.“It is high time Karnataka brings in a new population policy on the lines of Assam and Uttar Pradesh to control its growing population,” the BJP’s general secretary CT Ravi, who is also a lawmaker from Karnataka’s Chikkamagaluru, said in a tweet. “With the limited natural resources, it will be difficult to meet the needs of every citizen if there is a population explosion.”Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, has announced a draft population control bill built around incentivising those with up to two children (and penalising those with more) through preference in government jobs and extra benefits (such as ration from the public distribution system). Assam, too, is considering a two-child policy with similar incentives.Amid allegations that such laws target Muslims, both states have been at pains to clarify that the idea is not to target any community but to address a larger issue (population). Still, such a law has been a longstanding demand of the BJP’s ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, and feeds off the perception that the Muslim population is increasing at a much faster rate than the Hindu population. While India’s population growth rate peaked a long time ago — it has been declining since the 1970s — it will take another four decades before the absolute population starts declining. There are differences in the fertility rate among Indian women. Poverty and poor educational status of women are the most important drivers of desiring or having more children. The preference for a son is another important reason why couples tend to have more children. While it is true that fertility rates among Muslim women are higher, Muslims account for only 13% of couples with more than two children India. Also, the total fertility rate has been falling for both Hindus and Muslims overtime.A bigger challenge, as far as India’s demographic burden (actually dividend) is considered, analysts say, is to provide gainful employment to half of population which is less than 30 years old.In Bihar, differences have appeared between the BJP and Janata Dal (United), partners in the National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar, on the issue.Chief minister Nitish Kumar told reporters on Sunday: “I clearly believe that it is not possible to ensure population control with a law” and it can happen only “when women are aware and educated”.However, the junior Union home minister, Nityanand Rai, who is from Bihar, said the state should consider the population control policy as benefits of welfare measures have not resulted in desired economic results due to the population explosion.The policies (and the proposed ones) have triggered outrage from sections of civil society and the opposition.Congress leader Salman Khurshid said: “Politicians should declare how many children they have. I will also declare how many I have and then it should be discussed.”Samajwadi Party MP Shaqfiqur Rahman Barq termed it “election propaganda” before next year’s assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh.In Karnataka, state law minister, Basavaraj Bommai said a decision will be taken after discussion and deliberation. “We would look at the UP policy,” he said.In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court in December 2020, the Centre said it was “unequivocally against coercion in family planning” and data showed that “couples, on average, do not want more than two children”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/population-policy-chorus-grows-in-bjp-ruled-states-101626202134642.html
14-07-2021||India||SC refuses to set aside bail given to 12 accused in gold smuggling case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to set aside the bail granted to 12 accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case but agreed to examine whether smuggling of gold amounts to a terrorist act under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of 1967.The Union of India represented through the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had challenged a February 18, 2021 order of the Kerala High Court which released the 12 accused on bail while holding that “gold smuggling with a mere illegal profit motive” could not fall within the definition of a terrorist act as defined under Section 15(1)(a)(iiia) of the UA(P) Act .The above section of the 1967 act defines smuggling of high-quality counterfeit Indian paper currency, coin or of any other material with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the economic security of the country as a “terrorist act”, which is not bailable.The Kerala high court held that the expression “any other material” will not include gold. At the same time, the high court allowed NIA to seek cancellation of bail if it succeeds in digging out material to show complicity of the accused in a terrorist act.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana issued notice on Centre’s appeal stating that the only question to be considered is the question of law arising out of the HC order. The bench was not inclined to interfere with the bail granted to the 12 accused.Additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for NIA submitted that the Kerala HC’s conclusion that smuggling of gold does not amount to terrorist act will seriously impact pending cases probed by NIA and other central agencies.He pointed out a judgment given on February 1 this year by the Rajasthan high court which upheld charges under UA(P) Act against a man caught for smuggling more than 18 kilograms of gold. This order was later challenged by the accused before the Supreme Court and is still pending consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-set-aside-bail-given-to-12-accused-in-gold-smuggling-case-101626202016399.html
14-07-2021||India||Benegal panel on Cinematograph Act proposed MHA review of films||The Shyam Benegal committee set up by the information and broadcasting ministry in 2016 to review the Cinematograph Act proposed that the Union home ministry should be able to seek re-examination of a film by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), according to a recent note submitted by the I&B ministry to the parliamentary committee on information and technology.“Sometimes complaints are received against a film that allude to violation of Section 5B(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 after a film is certified and provisions of Section 5B(1) are derived from Article 19(2) of the Constitution and are non-negotiable,” the I&B ministry’s background note said, explaining the context for the contentious provision in the Draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that has triggered protests from filmmakers and artists.According to Section 5B (1), which lays down the principles for guidance of the film certification authority, a film should not get a certificate if it is against the interests of the security of the State, friendly relations with other countries, public order, decency or morality, involves deflation or contempt of court or is likely to incite commission of an offence should not be given a film certification. Article 19 (2) allows reasonable restrictions to be imposed on all fundamental rights, including that of freedom to speech and expressionThe Centre has clarified that the changes proposed in the draft bill only empower the Centre to refer a film for re-examination to the CBFC chairman and not pass any order on its own.In 2000, the Supreme Court upheld a 1990 ruling of the Karnataka high court that struck down the Centre’s revisional powers over CBFC-approved films but gave the government the option to appeal to the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT). But FCAT was one of the eight tribunals scrapped in April under the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021.Prasanth Sugathan from the Software Freedom Law Centre, said: “The problem is that the government is planning to open a route wherein the certificate will be revoked if certain sections are unhappy with the film. What is the purpose of having an independent body...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/benegal-panel-on-cinematograph-act-proposed-mha-review-of-films-101626202014615.html
14-07-2021||India||Two more infected with zika in Kerala, tally climbs to 21||Thiruvananthapuram: Two more persons tested positive for vector-borne Zika virus on Tuesday in Kerala taking the total number of infected to 21, said the state health ministry. Both cases were reported from Thiruvananthapuram. State health minister Veena George has asked people to be vigilant and take part in the ongoing vector-control measures. The central team camping in the state also visited some of the affected areas. “We have already started a campaign to clean water-logging areas and all will have to chip in to contain it. We will do everything possible to check its spread,” the minister said, adding that samples are being tested at three medical college hospitals in the state. A special Zika ward has also been set up in Thiruvananthapuram medical college. Earlier, the state was sending samples to National Institute of Virology in Pune. The first case was reported from Parasala in Thiruvananthapuram district on July 7 wherein a 24-year-old pregnant woman tested positive. Later, she gave birth to a baby and both are stable now. In one week, cases went up to 21. Later, the Union health ministry had rushed a team of experts and they are right now camping in the state. Grappling with high caseload of Covid-19, the latest outbreak has got the health machinery concerned. But medical experts said unlike Covid-19, Zika is not a major threat and it can be controlled with effective vector control programmes. The virus is spread mostly through mosquitoes but it can also be transmitted through sex and fatality rate among patients is very low and only one in five develops symptoms, they said. e main symptoms of the disease, first identified in monkeys in Uganda in 1947 and among humans in Nigeria in 1954, include joint pain, fever and headache. In May 2015, it was reported in Brazil, where it spread rapidly. The virus can cause shrunken brain in children and a rare auto-immune disease called Guillain-Barre syndrome, experts said, adding it was first reported in the country in Gujarat in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-infected-with-zika-in-kerala-tally-climbs-to-21-101626201954656.html
14-07-2021||India||PM Modi pledged support for key projects: Vijayan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shown keen interest and pledged support to some of the key infrastructural projects of Kerala, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who descended on the national capital with a big wish list, his first trip after assuming power for the second time.Talking to newsmen in Delhi, the CM said the prime minister heard all issues sympathetically and the meeting was cordial and fruitful. He said he talked to the PM about the state’s ambitious high-speed rail project, connecting one end of the state to the other in four hours, proposed Sabarimala airport and rail projects and long-pending demand for a new centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the state. “The PM congratulated the state government for completing the GAIL pipeline which was hanging fire. He heard details of the proposed silver line high-speed rail project and promised all support. He also suggested the state to make use of the long coastline for travelling and freight movement,” he said, adding, he took up some of the pending projects like the petrochemical unit in Kochi and sought his help to complete it. “Our demand for the AIIMS is decades old. It is more justified now with growing incidences of viruses and other cases,” he said, adding, he apprised the PM about the Covid-19 situation and sought more vaccines to tide over the crisis. “Despite a high caseload, the situation is well under control. Our fatality rate is 0.47%, the lowest in the country. We need at least 2.5 million more vaccines to complete the second dose,” he said. The CM also PM Modi that the state’s zero wastage of vaccine will have to be factored in. The CM also met railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and PM’s principal secretary S K Misra. He also sought permission to launch the second phase of Kochi Metro. Later, replying to a question, he said he was shocked over razing of a portion of the church in south Delhi. “Some of the members of the church met me and I shared their pain and grief. We have limitations in this, but I promised them all possible help,” he said. A major portion of the Syro-Malabar church in Chattarpur was demolished by civic authorities alleging encroachment and many believers protested it vehemently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pledged-support-for-key-projectsvijayan-101626201894570.html
14-07-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Country will cheer for you, PM tells Indian contingent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country’s athletes reflected the “New India” as he interacted with Tokyo Olympics-bound athletes for an hour on Tuesday, inquiring about their journeys and delivering a message of encouragement to the contingent, which will leave in batches for the Japan from July 17.India will have its biggest Olympics contingent ever in Tokyo with 126 participating athletes. “Don’t take the pressure of winning; just tell your heart and mind that you want to give your best. Play freely. The whole of India will cheer for you,” the PM said. He spoke to 15 athletes and their families during the televised virtual meeting.Among those present were Deepika Kumari, the current No 1 woman archer in the world, javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, tennis star Sania Mirza, reigning badminton world champion PV Sindhu, London Olympics bronze medallist MC Mary Kom, Vinesh Phogat, who is the No 1 ranked wrestler in her weight class in the world, shooters Saurabh Chaudhary and Elavenil Valarivan, sprinter Dutee Chand, swimmer Sajan Prakash, table tennis players Manika Batra and Sharath Kamal, and boxer Ashish Kumar.“You have come so far with your discipline, commitment and dedication. The commitment and competitiveness you have shown are the qualities of a new India and all of you are a reflection of a new India. Very soon, winning will become a habit,” said Modi.Beginning his conversation with Deepika, who recently became world No 1 after winning gold at the Archery World Cup stage 3 in Paris, the Modi asked about the journey of the Ranchi girl, who will be playing in her second Olympics. “I heard that you started archery by taking aim at mangoes,” Modi quipped.“After you won the gold medal in Paris, the whole nation is talking about you, you are now World no 1. Can you recall your journey?”Deepika responded: “I like mangoes, and that’s how it started.”“I started with a bamboo bow and then switched to a modern bow. The starting years were a struggle because there were no facilities, but then I got good training and good coaches,” said the 27-year-old.The Tokyo Olympics, in which on-site spectators will not be allowed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, is scheduled to be held from July 23 to August 8.Modi then spoke to recurve archer Pravin Jadhav, who belongs to a family of daily wage labourers from Amravati, and called him an inspiration. Jadhav was part of the team that won the men’s recurve team silver at the world championships in 2019.To javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, Modi said: “I have been told that you got injured, but still you created a new record. You don’t need to get bogged down by expectations, don’t take the burden of expectations, just focus on your goal.”Replying to the PM, Neeraj said: “I am focusing on my game, anything I want, the government is helping me in that. We have a limited career, because of injury, I lost some time but I was fully focused on the Olympics.” The event was initially scheduled for 2020 but was pushed because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic.While speaking to boxer Ashish Kumar, who lost his father just days before the Olympic qualifiers in March 2020, Modi said it required great mental strength to overcome personal loss and represent the country and reminded him of Sachin Tendulkar. “I recall that Sachin Tendulkar’s father passed away when he was playing in an important tournament for India. He chose to play and through his game he paid tribute to his father. You have done the same thing. You are a winner,” he said.Dutee Chand shared her struggles in her professional and personal life. “I come from a weavers’ family. I have three sisters and one brother and people used to criticise my mother for giving birth to so many girls. We had little food to eat. I was thinking, if I play well I can get a good job in the government.”Modi called Mary Kom an inspiration for the entire contingent. To Sania Mirza, he said: “You are a champion and a fighter. I am sure you will play very well at the Olympics.”Sports minister Anurag Thakur, former sports minister Kiren Rijiju, and the president of the Indian Olympic Association, Narinder Batra, also attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-will-cheer-for-you-pm-tells-indian-contingent-101626201535189.html
14-07-2021||India||Experts caution as govt intervenes in food markets||The Union government has virtually rolled back its policy of not intervening in food markets except under “extraordinary circumstances” as it invoked the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) 1955 on July 2 to cool prices of lentils (pulses aka dals). This lays bare the challenges of keeping food prices low and farm incomes high in a country where much of the agricultural trade is opaque, experts say.The government, using a measure known as stock-holding limits, has set restrictions on the quantity of pulses, excluding moong (green gram) that sellers, including importers, wholesalers and retailers, can store. This goes against the provisions of one of the three farm laws passed by the government last year but put on hold on account of protests by farmers.The stock-holding limits mean that grocers can stock no more five tonnes of pulses, while wholesalers can at any point have only 200 tonnes in their warehouses. The government hopes to get traders to release more stocks in the market to soften prices.The government passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 to minimize regulatory interventions in trading of food items, such as pulses, potato, onion and edible oil.The Act is one of the three contentious agricultural laws that have been put on hold due to farmers’ protests. The amended ECA set fixed criteria on when to clamp stock limits. It states such measures are to be used “only under extraordinary circumstances”.The amended law also stipulates that stock limits can be imposed only if there is a 100% increase in retail prices of perishable food commodities compared to the average retail price in the last one year or last five years. For non-perishable items, stock limits can be imposed if inflation in a commodity is more than 50%.The recent rise in prices of pulses does not meet the criteria set out in the amended ECA. For instance, official data show that average chana or chickpea retail prices in June were ₹75 a kilo.The average retail price in the year-ago period was about ₹74 and the average five-year retail price was about ₹84.Thus, the increase in prices does not meet the more liberal criteria of a 50% inflation for imposing stock limits that the government wanted to pursue.The government, however, said its decision to invoke the ECA now was driven by larger goals. “We can’t wait for prices to rise. We have to anticipate the price trend and take proactive action to protect consumers, especially the poor. The policy takes into account the entire ecosystem and not just one dimension,” said Leena Nandan, secretary of consumer affairs.Some economists have argued that these measures imposed at the slightest uptick in prices ultimately hurt farm incomes.They argue that if sellers aren’t allowed to freely import or store sufficient quantities of a commodity, investments to create modern storage capacities don’t take place.Farmers are often forced to dump produce during gluts due to lack of storage facilities, stoking price spirals during lean seasons.A landmark 2018 study by the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development and the Indian think-tank ICRIER, led by noted farm economist Ashok Gulati, blamed frequent government interventions as one of the reasons for poor farm incomes. Gulati cited a pro-consumer bias in India’s food policy. “Farmers in India are impacted by a combination of complex domestic market regulations and by import and export trade restrictions, which together often lead to producer prices that are below comparable international market levels,” the study said.The government’s Economic Survey 2019-20, which devoted a full chapter to the issue, said such measures distorts agricultural trade. The survey also provided evidence that stock limits were totally ineffective in curbing inflation.“I think the government had no choice or option because the amended EC Act now lies frozen. The government needs more accurate estimates of stocks to pursue these changes,” said economist PK Joshi, president of the Agricultural Economics Research Association, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-caution-as-govt-intervenes-in-food-markets-101626201355212.html
14-07-2021||India||Palaeolithic cave paintings found in corner of NCR could be among oldest||Archaeologists have discovered cave paintings in a rocky and forested corner of Haryana, not far from the national capital, that they believe belong to the Upper Palaeolithic age, which could potentially make them one of the oldest cave arts in the country.The caves are nestled amid a maze of quartzite rocks in the Aravalli mountain ranges, just outside the national capital, and a stone’s throw from the region’s only surviving patch of primary forest, a holy grove called Mangar Bani.While the residents of Manger village, and adjoining villages such as Selakhari, say generations have been aware of the paintings, it is only recently that the Haryana government’s museum and archaeology department took note of them. It sent a fact-finding team to the area in the last week of June.“So far, cave paintings in Delhi-NCR have only been found here. Most pre-historic sites have been traced in the Aravalli region. The paintings are yet to be dated but at least some of them belong to the Upper Palaeolithic period in all likelihood. We are viewing the paintings in continuation with the Soanian culture which has been found in Shivalik hills, Narmada and Aravallis,” said Banani Bhattacharyya, deputy director of the department of archaeology and museums.The team encountered cave paintings comprising images of human figurines, animals, foliage, and geometric, some that have paled over time, but others that are still very visible. It also encountered rock art and open-air ceremonial sites. While some could be spotted in the open air, a majority of them are on the ceilings of the rock shelters.The findings may well change the history of Haryana. The Upper Paleolithic Age began around 40,000 years ago and lasted till around 10,000 years ago.Bhattacharyya, who was part of the team, said the discovery is extremely significant. “Though tools from the Palaeolithic Age have been identified earlier in parts of the Aravallis, it is for the first time that cave paintings and rock art of a large magnitude have been found in Haryana.”To be sure, the findings have to be validated, dated, reviewed, and published.The department plans to undertake further explorations in the area.The caves and the paintings themselves are reminiscent of Bhimbetka in Madhya Pradesh, which is home to the oldest known cave art in India, dating back to the Mesolithic Age (around 10,000 years ago).The Mangar cave art is 20,000-40,000 years old, according to Bhattacharyya, but this is something that can be established through archaeological dating. Experts also use qualitative techniques, by comparing the cave art to other cave art, and that found in other excavations.While explorations and excavations in the Aravallis have been undertaken in the past, it is for the first time that cave paintings at the current site have caught the attention of researchers. Bhattacharyya believes the site may have possibly remained relatively undiscovered over the years due to thick vegetation.“Stone age tools and technology dates to a particular time period. We explore what tool belongs to which time period. In sites such as these, we can conduct dating by studying the pigment. The pigment contains proteins (mainly organic material) which can be dated. At present, we are dependent on typo-technological dating. Tools such as hand cleaver, blade, evolve with types. Starting from the Lower Palaeolithic to Middle Palaeolithic then Upper Palaeolithic, we see the evolution here. We have found significant remains from Lower Palaeolithic till Middle and Upper Palaeolithic period too,” she explained.Most of the paintings are ochre, but some are white. Experts say cave paintings in white are usually from a later stage (early contemporary era), while Stone Age paintings are more often than not, ochre. “Stone age paintings generally use red and ochre colours. Stones of these colour used to be available locally and inhabitants crushed the stones for preparing the colour for paintings,” said Bhattacharyya.Palaeolithic artefacts have been reported earlier from various parts of Delhi and Haryana. In 1985-86, Dilip Kumar Chakrabarty and Nayanjot Lahiri surveyed and mapped prehistoric sites in Delhi and Haryana. They traced 43 sites. In 1986, AK Sharma discovered the Palaeolithic site of Anangpur in Faridabad. ASI later undertook excavation at the site. Sharma was accompanied by former joint director general of ASI SB Ota and other experts from ASI’s prehistoric branch.Ota said that while the Aravallis are known for prehistoric remains starting from the Lower Palaeolithic period, unlike Central India and other places that are rich in rock paintings, no rock paintings have been found in Aravallis until now.“That engravings formed part of Aravallis was known through earlier publications but what was not known so far was the presence of paintings in rock shelters. The paintings never got washed away due to these rock shelters. We do not know the date at the moment but this is a clear indication that there must have been many more paintings which might have been destroyed over time,” he said.Ota emphasized the need for conservation after investigations and assessment of the importance of the paintings. “The Aravallis demonstrate the earliest evidence of the stone age which we call the Lower Palaeolithic Acheulean culture. The area can be easily protected since the Aravalli hills also derive protection from various Supreme Court orders. This can be done after experts assess the cultural and archaeological value of the site.”The Aravalli’s are India’s and the world’s oldest mountain range, and have been ravaged by time, the elements, and increasingly over the past few decades, man.Ashok Khemka, principal secretary to government, archaeology and museums department, Haryana, said that while a team from the department has conducted a preliminary study, further investigations will be undertaken since the site requires extensive documentation. He said the department will grant protection status to Mangar forest. “We will definitely be giving the Mangar Bani forest state protection under the archaeological act because of the presence of a large number of stone age cave paintings that have been found there. The paintings date back roughly 20-30,000 years. We will be issuing orders for protecting the entire Mangar Bani forest under section 4 of Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964.”Khemka said his department plans to hire scholars from the region for an extensive survey. “We will be hiring a team of research scholars who are experts in prehistoric cave paintings. Locals and a few research scholars from the nearby universities will also be involved in the extensive survey.”Shalaish Baisla, an archaeology student and independent researcher, said he had spotted tools and cave paintings from the prehistoric age in Mangar. He added that the area needed immediate protection. “There are individuals who have commercial interests in the area. It is crucial that the site is granted protection, even before any research is undertaken.”Residents of Mangar and other villages in the area say they know of the paintings, but that their historical importance eluded them. Hamid, a resident of Selakheri, said: “We know that these paintings must be quite old. It’s evident if you look at them. However, one can’t understand or make sense of symbols or the writing. They have gathered dust over the years.” He uses only one name.Shaukat Ali, a septuagenarian, said that he has seen the paintings over years. “People go there regularly, particularly women -- for grazing goats or routine walks. The caves are a part of our lives...”Sunil Harsana, an activist from Mangar village, said that while the forest needed protection, it was crucial to ensure that protection did not remain on paper alone. “A heritage site has been found here. It is crucial that experts conduct the necessary investigations and ensure that people are made aware of the significance of the site. These sites need to be protected so that future generations are able to understand the history of the region,” said Harsana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palaeolithic-cave-paintings-found-in-corner-of-ncr-could-be-among-oldest-in-the-country-101626201354624.html
14-07-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh wants probe to resume, says won’t take coercive action||The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday submitted in the Supreme Court that it will not take “any coercive action” in the Amaravati land scam case against a former advocate general and the daughters of a sitting Supreme Court judge if the investigations are allowed to resume.The state government also agreed to have the investigations monitored by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or the high court as it pressed for revival of the probe into the case that was stayed in September 2020 by the Andhra Pradesh high court. The state government challenged the order before the apex court.“I am submitting on behalf of the state that no coercive action will be taken. We are also willing to have the investigation supervised by a retired judge,” senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan, representing the YS Jaganmohan Reddy government, told the bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari.Dhavan urged the bench to release the matter and send it back to the high court where it could be heard fully. “Let the case go back to the high court and let the investigations continue...,” said Dhavan.The senior lawyer called the petition by former advocate general Dammalapati Srinivas before the Andhra Pradesh high court “a vengeance petition for a lost election” by a political party (Telugu Desam Party).Asked to respond, senior advocate Harish Salve, who was appearing for Srinivas, opposed the proposal by the state government, saying the Supreme Court should rather go into all the issues and decide finally. “My client has been a former advocate general of the state. There is a phrase called ‘regime revenge’. It is just that. Besides, the case has been pending before this court for almost a year. It can go up and down but I would prefer a decision on all issues by this court,” he said.The bench fixed the matter on July 22 to decide if the state government’s prayer for revival of the investigation subject to certain conditions can be entertained. The FIR registered by state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau named 13 persons, including two daughters of a SC judge and Srinivas, on the ground that they purchased land in Amaravati area. In October 2020, Jagan had written to then CJI SA Bobde, complaining that justice NV Ramana (present CJI) was trying to influence cases in the high court to destabilise his government and stall investigations. In March this year, the inquiry exonerated justice Ramana and dismissed Jagan’s complaint, clearing the decks for his appointment as the CJI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-wants-probe-to-resume-says-won-t-take-coercive-action-101626201236000.html
14-07-2021||India||3rd wave will be inevitable if people continue to flout norms, warns Centre||People are treating the Covid-19 outbreak as if it is a natural weather phenomenon and a third wave will be inevitable, but they fail to realise that future resurgence of the virus will purely depend on their behaviour, a top government official warned on Tuesday.Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Aggarwal made the remark during the routine briefing on Covid-19, and cited similar observations made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who earlier in the day described recent reports of crowding at hill stations and markets as worrying.“As restrictions are being relaxed, reports of gross violations in terms of Covid safe behavior such as use of mask or observing physical distancing are also being noted; be it from Chennai, Delhi, Chandigarh, or the state of Maharashtra, there is a section of people that does not observe Covid safe behaviour. The third wave may be caused because of this behaviour,” said Aggarwal.He likened the conversation around a third wave of infections – India has had two waves with the latest in April-May being particularly devastating – as conversations about the weather. “We talk about the third wave as a weather update. What we fail to understand is that adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour or lack of it is what will prevent or cause any future waves,” he added.Aggarwal cited some survey results where people provided weak excuses for not following Covid appropriate behaviour, especially using masks. Some said it was making it difficult for them to breathe; some said masks were uncomfortable when they were anyway maintaining distancing, and some others still claimed that masks provided no benefit at all.“We have been seeing this kind of misconception even after one and a half years of fighting the pandemic. We need to work on the preventive aspects by use of simple tools such as masks, physical distancing, and hand hygiene to ensure the spread of infection is curbed, strain on the health care infrastructure is reduced and overall quality of care is improved,” said Aggarwal.VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, who was also present at the press briefing, also said that globally, a third wave of Covid-19 was being seen and urged people to make efforts to ensure that it did not happen in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-wave-will-be-inevitable-if-people-continue-to-flout-norms-warns-centre-101626201234619.html
14-07-2021||India||Monsoon is here, at last||The southwest monsoon finally arrived in Delhi on Tuesday, 16 days behind schedule, as it also covered the rest of the country, five days later than usual, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Beginning with a short spell in the morning, the showers brought not just respite from muggy heat, but also an end to a cycle of incorrect predictions for IMD. The weather office was on what seemed to be an unending streak of getting the arrival date wrong: after early estimates proved off the mark all through June, it forecast the arrival of the rains “in the next 24 hours” on July 9, and then made the same prediction every day after that.On July 13, the ordeal was over.Tuesday’s onset over Delhi is the most delayed arrival of monsoon in the Capital since 2002 -- that year, the first of the showers was on July 19. The usual date, IMD says, for monsoon onset in Delhi is June 27. The rains,which sweep in from India’s south-west, beginning from Kerala, typically cover the country by July 8.The onset over Delhi this year has been fraught with delays.An initial rapid advance raised hopes that monsoon will hit the Capital by June 15, which would have been one of the earliest arrivals. Instead, unfavourable weather conditions and an unusual “break” spell slowed the progression, prompting the Met department to shift the forecast to a June 29 arrival, which again was missed, and then July started on a dry note that extended till almost half the month.The delays have meant a long period of hot and humid weather, which experts say can feel as bad, if not worse, than high degrees of dry heat. High humidity impairs the body’s ability to cool itself by sweating.The delayed monsoon also meant that farmers in much of northwest India had to halt sowing their summer crops, raising the possibility of some impact on yields in a year when the economy has, for the second time, suffered due to the pandemic.In the initial weeks, as the monsoon rains touched down on the Indian coast on June 3 (three days later than usual), it gathered pace and stayed ahead of schedule (by June 18, monsoon had covered all of Maharashtra, central India, east India and even parts of UP, a week ahead of its usual pace). It appeared set to break several previous coverage records, particularly at the pace it was barrelling towards Delhi.However, just before it was to cover Delhi (along with Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Punjab), it entered what IMD described as a “break spell” from June 29 to July 8. This “break spell”, which is not unusual for monsoon weather systems, ended up eventually causing it to drop behind schedule.DS Pai, who heads IMD’s climate research and services, said that monsoon has now “completely revived”, and that their models are showing normal to above normal monsoon conditions till the end of July. “As we forecasted earlier, the monsoon started reviving from July 8, and many parts of north and north-west India started getting good rains, including Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. A small area however did not get rain. Today, even that area is covered,” he said.IMD recordings show that the rain in Delhi occurred intermittently through the day with some regions even receiving three spells of showers on Tuesday. Safadarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker of the city, received 52.9mm of rains through the day, while Palam received 32.6mm and Lodi Road received 57.2mm rainfall.The rains also paved way for lower temperatures on Tuesday. At Safdarjung, the maximum temperature on Tuesday was 30.9 degrees Celsius, five degrees below the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 23.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. This was the lowest daytime temperature since May 21 this year.Kuldeep Srivastava, head, IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said Delhi is likely to get “light to moderate” rain on Wednesday as well. “After July 14, the rain activity may slow down. It is expected to intensify again from July 17-19,” he said.Forecasters said that Delhi is expected to receive patchy and intermittent showers till July 16, after which the intensity of rains will increase. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster said, “We will see patchy rains, on and off for the next three days, after which the intensity will increase.”(With inputs from Jayashree Nandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-is-here-at-last-101626201235265.html
14-07-2021||India||Ahead of SCO meeting, Jaishankar meets Afghan counterpart||: External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Afghan counterpart Haneef Atmar on Tuesday discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan against the backdrop of a violent campaign by the Taliban to take control of territory. Jaishankar and Atmar met in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on the margins of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). The two ministers will also participate in a meeting of the SCO Contract Group on Afghanistan on Wednesday. The meeting provided an opportunity for the two sides to compare notes on developments in Afghanistan, especially the security situation, amid the rapid drawdown of US and foreign forces, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Taliban have stepped up attacks on rural areas of numerous provinces, especially in northern Afghanistan, and taken control of key border crossings and regions bordering Iran, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. The violence has coincided with the US saying it has completed 90% of the withdrawal of its troops and that the process will be completed by August 31. After his meeting with Atmar, Jaishankar tweeted: “Began my Dushanbe visit by meeting with Afghan FM @MHaneefAtmar. Appreciate his update on recent developments. Looking forward to the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan tomorrow.” There were no other details on the meeting from the Indian side. While India is a member of the SCO, Afghanistan has observer status with the grouping. Atmar said in a tweet that he would address the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan. “Also look forward to bilateral engagements with FMs of #SCO countries to discuss our cooperation on peace, security & economic development,” he added. The Afghan foreign minister also held a meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who tweeted: “Pakistan and Afghanistan’s destinies are intertwined. We believe working together will help us realise stronger regional connectivity and greater people-centric linkages. I look forward to receiving @MHaneefAtmar in Islamabad to continue our collective efforts.” Jaishankar is expected to hold more meetings with counterparts from SCO member states, including Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. This will be the first in-person meeting between the two ministers since they held talks on the margins of another SCO meeting in Moscow in September last year. India has repeatedly expressed concern at the spike in violence across Afghanistan and called for a comprehensive ceasefire while efforts continue to find a political settlement. Jaishankar has also asserted the need for having a legitimate government in Kabul amid fears that the Taliban will try to capture power by force. New Delhi pulled out all its diplomats, staffers and security personnel from its consulate in Kandahar over the weekend after fierce clashes erupted between the Taliban and security forces in and around the southern Afghan city. In a separate development, an 11-member team of Afghan politicians is expected to travel to Qatar by the end of this week for talks with the Taliban, Tolo News channel reported. Abdullah Abdullah, the chief Afghan peace negotiator, former president Hamid Karzai, former vice president Yunus Qanooni, Mohammad Mohaqiq, Abdul Rashid Dostum, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, and Fatima Gailani will be part of the team. It is not clear who would represent the Taliban in the talks in Doha. Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the High Council for National Reconciliation, and Karzai said on Tuesday they expected important steps in the peace process within the next few days. The US special envoy for reconciliation in Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, is also visiting the region and has met negotiators in Doha this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-sco-meeting-jaishankar-meets-afghan-counterpart-101626201174572.html
14-07-2021||India||Covid-19: States say jab crunch hitting vaccine drive||At least three states reported shortages of vaccines on Tuesday, with some saying they had to shut down vaccination centres, even as the Union government denied there were constraints in supplies.The reports come at a time when the country’s coronavirus vaccination drive has slowed down –— in the seven days till Tuesday, there were an average 3.4 million doses administered to people every day. Less than a month ago, in the seven days after June 21, this number was at 5.8 million.“We have the capability to administer 3 to 4 lakh doses a day... We have received a small stock of 1.5 lakh Covishield doses on Monday night; we have at max around 1.68 lakh doses which will not last beyond Tuesday or one half of Wednesday...,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.In Tamil Nadu, chief minister MK Stalin wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a reallocation of vaccines since, he said, the state was not getting supplies proportionate to its population.“As the allocation of vaccines is very inadequate, we are finding it extremely difficult to meet the huge demand for vaccination throughout the State,” he said.Similar shortages appeared to beset the drive in Maharashtra, where many centres were close this week due lack of doses. The state received 700,000 doses four days back, most of which were used up on Monday. The state has asked the central government for 30 million doses per month.The Union health ministry said it was making strong efforts. “We are running a marathon not a sprint race; and need to understand its challenges. We are doing regular hand holding of states and vaccine manufacturers in production of vaccines that is being augmented gradually. In some time there will be more doses available,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, while replying during a press briefing on states facing vaccine shortage.Congress leader P Chidambaram, too, hit out at the government for the vaccination programme, citing shortages reported by Delhi and Odisha.“Vaccine shortage is a fact. Vaccine production is exaggerated. Vaccine import is a mystery. Vaccinating the entire adult population by December 2021 is an empty boast,” the former Union minister said.“Will the new health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tell the nation the truth about the vaccination programme,” Chidambaram asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-say-vaccine-crunch-hitting-vaccine-drive-centre-denies-charges-101626201115245.html
14-07-2021||India||Remove tweets on Lakshmi Puri, HC tells Gokhale||The Delhi high court on Tuesday directed activist Saket Gokhale to immediately remove all “scandalous” tweets against Lakshmi Puri, saying that one thoughtless barb is sufficient to crumble the reputations — nourished and nurtured over years of selfless service and toil.In an interim order, justice C Hari Shankar restrained Gokhale from posting any tweets in the future against Lakshmi Puri and her husband Union minister Hardeep Puri and said that the “desecration of the reputation of a public figure has become child’s play in the age of social media”.The court also directed Twitter to remove the tweets if Gokhale does not delete them in 24 hours.The court said that before posting the tweets, he should have carried out “due diligence” by seeking clarifications from Puri or from some official sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-tweets-on-lakshmi-puri-hc-tells-gokhale-101626200995230.html
14-07-2021||India||Anti-terror law not to be used to quell dissent: Justice Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud has emphasised that criminal laws, including anti-terror legislation, should not be used for muzzling dissent and that courts must act as the “first line of defence” against deprivation of liberty.Justice Chandrachud was speaking at the Indo-US Joint Summer Conference on Indo-US legal ties on Monday evening when he underscored that no law can be employed to harass citizens and take away their freedom. “Criminal law, including anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or harassment to citizens. As I noted in my judgement in Arnab Goswami Vs the State, our courts must ensure that they continue to remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of liberty of citizens,” said the judge.Justice Chandrachud added that deprivation of liberty for even a single day is “one too many” and that judges must always be mindful of the deeper systemic issues of their decisions. “Today, the world’s oldest and largest democracy represents these ideals of a multicultural, pluralist society where their constitutions are focused on a deep commitment and respect for human rights,” said the judge.Justice Chandrachud’s remarks have come amid outrage over the death of 84-year-old activist Stan Swamy, who was arrested under the anti-terror law in the Elgar Parishad case last year. Swamy died last week in Mumbai while his bail plea on health grounds remained pending before the high court there. Several other cases where the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been invoked have also courted controversies recently. Only a few days ago, Assam leader Akhil Gogoi walked out of jail after spending 18 months behind bars in connection with a case under UAPA over violent protests against the contentious amendment to the citizenship law.Last month, while granting bail to student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, the Delhi high court made some sharp observations on indiscriminate use of UAPA. It said that foisting extremely grave and serious penal provisions engrafted in UAPA frivolously upon people will undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our nation.Sharing his views at the online conference hosted by the American Bar Association and Society of Indian Law Firms, justice Chandrachud also highlighted that the Supreme Court of India, the last court of appeal, has a wide reach over its population, executive and lower courts.The Supreme Court, he said, provides greater access to individuals by exercising not just its appellate jurisdiction but also its rich jurisdiction to protect the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution.About the role of the Supreme Court in ensuring jails are decongested, justice Chandrachud pointed out that during the first wave of the pandemic in March 2020, the top court ordered all states to set up high-level committees to consider releasing on bail or parole those who had been jailed for up to seven years. “... In view of the second wave in May 2021, the Supreme Court on May 7, ordered that those who were released in the first wave of the pandemic were eligible for immediate release...,” said the judge.Justice Chandrachud further said that the Supreme Court has often relied on comparative jurisprudence emanating from the US, indulging often in a transnational judicial dialogue.“For instance in my judgement in Navtej Johar Vs Union of India, where the Indian Supreme Court decriminalized same-sex relations between adults, I relied on comparative law developments from the United Kingdom, the European Court of Human Rights and the celebrated decision in Lawrence Vs Texas of the US Supreme Court to hold that there was the growing liberal consensus towards the equal treatment of LGBTQ rights and that India could not be left behind in this transformational revision,” noted the judge in his address.Dr Lalit Bhasin, President, SILF and Joseph L Raia, Chair ABA International thanked justice Chandrachud for addressing the conference as its chief guest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiterror-law-not-to-be-used-to-quell-dissent-justice-chandrachud-101626200934586.html
14-07-2021||India||Minority schemes do not defy Hindus’ rights, Centre tells SC||The Union government on Tuesday defended in the Supreme Court welfare schemes meant exclusively for religious minorities, stating that these schemes do not violate rights of the Hindus and are not against the principle of equality.Submitting its affidavit in response to a petition filed jointly by six members of the Hindu community, the Centre maintained that the schemes framed by it are “legally valid” and aim at “inclusive growth” for the minority communities at various levels.“The schemes being implemented by the ministry are to reduce the inequalities among the minority communities and to improve the level of education, participation in employment, skill and entrepreneurship development, reducing deficiencies in civic amenities or infrastructure,” said the affidavit filed by the Union ministry of minority affairs.“The schemes are not in contradiction to the principles of equality as enshrined in the Constitution, and do not violate the rights of members of other communities. These schemes are legally valid as they are only enabling provisions so as to achieve inclusiveness and do not suffer from any infirmity,” said the affidavit, supporting 13 welfare schemes for the minorities that the Centre pays for.According to the Centre, the support given to the disadvantaged candidates of minority communities cannot be faulted also because the schemes are meant for the underprivileged sections and women in the minority groups and not for everyone. “In addition, the scholarship scheme, coaching schemes, etc. have academic merit, as well as earmarking for girl students,” it submitted in court.The petition, filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, contended that the petitioners are being unconstitutionally deprived of benefits available to similarly situated members of religious minorities in violation of their fundamental right to equality (Article 14), right against discrimination on grounds of religion (Article 15) and the right against paying taxes for the promotion or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination (Article 27). “The petitioners and other members of [the] Hindu community are suffering because they have been born in [the] majority community... The State cannot promote or give any benefit to any religious community whether minority or majority keeping in view the secular ethos embedded in the Constitution of India,” stated the petition.The petition, filed by Neeraj Shankar Saxena and five others, has also made specific submissions against the welfare schemes for Waqf properties, contending that by giving such “undue advantage”, the Centre is treating the Muslim community above law and the Constitution since no such benefits are given to the institutions of Hindu community such as trusts, mutts and akhadas.It has also sought the scrapping of the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992, as there is already a Backward Classes Commission to find out the conditions of the backward classes that need aid. The petition has objected to the allocation of ₹4,800 crore in the Centre’s 2019-2020 budget for the implementation of such schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minority-schemes-do-not-defy-hindus-rights-centre-tells-sc-101626200514662.html
14-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand scraps Kanwar yatra amid warnings over 3rd Covid wave||Uttarakhand scrapped the kanwar yatra on Tuesday, heeding warnings from health experts who cautioned that millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a devastating third wave of Covid-19 infections and seed clusters of cases across north India.The hill state also turned down a request from Uttar Pradesh, which allowed the pilgrimage — where Shiva devotees travel on foot or cycle to fetch water from the Ganga to their village shrines — to begin from July 25.“We don’t want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid. People’s lives are our first priority,” said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. The crucial move, which was welcomed by experts, came at a meeting chaired by Dhami on Tuesday evening.On July 6, the hill state had decided to stop all kanwar devotees from entering the state, but decided to review its decision two days later after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath called Dhami. Both the states go to the polls in early 2022.“We held meetings with officials of the neighbouring states. And it was concluded that at a time when we are battling the Covid epidemic and delta plus variant has been reported in the state, we don’t want the yatra held. We can’t play with the lives of people…even God won’t feel good if someone loses a life,” said Dhami.Despite the cancellation, however, Uttar Pradesh said it will go ahead with the mega religious pilgrimage. “It’s status quo in UP. We are talking to Kanwar sanghs and everything will be done within Covid protocol,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi.The decision came after sharp opposition by doctors who warned that the impact of the kanwar yatra – which attracted 36 million pilgrims in 2019, the last year it was held – could be worse than the Mahakumbh, which was also held in Haridwar this year and sparked infections in many parts of northern India.They said that implementing testing and masking protocol will be challenging at the kanwar yatra where pilgrims walk or cycle hundreds of kilometers through several states and hail from 10 separate states. They also held up the example of the Mahakumbh, which was visited by 9.1 million devotees and saw widespread violation of Covid norms and a failure of health infrastructure, leading to 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests conducted during the event.“It could have been very dangerous if the pilgrimage of this magnitude had been allowed at this crucial juncture between slowing down of the second wave and the country being on the brink of the third wave,” said Dr Sanjay Shah, vice-president of the Association of Physicians of India, Uttarakhand chapter.Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand’s director general of police, who was present in Dhami’s meeting, said the police will now secure Haridwar from Wednesday to stop any devotee from entering the district. “However, as it was decided earlier in a meeting with the officers of police departments of neighbouring states, water tankers would be allowed to come to Haridwar to fetch the holy water at police station level to take it back for the devotees in villages in neighbouring states,” he said. These tankers are likely to be used in UP and other states to complete the yatra.Experts said Uttarakhand’s decision was partly due to the sharp criticism from the Uttarakhand high court on the move to allow the Mahakumbh and Char Dham Yatra. On June 23, the high court called holding the kumbh a mistake, and on June 28, cancelled the Char Dham yatra, a pilgrimage of the holy sites of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath that attracted 3.2 million devotees in 2019.Dushyant Mainali, one of the lawyers who raised Covid violations in the high court, said the judges on June 23 made their opposition to mega events clear when they said “large gathering invariably leads to a spike in the Covid-19 pandemic”. “This Court is of the firm opinion that a catastrophe like Covid-19 pandemic should not be re-invited by holding and permitting large gathering at religious shrines,” the court held, indicating that it would come down heavily on future religious events as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cancels-kanwar-yatra-amid-fears-of-3rd-wave-delta-plus-variant-101626193554733.html
14-07-2021||India||Chorus grows on population control policy among BJP-ruled states||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader CT Ravi on Tuesday called for a population control policy in Karnataka on the lines of two other states ruled by his party--Assam and Uttar Pradesh--even as differences on the issue surfaced between ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners in Bihar.“It is high time Karnataka brings in a new population policy on the lines of Assam and Uttar Pradesh to control its growing population,” tweeted Ravi, a BJP national general Secretary and Karnataka assembly member. “With the limited natural resources available, it will be difficult to meet the needs of every citizen if there is a population explosion.”State law minister Basavaraj Bommai said a decision will be taken after discussion and deliberation. “We would look into the (population control) bill proposed by Uttar Pradesh,” he said.Also Read | Two-child policy: Experiments, legal jurisprudence on population check in IndiaYogi Adityanath, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, on Sunday introduced a policy to stabilise the state’s population. This came days after the draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill was put up on the website of the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission inviting suggestions from the public by July 19.The bill proposes to bar people with more than two children from contesting local polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any subsidy. It also seeks to bar government employees having more than two children from promotions. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma earlier said large families were likely to lose certain state benefits.Congress leader Salman Khurshid said politicians should declare how many children they have. “I will also declare how many I have and then it should be discussed.”Samajwadi Party (SP) Member of Parliament Shaqfiqur Rahman Barq called the proposed legislation in Uttar Pradesh “election propaganda” before next year’s assembly polls in the state. SP lawmaker Iqbal Mehmood described it as a “conspiracy” against Muslims.Janata Dal (United), an ally of the BJP in Bihar, has expressed reservations over the proposed legislation. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said he believes it is not possible to ensure population control with a law. He insisted population control can happen only “when women are aware and educated.”Union minister Nityanand Rai, who is from Bihar, said the state government should consider a population control policy as benefits of welfare measures have not resulted in desired economic results due to “population explosion”.Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress supported Kumar on the issue saying the BJP wants to target minority communities through such a policy.The Centre told the Supreme Court in December 2020 that it was “unequivocally against coercion in family planning” and data showed that “couples, on average, do not want more than two children”.“Family Welfare Programme in India is voluntary in nature, which enables couples to decide the size of their family and adopt family planning methods... without any compulsion,” it said in an affidavit in response to a Public Interest Litigation filed by BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyaya seeking introduction of a two-child norm or framing a new law to control births.As per National Family Health Survey, the total fertility rate (TFR) is higher among the poor and that it decreases as incomes increase. TFR is the average number of children a woman bears in her lifetime.The Centre’s affidavit also said TFR was on the decline. It added 25 of 36 states and Union Territories have achieved the target TFR of 2.1.According to the UN projections, India’s population will increase by a multiple of 1.09 between 2021 and 2031. This number was 1.25 between 1981 and 1991. From 2060 onwards, India’s population will start falling, which happens when the fertility rate falls below replacement levels. By 2100, which is as far as UN population projections go, India’s population will be 1.45 billion after having peaked at 1.65 billion in 2059.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-seeks-population-control-policy-for-karnataka-101626179273816.html
14-07-2021||India||India’s 1st Covid patient tests positive again||A woman from Kerala who was studying in Wuhan and was infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the early days of the pandemic in 2020 has tested positive for Covid-19 again, a health official said on Tuesday, but with no symptoms.The woman, officially recognised as India’s first Covid-19 infected person, took an RT-PCR test in order to travel to Delhi. She tested negative on a rapid antigen test, widely regarded as reflective of contagiousness, and none of her family members appear to have been infected.“She has tested positive and is under quarantine at her home. None of the family members has tested positive so far,” said Thrissur district medical officer KJ Reena. She said re-infection is nothing new, and some of the health workers have been infected twice.The Thrissur woman is 22 years old and is waiting to resume her studies at a medical college in Wuhan. She has taken one shot of a vaccine.The woman has been unable to return to China as Beijing is yet to allow Indian students back into the country because of the pandemic.In 2020, she spent almost a month in hospital while undergoing treatment for Covid-19.Two of her friends, who travelled with her from Wuhan, the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic in China, also tested positive later.Recent assessments of the Delta variant of the coronavirus, now believed to be dominant in India, have shown that it can lead to more repeat infections than its predecessors. Clinicians and experts largely believe that re-infections are not a cause for concern if a person has no symptoms, especially since RT-PCR tests can also throw up a positive test due to viral remnants.“There are several factors at play here. If the person had a mild infection, the antibody titres are usually low and they do not last very long. Plus, if they had an infection 18 months ago, it is likely they have lost the protection by now. Also, the variant is likely to be different. A person getting a second infection is not unheard of,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious diseases department at ICMR.An Indian Council of Medical Research study from January to October last year estimated 4.5% reinfection cases among symptomatic people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-covid-patient-tests-positive-again-for-coronavirus-101626167651886.html
14-07-2021||India||New ministers find place in key Cabinet committees||New ministers inducted into the Union Cabinet were on Monday named to Cabinet committees mandated to deal with matters such as Centre-state issues, investment and growth.Three of the new ministers, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Narayan Rane, and Ashwini Vaishnaw, were included in the committee that oversees investment and growth. The committee is tasked with identifying key projects required to be implemented on a time-bound basis. It also oversees investments of ₹1,000 crore or more, or any other critical projects, as may be specified, in sectors such as infrastructure and manufacturing. The committee also prescribes time limits for requisite approvals and clearances by the concerned ministries or departments.Three other new ministers, Bhupender Yadav, Sarbananda Sonowal, and Mansukh Mandaviya, apart from Cabinet ministers Smriti Irani and Giriraj Singh, were included in the Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs. Former ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Harsh Vardhan, and the late Ram Vilas Paswan were in the panel that has a role in addressing Centre-state issues. The panel also examines economic and political issues with no internal or external security implications.Prime Minister Narendra Modi inducted 36 new faces into the council and promoted seven junior ministers to independent or Cabinet roles. He dropped 12 ministers, including the ministers of health, education, information technology, law, environment and, information and broadcasting in the biggest reshuffle in the council since 2014, when he first took over as the Prime Minister.Vaishnaw and Yadav have also been included in the committee on employment and skill development. Four other ministers Kiren Rijiju, Anurag Singh Thakur, Virendra Kumar (all three named Cabinet ministers last week) and Arjun Munda (already a Cabinet minister) have been included in the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs with the mandate to draw the schedule of Parliament sessions. The panel also scrutinises non-government businesses and takes decisions on the bills and resolutions to be presented.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet includes Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. It has a role in appointments such as that of the three service chiefs, director-general of military operations, chiefs of all air and army commands among others. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) comprises Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, road, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, commerce minister Piyush Goyal, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and agriculture minister NS Tomar.CCEA has been trimmed with no replacements for Prasad and DV Sadananda Gowda. It has the mandate to review economic trends, problems and prospects for consistent and integrated economic policies. It also coordinates all activities requiring policy decisions at the highest level.Minister for urban development and housing Hardeep Singh Puri has been included in the panel on accommodation after his elevation as Cabinet minister. The committee is tasked with overseeing and drafting the rules for the allotment of government accommodation. He was a special invitee earlier in the panel in his capacity as a minister of state. Ministers of state are special invitees to the committees.The Cabinet Committee on Security, the highest decision-making body on security affairs, continues to remain unchanged with Modi, Shah, Rajnath Singh, Sitharaman and Jaishankar on the panel. Janata Dal (United)’s RCP Singh is the only representative of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s allies to find a place in the eight committees. He has been named as a special invitee to the committee on skill development and employment.Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)’s Paswan, Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant were in the previous committees when they were ministers.SAD and Sena have quit the BJP-led alliance. LJP and Apna Dal, the other allies, have no representatives in any of the committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-inducted-ministers-find-place-in-cabinet-committees-101626149932024.html
14-07-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: 9 dead, eight missing due to flash floods in Himachal Pradesh||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without masks and social distancing."It is true that tourism and business have been greatly affected due to Corona. But today I will say with great emphasis that it is not right to have huge crowds in hill stations, markets without masks. We all need to work together to stop the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic," PM Modi said.Follow all the updates here:9 dead, eight missing due to flash floods in Himachal PradeshNine persons died and 8 others are missing due to flash flood in Himachal Pradesh in the last two days. 142 roads are blocked in the state, as per the data provided by State Revenue Department and State Disaster Management AuthorityTelangana govt to give 50% reservation to local students in resident schoolsTelangana cabinet on Tuesday decided to provide 50% reservation to local students in residential schools in local constituencies, said chief minister's office, reported ANI.Eleven cases of Kappa Covid-19 variant detected in Rajasthan, says health minister Raghu SharmaRajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said that 11 cases of the Kappa Covid-19 variant have been detected in the state, reports ANI.Nepal PM Sher Bahadur Deuba forms 5-member cabinetNewly appointed Nepal PM Sher Bahadur Deuba forms a 5 membered cabinet. Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) onboard to support him.Newly appointed Prime Minister of Nepal Sher Bahadur Deuba formed a five-member cabinet. The Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) is onboard to support Deuba, reports ANI.Vegetable market in Delhi's Sultanpuri closed for 3 days due to gross violation of Covid-19 normsSubzi Mandi located at P2-Block, Sultanpuri, Delhi to be closed with immediate effect till 16th July, for gross violation of #COVID19 norms. pic.twitter.com/NlfWI4q3FFVegetable market located at P2 Block in Sultanpuri, Delhi, has been closed with immediate effect till July 16, for grossly violating Covid-19 norms, reports ANI.After brief delay, Sher Bahadur Deuba takes oath as Nepal’s PM for 5th timeAfter a brief delay, Sher Bahadur Deuba takes oath as the Prime Minister of Nepal. The ceremony was earlier delayed after Deuba demanded the President to revise the notice of his appointment.Uttarakhand cancels Kanwar Yatra this year in view of Covid-19 pandemicUttarakhand government cancelled the Kanwar Yatra this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI.Punjab Congress to get 'good news' in 3 to 4 days, says state in-charge Harish RawatPunjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat, after meeting with Rahul Gandhi, said that the party unit in the state would receive "good news" in the next three or four days, reports ANI.PM Modi to visit Varanasi on July 15 to inaugurate multiple development projectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi on 15th July 2021. He will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects during the visit: Prime Minister's Office (PMO) pic.twitter.com/Pd1gh7IhdcPrime Minister Narendra Modi to visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on July 15 to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects, reports ANI.Mansukh Mandaviya says NEET postgraduate exam to be conducted on Sept 11Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya saysNEET postgraduate exam to be conducted on September 11."We have decided to conduct #NEET Postgraduate exam on 11th September, 2021. My best wishes to young medical aspirants!" he tweeted.PM Modi interacts with Indian athletes ahead of Tokyo OlympicsPrime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the Indian athletes ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. Anurag Thakur, the Union sports and youth affairs minister , minister of state Nisith Pramanik and law minister Kiren Rijiju were also part of the interaction.PM Modi to meet with chief ministers of 6 states on July 16 to discuss Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi will meet with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala via video conferencing at 11am on July 16 to discuss the Covid-19 situation, reports ANI.Will abide with SC order': Nepal's KP Sharma Oli resigns from the post of caretaker prime ministerNepal's caretaker Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli resigned following the country's supreme court order.58 dead in fire at coronavirus ward: Iraqi health officialsThe death toll from a catastrophic blaze that erupted at a coronavirus hospital ward in southern Iraq the previous day rose to 58 on Tuesday, Iraqi medical officials said.SII will commence production of Sputnik V in SeptemberSerum Institute of India (SII) will commence production of Sputnik V in September. Some other manufactures are also ready to produce this vaccine in India: Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, Russian Direct Investment Fund.2 new Zika virus cases found in Kerala2 new Zika virus cases found in Kerala, state-wide infection tally reaches 21France fines Google 500 million euros over news copyright rowFrance fines Google 500 million euros over news copyright row, reports AFP.We need to keep an eye on Covid variants: PM ModiThe number of Covid-19 cases is rising. We need to take strict action to curb the situation at the micro level. We need to keep an eye on Covid variants, experts are studying them. We need to encourage people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour: PM Modi.PM Modi reviews Covid-19 situation in North-East with CMsPM Modi reviews Covid-19 situation in North-East with CMs of eight states from region through video conferencing.Southwest Monsoon covers entire countrySouthwest Monsoon covers entire country after delay of five days: IMD.Monsoon showers cause waterlogging, traffic snarls in DelhiThe long-awaited monsoon showers in Delhi brought with it inevitable annual traffic snarls and waterlogging in several parts of the city and many commuters struggled to drive past roads with ill-equipped drainage systems.More than 39.46 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to States/UTsMore than 39.46 crore (39,46,94,020) vaccine doses have been provided to the States/UTs so far, through all sources and a further 12,00,000 doses are in the pipeline, informed the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to visit Lucknow on July 16Congress General Secretary and Uttar Pradesh Incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to visit Lucknow on July 16.Former India cricketer Yashpal Sharma dies due to cardiac arrestFormer India cricketer Yashpal Sharma dies due to cardiac arrest: Family sources, reports PTI.Delhi HC directs activist Saket Gokhale to remove tweets defaming Lakshmi PuriDelhi HC directs activist Saket Gokhale to immediately remove all tweets defaming Lakshmi Puri and all the connected tweets arising out of it.India registers 32,906 single-day Covid-19 casesIndia on Tuesday recorded 32,906 new coronavirus infections, taking total tally of Covid-19 cases to 30,907,282.Rupee gains 11 paise to 74.47Rupee gains 11 paise to 74.47 against US dollar in early trade.2 dead, 10 missing, 20 stranded in Himachal flash-floodsAs parts of Himachal Pradesh continue to receive heavy rainfall triggering devastating flash floods, at least two people have died, 10 are missing and 20 are stranded in different locations in Kangra district.Sputnik V soft launched in over 50 cities in India: Dr Reddy'sDr Reddys Laboratories Ltd, which soft-launched Russia's COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V here on May 14 has expanded the pilot project to over 50 other cities and towns in the country.Sensex rises 228 points to 52,600.69 in opening sessionSensex rises 228 points to 52,600.69 in opening session; Nifty advances 69.50 pts to 15,762.10.New members of Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary AffairsUnion ministers Virendra Kumar, Kiren Rijiju, Anurag Thakur are new members of Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs: Notification, reports PTI.Monsoon arrives in DelhiDelhi witnesses heavy showers; monsoon arrives in national capital.8 dead, 9 still missing in hotel collapse in eastern China's Suzhou cityAuthorities say at least 8 dead, 9 still missing in hotel collapse in eastern China's Suzhou city.Seven more rescued from rubble of China hotel collapseRescuers have pulled another seven survivors out of the rubble of a small budget hotel that collapsed in the eastern China city of Suzhou, state media said Tuesday.Arvind Kejriwal in Goa todayDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal will visit Goa on Tuesday.China reports 29 new coronavirus cases for July 12 vs 27 a day agoChina reported on Tuesday 29 new confirmed coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 12, up from 27 a day earlier, according to the National Health Commission.Two killed, one injured after a tiger attacked them in forest area in UP's Pilibhit"Victims were traveling on bike at night. Bodies have been sent for post mortem. Further probe on," said Kirit Kumar Rathod, SPSher Bahadur Deuba to take oath as new Nepal PM todayNepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba is set to succeed KP Sharma Oli as Prime Minister of Nepal on Tuesday.Earthquake of magnitude 5.9 strikes Russia's Kuril IslandsAn earthquake of magnitude 5.9 struck Russia's Kuril Islands on Tuesday, the European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC) said.New Zealand records 13 more positive Covid-19 cases on quarantined boatNew Zealand said on Tuesday that 13 more crew members of a fishing boat quarantined in the capital city of Wellington have tested positive for Covid-19.Cinema halls to open, markets to function till 10pm in Madhya Pradesh from todayCinema halls can now operate with 50 per cent strength and markets can remain open till 10pm in Madhya Pradesh in the wake of a significant dip in the coronavirus cases in the state.PM Modi to interact with India's Olympic contingent todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the Indian athletes' contingent for the Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday via video conferencing.PM Modi to review Covid-19 situation in northeastern states todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will review the situation pertaining to Covid-19 with the chief ministers of the northeastern states at 11am on Tuesday, people familiar with the development said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-13-2021-101626132659869.html
14-07-2021||Today's||Counting deaths in India is difficult||Covid-19 has wrecked lives, devastated families, and destroyed livelihoods. An inquiry into the excess deaths due to the pandemic is, therefore, an important issue that needs redressal. The commonly used methodology of quantifying excess deaths based on India’s civil registry system (CRS), however, is not suited to address this. Any analysis based on it is likely to be misleading. The stark reality of India’s data system is that all deaths are still not accounted for; they are estimated based on demographic surveys.Two critical issues merit consideration. First, historically, CRS is not the source of estimates of deaths at the national, state, or city level for three important reasons. One, not all deaths in India are registered (primarily of women and those residing in rural areas); two, registered deaths are not necessarily domiciliary, that is, place of death could be different from where a person typically resides; and three, deaths, if registered at all, are not reported promptly, a large number of registrations happen after the stipulated 21-day period, and, in some cases, beyond a year.The primary source of annual estimates of deaths at the national and state level is the sample registration system (SRS). This is a large-scale demographic survey conducted annually by the Office of the Registrar General in India. The sample consists of 8,847 units (4,961 rural and 3,886 urban). A rural unit is a village or a segment of it if the village population exceeds 2,000. An urban sample unit is a census enumeration block with a population ranging from 750 to 1,000. Overall, the sample covers approximately 8.1 million people across all states and Union Territories.SRS and CRS differ significantly in their estimates of the national- and state-level deaths and their estimates of excess deaths. This is best illustrated by looking at the data. In 2019, the registered number of deaths in India (under CRS) was 7,641,076.However, the average registered deaths for the last four years (2015-18) was 6,507,832. Based on this, one would have concluded that there were more than 1.1 million excess deaths in India in 2019. (Incidentally, this is almost three times larger than the official Covid-19-related deaths in India). This conclusion would be erroneous because SRS data for the same time period reveals that estimated deaths declined marginally from 8,317,732 to 8,293,368.What is true at the national level looks even starker at the state level. For example, in Madhya Pradesh (a state with more than 80 million people), the registered number of deaths based on CRS in 2019 was 493,328; however, the average registered deaths in the previous four years (2015-18) was 361,198. Once again, the commonly drawn but erroneous implication from this would be that there were approximately 130,000 excess deaths in MP in 2019. (This is 12 times more than the official Covid deaths reported by MP). During the same time period, the estimated deaths from SRS report a decline. So CRS, which is being commonly used by the media, is not a reliable source for quantifying excess deaths from Covid-19 in India.Increased emphasis on digitisation of birth and death registrations since 2015 has led to an exponential increase in registered deaths while estimated deaths, as one would expect, have either declined marginally or remained approximately the same almost everywhere. Death registrations have been rising over time, from 66% (2011) to 75% (2015). The speed nearly doubled from 2015 onwards, leading to 92% registrations by 2019. Therefore, it is ironic that the government, which is pushing for higher registration of deaths, stands accused of hiding the number of deaths.Second, the level of registration, which is the ratio of registered deaths from CRS to the estimated deaths from SRS, is not uniform across the country and over time. It varied widely from 21% in Manipur to 463% in Chandigarh in 2019. There are several possible reasons for this, perhaps the most important being that people from states with inadequate health facilities (typically rural) travel to regions with better facilities located primarily in urban areas. In some cases, this might result in a casualty, which is registered where it happens and not where the person resided. Therefore, CRS might report a higher incidence of death in one region versus a lower incidence in other areas.In times of Covid-19, this is crucial because people with Covid-related health care needs flocked to urban centres with better health facilities, driving a significant spike in death registrations in those places. One might then erroneously conclude from CRS data that these urban centres with better health facilities were worst-affected than regions with inadequate facilities.It is crucial to measure the effect of Covid on excess deaths everywhere. This is not only important from the perspective of public policy and improving access to health care but also because by counting the dead, a nation honours their memory. In India, CRS is not designed to quantify excess deaths.Our best bet would be to conduct large-scale demographic surveys of randomly chosen households. We know from past international experience that household surveys give more accurate and most likely far higher estimates of excess deaths (more than 70 times in the case of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Marina) than the current official count. In India’s case, the current pandemic begs aggressive investment in robust data architecture. For this will not only improve policymaking but also honour the dead by first accounting for them.Shamika Ravi is a non-resident senior fellow at Brookings Institution, and former member of the PM’s Economic Advisory CouncilThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/counting-deaths-in-india-is-difficult-101626273326958.html
14-07-2021||Today's||Women work more, earn less, and face greater health risks||Women tend to be the backbone of society during crises, even as they are also more likely to face the disproportionate impacts of such events. The Covid-19 pandemic is no different. It has severely exacerbated existing gendered barriers, widened India’s gender gap in the workforce, and affected (overwhelmingly female) caregivers and frontline workers.In October-November 2020, Dalberg conducted one of the largest studies of the socio-economic impacts of Covid-19 on women in low-income households, analysing data from 17,000+ respondents, across 10 Indian states. The study was primarily based on telephonic interviews and triangulated findings, where relevant, with other surveys. The goal was to achieve a holistic understanding of the effects the pandemic had on women’s livelihoods, access to essentials and sanitation, assets and debt, food and nutrition, and time use. We also assessed the role of government social protection programmes and self-help groups (SHGs) in supporting women in low-income households through the pandemic and discovered that some initiatives worked out better than one would have expected.Women were more affected than men by employment issues. Women made up just 24% of those working before the pandemic, yet accounted for 28% of all those who lost their jobs. They also constitute 43% of those who are yet to recover their paid work. This had knock-on effects on other aspects of their lives.Also Read | Gender pay gap leads to fewer female candidates on the ballot: StudyOne consequence of the loss in incomes for women as well as their households was reduced food supply; women absorbed more of this shock than men did. More than one in ten (an estimated 32 million if extrapolated to the population) women limited their food intake or ran out of food in the week they were surveyed, and a further 10% reported being worried about future food supply.Women’s health indicators also deteriorated because they could no longer afford contraception and menstrual products. About 16% of women (an estimated 17 million if extrapolated) had to stop using menstrual pads, and more than one in three married women were unable to access contraceptives.Indian women already do almost three times more unpaid work than Indian men (nearly 6.5 hours a day), and our survey showed a 47% increase in unpaid labour for women, and a 41% increase in unpaid care work for women. At the same time (and perhaps, in part, because of the increase in unpaid work), far fewer women than men reported an increase in rest during the pandemic.Women from historically marginalised groups (Muslims, migrants, single/separated/divorced), were more affected than the average woman. The variance is across the board, with 20 percentage points (pp) more single, separated/divorced women having limited food or running out of food; three to six pp more women from households with monthly incomes less than ₹10,000 facing nutritional challenges; and Muslim women losing 13 pp more of their income.Concerning as these figures are, conditions on the ground are likely to worsen for those women (such as transgender individuals and women unreachable via telephones) who fell outside of the restrictions of our data-gathering.However, one in three women said that government welfare schemes and SHGs had played an important role in helping them navigate the pandemic, comparable to the commonly cited family support. Specifically, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, and the public distribution system (PDS) supported 12 million, 100 million, and 180 million women respectively during the crisis. The SHG network served as a reliable borrowing channel for both its members and women in the community.While the government’s role in entitlements has been invaluable to women in low-income families that were able to access them, there is a need for broader conversations around universalising, deepening, and extending them support. Here are three proposals.One, deepen PDS to be more focused on nutrition and bring back pulses to the initiative as was the case last year. Think about expanding PDS beyond food as it’s a far-reaching delivery channel. For instance, women’s access to menstrual pads could be revolutionised in this fashion for the short term, improving reach considerably. Bundling free menstrual hygiene products with PDS would relax women’s dependence on income for these essentials.Optimally, this would go hand-in-hand with national-, state- and district-level awareness drives around menstrual health and hygiene. The government can also build upon and accelerate its existing efforts through Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers, Mission Parivar Vikas, and other schemes to strategically focus on contraceptive usage.Two, launch drives to enlist women on MGNREGS job cards and increase the total number of person-days to meet women’s demand for job opportunities. Strengthen the resilience of SHGs by focusing on their economic recovery and market linkages via the existing Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission. SHGs could also provide technical and managerial training to help women develop the skills needed to run small businesses digitally.Three, focus on the inclusion of single, divorced/separated women in the One Nation One Ration Card rollout, and build social assistance programmes for informal workers, specifically domestic workers and casual labourers.There is a multi-generational impact of poor nutrition, lack of access to contraceptives, and debt. Making the right investments in women’s issues now could prove transformational in the long-term recovery and health of our economy and society.Swetha Totapally is a partner and Vineet Bhandari is an associate partner at Dalberg Advisors. Both work on gender, technology and government programmes The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/women-work-more-earn-less-and-face-greater-health-risks-101626262199540.html
14-07-2021||Today's||Borders: From zones of security to commerce via ICPs||Despite the pandemic-induced slowdown and border closures over the past year, India has pushed through with its regional connectivity strategy. It announced a sixth Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Sabroom in Tripura along the India-Bangladesh border and began construction of the third ICP with Nepal at Rupaidiha and Nepalgunj. These moves reflect India’s priority to increasing trade facilitation infrastructure at the borders as part of the “neighbourhood first” policy.Each ICP serves as an entry and exit point along India’s land borders and facilitates the seamless movement of goods and people. It houses agencies such as customs, immigration, quarantine, border security forces, among others.India has operationalised nine ICPs with its neighbouring countries, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, and Myanmar, of which seven have been inaugurated. Forty per cent of India’s land-based trade with these countries takes place via ICPs.Compared to seaports and airports, ICPs are relatively smaller, built at the cost of up to ₹200 crore. The Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) is the nodal agency responsible for constructing and managing ICPs. India aims to have 24 ICPs by 2025.The idea of establishing ICPs along India’s land borders was mooted after the Kargil war to improve India’s border management infrastructure. This led to the institutionalisation of border management through the establishment of the department of border management (ministry of home affairs) in 2004 and LPAI under the department in 2010. During this period, a security-oriented approach to border management was dominant as discussions were held on the need to check illegal activities.Also Read | India to appoint National Maritime Security Coordinator for maritime securityHowever, in the past decade, global and regional factors have led to modernisation of the land border management infrastructure through ICPs. In a recent working paper, I examine three key factors that explain the growing role of ICPs in South Asia.First, the rising trade between India and its neighbouring countries and the focus among South Asian countries on using the territories as transit corridors have increased the need for better infrastructure. Trade between India and its neighbours has risen from 2.7% in 2008 to 3.5% in 2019. India is also the market for about 70% and 90% of Nepal and Bhutan’s exports. India’s trade with Nepal has increased from $0.3 million in 2000–2001 to $7.9 billion in 2019–20. Today, Bangladesh is India’s fifth-largest export market.A second driver is China’s growing trade and investments in infrastructure in South Asia. China has increased its exports to the region from $8 billion in 2005 to $52 billion in 2018, a growth of 546%. Barring Bhutan and India, all other South Asian nations are signatories to China’s Belt and Road initiative. This places the onus on India to invest in connectivity infrastructure with its neighbours.Finally, improving cross-border trade infrastructure is also driven by India’s international obligations. In April 2016, India ratified the World Trade Organisation’s Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA), thus harmonising trading across borders. India has also formulated a National Trade Facilitation Action Plan 2020–2023 to reduce its time to release cargo from ports. The National Committee on Trade Facilitation set the target for clearance of goods from land ports within 48 hours for imports and 24 hours for exports. For land ports, the action plan includes upgrading the identified land customs stations to ICPs; resolving logistics and infrastructure issues; standardising operational procedures. In 2017, India also ratified the Transports Internationaux Routiers or International Road Transports (TIR) Convention to obviate the need to inspect goods at intermediate borders and escorts en route due to reciprocal recognition of customs controls.Despite its challenges, the ICPs along India’s land borders show the capacity of the Government of India to deliver on infrastructure projects. The rising number of ICPs and the growing emphasis on improving regional connectivity in South Asia are slowly shifting the approach towards borders from zones of security to commerce.Riya Sinha is a research associate at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/borders-from-zones-of-security-to-commerce-via-icps-101626259319808.html
14-07-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Identifying genetic superpowers in people||In Manoj Night Shyamalan’s film, Unbreakable, the protagonist David Dunn (played by Bruce Willis) survives a train crash, and soon learns that he is gifted with unique superpowers. Dunn has super-strength and can read the minds of others. While the movie is fictional, I often wonder about people who have more mundane genetic superpowers. We all know people who can get by on a few hours of sleep, seemingly eat whatever they want to without gaining weight, learn a new language rapidly, run fast without breaking a sweat, and avoid taking sick days from work.It’s quite difficult to pin down what proportion of genes, environment, and stochastic processes (in plain speak, dumb luck) play a part in our own lives. It’s also very difficult to move from a correlation between factors to actually finding a cause and effect for an observation.Also Read | Gene-editing stops virus transmission within human bodyBut one of the things we can do in the age of big data is to start with an observation and then see what is associated with it. With the availability of massive amounts of genetic data, scientists are now able to scour through sequenced genomes for links between genes in bodies and outcomes in people. Often, the process yields no results, because there isn’t a clear association between one or few genes and an outcome. But this brute force approach is beginning to bear fruit. We have entered the realm of precision medicine, in which clinicians are starting to tailor treatments for people based on their genetic profiles. We are also just now starting to see powerful tools such as genome editing with CRISPR be used to fix genes that cause genetic diseases causes by single mutations.Much of this effort has rightly focused on identifying what predisposes people to or exacerbates illnesses such as heart diseases, cancers, obesity, and infections. For example, just last week, researchers published a paper in Nature that identified human genetic variants that increased the susceptibility of those unfortunate enough to carry them to severe Covid-19.But some scientists are taking a different approach altogether by trying to identify genes that make people less vulnerable to unfavourablehealth conditions. This is kind of like mining for genetic superpowers.There’s a large-scale undertaking called the Resilience Project led by scientists at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. This project “aims to discover why some people are more able than others to resist or recover from challenges to their health and escape disease”, and it has already identified people who have mitigated cardiovascular disease risk despite have a high LDL cholesterol level and have resisted Alzheimer’s disease despite have an activating gene. The project has also identified people who keep HIV at very low levels or even never test positive for HIV (or develop full-blown AIDS) despite being exposed to the virus many times.Scientists at Regeneron have another goal. They have been searching for genes in people who seem to not gain weight. Regeneron sequenced all the protein-coding genes in genomes of around 650,000 people chosen at random. But instead of trying to identify genes in people who had severe obesity, they looked for genes associated with leanness. Reporting in a paper in Science published on July 2, they found that variants in the GPR75 gene confer some resistance to obesity. People who have a different variant of GPR75 than the rest of us were 5.5 kilograms lighter and had less than 54% chance of obesity. But before you get excited, you should know that this superpower is relatively rare and found in only one out of every 3,000 people. What makes this study interesting is that it opens avenues to look for anti-obesity drugs that regulate GPR75.What about other superpowers such as not needing to sleep a full night? Lack of sleep tends to cause many health problems and often this is due to the misalignment between our internal circadian clocks and the natural light-dark cycle outside. We don’t blame Thomas Edison for poor memory, heart disease, inflammation, and obesity, but it is estimated that the invention of the light bulb has led to two hours less sleep on average. And keeping the smartphone or tablet next to the bed isn’t helping us get a proper night’s rest either.But there are people who not only get by, but thrive on four or five hours of sleep every night. Researchers have started to identify genes that are associated with these superpowers. Mutations in ADRB1 and NPSR1 genes change neurotransmitters in the brains of some people allowing them to sleep less. Another variant in DEC2 lets short sleepers stay awake longer.Often when associations between a genetic variant and a biological trait are found, the next step is to clone the variant and to breed it in laboratory mice. Mice are by no means a substitute for people, but they offer a controlled way to test for possible genetic effects quickly. For example, mutant mice with the sleep-related variants were able to sleep for fewer hours.As we identify variants associated with desirable superpowers, we can improve our understanding of basic biology and clinical medicine. We can also appreciate the expansive genetic tapestry of humanity. But we should also understand that life is seldom as simple as it seems. We may find that there may be additional genes that we don’t know about and alternate biological pathways that don’t involve the genes of particular interest that confer superpowers to some people.Finally, any discussion of the identification of the genetic basis of observable traits in people is not complete without considering the ethics of such endeavours. On the one hand, we know that race is a social construct and not a biological one. On the other, there will certainly be people who try to find a genetic basis for traits with the purpose of discriminating against other humans. Biology does not have a stellar track record in this aspect, but we must never allow the racist and bigoted tendencies of the eugenics era to be repeated again. Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-identifying-genetic-superpowers-in-people-101626246058467.html
