15-07-2021||Other||1,154 fresh Covid positive cases and 26 deaths in Pune district on Thursday||PUNE As per the authorities, Pune district reported 1,154 fresh Covid positive cases and 26 deaths in the last 24 hours. One death was reported from Pune rural and 16 deaths were reported in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Nine deaths were reported from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state Health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 499,467 Covid cases and 8,577 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 254,341 cases so far, and a total of 3,003 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 318,615 total cases so far and 5,997 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,072,423 Covid cases. Of this, 1,037,193 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 17,829 deaths in the district. At present, there are 17,401 active cases in Pune district. As per the state Health department, 7,391 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra, taking the total to 5,952,192. The recovery rate in the state is 96.17%.Across Maharashtra, 8,010 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 170 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.04%.Currently 581,266 people are in home quarantine and 4,471 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1154-fresh-covid-positive-cases-and-26-deaths-in-pune-district-on-thursday-101626373269594.html
15-07-2021||Other||PMC presents six-point action plan to central government to improve air quality||PUNE The Central government’s Ministry of environment forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) has reviewed an action plan to improve air quality in Pune. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has presented an plan based on six action points of the ministry.On Thursday, Dr Prashant Gargava, member and Naresh Gangwar, joint secretary the ministry held a video conference call, with all the environment, forest and climate change ministry officials of the states, and representatives of cities, included in the central government’s plan to improve air quality.The Central government has disbursed ₹134 crore to the PMC to improve air quality. The amount has been given to Pune, PCMC, Pune and Khadki cantonment area. As per central government guidelines, cities have to submit a time-bound programme to develop year-wise targets on ambient air quality for 2020-25, based on annual average concentrations of PM 10 and PM 2.5.Mangesh Dhighe, environment officer of the corporation said, “We have already started working on the plan which was submitted to the ministry.”He added, “Pune city’s air quality is moderate. Under the national clean air programme (NCAP), we are working on six components to improve air quality, such as mechanical sweepers, water sprinklers, awareness education activities, creating green corridors and electrical crematoriums.” “In meeting, officials instructed us to use other local-level funds to improve air quality of the city and not only use central government grants for this programme,” he added.Pratap Jagtap, sub-regional officer of the Maharashtra Pollution Control board (MPCB), said, “It was a review meeting about action taken by cities to improve air quality. Pune corporation has taken all necessary steps to improve the air quality and we are monitoring the system.”City’s air quality is determined by five components: PM 2.5, fine particulate matter; PM 10, particulate matter in the air with a diameter of 10mm or less, including smoke, dust, soot, salts, acids, and metals; ozone (O3), highly reactive gas composed of three oxygen atoms; nitrogen dioxide (NO2), highly reactive gases and carbon monoxide.The central government has given instructions to take measures to control vehicular emissions, road dust re-suspension, biomass burning, control of industrial air pollution, treatment of construction and demolition waste, air quality monitoring network strengthening, monitoring of diesel generator sets, and shifting to liquefied petroleum gas from solid fuels.PMC action plan includes:• Formulation of city-specific plan for e-mobility and rapid augmentation of the charging infrastructure • Execution of city specific plantation plans• Gradual transition to e-mobility in the two-wheeler sector and specific allocations for creating a venture capital fund for e-mobility. Government-run buses for public transport, private buses, and three-wheelers to be converted to EVs and government office fleets older than 15 years to be shifted to EVs• Maintenance and repair of roads on priority• Introduce mechanical sweepers. SOP for addressing issue of disposal of the collected dust from mechanical sweeping• Treated water sprinkling system with PVC (Polyvinyl Chloride) pipeline along the roads and at intersecting road junctions; and spraying of water twice a day before peak traffic hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-presents-six-point-action-plan-to-central-government-to-improve-air-quality-101626373270238.html
15-07-2021||Other||Free vax at govt centres in still in high demand||PUNE With many beneficiaries struggling to get their Covid-19 vaccine appointments, for first and second jabs, by registering through the CoWin application, the demand for the same still outstrips private vaccination centres. On Thursday, 97 private vaccination centres and 327 government centres inoculated beneficiaries in the district. Vaibhav Pingale, a 47-year old beneficiary who works at a private firm in Pune, said that he has to take his second dose in the next few days.“I am waiting to get a slot at a government facility as the jabs are free. Vaccination against Covid is important for all those who are stepping outside the house. And it is the responsibility of the government to provide us with free jabs. Why should I visit a private centre?” said Pingale. Maya Lashkare, a 38-year-old beneficiary who is waiting for her first jab, said that she would prefer a government hospital where vaccination is free of cost.“I have three daughters, of which two are above 18 years of age. And so we three need our jabs. I work as a house help and cannot afford to visit a private centre. Hence, my daughter tries every day to book a free slot on the CoWin application for the three of us,” said Lashkare. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital said that as the vaccines are made available at government hospitals, the number of beneficiaries inoculated at private hospitals has reduced by 50 per cent.“Beneficiaries now prefer free jabs. The idea of private centres is to inoculate as many beneficiaries as they can. Those who can afford vaccination, should visit private centres, so that more people are inoculated,” said Dr Oswal. “We are hoping that the supply is regular and that more and more beneficiaries get the jabs as soon as possible,” said Dr Oswal. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (Medical), Pune circle, said that on Wednesday evening, Pune district received 118,000 doses of Covishield. “Along with this, we have around 30,000 doses of Covaxin. With the current inoculation going on. We are expecting the next doses to come on July 18,” said Dr Deshmukh.He added that private hospitals will not have to procure the vaccines through the CoWin application. “Earlier, hospitals used to directly contact the supplier. Now they have to get the supply of vaccine from CoWin only,” said Dr Deshmukh.As per the health department, a total of 43,543 beneficiaries were inoculated on Wednesday. So far a total of 4,926,341 beneficiaries have been inoculated with Covishield and 441,584 have been administered Covaxin. And 8,923 beneficiaries have been given Sputnik V in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-vax-at-govt-centres-in-still-in-high-demand-101626373268787.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Run away minor girl from UP raped by three||A 16-year-old girl, who ran away from her home in Uttar Pradesh, was sexually assaulted by three persons on different occasions, under the pretext of marriage and shelter. The school dropout had left her home after her mother reprimanded her for spending too much time on the phone.According to police, the minor is a resident of Shahganj in Uttar Pradesh and had left her home in March 2021 after her mother scolded her.The girl met her phone friend, the first accused Saurabh Singh, who allegedly sexually assaulted her several times in Sikandrabad, after promising her marriage.She then came in contact with an auto-driver, when Singh dropped her at Farah in Mathura. The auto driver took her to one Narayan Thakur who allegedly spiked her sherbet (drink) and sexually assaulted her. Thakur then locked the minor girl in a room and allegedly sexually assaulted her for the next few days.“Thakur too promised to marry the girl,” said a police officer from Malwani police station.Thakur then allegedly dumped the girl on road, after which she came in contact with one Sachin Pandit and started staying in an apartment provided by him.Pandit allegedly subjected the minor to the same ordeal in an unknown building in Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh, said the officer.The police said the girl left Uttar Pradesh and finally reached Mumbai in July and then resided in Malwani area in Malad.“Thereafter, she was staying at an Instagram friend’s house. However, recently they had a dispute and that was when one of them called the police for help. The girl then narrated her ordeal to a female constable,” said the police officer.The Malwani police have registered a case against four people - three of her assailants and the auto driver.“We will transfer the case to Sikandrabad police in UP. We have informed the child welfare committee and kept the girl in a children’s home,” said Shekhar Bhalerao, senior inspector of police, Malwani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-run-away-minor-girl-from-up-raped-by-three-101626373210022.html
15-07-2021||Other||SSC results will be declared today online||PUNE The Maharashtra Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Class 10 results will be declared on July 16 at 1 pm, on the official website of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) - http://result.mh-ssc.ac.in For the academic year 2020-2021, 1,600,249 students registered to appear for the examination. For the first time, the board will declare results based on an internal evaluation of students. In an official notification, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Thursday declared that students can access the results for Class 10 on July 16 at http://result.mh-ssc.ac.in after 1 pm. Dr Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE, said that along with the above link, the students can access the result on www.mahahscsscboard.in “As the examination for Class 10 was cancelled due to a surge in Covid cases, the result for Class 10 this year is based on internal assessment of Class 10 and Class 9. The final evaluation strategy was declared by the board and the result is based on that,” said Dr Bhosale.He added that for students reappearing for the Class 10 examination to upgrade marks, results will not be published on July 16.“These ‘repeater’ students can avail their one or two more chances to reappear for the examination. However, their result will not be declared at this time,” said Dr Bhosale. This is the first time that Class 10 SSC results will be declared before the HSC Class 12 results of Maharashtra State Board.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said that the teachers and schools have worked hard as per the directives of the board.“There was just the issue of ‘repeater’ students which was clarified by the board. The results of these students will not be out on July 16. Students can access the result online today (July 16),” said Gaikwad. Prathamesh Kulkarni, a student of Class 10, said that he is anxious and happy at the same time.“I am eagerly awaiting the result. I have worked very hard throughout the year, but there was a lot of uncertainty towards the end of the academic year. There was a lot of confusion regarding how the evaluation will be done. Now students can start thinking about which stream to apply for in Class 11,” said Kulkarni. As per the board, 50 marks will be calculated based on the performance in Class 9; and the remaining 50 will be divided into two parts of the Class 10 performance. Of these, 30 marks will be for internal assessment and 20 marks will be for practical, homework and/or assignments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ssc-results-will-be-declared-today-online-101626373208708.html
15-07-2021||Other||54% of sowing complete in Pune district||PUNE Pune district, which has not received sufficient rainfall in July so far, have seen completion of 54% of sowing activity. Last year, by July 15, 70 per cent of the sowing was completed.Last year, by July 15 sowing on 177,000 hectares was completed. This year, only 99,356 hectares have been sown.“The sowing of rice has been impacted on a large scale in Khed, Junnar, Ambegaon, Mulshi, Bhor, and Velhe. Those who have an irrigation facility are managing to water the crops, while other crops are getting damaged,” said Dnyaneshwar Bote, district agriculture officer.Of a total of 61,000 hectares of farm land to be sown for rice, only 6,000 hectares have been sown so far.“Only 15-20 % of rice sowing is complete in the district,” said Bote.According to Pune district agriculture department, after 71 mm of rain between June 17 and June 21, more rain was last week, but in the last nine days, the district has received only 23mm of rain.Farmers had increased sowing activity, expecting more rain.“We were expecting more rains in the last week of June and first week of July. It has not happened so far. Most of the rice crops have got damaged,” said Ulhas Uike, a farmer.“If rainfall remains subdued then it may affect the Kharif crop this time,” said Bote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/54-of-sowing-complete-in-pune-district-101626373209321.html
15-07-2021||Other||PMRDA to collect revenue generated from building permissions in 23 merged villages||PUNE For the next two years, the PMRDA (Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority) has been mandated by the state government to collect revenue generated from building permissions in the 23 villages now part of the Pune Municipal Corporation.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “As the state government appointed PMRDA as a special planning authority, it will have powers to approve building plans and recover building permission revenue, till the DP is completed. PMC will get revenue from property and water tax from these 23 villages.”The PMC’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has strongly opposed the state government’s decision.Leader of house Ganesh Bidkar said, “It is very sad that the PMC will spend money in these areas to provide water, collect garbage, install street lights and the money will go to the PMRDA. If the state government has so much interest, first it needed to complete the DP process with the help of PMRDA and then merge these villages.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The state government is playing politics with the merging of villages. For the elections they wanted to merge villages, but at the same time it is not letting go of its right to collect money from building permission.”Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The PMRDA did not hand over Rs300 crore from building permissions in the previous 11 villages merged. Again they are going to collect money from newly merged 23 villages.”Administrative sources confirmed that construction activity in these villages is high and it is expected that Rs200 crore revenue will get generated per annum. The PMRDA does not have a mechanism to take action against illegal constructions, which the PMC has.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmrda-to-collect-revenue-generated-from-building-permissions-in-23-merged-villages-101626373150154.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Two months on, Mumbai’s Kasturba Hospital awaits genome sequencing machine from Chicago||After almost two months of being approved, the main medical equipment that is required for genome sequencing at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, is currently stuck in Chicago, the civic body officials said. A United States-based non-government organisation (NGO) has donated the machine to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). However, a section of officials in the US has claimed pandemic-related restrictions on ferrying cargo, thus delaying its arrival to India. Some officials have also cited customs duty issues as another reason.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant.In May, Kasturba Hospital became the first civic-run hospital in Mumbai to receive approval to start genome sequencing of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Along with this, a committee will also research the microbiological characteristics of the mutated strains of the virus.“The machine which is worth in crores, has been donated by an NGO from Chicago for the genome sequencing at the hospital. As soon as we get it, we will start the genome sequencing,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital, Kasturba Hospital’s parent institute. The civic body is now trying to procure medical equipment for emergency use. “The machine has to be transported in a cargo aircraft. But due to the ongoing pandemic, severe restrictions have been imposed on cargo ferrying in Chicago. Thus, the machine is stuck in the country, but we are trying to procure it through emergency use as it is medical equipment,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.However, a senior official on conditions of anonymity said, “Since the machine is being exported from another country, there have been some issues with the customs duty department. But we are working on it...we will retrieve the machine from at the earliest.”The samples for genome sequencing will be collected from adults with atypical clinical presentations, children with Covid-19 infection, international passengers and patients who contracted the infection in clusters having high positivity rates. Civic officials said in-house genome sequencing will enable faster results that will aid rapid policy planning to take appropriate measures. Genome sequencing is required for medical preparedness in any outbreak of a disease. “At present, we collect and send swab samples outside the city for genome sequencing. As a result, it takes almost 15-20 days to get the report. But after procurement of the machine, we will be able to link information of genome sequencing with patients’ data faster,” said Kakani. Speaking to HT in May, Dr Jayanti Shastri, head of the microbiology department of Kasturba Hospital, had said, “This is genome epidemiology for better understanding of disease like its progression, severity, transmissibility and therapeutics.”The state health minister in June announced that a total of 21 cases of Sars-Cov-2 Delta-plus variant have been found in samples collected from Maharashtra. The Delta plus variant is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant (B.1.617.2) that was detected in Maharashtra during the second wave. The union health ministry has categorised the Delta-plus variant of Covid-19 as a ‘variant of concern’.BMC has sent 600 samples for genome sequencing to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) that has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the state to undertake genome sequencing of 4,000 positive swab samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-months-on-mumbai-s-kasturba-hospital-awaits-genome-sequencing-machine-from-chicago-101626373088736.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Air India privatisation: Clear pending arrears, Air India pilots urge aviation minister||Air India’s Indian Pilots’ Guild, a recognised trade union representing the pilots of erstwhile Air India Ltd., wrote to the new civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday seeking an assurance that their long-pending arrears will be paid, as privatisation of the airline is in the final stages.From the beginning of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Air India crew has flown crucial cargo and evacuation flights, as well as the flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. Moreover, the airline lost five of its pilots to Covid-19 during the second wave. All these pilots had operated flights during the first and second of the pandemic.“We wish to bring to your attention an issue which gravely concerns the pilots of Air India as well other employees, and the privatisation process itself,” the pilots said.In January 2013, Air India management cut staff salaries by 25% on an ad-hoc basis amid poor financial conditions.“Despite being in a miserable condition, the pilots continued to bear the ad-hoc pay cut,” said a senior Air India pilot.Former Air India chairman, Ashwani Lohani in his 2015 letter to employees had stated that the management was absolutely clear that the pending amount belonged to the employees and would therefore be released back.Moreover, earlier this year the then minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri had told the media that the employees’ dues with arrears will be paid by Air India assets holding company before the closing of the proposed transaction.“As the privatisation of Air India Ltd. seems to be at the final stage, we turn to you to make good these assurances of payment of our long pending arrears. We sincerely hope that under your tenure the interests of the employees will be addressed and that you could initiate the payment of these arrears at the earliest,” the letter read.The pilots have requested Scindia for a meeting to discuss various issues and seek help to get back their money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-india-privatisation-clear-pending-arrears-air-india-pilots-urge-aviation-minister-101626372969470.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: realty sector hit: Dip in sales, new launches||The Covid-19 second wave has badly hit the real estate sector of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), as both, the sales, as well as new project launches, were greatly impacted, revealed a half-yearly report by a real estate consultancy firm, on Thursday.According to Knight Frank, the second wave impacted the sales figures as 4,855 housing units were sold from April to June, compared to 23,772 units in the first three months of 2021.Similarly, in the case of new launches, 4,747 new units were launched compared to 31,035 units in the MMR from January to March 2021.“We witnessed the worst second quarters (April to May), both in 2020 and 2021, for the real estate sector,” said Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director, Knight Frank India. “The first three months of 2021 saw huge sales due to the stamp duty cuts and also cuts in interest rates,” he added.This year, April to June was the peak of the second wave and in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government imposed a lockdown across the state.The Builders Association of India (BAI) said, “Builders are now flooded with calls from the lenders asking for payments. How can we make the payment when there are no sales at all?,” questioned Anand Gupta, chairman, BAI (housing and RERA committee). “The banks and financial institutions have virtually blacklisted us and we are not getting support from them,” Gupta added.Paras Gundecha, chairman and managing director, Gundecha Group, said, “There is a possibility of the third wave. In such a scenario, buyers have postponed their buying plans.”The real estate sector has been facing a slowdown for several years and the pandemic has only made matters worse. The government in August last year announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 till December 31, 2020, and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move played a significant role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary markets. The state, however, refused to extend it despite several requests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-realty-sector-hit-dip-in-sales-new-launches-101626372909198.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dewatering pumps at Hindmata, Gandhi Mkt bring relief from waterlogging||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started operating two of six newly installed underground dewatering pumps at Hindamata, and all four underground dewatering pumps at Gandhi Market on Baba Saheb Ambedkar Road, during heavy downpour this week, bringing relief in the chronic waterlogging spots to some extent. The entire project will be completed by the end of August, P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the stormwater drains department said. The entire project of constructing underground water-holding silos to do away with logged water in these two areas is not yet complete. However, the civic body activated two pumps at Hindamata, each with a capacity to drain out 3,000 litres of water per second, and one out of four pumps at Gandhi Market, reducing water receding time to less than a couple of hours, and no waterlogging at Gandhi Market area, during rainfall earlier this week. At earlier times, water receding time for Hindamata and Gandhi Market was anywhere between six hours to over 12 hours, depending on the amount of rainfall received in the area. As these spots are located on the Baba Saheb Ambedkar Road, logged water would affect traffic between the island city and the eastern suburbs. “We have begun to operate two pumps at Hindamata, and all at Gandhi market, as and when is necessary. Over the past few days of rainfall, we have already operated the pumps two-three times,” Velrasu said. As part of its plan to tackle individual chronic waterlogging spots, BMC has installed four large dewatering pumps under the flyover at Hindamata, and one under the carriageway at Hindamata junction. These will pump logged rainwater to Pramod Mahajan Udyan at Senapati Bapat Road in Elphinstone with yet another dewatering pump, where BMC is in the process of constructing two underground water holding tanks. Water from Hindamata will also be pumped to St Xavier’s ground in Parel, where construction of the underground water holding tank is complete. From here, water can be reused for non-potable purposes. Similarly, the pumps at Gandhi Market will pump water directly to a railway culvert in Matunga. Velrasu said, “Presently, the entire system that pumps water to St Xavier’s ground is activated and we have used it a couple of times in the last few days. The system that will pump water to Pramod Mahajan Udyan, complete with the underground tanks, will be completed by end of August. BMC is also using these pumps at present to drain water into existing drains at Hindamata.” The silos at the ground in Parel and the garden at Elphinstone, where work is going on right now, have a total water holding capacity of the tanks at Parel and Elphinstone alone is up to 17,000 cubic metres, as part of phase one. After the construction of these tanks is completed, more space is left at both these open spaces to construct more silos, which will augment water holding capacity to 50,000 cubic metres. The cost of the first phase is ₹60 crore, while the cost of the entire project is ₹130 crore. Based on the success of this pilot project, BMC plans to construct similar underground dewatering and water holding systems at Postal Colony in Chembur, Oberoi Mall in Goregaon, and Mahalaxmi in south Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dewatering-pumps-at-hindmata-gandhi-mkt-bring-relief-from-waterlogging-101626372788650.html
15-07-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: 2 wanted men held after encounter||The police early Wednesday morning arrested two men, allegedly wanted for several heinous crimes in Haryana and neighbouring states, following an encounter at Ghata crossing on Gurugram-Faridabad Road. Their arrests, which happened after an hour-long chase and shoot-out, have helped solved more than two dozen crimes in the district, police said. Police said the two suspects and one policeman suffered gunshot wounds and all of them were admitted to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, where they are stable. Two more policemen were injured when the suspects rammed their motorbike into the barricades set up by police. The officer in charge of the crime investigation unit narrowly escaped as two bullets fired by the suspects were stopped by his bulletproof jacket, police said. The suspects have been identified as Manish Kumar Jakhar (30), of village Salawas in Jhajjar, and Prashant alias Jonty (24), of Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar. Police said a reward of ₹1 lakh each was announced on their arrest by Gurugram police recently. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the suspects allegedly murdered a 38-year-old man, Sandeep, a paying-guest (PG) facility owner, in Ishlampur village of Sector 38 on May 4 and were on the run since then. “They were wanted men for the past two years and kept shifting their residence to evade the police. They were living in the PG facility owned by Sandeep, who hailed from Sampla village in Rohtak. Sandeep, too, used to live in the PG and became friends with both suspects this March,” Sangwan said. He said when Sandeep asked them to pay two months’ rent, it led to an altercation between them and the two men assaulted Sandeep. Later, the duo shot him dead. Rajkumar, the officer in charge of CIA 39, said the police received a tip-off about the two men and the team spotted them on Gurugram-Faridabad Road, and gave chase. “We were warned that they will be armed, so the personnel were well equipped and kitted out in bulletproof jackets,” he said. Police also set up barricades and checkpoints and the focus was on motorcycle riders. Sangwan said one of the teams, led by inspector Rajkumar, went to patrol Gurugram-Faridabad Road. They were moving towards Gwal Pahari T-point when they spotted a motorbike without a number plate. “The attire of the two riders matched the information given by the informer. As soon as they turned towards Golf Course Extension Road, near Ghata crossing , the team informed the police control room and shared the location to set up more barricades,” he said. Police said the team asked the suspects to stop but they sped away after ramming through the barricades, injuring constables Sanjay Kumar and Manoj Kumar. Sangwan said the team immediately blocked the road a little ahead of them and trapped the duo. They then opened fire at the police team. The duo fired a few rounds at the police and two shots hit the bulletproof jacket worn by inspector Rajkumar, while one hit constable Akash in the arm. Police returned the fire, and hit the two suspects in their legs,” said Sangwan. The police team nabbed both suspects. Police recovered one pistol, one countrymade pistol two live cartridges and the motorbike from their possession. A case under sections 186 (voluntarily obstructs public servant in discharge of duty), (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault on public servant), 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms act was registered at Sector 56 police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-2-wanted-men-held-after-encounter-101626371648677.html
15-07-2021||Other||Khori colony: Mandatory ID proofs may deny residents govt’s rehab scheme, say activists||Even as demolition continued in Khori village in Faridabad, many experts and residents have expressed apprehensions that they may be excluded from the rehabilitation plan announced by the district administration as they have voter cards and other ID proofs issued by the Delhi government.According to the Policy for Rehabilitation of Khori Jhuggi Dwellers, announced by Faridabad administration on Tuesday, residents will have to prove that the applicant’s annual family income does not exceed ₹3 lakh, and fulfil one of three conditions -- their name is registered in the Haryana’s Badkhal assembly constituency voter list as on January 1, 2021; they have an electricity bill from Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) in their name; and that an adult earning member or head of the family has a Parivar Pehchan Patra issued by the state of Haryana as on January 1, 2021. The residents have been promised ₹2,000 per month till they are allotted EWS flats -- in Dabua Colony and Bapu Nagar -- under the rehabilitation scheme.“First the authorities were reluctant to provide any rehabilitation and now that they have announced a scheme, most people will automatically be excluded from it as we have ID proofs of Delhi. Some of those who will be eligible for the scheme have seen the houses they are being offered, which are in no condition to live in. Also, even before giving us a place to stay, the authorities have demolished our houses,” said Rekha (35), a resident of Khori.Khori village is situated at the border of Delhi and Haryana, and with no clear demarcation, there has been a confusion since long regarding where Chungi (falling in Delhi) ends and Khori villlage begins.Nilesh Kumar, a social worker associated with the Basti Suraksha Manch, an organisation working to rehabilitate the residents, said, “A majority of Khori residents hold Delhi ID cards, voter IDs, ration cards. They have been provided basic facilities like electricity, gas connection, paved roads and anganwadis by the Delhi government, and all their children go to schools in Delhi. Till 2016, disputes in most parts of Khori Gaon were handled by the Delhi Police.In 2016, the high court asked the Haryana government to decide on a rehabilitation plan as the land belonged to Haryana. But, under Delhi’s rehabilitation policy (DUSIB policy 2015), if people have been living in any settlement before 2015 and possess identity cards of Delhi, then they must be rehabilitated under this policy.”Kumar said a survey should be undertaken urgently to identify households with Delhi ID cards and ensure their rehabilitation before their houses are demolished. A group of social activists and scholars also wrote to the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) on June 30, stressing on how the households in Khori are entitled to protection under the DUSIB Act, 2015, for relief and rehabilitation. Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar with the Faculty of Architecture, Building and Planning at the University of Melbourne, who has been studying Khori village, said, “It is a well-known fact by now that most of the residents possess Delhi identity cards. Since the Haryana government did not provide electricity, hence most households also draw electricity from Delhi. The current clauses make most of the residents ineligible for rehabilitation.” She also pointed out that the Haryana government wants beneficiaries to pay a deposit, which is twice their monthly salary in most cases, within 15 days of allotment of the flat. “So even among the very few eligible ones, many will not be able to afford it. Residents will be given a monthly amount of ₹2,000 to rent for the time the houses are not ready. The minimum rent in this locality starts from ₹8,000, and there aren’t enough residences to house all the displaced people,” she added. The rehabilitation plan was also slammed by Balakrishnan Rajagopal, United Nations Special Rapporteur on the right to adequate housing 2020-2026, who took to Twitter on Thursday: “Haryana government should stop hiding behind the Supreme Court! No court decision can justify forced mass evictions with such police violence and arbitrary detentions, all during the monsoon! Khori Gaon should be regularized or another human rights-based solution found.” Mohd Waseem Hashmi (37), a resident of Vishwakarma Colony in Khori whose house was demolished on Wednesday, said, “I work as a tuition teacher for children in the village and used to earn around ₹5.000-8,000, but since we learnt about the demolition, I myself did not take money from the families as everyone is worried about finding a shelter for themselves, which is expensive at such a short notice. In such a situation, how am I supposed to pay the lump sum amount of ₹17,000. What good is the monthly payment of ₹2,000 when basic living expenses are more than that?” Officials from DUSIB said that they have no information on rehabilitation of residents from Khori village.DUSIB member Bipin Rai said, “Our department is not looking into this matter as the demolition is being conducted by the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad and not the Delhi government.” Meanwhile, Garima Mittal, MCF commissioner, said there have not been any talks with Delhi for rehabilitation and that they will go ahead with the policy announced by Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khori-colony-mandatory-id-proofs-may-deny-residents-govt-s-rehab-scheme-say-activists-101626371528754.html
15-07-2021||Other||Violence, heart break and pain as civic body demolishes houses in Faridabad’s Khori colony||The demolition drive in Faridabad’s Khori village, where several households have mushroomed on the Aravalli forest land, continued for the second day on Thursday amid resistance from locals, who claimed police teams lathi-charged them when they tried to stop them from entering the village. Residents further claimed that women, who lay down on the road to stop the drive, were pushed away by the police. However, police have denied the allegations. Residents also shared videos on social media to highlight their protest against the demolition that follows the Supreme Court’s order issued on June 7, directing the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) to clear encroachments from the Aravalli forest land within six weeks.While officials refused to divulge the number of demolitions carried out, social workers active in the area said over 500 houses were razed in the drive on Thursday.Early on Thursday morning, more than 500 residents blocked the entry and exit points to their colony by putting up barricades to but police allegedly resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the crowd and made their way in. Residents alleged that more than 10 people were injured, including a man who was allegedly thrashed by a policeman in civil clothes when he refused to move out of his house. In a purported video of the incident, which was shared online, the policeman is allegedly seen dragging the man and hitting him with force. Faridabad police stopped the entry of media persons and teams were deployed a kilometre away to cut access to the lane connecting to Khori village. Entry of vehicles were blocked at least five kilometres before the road leading to Khori, with police officers deployed there claiming that this was done because residents were pelting stones. Drones were also used on Thursday to ensure that locals do not gather in large numbers at one place. The police teams reached the village around 8am but started the demolition drive after 10am, with officials claiming that work proceeded smoothly and peacefully until 5pm. Garima Mittal, commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, refused to share the details of the drive but said everything was smooth. “We will implement the orders of the Supreme Court in letter and spirit and follow all the rules and regulations of the government. It is not possible for us to share operational details in the public domain,” said Mittal.Anshu Singla, the deputy commissioner of police (NIT) who oversaw the drive, also refused to share the operational details or the number of houses demolished. “We are following the orders of the apex court and have maintained law and order. We have been requesting people to vacate the village and let us carry out the demolition drive so that we don’t have to use force to vacate the area,” she said. Nilesh Kumar, a social activist with Basti Suraksha Manch, said over 500 houses were razed near Jharkhand Colony, Bengali Colony and Islam Chowk. He said there are more than 20,000 houses built in the 170 acre land. A social activist who visited the village said it will take a nearly a month to demolish the area and another month to remove the debris. Kavita Kumari, a resident whose house was razed on Thursday, said she and her family will not vacate the area and instead plan to set up a tent to live on the land they bought. “Let them raze all the area, we will rebuild. The scheme of rehabilitation they are talking about is of no use to us. If we had that amount to pay, we would have bought the house in any of the colonies,” she said. Zareena Biwi, another resident, too refused to move: “The authorities have tried their best but we will die but not vacate the area. Let them take the debris, we will again construct the houses unless they do not come up with a proper plan. Who will bear the losses? We are dying each moment but no one is concerned about our safety and security. Police is hitting us and abusing us but there is no one who is ready to help us.”Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar from the faculty of architecture, building and planning at the University of Melbourne, who has been studying Khori village, said the houses are the first line of defence against the pandemic. “For the past month, residents have been screaming that eviction before any alternative arrangement is a death sentence. How difficult is it to understand this? Time and again, the police have resorted to lathi-charge when faced with resistance and injured many residents in the process. First, the state takes away the only protection the residents have from the virus – their homes. Next, you injure them. Who is going to pay for their medical costs? Haven’t we learned by now that the pandemic has devastated the poor beyond measure? The rehabilitation scheme announced by the state is a complete sham. It is discriminatory since most of the residents do not qualify, which is what the state wants,” she said. Residents said they are likely to gather at the entry and exit points of the village on Friday too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/violence-heart-break-and-pain-as-civic-body-demolishes-houses-in-faridabad-s-khori-colony-101626371468823.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Study conducted, recommendation filed, may pave way for Delhi’s 1st wildlife corridor||The state forest department has conducted a feasibility survey and submitted a recommendation for what could be the national capital’s first wildlife corridor, to be built at the southern border of the Asola Bhati Wildlife sanctuary on the Surajkund-Pali Road, to ensure a safe passage for movement of wild animals.The move comes after a two-year-old female leopard was mowed down by a vehicle on the stretch at the Delhi-Haryana border on June 28 — the fourth such incident over the past five years, said officials of the forest department.Soon after the leopard was killed, the department took up the matter with its Haryana counterparts, who have also agreed to the need for a wildlife corridor to protect the fauna as well as allow them free movement from one habitat to another.“We sought the views of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which has experience in tunnelling work across the Capital. We requested them to conduct a feasibility survey to create a safe passage for movement of wild animals on the small stretch of the Surajkund-Pali road falling under the jurisdiction of Delhi. The DMRC has suggested constructing of an underpass for animals,” said a senior forest official, who did not wish to be named.A recommendation for the same has been submitted to the Delhi chief wildlife warden for consideration.“Proving a safe passage for animals here is crucial, as it is a blind curve and in spite of signages and road bumps erected on the road to control speed of motorists, they end up running into an accident. Also, since the topography of the area is such that this road is on an elevation and there is a depression on both sides making it difficult even for animals to navigate their way. Reaching the blind curve, they cannot see the other side and neither can the motorists. If the road is straight, animals can see and remain alert. So, we have recommended constructing of an underpass for safe and free movement of the wild species,” the official said.According to officials, Delhi has a number of fragmented protected forest areas but no one safe path connecting them all, which does not allow free movement of animals. In case of species such as nilgais straying, it is always because they cannot find any way to move to another habitat except for crossing over the main road thus leading to accidents.Another official explained that movement of animals from one habitat to another for food and water is crucial to existence of healthy forest areas. “Even herbivores need to keep moving from one area to another, which allows revival of the area’s ecology,” the second official said.He added that there are three major stretches with heavy traffic movement around the sanctuary ---Surajkund-Faridabad Road, Gurgaon-Faridabad Road and Mehrauli-Badarpur Road. Another road connecting Chhatarpur in south Delhi to Mangar village in Faridabad cuts through the sanctuary.“There are certain features such as sufficient width and safe concealing of the passage that would need to be take care of to make it smooth enough to be used by animals for their movement,” he said. Experts say that creating a safe passage for wild animals is crucial in urban settings, as there is a higher risk of accidents because of the traffic volume. The Surajkund-Pali road is part of the leopard corridor from Asola wildlife sanctuary to Sariska National Park in Alwar, Rajasthan.Sohail Madan, centre manager of the Conservation Education Centre at the Asola sanctuary, maintained by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), who has been studying leopards in this corridor, said that there are three such accident-prone areas close to Asola. “It is extremely crucial to have a corridor for wild animals at such spots. Besides tunneling, other alternatives such as lifting the vehicular traffic up by making the road elevated and leaving the stretch under for movement of animals could also be looked into before the plan is finalised,” said Madan.He added that creating corridors alone is not enough, as most of this area except for the Asola sanctuary is not protected from other sides falling under Haryana. “It is of utmost importance to protect the green patches such as Mangar Bani forest with a great amount of biodiversity, to be protected under the law and be declared as sanctuaries or reserved areas. Without protecting these areas, just creating the corridor will still leave a major threat to the wildlife,” said Madan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/study-conducted-recommendation-filed-may-pave-way-for-delhi-s-1st-wildlife-corridor-101626371409287.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Court seeks police reply on bail pleas of Sharjeel Imam, Umar Khalid||A Delhi court on Thursday sought the city police’s reply on the bail plea of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, charged under stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly conspiring to orchestrate the north-east Delhi riots last year.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat issued notice on the plea while also extending the custody of Khalid and the other accused till July 30, in the main conspiracy case related to the riots.Besides Khalid, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia coordination committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and JNU student Sharjeel Imam, among others, have also been booked under the UAPA in the case.Recently, the Delhi high court granted bail to Tanha, Narwal and Kalita in the case, saying the state “blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in its anxiety to suppress dissent”.Communal riots had broken out in the city last year claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.Sharjeel Imam, arrested for his allegedly inflammatory speeches during the protests against the Citizen (Amendment) Act (CAA), also moved his bail plea on Thursday, which will be heard on August 6. The court also issued notice on this plea, which alleged that police have created a “narrative of religious extremism” around him by conflating purported discussion of issues affecting a particular religious community that needed to be highlighted.“The allegations against the applicant (Imam) contain an imaginary concoction of the state of mind of the applicant that bears no connection, direct or indirect, with the material collected as part of the investigation in the FIR. Imam’s counsel Tanveer Ahmed Mir further alleged that while making such “wild aspersions”, the prosecution has absurdly taken recourse to the Imam’s MPhil thesis and his several academic expressions found in leading digital media platforms..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-seeks-police-reply-on-bail-pleas-of-sharjeel-imam-umar-khalid-101626371408710.html
15-07-2021||Other||Delhi HC refuses plea seeking reduction in gap between Covid vaccine doses||The Delhi high court on Thursday refused to hear a plea seeking to reduce the 12-16 week interval for the second dose of Covishield vaccine to eight weeks for people over 50 years of age and those having co-morbidities.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh questioned the petitioner, a doctor, whether he knew about the procedure of how the doses are fixed. It said the petitioner’s counsel was not able to convince the court with his arguments. “Are you aware of any procedure? How are doses fixed? Who is fixing the doses? We will have to alter the procedure if at all we have the power to do so,” the court asked advocate Kuldeep Jauhari appearing for Siddharth De, the petitioner.“We are not inclined to issue notice. We will dismiss with costs,” said the court. In his plea, De contended that despite a controlled 2020, there has been a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and subsequent deaths. He said there is evidence to prove that properties of Delta variant played an important role behind the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in India as it is around 60% more transmissible, virulent and has been labelled as a VOC (variant of concern) globally.“Thus it is imperative that the dosage interval for Covishield vaccine be brought down from 12 weeks to 8 weeks, at least for people above the age of 50 and for people above the age of 18 with existing comorbidities,” said De’s petition. The petitioner’s counsel told the court that the Covid working group and other experts were deciding the time span between two doses. He added that based on studies conducted by scientists in the UK, there was a need to reduce the dosage interval in view of the new variants of Covid-19.When Jauhari claimed that the petition was an “honest” one, the court responded that it had no doubt regarding the honesty of the plea and dismissal was not a certificate of dishonesty. The plea was later withdrawn by the counsel “unconditionally”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-refuses-plea-seeking-reduction-in-gap-between-covid-vaccine-doses-101626371349266.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam moves bail, says his speeches did not call for violence||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the sedition law for his allegedly inflammatory speeches during the protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), on Thursday contended before a Delhi court that his speeches were not seditious as he did not call for violence and was only sensitising people about the new laws.Imam, currently lodged in Tihar jail, is being probed for his speeches at Jamia on December 13 and on January 16 at AMU, where he allegedly called for a “chakka jam” to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the north-east from the mainland.He was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad district.Moving his bail application before the Delhi court, his counsel Tanveer Ahmed Mir Thursday said a person trying to criticise a government policy or a particular political narrative can be booked for sedition only for “oblique motives”. He submitted that police have selectively taken passages from Imam’s speech and given them an illegal context.“Question is, if anyone is a critique of a constitutional policy, does that enable the state to book him for sedition…Being a student of modern history, I believe he is fully enabled to express his views as a citizen of this country…He was just trying to sensitise people,” Mir contended.He told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that calling for blocking the roads (chakka jam) cannot be considered a secessionist call as there was no ulterior motive.Reading passages from Imam’s speech where he spoke about “cutting off some cities”, Mir said, “He (Imam) called for blocking roads. It was not seditious. When the call ‘rail roko’ (stop the trains) is not seditious, why is the call of bringing the country to a standstill seditious?”“There was no incitement to violence. Where is the call for violence? How does sedition come into play?” he argued.The court after hearing detailed arguments posted the matter for further hearing to August 2 and August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharjeel-imam-moves-bail-says-his-speeches-did-not-call-for-violence-101626371348639.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||No transfer certificate needed to shift child from private to govt school, says Sisodia||More number of children are likely to switch from private schools to government ones in the national capital as the Delhi government on Thursday announced that such students will not need to produce transfer certificates (TCs) while seeking admission. Figures with the Directorate of Education (DoE) shows that it received around 21,000 more applications this year, as compared to last year, from children seeking admissions to entry-level classes and in classes 6 to 12 in Delhi government schools.The state education department this year received 28,000 applications for entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten and class 1 — as compared to 21,000 last year. The rise is steeper in classes 6 to 12, department officials said. “Last year, we received a total of around 76,000 applications. This year after the first phase itself, we have around 90,400 applications,” said a senior official of the education department, asking not to be named.During a press briefing on Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said the decision to not seek transfer certificates was taken to ease the whole process as several parents, who are facing pandemic-induced financial distress, complained of being denied transfer certificates by private schools over pending fee. “Some private schools are holding back transfer certificates and are asking parents to deposit the full fee first. So many parents are unable to admit their child to a government school. Taking cognisance of this issue, and after receiving several such complaints, the Directorate of Education has been asked to ensure that provisional admission is granted to students. Officials from DoE should secure the TCs directly from the private schools concerned,” Sisodia said.On May 31, the Delhi high court, acting on a plea by an association of 450 private schools called the Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Schools, set aside two government orders issued in 2020, prohibiting private schools from collecting annual charges and development fee during the lockdown period.The court directed that schools may collect these charges for the last academic year retrospectively, in six monthly instalments starting from June 10, but after offering a rebate of 15% on the total fee in lieu of unused facilities during the lockdown. The court also allowed schools to charge the whole fee for the 2021-22 academic year.On Thursday, Sisodia said students may submit other documents to ease the admission process. “The child and parents may bring the other documents from the school concerned and the education department will obtain the transfer certificate,” he said.Private school managements have condemned the move saying it will disrupt the general to EWS category student ratio in their schools, thereby affecting its functioning. RC Jain, vice-president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Schools, said the new policy will only lead to more confusion.“We have to submit the data of our school rolls for various government surveys. If a child doesn’t obtain a transfer certificate from our school and yet gets admitted to a government school, (s)he will be enrolled in two places and it will lead to data mismanagement. The directive is also an attack on private schools as we will be unable to adhere to the Right to Education Act directive that stipulates a 75:25 ratio for general to EWS category students in a classroom.”Educationist Meeta Sengupta said the world over, economic constraints during recessions have fuelled migrations to public schools. “Whenever countries such as the US or the UK went into recession, there has been a shift towards public schools in those countries. While this move [of doing away with TCs] will make private schools unhappy, it will ensure that children are not stuck in a limbo and are able to continue their studies,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-transfer-certificate-needed-to-shift-child-from-private-to-govt-school-says-sisodia-101626371171242.html
15-07-2021||Other||Online registration for PG and research courses at DU likely to open from July 26||New Delhi: Delhi University is likely to start the online registration for admissions to postgraduate and research courses from July 26, university officials said on Thursday. The decision was taken during a meeting of the admission committee officials. However, no decision was taken on the schedule for admissions to undergraduate courses, officials said.The university conducts an entrance for admissions for all postgraduate (PG), M.Phil, and PhD courses.A senior official who attended the meeting said, “The online registration process for PG and research courses is likely to begin from July 26. The admission committee recommended starting registrations for the nine undergraduate entrance test-based courses as well.”Last year, around 140,000 students applied for entrance to various postgraduate courses at DU, and 14,000 students applied for MPhil and PhD courses, according to DU data. The tests are conducted by the National Testing Agency.All postgraduate courses at Delhi University have entrance examinations in addition to merit-based admissions for DU graduates. NTA also conducts entrance tests for nine undergraduate courses. Due to the cancellation of board examinations this year, there is speculation that the university may conduct admissions through the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET). However, there has been no clarity on the matter so far. Officials are still exploring different ways to conduct undergraduate admissions.In 2019, the PG entrance tests were conducted in the first week of July. Last year, they were delayed by the pandemic and were conducted in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-registration-for-pg-and-research-courses-at-du-likely-to-open-from-july-26-101626371169866.html
15-07-2021||Other||Water supply will improve soon, says DJB vice-chief; visits Haiderpur treatment plant||New Delhi Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Thursday inspected the Haiderpur treatment plant to check the water level after the Haryana government released supplies in the Yamuna on Tuesday. Chadha said once the full volume of water reaches the plants, the utility will again be able to achieve the original optimum production of 945MGD (million gallons per day). “With this, areas that are still getting thin supply will also have their supply restored,” he said.“It takes around three days for water to reach all water treatment plants (WTPs) across Delhi, and another day or two for it to reach all households. We are monitoring the speed at which water is flowing in at the Haiderpur WTP,” Chadha said in a statement.The Haiderpur plant is Asia’s second-largest plant that filters and treats more than 200MGD water, he said. Haryana releases raw water in the river Yamuna, which is treated at the WTPs and supplied to households.“Two major water channels of Delhi --- CLC (Carrier Lined Channel) and DSB (Delhi Sub-Branch) have started receiving Yamuna water in good proportions and it will have a direct impact on increasing water treatment and production capacity,” the senior AAP leader said.On Sunday, the DJB filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Haryana government to release the share of water that Delhi is legally entitled to. On Tuesday, the DJB said Haryana has released 16,000 cusecs of water. In 1995, the Supreme Court asked Haryana and other neighbouring states to release a fixed quantity of water to the national capital so that it can fulfil its drinking requirements.“The Wazirabad barrage from where raw water from the river is transported through different channels will soon see a spike in the water levels. DJB engineers and officers are present at different water treatment plants, not only in Delhi but also in Haryana to monitor the flow of water there,” Chadha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-supply-will-improve-soon-says-djb-vice-chief-visits-haiderpur-treatment-plant-101626371169225.html
15-07-2021||Other||Class 12 results: CBSE asks schools to complete marks moderation by July 22||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has asked schools to complete the moderation of Class 12 marks, for which it will open the portal on Friday and will stay active till July 22, as it plans to announce the results by July 31. The board on Thursday warned that schools failing to adhere to the moderation policy may face action. “As the board has to declare the result latest by July 31, 2021, schools are requested to follow the schedule strictly and complete the moderation within school. If any school is left to complete the moderation within the stipulated schedule, their result will be declared separately after July 31,” controller of examination (CoE) Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a circular to schools on Thursday.Following the cancellation of class 10 and 12 exams due to the second wave of Covid-19 that gripped the country in April, the national education board directed schools to compile results based on internal tests and marks students fetched in the previous board examination. The results are to be compiled by the result committee in each school comprising the principal, two senior-most teachers of Class 12 of that school, and two teachers of Class 12 from a neighbouring school.On Thursday, Bhardwaj also asked the results committee to ensure results were compiled in a fair manner. “Schools are therefore mandated to moderate the marks in such a manner that the results are comparable and no student should suffer because of any unequal application of policy within a school or across schools,” the CoE told the heads of schools.Schools have also been asked to ensure that after moderation, the number of students with overall marks in the range of 95 and above this year is not more than the number of students scoring such overall marks, as per the historic performance of last three years. This comes after the CBSE on Tuesday asked schools to stick to the assessment policy formulated by it for Class 10 results after the cancellation of the board exams and warned action against institutes found inflating marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-12-results-cbse-asks-schools-to-complete-marks-moderation-by-july-22-101626371109201.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Civil society seeks more time to submit comments on draft master plan||The civil society members want Delhi Development Authority to extend the deadline for submitting their comments on the draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041.The draft plan, which was made public for comments on June 9, pushes for mixed-use development, creating large public spaces, reducing built densities through planned regeneration to allow distancing during pandemics, as part of its plans to develop “pandemic-resilient” infrastructure. Apart from pandemic resilience, the master plan also has provisions to reduce seismic vulnerability and the chances of floods in urban areas.The “Main Bhi Dilli” campaign, a collective of over 40 civil society groups that aims to make the planning in Delhi “more representative and inclusive”, released an analysis of the draft MPD-2041 on Thursday. While experts welcomed the provision for mixed land use development, they stressed on the need for walkability, development of inclusive social infrastructure and provisions for bringing the informal sector under the planning ambit.They collective also said 45 days was not sufficient to hold public consultations on the draft MPD. Gautam Bhan, urban researcher and member of Main Bhi Dilli Campaign, said, “It took DDA three years to make the plan, but people have been given just 45 days to submit their comments. We want the DDA to release the baseline data and provide time for suggestions/objections from the day the data is put in the public domain.”Bhan said zonal plans and local area plans are a must for the effective implementation of MPD-2041. “While a timeline has been set for drafting of policies and regulations for urban villages and unauthorised colonies, no timeline has been provided for preparation of zonal plans. In MPD-2021, there is a provision for local area plans, but those were never made,” said Bhan.Housing is one of the key issues in the master plan and the draft provides for different types of housing, including rental, to meet the growing requirement. Members of the campaign said the DDA has given the projected demand of housing as 34.5 lakh in the draft MPD. Mukta Naik, a researcher with the Centre for Policy Research, said, “Our demand is that DDA should give the break-up of the 34.5 lakh units in terms of EWS/LIG/MIG and other categories.”The MPD-2041, for the first time, talks about making Delhi a 24x7 city by allowing a night-time economy. Welcoming the move, Kalpana Viswanath, co-founder and CEO of Safetipin, an organisation working to create safe spaces for women, said, “Night-time economy is a good idea, but for that, we have to first make the city safe for women.”She also stressed on the need to have a “gender chapter” in the master plan and provision reserving housing for single women.The campaign also focused on livelihood, mobility and other sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-civil-society-seeks-more-time-to-submit-comments-on-draft-master-plan-101626371108621.html
15-07-2021||Other||Six held for producing, selling country-made liquor in Kaithal||The Kaithal police have arrested six people for allegedly producing country-made liquor. Police have recovered 102 bottles of liquor and 130l lahan from their possession.Police said the accused were arrested during surprise raids conducted at three locations under the Siwan police station in district late on Wednesday.Siwan police station in-charge Ram Lal said accused Malka Ram, Kala Ram, Dharampal, Harichan of Rasulpur, Tarsem Singh of Prempura, and Malkit Singh of Dera Rai Singh Kangthali were found involved in producing and selling the liquor.Another accused Rajender Singh, of Dera Rai Singh Kangthali, managed to flee and investigation is on to arrest him.He said the accused have been booked under Section 61 of the Excise Act and will be produced in court for further interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-held-for-producing-selling-country-made-liquor-in-kaithal-101626370929672.html
15-07-2021||Other||Himachal-based travel agent held for duping Panipat man||The Panipat police have arrested a Himachal Pradesh-based travel agent for allegedly duping a man of ₹4.51 lakh on pretext of sending him aboard.Police said the accused was identified as Ashish Peter, of Solan in Himachal. He was evading arrest for the past couple of months.Gaurav Singh, of Sector 6 in Panipat, had filed a complaint with the police in January last year, alleging that he had come in contact with the accused with the help of a friend and gave him ₹4.51 lakh for sending him abroad.But neither did he send the complainant abroad nor did he return the money.He refused to return the money and threatened the complainant of dire consequences.Sunita Singh, in-charge of Sector 13-17 police station in Panipat, said police managed to arrest him from Solan and during police remand, the cops recovered ₹10,000 from the accused.She said the accused was again produced in court which sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachalbased-travel-agent-held-for-duping-panipat-man-101626370869118.html
15-07-2021||Other||Grave of first British Sikh historian found in Ambala||A team of Commonwealth War Graves Commission (CWGC) has found the grave of Joseph Davey Cunningham, an engineer with the British Army, at the Christian Cemetery/European Cemetery on Jagadhari Road in Ambala Cantonment.He had died in Ambala in 1851 and is considered the first British Sikh historian.This discovery comes at a time when the CWGC, New Delhi is carrying out restoration work at the site with the help of the Cemetery Committee since February this year, but was disrupted due to the second wave of the ongoing pandemic.Many graves and the site across 20.84 acre have been restored and beautified.Father Anthony of the committee said the team found the grave during its cleaning drive on Thursday last week, when the Commission’s Indian subcontinent manager Amit Bansal visited the site to monitor the task at the cemetery.As engraved on the headstone of the grave, Cunningham was working as a Captain with the Bengal Engineers of the erstwhile British Empire and died at the age of 38.Historians believe he was the eldest of the five sons of Allan Cunningham, a noted poet and playwright and after getting education from Britain, he had moved to India in 1832 and 1837. He was appointed as assistant to Colonel Claude Wade, who was the political agent of the British Government at Ludhiana for the Punjab-Afghan relations.Thus, he lived among the Sikhs for eight years, and during a important portion of their history, he had at the same time got free access to all public records on the affairs of the frontier.“In 1844, he drew up reports on the British annexation. He conceived the idea and felt that he had the means of writing the first-hand history for the people,” a history account read.Dr Paramvir Singh, professor at the department of Encyclopedia of Sikhism at Punjabi University in Patiala, said Cunningham’s book ‘A History of the Sikhs - From the Origin of the Nation to the Battles of the Sutlej’ that was published in 1849 in London, is considered the first authentic English account of the Sikh history.“He was eyewitness to the Anglo-Sikh wars fought between the British and the Sikh forces at Bhaddoval, Aliwal and Sabhraon. He produced his book from the original British sources and got it published while posted in Bhopal. The nine-chapter book is divided into four and five chapters, where in the first part he explains the religion, the Sikh gurus and the transfer of power between them. In the latter part, the whole war is theorised along with the British-Sikh relations,” the professor said.Dr Singh says the most important thing he wrote in his book was that the British won the war and they had precipitated but could have lost it, if they hadn’t done lobbying with the Dogra ministers of Raja Ranjit Singh.“According to Cunningham, the British won the battles against the Sikhs because Raja Lal Singh, Raja Tej Singh and Gulab Singh (commander-in-chief) of Lahore Darbar betrayed their own army. Due to this reference, he faced severe criticism and wrath from his superiors, was dismissed from political service and shifted to the Meerut division. But soon after, he died in Ambala in 1851,” he observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/grave-of-first-british-sikh-historian-found-in-ambala-101626370689635.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure 100% registration of land under cultivation on MFMB portal: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday directed officials to ensure 100% registration of land under cultivation and physical verification of the crops sown on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ (MFMB) portal.While reviewing policies such as ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ and ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’, and the preparedness to deal with Covid-19 with the administrative secretaries and deputy commissioners, Khattar said every DC should ensure physical verification of the agricultural fields with a zero-error approach.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, state home minister Anil Vij and state agriculture minister JP Dalal were also present during the meeting.MAPPING OF LANDDuring the meeting, additional chief secretary (agriculture) Dr Sumita Misra said 6,205 officers of various departments have been engaged for mapping the agricultural land.Farmers have switched to sowing pulses, oilseeds and fodder under crop diversification, she added.The CM was apprised that under the ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ scheme against the target of diversifying two lakh acre, alternate crops have been sown across around 87,000 acre.Khattar said efforts should be made to encourage farmers to grow alternate crops such as pulses, cotton, maize, etc. He said saving depleting groundwater levels is the utmost priority of the state government, so farmers should be encouraged to grow the said crops as procurement of all these crops will be done on MSP.PREPAREDNESS FOR THIRD COVID WAVEAdditional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora said in view of the expected third wave of Covid-19, health infrastructure has been strengthened at district, sub-divisional, CHCs and PHCs levels.He said adequate bed facilities have already been made for Covid paediatric patients along with adequate oxygen supply and pulse oximeter.The CM was told that eight new government molecular labs have been approved in Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Fatehabad, Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Mahendrgarh and Hisar.With the establishment of these labs, a total per day lab capacity is likely to be enhanced to over one lakh tests per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-100-registration-of-land-under-cultivation-on-mfmb-portal-khattar-101626370570001.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dattatreya sworn-in as 18th governor of Haryana||Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Bandaru Dattatreya was sworn-in as the 18th governor of Haryana in a ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan here on Thursday.Punjab and Haryana high court chief justice Ravi Shankar Jha administered the oath of office to Dattatreya, who succeeds Satyadeo Narain Arya, who was transferred to Tripura.Dattatreya, 74, was the governor of Himachal Pradesh and then shifted to Haryana. Born in Hyderabad on June 12, 1947, he was a three-time minister in the Union government and a four-time MP. He was appointed as the Himachal Pradesh governor in 2019.The state government, in a release, said the governor’s wife Vasantha, daughter Vijaya Lakshmi, other family members and relatives were also present during the ceremony.Among those present on this occasion were Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, other cabinet ministers and officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dattatreya-sworn-in-as-18th-governor-of-haryana-101626370514874.html
15-07-2021||Other||Charuni’s suspension comes as setback to followers, support pouring in||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni’s weeklong suspension from the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has caused resentment among his supporters.His supporters say the decision to suspend Charuni was taken soon after he led a convoy of thousands of farmers from Fatehgarh Sahib and Gurdaspur districts of Punjab.During his visit to Punjab earlier this week, Charuni travelled to many districts including Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Patiala. He openly advocated that SKM leaders should launch Mission Punjab and contest the coming polls.“Charuni’s suspension has come as a major setback to lakhs of farmers of Haryana who were facing FIRs and police action, and are away from their families for the past seven months in support of the agitation,” said his follower Nirmal Singh, of Yamunanagar.BKU (Charuni) state secretary Harpal Singh said leaders from Punjab were worried about his popularity not only in Haryana but also in Punjab which is why they decided to sideline him.DIFFERENCE OF OPINIONSince the beginning of the agitation in November last year, Charuni had difference of opinion with the Morcha leaders on multiple occasions.Farm leaders from Punjab were planning to start a sit-in at Sambhu border on November 25 and later Charuni insisted that they should break the barricades and try to reach Delhi.He had assured them that farmers from Haryana will clear the barricades to make way for them. His supporters had removed most barricades from Shambu border to Kundli border in Sonepat. Charuni was also against the decision of Morcha leaders over holding kisan panchayats in Haryana and Punjab as he was in favour of taking the protest to other states.In January, Charuni was snubbed by the Morcha members for meeting political leaders and the move was strongly condemned by them. He had assured that he will not share the platform with any political party till the farmers’ agitation is on.Charuni had slammed his counterpart from UP, Rakesh Tikait, on several occasions. Recently, Charuni without naming anybody had also raised questions on why farmers were not holding protests against BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.WHAT NEXTThe development has exposed the fissures among the Morcha members. Charuni has slammed the decision of his suspension but made it clear that he will continue to support the agitation.People close to him said he is still at the Singhu border and people from Haryana and Punjab came to meet him in the morning.His supporters are planning to lead a convoy of thousands of farmers from Yamunanagar on July 20 to the Singhu border.“The decision will not affect our association with the agitation. We will continue our fight for rights of the farmers,” said BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains.Dr Ramji Lal, a retired professor of political science, said, “The decision may have an impact on the agitation as it could demoralise the supporters from Haryana. But Charuni’s call for a political foray could go either way as he had already contested the polls unsuccessfully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charunis-suspension-comes-as-setback-to-followers-support-pouring-in-101626370451012.html
15-07-2021||Noida||UP industrial commissioner, developers discuss several issues||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh industrial and infrastructure development commissioner, Sanjiv Mittal, on Thursday held a meeting with a group of developers and discussed a host of issues such as delay in delivery of flats and registry of ready units, and reduction in interest rate, among others.The meeting was held at the Noida authority’s Sector 6 administrative building. Mittal is also the chairman of Noida and Greater Noida authorities.“The commissioner assured us to address our demands so that the roadmap of flat registry to homebuyers can be prepared and their grievances can be addressed properly. We want the government to support us and offer an interest waiver in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said RK Arora, chairman of Supertech Group.Arora is also the president of UP unit of the National Real Estate Development Council (NREDCO), a realtors’ body. The developers demanded that the UP government should come out with a package to revive the real estate sector in the state. “The Noida and Greater Noida authorities should stop levying a transfer fee on commercial properties. The two authorities charge 1 to 2.5% of total commercial property as transfer fee when an owner sells it to another. We demand this fee should be done away with as the real estate sector is witnessing a crisis,” said Rakesh Yadav, managing director of Antriksh Group.The realtors also demanded that the authorities should implement a decision of the Supreme Court directing that only 8.5% interest should be charged on defaulted amount of developers as it will benefit the buyers.After the meeting, Mittal said, “The state government is looking into these issues for an appropriate decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-industrial-commissioner-developers-discuss-several-issues-101626369548457.html
15-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: GDA selects agency to prepare project report for ropeway link||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) has selected an agency to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the proposed ‘urban passenger ropeway’ link between Vaishali and Mohan Nagar metro stations. Officials said that the authority decided to develop a ropeway system, instead of a metro link to connect Vaishali with Mohan Nagar, as it will cost about ₹450 crore as against an estimated ₹1,808 crore for the 5.04km metro link. The officials also said that they have plans to extend the metro service up to the Ghaziabad railway station, which is proposed to be developed as a major city centre. “The agency has started work for preparation of a DPR. It is expected to be complete in 15 days. The project cost of the ropeway system is much less than that of a metro extension. Initially, the ropeway was also planned between New Bus Adda metro station and Ghaziabad railway station, but now we plan to bring in metro services instead,” said Krishna Karunesh, vice-chairperson, GDA. In December last year, the authority had started with the consideration of a ropeway system instead of bringing in metro services between Vaishali and Mohan Nagar. Ropeway is a transport system for ferrying goods or people especially used in mountainous areas, wherein the carrier cars are suspended with the help of moving cables, powered by a motor system. At present, Ghaziabad has two metro links -- from Vaishali to Delhi’s Anand Vihar (Blue Line) and from New Bus Adda to Delhi’s Dilshad Garden (Red Line), which includes Mohan Nagar station.The GDA officials said that the Ghaziabad railway station is proposed to be developed into a model city centre station with an estimated project cost of about ₹1,000 crore and will have all modern amenities for passengers, besides commercial facilities. “In such a scenario, we plan to extend Dilshad Garden-New Bus Adda metro route to Ghaziabad railway station (Bajaria side). For the other side (Vijay Nagar side) of the railway station, we have planned to link it via metro to Noida Sector 62 metro station. This will help commuters of Noida as well as Ghaziabad,” the GDA vice-chairperson said. The authority last year proposed and got prepared DPRs of two metro extensions – 5.05km route from Vaishali to Mohan Nagar and 5.017km Electronic City (Noida Sector 62) to Sahibabad. Together the two projects were pegged at a completion cost of ₹3,325.22 crore, and the GDA denied to share the cost burden alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-gda-selects-agency-to-prepare-project-report-for-ropeway-link-101626369248552.html
15-07-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Contractor alleges assault, abduction by former partner||Greater Noida: A city-based building contractor has alleged that he was abducted and assaulted on Wednesday night by his former partner who let him go after extorting ₹40 lakh from him. The contractor, Sachin Sharma, is a resident of Eldeco Greens society under the Beta 2 police jurisdiction. According to the police, Sharma and his former partner, a resident of the same society, were working on a project in Bulandshahr but due to delays, the latter pulled out of the project six months ago and was asking for his ₹1 crore. “Around 7.30pm, the former partner called Sharma and asked him to meet on the premises of the society. Soon, they left the premises,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3. In his complaint, Sharma alleged that he was taken by the former partner and his three goons forcefully and they demanded a ransom of ₹1 crore for his release. The amount was negotiated down to ₹40 lakh which, Sharma claimed, was collected by the partner’s wife, the police said, adding that he was allowed to go after five hours. A case was registered on Thursday against the former partner, his wife and three associates for extortion and assault at Beta 2 police station. The police said that Sharma’s partner is currently at large. “There are inconsistencies in Sharma’s statements. Initially, he claimed that the money was collected from various sources and then delivered by an office boy. However, the lenders have not corroborated these claims. Later, Sharma said that the money was taken from a female friend. We are still verifying whether the money exchanged hands or not,” said Pandey. The officials said that a probe in the matter is underway and due legal action will be taken against any wrongdoers, including the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-contractor-alleges-assault-abduction-by-former-partner-101626369008931.html
15-07-2021||Noida||Doing better business than last year, say Noida malls||Noida Managers of shopping malls in Noida say they are doing better business this year as compared to the post-unlock period in 2020, and they are witnessing a good footfall during the end of season sales. During the unlock period, the governments permit places to open and resume normal activities — albeit with significant safeguards — after spending months under the lockdown.According to the managers, restrictions like weekend lockdown, and “negligible audiences in multiplexes” continue to be common hurdles.“Customers seem to be more confident and assured about the Covid-19 safety protocols this year. The prime reason being the vaccination. End of season sales have also been drawing customers to malls. So, from approximately 1,000-2,000 customers in the first week of the opening, the footfall has spiked to almost 20,000 customers a day at present... Food and beverage business is yet to pick up pace, maybe because dinners have the maximum number of customers on weekends. Cinema halls, too, have only a few takers,” said Justin Masih, general manager, Gaur City Mall in Greater Noida. The weekend lockdown, however, is abstaining from the loss recovery.Amit Taneja, vice president (operations), Logix Mall in Noida, said, “We are having a decent footfall and the number of visitors increased from the second week of the opening. It is better than that of Diwali 2020. At present, we are seeing 6,000-7,000 customers per day. In January 2020, before the pandemic outbreak, we used to have over 14,000 customers.”“We are getting a good response from our retail partners and customers. Nearly 90% of the branded shops inside the mall are operational, and our F&B partners are also allowed to operate in adherence to the guidelines issued by the local authorities,” said a representative of DLF Mall of India, Noida Sector-18, requesting anonymity. He, however, did not disclose the daily footfall.“People are more aware this year. The guards don’t even have to ask a single customer to wear a mask or maintain social distance,” said Vikas Tyagi, vice president, Supertech Shopprix Mall in Sector 61.Last year, shopping malls were closed in wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown and were later allowed to open from June 9, 2020, after being shut for 70 days. The malls were again shut this year after the Uttar Pradesh government imposed a partial curfew from April 30, 2021, amidst the second wave of Covid-19. The curbs were later relaxed, and malls were permitted to open from June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/doing-better-business-than-last-year-say-noida-malls-101626369008321.html
15-07-2021||Noida||Noida may see heavy rainfall on July 18, says IMD||Noida With “very light rainfall” of 0.5mm between 8.30am and 5.30pm, and a slight increase in temperatures and humidity levels, outdoors became “uncomfortable” for the people of Noida on Thursday.The Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered as an average for the National Capital Region (NCR), recorded the humidity levels between 56% and 100% on Thursday.‘Moderate to heavy rainfall on Sunday’According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city will witness “moderate to heavy rainfall” in the next two to three days. “The city is likely to see a slight increase in mercury, and the maximum temperature may hover around 37 degrees Celsius (°C). There are chances of moderate to heavy rainfall on Sunday. It is likely to be sporadic and light ahead of that,” said an IMD official on Thursday.The IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida at 36.6 degrees Celsius and 25.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday, against 35.4 degrees Celsius and 27.5 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The Safdarjung monitoring station recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 36.6 degrees Celsius and 26.3 degrees Celsius, two degrees above and as many below the season’s average, respectively, on Thursday.Meanwhile, neighbouring Delhi that saw “moderate to heavy rainfall” on Wednesday, settled for a “very little” rainfall on Thursday, as recorded by the Safdarjung monitoring station.The IMD declared the arrival of the monsoon on Tuesday (July 13), after a delay of 16 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-may-see-heavy-rainfall-on-july-18-says-imd-101626368948347.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally remains above 7,000-mark for 4th straight day||Daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra saw a slight dip on Thursday after 8,010 samples tested positive for the viral disease. The overall tally now stands at 6,189,257, while the death toll rose to 1,26,560 after 170 people succumbed to the viral infection.The fresh cases were a result of 2,14,935 tests conducted over the previous 24 hours, according to the state health department. The cumulative number of recoveries stands at 5,952,192.Out of the fresh cases, Mumbai, the capital city of Maharashtra, logged 528 cases. The city has an overall caseload of 7,29,791 infections. The toll stands at 15,667 after 13 new fatalities were reported in the previous 24 hours.However, it is the fourth consecutive day that the number of daily cases remained above the 7,000-mark. On Wednesday, there were 8,602 cases while on Tuesday and Monday the state registered 7,243 and 7,603 infections, respectively.Meanwhile, Pune district has the highest number of active cases with 17,401 infections, the state health department mentioned in its daily bulletin. It is followed by Thane and Mumbai at 15,653 and 10,925, respectively.Nagpur (11), Pimpri-Chinchwad (217), Nashik (62), Aurangabad (15) and Amravati (12) municipal corporation areas reported fresh Covid-19 cases, respectively, as per PTI report.Since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, Maharashtra state has been a hotspot of the disease. However, as the number has come down from the record levels the state is relaxing restrictions imposed in April-May to curb the spread.On Wednesday state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that fully vaccinated travellers arriving in the state by air will no longer be required to show a negative RT-PCR test report at the airport.The relaxation is, however, subjected to the condition that will have to carry a certificate proving that the person has been administered both doses of the vaccine against Covid-19.Until now, anyone travelling to the state was required to get an RT-PCR test done 48 hours prior to their journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-tally-remains-above-7-000-mark-for-4th-straight-day-101626366528318.html
15-07-2021||Bhopal||MP woman officer takes action against illegal mining mafia, gets transferred||A woman forest officer, who reportedly took action against the illegal sand mining mafia in Chambal Wildlife Sanctuary, has been transferred from Morena to Umaria within three months of her joining, show official records, evoking strong reaction from locals, who are protesting against her transfer.The transfer of sub-divisional officer of a forest department, Shradha Pandre, sparked protest in the district as the locals called it an injustice with an honest officer and praised her effort for curbing the illegal sand mining menace in the division.Pandre’s transfer order was issued three days after she seized illegally mined sand from a construction site of a woman police station and the government’s pond in Morena.“On the complaint of Pandre, an FIR has been registered against the sub-divisional officer and sub-engineer of Police Housing Board and two contractors for using illegal sand for the construction of the police station. In a matter of using illegally mined sand for construction of a wall of the pond, police are investigating,” said Rai Singh Narwariya, additional superintendent of police, Morena, adding that no FIR has been lodged.Pandre was attacked by the mining mafia at least 11 times and registered the complaint at a different police station. Pandre seized more than 80 tractor-trolleys and trucks laden with illegally mined sand worth lakhs of rupees.“She was a hardworking officer and we really saw a curb in illegal sand mining in Chambal Sanctuary, which has been going on since 2007,” said Sudhir Sapra, an environmentalist and local activist.“The transfer of Pandre proved her accusation that mining mafias are getting the support of police and local administration in Chambal division. She has been punished for being an honest officer. We will stage protest against this order,” said Satendra Singh Tomar, a social activist from Morena, who is running a campaign on social media against the Pandre’s transfer.The opposition leaders also attacked the BJP-led state government for patronizing the mining mafia. Former minister and Congress MLA Govind Singh said, “In Chambal division, police and district administration are patronizing the mining mafia. Huge money is involved in it. They are spoiling the environment and Chambal Sanctuary for money. We will not keep mum against this injustice with a woman forest officer. We will expose the state government for punishing honest officers.” However, state minister of urban development and housing OPS Bhadoria said, “Pandre transfer is a routine practice. We appreciate her effort to stop illegal mining but the accusation against the government and police are baseless. Police officers are also working hard and taking action against the mafia.”“Congress leaders shouldn’t say anything about the transfer as we all know that during their tenure of 15 months, then Congress government only focused on transfer posting business,” he added. Morena, superintendent of police, Lalit Shakyawar said, “It is wrong to blame the police. Police are taking action against the mafia. Even we requested Shradha Pandre to inform the police before taking any action against mafia so that enough police force could send for protection but she hardly paid any attention to our request.” Despite repeated attempts, Pandre couldn’t be contacted. On Facebook, she had posted, “The transfer is a normal practice for me as whenever I took a tough action against the mafia, I had to face this. Earlier too, I was transferred for the same reason.”The Supreme Court order banned sand mining in Chambal Wildlife Sanctuary in 2007 but illegal sand mining still takes place. Every day, at least 100 dumpers and 1,000 tractor trolleys are used for transportation of illegally excavated sand from Chambal, claimed locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-woman-officer-takes-action-against-illegal-mining-mafia-gets-transferred-101626366908961.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tunnel-like structures excavated at Golden Temple Complex||The construction of a new “jora ghar” for devotees to deposit their footwear at the Golden Temple complex was stopped after Sikh activists clashed with workers on hearing about historical tunnel-like structures being unearthed while excavating the site in Amritsar on Thursday.In view of the surge in the number of devotees, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) decided to construct a big “jora ghar” on the Akal Takht secretariat side of the complex and assinged the work to Kar Sewa, a voluntary organisation headed by Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuri Wale.As Kar Sewa volunteers were excavating the site to construct the building’s basement, they found tunnel-like structures made of small bricks — that were reportedly used centuries ago — at a depth of about 25 feet. Considering them to be ordinary structures with no religious or historical value, both SGPC and volunteers decided to carry on with the work.However, as the news along with visuals of the site was shared on social media, members of Sikh Sadbhawna Dal, led by former Golden Temple hazuri ragi (gurbani musician) Bhai Baldev Singh Wadala, reached the site and demanded that the work be stopped in order to conserve the historical structure. This led to heated arguments and a scuffle between the two groups. As the land is owned by Punjab Urban Development Authority, subdivisional magistrate Vikas Hira reached the site along with police and stopped the work till further orders. Archaeological expert to examine site: SDM“After tunnel-like structures were found during the excavation, the work has been stopped for now. The site will be examined by an archaeological expert. A joint meeting of Sikh bodies and government officials will be held. Sentiments of Sikh bodies will be kept in mind while taking the next decision,” said the SDM.Meanwhile, police have been deployed at the site to ensure no work is carried out on the portion of the land where the structures were found. “All historical structures deserve to be preserved with respect. I don’t oppose the new construction, but it can also be done by keeping the old structures found during excavation intact,” said Wadala.Requesting all parties not to create a controversy over the issue, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said: “The building found underground is very beautiful. Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has said that he has sent a message to the archaeological department in this regard and its team will visit the site on Friday. Even the SGPC will get the structure examined by historians, and if found historical, it will be preserved.”Prof Balvinder Singh, former head of Guru Ramdas School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, and adviser, Indian Heritage Cities Network, said similar structures were found near Gurdwara Lohgarh a few years ago, but were ignored. “It might be some tunnel linking to the summer palace in Rambagh where Maharaja Ranjit Singh used to stay during his visit to Amritsar. It could also have a link with Akhara Sangal Wala as it is quite lower than the road level. A serious and sincere effort is required to explore and preserve such heritage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tunnellike-structures-excavated-at-golden-temple-complex-101626366550366.html
15-07-2021||Pune||Construction work snarls traffic at Chandani Chowk||Traffic congestion at Chandini chowk has increased due to the on-going fly over work which has picked up pace since the second Covid wave erupted in the city. The construction did not have an impact on traffic initially due to the partial lockdown during the second wave, however, since restrictions have eased, commuters are facing trouble in the area. A two-storey flyover will be constructed at Chandni Chowk to alleviate traffic congestion in the area including Chandni Chowk, Kothrud, Warje, and Baner. The bridges will be linked to Mumbai, Satara, Mulshi, and Kothrud from Chandni Chowk. The overall project cost is ₹900 crore, of which ₹400 crore are for the construction of the flyover and ₹500 crore are for land acquisition. People while going toward Kothrud via Chandini Chowk had to take precaution while taking turn as the road has become narrow due to the ongoing digging of hills. “More than 10 giant machines work continuously. Already it is a highway and the construction noise makes things more difficult. As the work is underway, commuters are facing problems,” said Rohit Sathe, an auto rickshaw driver, Chandini chowk.With Chandini chowk being main the main unction which connects Bavdhan, Pashan, Paud raod, Mumbai-Bengaluru Highway – commuters have to face heavy traffic congestion. “Some alternative solution must be found by officials, every evening it is becoming difficult to move from the passage where the work is underway presently. The IT park at Hinjewadi is closed due to Covid presently, once it will opens up more congestion will occur,” said Sushas Shirke, a regular commuter from Chandini Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/construction-work-snarls-traffic-at-chandani-chowk-101626365948273.html
15-07-2021||Pune||MahaMetro launches Station Access and Mobility Program (Stamp)||The MahaMetro, WRI India Ross Centre and Toyota Mobility Foundation, today launched the Station Access and Mobility Program (STAMP) Pune online. Stamp Pune aims to build integrated and resilient city transport networks and enhance last-mile connectivity to Pune Metro by tapping into innovative data-based solutions. MahaMetro along with WRI India and the Toyota Mobility Foundation together have initiated this programme which is a multi-year, multi-city initiative to create innovative solutions that improve multimodal commute in Indian cities. Pune is the fifth city of the initiative, led by MahaMetro to improve accessibility to the metro and commuter experience at metro stations, especially keeping in mind the new normal. Madhav Pai, executive director, WRI India Ross Centre for sustainable cities said, “There are two avenues of commuter experience that Stamp Pune will explore, assessing operational performance of last-mile operators for ensuring better connectivity, and developing strategies for effective planning of last-mile services at Pune metro stations.” This initiative aims to identify and work with innovative technology companies and city planners to develop a data-based last-mile planning tool based on commuter demand and preference parameters. During the presentation, key points that were identified were commuter-centric and city parameters that affect access to and use of public transportation, travel patterns where metro may be advantageous, in conjunction with other modes and provide an evidence-based intelligence for deploying commuter-centric last-mile services at Metro stations. “The goal of Stamp Pune is to build and enhance high ridership through safe, seamless, and efficient multimodal integrations. We have also identified options for the commuter to use Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses and identified routes for the buses around each station and also signed an MoU with almost 14 operators for feeder services to provide better last-mile connectivity,” T Manoj Kumar, DGM - Multimodal Integration & Transport Planning, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited. Indian Railways too will play a part in bringing the people closer to the last mile connectivity, for wherever railways and Metro interface, railways commuters can access the Metro. Atul Gadgil, director (Works), Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited said that the biggest challenge they have, as Pune Metro, is to encourage people to switch to public transport. Gadgil said, “Because of an increase in private vehicles, average speeds in Pune have come down to between 10 kmph-15 kmph. Through the study via the Stamp initiative, it will help give us an idea of how much ridership Pune Metro can hope to tap into and achieve in initial months.” Gadgil was disappointed with the footpaths and found it challenging to walk in the city hence said, “Metro will be developing along with the local municipal authority’s user-friendly pedestrian and road infrastructure to promote use of metro of around 500 meters of each metro station.” He also said that the Indian Metro systems are affordable to every stratum of society. The minimum fare could range from five rupees to a maximum of ₹50. Pranjali Deshpande, domestic expert of sustainable mobility said, “Affordability must be seen from different angles. There are people from vulnerable groups who cannot afford INR 5 for the PMPML bus. For Metro, how can we facilitate those trips through schemes for a more equitable access? Everyone has the right to travel in the metro. While ensuring first and last-mile connectivity for Metro is essential, only the ‘supply’ side will not work. The authorities need to make a strong travel demand management plan in terms of making parking expensive, not supplying more and more parking, flyovers and roads. The system should ensure social equity and affordability for vulnerable groups by providing special passes or schemes for them” Pras Ganesh, director, Toyota Mobility Foundation (TMF) added that the mission of TMF is to enable more people to go more places, in the most sustainable way. Mobility equals opportunity and those solutions need to be considered with a holistic view, factoring in the entire ecosystem. The data helps to integrate all the aspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahametro-launches-station-access-and-mobility-program-stamp-101626364809335.html
15-07-2021||Ranchi||Wanted Maoist killed in Gumla||A member of outlawed faction CPI (Maoist) was killed on Thursday in an encounter between Maoists and security forces in a forest area under Kurumgarh police station in Gumla district, even as other members of the group led by wanted Maoist commander Buddheswar Oraon managed to flee the spot, police said.However, several police officials said multiple sources confirmed the killed Maoist was Buddheshwar Oraon himself. “Evidences such as his past photographs and other multiple sources have confirmed he was Buddheshwar Oraon. However, we are following the laid down procedures of identification such as verification from family members,” said AV Homkar, Inspector General of Police (Operations), Jharkhand.Police said Oraon carried a cash reward of ₹15 lakh on his head and was the regional committee member of CPI (Maoist). He was also secretary of the Koyal-Sankh zone of the ultras, Homkar said. Several cases are registered against Oraon across districts, including 81 in Gumla, 16 in Simdega, four in Lohardaga, six in Latehar and two in Garhwa, under different sections of Indian Penal Code.The development comes barely two days after Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost a decorated sniffer dog in an IED blast in the same area, while his handler got injured and is undergoing treatment at a super specialty hospital here. The recent encounter was conducted by a joint team of Gumla police, Jharkhand Jaguar and troops of Cobra battalion of the CRPF.“We were continuing the operation that started on July 13 on specific inputs of presence of the group led by Oraon in the area. They have planted IEDs in several locations in the area that has cost lives of even innocent villagers and animals. On July 13, we also lost a sniffer dog and another jawan was injured. The combing operation was on ever since. On Thursday morning, the forces were fired upon by the ultras. The force retaliated that led to the death of one uniformed Naxal,” said Homkar.Officials said they have recovered one AK-47 rifle, two AK-47 magazines, ammunitions, IED detonator, mobile phones, Naxal literature, medicines and uniforms from the site of encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/wanted-maoist-killed-in-gumla-101626364688034.html
15-07-2021||Other||Cloth merchant shot dead in Bhojpur||A cloth merchant was shot dead by two masked men late on Wednesday evening at his shop at Sakaddi under Koilwar police station in Bhojpur, police said on Thursday. A friend of the deceased also sustained injuries during the incident and is currently undergoing treatment. An FIR has been lodged in this connection and raids are on to arrest the accused, Koilwar police station SHO Praveen Kumar said.After the incident, irate villagers blocked Ara-Patna National Highway-30 for hours, demanding arrest of the those involved in the incident. The mob also damaged several vehicles. The blockade was lifted only after assurance by local police to arrest the assailants at the earliest.According to the deceased’s son , who was at the shop when the incident took place, the two armed assailants came to their shop on Wednesday evening and asked him about his father. He told them that his father was in the godown, after which the assailants went there and killed the victim. In the firing, the friend of the deceased also sustained firearm injuries.Both victims were rushed to Ara sadar hospital, where one of them was declared dead.According to the brother of the deceased, the crime was a fall out of old enmity with some co-villagers.Bhojpur has been witnessing a spurt in murder cases for last couple of years. In 2019, a total 91 incidents of murder were reported in the district, which increased to 97 in 2020. Atleast 48 such incidents have been reported till June this year, according to police records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cloth-merchant-shot-dead-in-bhojpur-101626364630179.html
15-07-2021||Pune||Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi metro project to speed up: minister||Subhash Desai, state industry minister has assured that the work of Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi metro corridor and pending road projects will be sped up in the Hinjewadi IT Park. The work of Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi metro corridor is progressing slowly, causing traffic jams on the way to the IT Park. The IT industry association has requested to speed up the pending works. “The total distance of Shivajinagar -Hinjewadi metro corridor is 23 kilometre. The work of the metro has been in progress for the last six months and it will be completed in the next 15 months,” said Alok Kapoor, chief executive officer, Pune IT city metro rail limited. “The state government is ready to extend all possible cooperation to increase the IT sector in the state,” said Desai. “Metro works along the route connecting the Hinjewadi IT sector will be reviewed in the next three months,” said Baldev Singh, principal secretary, industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivajinagarhinjewadi-metro-project-to-speed-up-minister-101626364629622.html
15-07-2021||Patna||IIIT-Bhagalpur signs MoU with AIIMS-Patna for digital innovation in healthcare||Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Bhagalpur, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Thursday for digital innovation and cooperation in health education, training and research in the medical field.The MoU was signed at AIIMS-Patna campus between the director of AIIMS-Patna Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh and director of IIIT Arvind Choubey, for five years in the presence of senior officials of both institutions.The signed pact will provide a joint platform for research and innovation in healthcare facilities using artificial intelligence (AI), data science and machine learning for predicting diseases through images and CT scans, said an IIIT official. Dr Singh said, “The technical support of IIIT would help us to adopt innovative methods for detecting several diseases with the help of artificial intelligence along with research in the medical field.” Prof Arvind Choubey, director of IIIT, said, “Our AI innovation hub will also work in line with AIIMS-Patna to offer various artificial intelligence-based healthcare inventions and courses.” He said the primary objective of the MoU is to promote interaction and collaboration among faculty members, scientists and students of both institutions to carry out joint academic and research programmes, supervision of masters and doctoral students, as well as collaborative research projects.“Both institutions have agreed to exchange faculty, medical professionals, scientists, and researchers, use of laboratory facilities, besides sharing of medical and experimental data to achieve common set goals. Lectures, seminars and scientific meetings will also be organised for educational training,” he added. IIIT Bhagalpur has developed software that can be used for Covid -19 detection with help of X-Ray and CT scan digital input, claimed Choubey.He said, “Our developed software has been validated by AIIMS Patna as per the direction of ICMR, Delhi. The developed model has proved to be authentic in detecting Covid-19 and pneumonia patients within few seconds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/iiitbhagalpur-signs-mou-with-aiims-patna-for-digital-innovation-in-healthcare-101626364628812.html
15-07-2021||Other||Purnea University conducts probe against college principal||Purnea University (PU) has ordered probe against a syndicate member and principal of one of its constituent colleges for allowing students’ organisation Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) to unfurl its flag on its foundation day inside college campus recently on July 9.Vice chancellor (V-C) Prof Rajnath Yadav has constituted a three-member probe team against Prof Anant Prasad Gupta, principal of PU’s Gore Lal Mehta College, Banmankhi. Soon after ABVP’s foundation day ceremony, several other students’ organizations lodged complaints with PU in this regard, forcing it to order the probe into the matter.Meanwhile, probe team members are tight-lipped over the progress of investigation. “It is not easy to probe a syndicate member, but we are discharging our duties honestly and the guilty can’t be spared,” one of the members said.On the other hand, ABVP functionaries described the unfurling of the flag in the college as an old practice. “We have been hoisting ABVP’s flag on its foundation day every year in the college,” PU ABVP president Abhishek Singh said, declaring it a “deep-rooted conspiracy to malign the image of ABVP”. Recently, anti-corruption watchdog Lokayukta police had revealed serious financial irregularities in PU, raising serious questions over the role of its first V-C Prof Rajesh Singh. The Lokayukta police had found that documents related to expenditure, cash books, utility certificates and other related papers were missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purnea-university-conducts-probe-against-college-principal-101626364628080.html
15-07-2021||Pune||Pune registers 74% YoY growth in residential sales: report||Home sales in Pune has witnessed a significant growth of 74 per cent year-on-year (YoY) to 17,474 units in the first half of 2021 against 10,049 units in the same period during 2020, according to a “India Real Estate January – June 2021” report released by Knight Frank India on Thursday. This performance, according to the report, can be attributed largely to robust sales clocked in first quarter of 2021 which was whipped by the lower stamp duty window and a low base of second quarter of 2020. New launches in Pune also grew by 52 per cent to 20,477 units in H1 2021 from 13,435 units in H1 2020. The healthy increase in launches is mainly due to the lower base effect and less stringent lockdown during the second wave of Covid-19. The government permitted construction activity, followed by guidelines which aided launched to grow. The residential sales in Pune started to show resurgence in home sales and launches, especially during the third quarter in 2020 and fourth quarter in 2020 after the reduction of stamp duty rates; this momentum was also carried into first quarter of 2021. However, as the second wave of the pandemic began unfolding, the momentum dropped, with Q2 2021 registering a sequential drop of 72 per cent in volume of home sales and 87 per cent in new home launches. With reference to the performance of micro-markets, markets in the West (which includes Aundh, Baner, Wakad, Hinjewadi, Bavdhan, Pashan) and East (which includes Viman Nagar, Kharadi, Wagholi, Hadapsar, Dhanori) continued to dominate sales in Pune. In H1 2021, markets in the West had the highest- 39 per cent share of new sales followed by the East at 23 per cent. Proximity to office hubs is the reason why these markets are witnessing greater traction. The homebuyers are cognizant of the fact that they will be required to go to the office at least a few days a week once things return to normal and are showing a preference for locations close to employment hubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-registers-74-yoy-growth-in-residential-sales-report-101626364568621.html
15-07-2021||Patna||Madhubani court blasts SP, says needs fresh training in laws||In scathing observations in a case relating to a minor’s rape, a Madhubani court Thursday said the district’s superintendent of police (SP) Dr Satya Prakash should be sent to Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad, to learn more on matters relating to offences against minor girls. The indictment came from Avinash Kumar, additional sessions judge, Jhanjharpur, in a case where a minor girl was allegedly raped but the accused was charged only with kidnapping. Also, the victim was shown to be major against the opinion of a medical board which held her to be 15 years old when she was kidnapped. The court of Avinash Kumar also issued a show cause notice to additional chief judicial magistrate, Jhanjharpur, asking how it concluded that the girl was a major. The magistrate has been asked to reply on July 19.The court was hearing a bail plea by the accused, Balbir Sadai, who has been in custody since February 25 this year.The girl’s mother, in her FIR, had alleged that on January 6 this year, Sadai kidnapped her minor daughter (15 years) with the purpose of marriage. Subsequently, a charge sheet was filed by the police in which Sadai was charged with kidnapping. The Madhubani SP, in his supervision report, had cleared the charge sheet.Rejecting bail for the accused, the court observed that the SP did not have basic knowledge of laws relating to offences against minors and sought to know why charges of rape and laws related to Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2016, were not applied in the case. The court also issued show cause notices to subdivisional police officer (Jhanjharpur) and station house officer of Bhairav Asthan police station. “The SP should be sent for special training at the IPS training academy to relate to offences against the minor girl,” the court said. The judge also asked state police chief and home minister, government of India, to look into the matter and conduct an inquiry in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/madhubani-court-blasts-sp-says-needs-fresh-training-in-laws-101626364568075.html
15-07-2021||Other||Bihar: Man posing as CBI SP runs out of luck||The Motihari police have arrested a man who used to dupe people by posing as superintendent of police (SP) of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), police said on Thursday.Presenting the accused, identified as Amol Kumar, before media persons, East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha said the arrest was made from a government school at Lauriya under Govindganj police station area when the accused was trying to extort money from people by impersonating as CBI‘s SP on Wednesday. “In the course of the investigation, we came to know that he had been duping people for the past two years. Further investigation into the matter is underway,” Jha said.“Several letters, a few of them with fake seals and forged signatures of dignitaries, were recovered from his possession,” he said. The seizures included a forged identity card, appointment letter, a former Bihar chief minister’s letter and ₹5.60 lakh in cash.In one of the seized letters, the accused has claimed to have reduced 62℅ crimes and 76% corruption, apart from leading in seven encounters in East Champaran alone. “The letter also had forged signature of governor and chief minister,” said a police officer.BLURB: Police seized fake seals, letters having forged signatures of CM, Guv||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/biharman-posing-as-cbi-sp-runs-out-of-luck-101626364508153.html
15-07-2021||Patna||Over 8700 aspirants to take UPSC exams from July 16 to 18 in Patna||More than 8,700 civil service aspirants have registered to take the Indian Economics Services (IES), Indian Statistical Service (ISS) and Engineering Services Examination (ESE) conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in the city from July 16 to 18.Patna district administration on Wednesday held a meeting to make elaborate arrangements and implement Covid-19 safety protocols at exam centres for the fair, peaceful and safe conduct of examination during the pandemic.As per district administration, 601 candidates would take IES and ISS in two shifts at one exam centre each from July 16 to 18. A total of 8,158 candidates would take ESE preliminary exam across 19 centres in two shifts on July 18.Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal reviewed preparation for exams and instructed for making necessary arrangements.In the meeting, concerned officials were also instructed to ensure proper seating arrangement, drinking water facility, uninterrupted electricity supply on exam day.Agarwal said, “Proper sanitisation at exam centres should be done before all three examinations. Staff and examinees at exam centres must follow Covid-19 protocols. Wearing a face mask and maintaining social distance is mandatory for all. An adequate number of police magistrates and force have been deployed to ensure peaceful conduct of exam and prevent gathering outside exam centres.”He said, “Instructions have been given for crowd management at railway stations and bus stands. Traffic personnel will ensure free flow of vehicular movement so that general public doesn’t face inconvenience due to huge inflow of examinees,” he said.Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said, “Candidates will be allowed to enter the hall 10 minutes before the commencement of exam. Carrying any electronic gadget including mobile, pager, Bluetooth inside the exam centre is strictly prohibited for the examinees and mobile jammers will be installed at the centres for free and fair conduct of exam.” The district administration has also set up a control room with telephone number 0612-2219205/2233578 for regular monitoring of exam centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/over-8700-aspirants-to-take-upsc-exams-from-july-16-to-18-in-patna-101626364448672.html
15-07-2021||Pune||17-year-old apprehended for murder of stepmother||A minor boy was apprehended on Thursday by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for killing his step mother in Talegaon Dabhade area on Wednesday night. The deceased woman was identified as Rekha (40), a resident of Shrihari Gruha Nirman Society in Talegaon Dabhade area of Pune, who was found lying in a pool of blood in her house.“While the now-deceased woman was at her house, her son had gone to the step father’s house for dinner as they had cooked meat. The couple got into a fight about how the man spends more time with the second wife than with his own family,” said senior police inspector Bhaskar Jadhav of Talegaon Dabhade police station.The 17-year-old got involved in the fight and walked out of the house and later on made a phone call to his wife and called her out as well, according to the complainant. The accused 17-year-old boy went to the woman’s house and used a sharp weapon to make several gashes on her neck, hands, back, and head, according to the police.“His wife also has injuries on her hand but we suspect that she was trying to stop him and got injured in the process. When they walked out nobody suspected the murder. Even the deceased woman was unaware as she let them in, as they always visited each other’s homes,” said Senior PI Jadhav.While the teenager is being produced in the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), his wife was treated for the cut wounds and taken back home by her in-laws. The apprehended boy is married and lives with his wife and parents, according to the police. His wife and him went to school together and are of the same age - 16 years and few months. They got married in February 2021 at their native place.The complainant and his mother were neighbours of the 17-year-old’s family in Aurangabad. Two years ago, when the now-deceased woman’s husband died of cancer, the man from the neighbouring family married her, according to the police. Some 8 months ago, both the families moved to Pune for business. The families have a shop and sell food grains by the road-side to make ends meet.The woman lived with her 15-year-old son who is the complainant in the case against his 17-year-old stepbrother.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/17yearold-apprehended-for-murder-of-stepmother-101626364449310.html
15-07-2021||Patna||For vaccination, all roads lead to Patna||Beneficiaries from adjoining districts are adding to the rush at Covid-19 vaccination centres in Patna, pointing to vaccine shortage in some districts other than the state capital. Beneficiaries from Vaishali, Bhojpur and Jehanabad and in some cases even from Munger, nearly 180 kms to the east of Patna, have come to take the jabs in Patna, said an official. “We have received inputs on people from neighbouring districts coming to take the jab at our vaccination centres. We are not denying vaccination to any Indian, irrespective of the place of domicile,” said Chandrashekhar Singh, Patna’s district magistrate. Mansoon Mohanty, district resource unit team lead for Patna of Care India, partners in the implementation of the government’s health programme, overseeing operations at the three 24x7 vaccination centres in Patna, said: “We got a family which drove all the way from Munger to take the shot at our vaccination centre at Patliputra Ashok hotel.” “People from adjoining districts are also coming to take the jabs, pointing to a growing awareness about vaccination among people,” he said. Indians took the first shot of Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine abroad and were due for their second dose, have been given Covishield shots at our centres here, added Mohanty. With 9,002 jabs, the three 24x7 vaccination centres managed by Care India in Patna, recorded the highest inoculations in a day on Wednesday. Of this, the Patliputra Sports Complex accounted for 3,821 doses, the hotel Patliputra Ashok 2,951 and Polytechnic College, Patliputa, 2,230. The district magistrate said a good response towards vaccination had been created. “The demand now is much more than supply. As such, we are unable to meet the increasing demand because of vaccine shortage, forcing us to shut down some vaccination sites occasionally,” added Singh. “We achieved a milestone on June 25 by administering 80,508 doses — the highest inoculations in a day so far — catapulting Patna to the third slot among districts in India that day after Pune (1.38 lakh doses), Mumbai (86,520 doses),” the DM added. Patna was now administering an average daily 40,000 doses, said its district immunisation officer Dr SP Vinayak. “The number of vaccinations depends on availability of vaccines. We had 97,000 doses left in our stock on Wednesday evening, which we hope to administer to beneficiaries soon,” he added. Patna has contributed to 12% of the 1.94 crore doses of vaccine administered in the state till Wednesday. The state capital aims to complete first dose vaccination of its urban adults by July 25. Rural Patna, with first-dose vaccination achievement of 24%, has been slow to keep pace with urban areas. Rural Patna has a target population of 29.12 lakh against 14.36 lakh in urban Patna. “We are deploying one vaccination van in each of the 75 municipal wards for the next 10 days in Patna to complete the first dose vaccination of the eligible population available here,” said Singh. “The government’s focus is to first target the low-hanging fruits, before moving up. We will shift our focus to the rural population, who are fast shedding their reluctance towards vaccination once the willing urban population has been administered the first dose,” said a health official. This also explains the fact why people from rural areas of adjoining districts are crowding in Patna for vaccination..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/for-vaccination-all-roads-lead-to-patna-101626364448009.html
15-07-2021||Pune||Suo motu case registered after woman’s picture found pinned to pumpkin||A suo motu case was registered at Shikrapur police station against unidentified people after a woman’s picture was found pinned to a pumpkin in a graveyard in Pabal area of Shikrapur. People attending a funeral in the graveyard saw a round-shaped structure wrapped in a black bag and found a woman’s picture pinned to a green pumpkin, upon closer inspection. The structure was garnished with haldi-kumkum, and was kept with a piece of ornament and some lemons, which made it look like an attempt at what is considered in rural parts as black magic. People from the village gathered at the spot to inspect the structure. “We did receive such information from a local reporter. We have registered a suo motu case and investigation will begin. We are yet to identify the woman in the picture but the identity will be protected even when we do identify her. There is no CCTV coverage in the area,” said senior police inspector Hemant Shendage of Shikrapur police station. Members of slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar’s organisation Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANiS) visited the site and released a video statement about the incident, cautioning people that it has no effect. “Some people found the structure. When people realised, they informed local journalists. The incident created unrest. Such things are done so something bad befalls the person. However, such customs do not work. The people who do it are deviant. Our organisation only wants to urge people to not be scared or panic. We urge the local police to check if there are cameras and find the people who did it so they can be stopped,” said Nandini Jadhav of the Pune unit of ANiS. A case under relevant Sections of the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 was registered at Shikrapur police station against unidentified people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/suo-motu-case-registered-after-woman-s-picture-found-pinned-to-pumpkin-101626364388115.html
15-07-2021||Pune||PCB orders vendors to maintain ‘status quo’ at Fashion Street||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) administration has ordered the vendors operating inside the burnt fashion street market to maintain status quo and refrain from carrying out illegal constructions inside the market. Recently, the board had received complaints about pipe iron structures being built without the mandatory permission of the board. The board administration wants to construct a commercial complex equipped with all the fire safety norms and claims that the hawkers have not shown any interest in the proposal. The PCB has issued a public notice asking the vendors to main ‘status quo’ at the market. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “We had ordered for the status quo at the market to be maintained as we don’t want the lives of the citizens including the vendors in danger in case of future incidents of fire. Currently, the vendors are carrying out illegal constructions which are against the cantonment act. We have written to Pune police to take action against illegal construction at Fashion Street and requested them that, if need be, an FIR be registered. The compromise decree with the vendors is pending in court and till further orders; the hawkers cannot be legally evicted out of the premises. There was no sanction for construction of permanent structures as per the original decree.” MG road hawkers and pathari seva sansthan president advocate MG Akolkar said, “Who is the PCB to order status quo at the market as it is the mandate of the court? The board had given permission to the hawkers to conduct business at Fashion Street in 1990. After the outbreak of the fire, the business was stopped for some time. The business never stopped and will continue. The 440 hawkers are doing business usual at Fashion Street. The board must protect the rights of the traders and allow them to conduct them business as per their constitutional rights. The administration has become dictatorial and itself going against the law by snatching away the livelihoods of poor vendors.” On March 26, as many as 600 shops were completely gutted after a major fire broke out at the famous Fashion Street market in the Camp area of While there were no casualties in blaze, the head of Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) fire department killed in road accident while returning home after dousing fire. Prakash Hasabe died after his two-wheeler came under the wheels of a truck around 6.30 am, the next morning. He was on his way home to Viman Nagar after finishing the firefighting work at Fashion Street which got burnt down completely in fire incident. Fashion Street adjacent to MG Road is a famous `window shopping’’ destination that houses small outlets selling garments, shoes, goggles and other accessories. Local traders said there were 448 registered shops and over 200 unauthorised outlets located in the market. According to Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), a report was submitted in 2018 highlighting the “risk” of similar incidents and possible difficulty to deal with it at Fashion Street due to congested nature of area. The joint fire audit report submitted by the Chief Fire Officer (CFO), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Fire Brigade Superintendent of PCB was discussed at the special board meeting held in 2018 under the chairmanship of the then PCB president Brigadier Rajiv Sethi. The audit report says the market does not have sufficient exit points in case there is a fire and people have to be evacuated. Fire incidents that happened in different cities of the country, it was required to do a fire safety assessment or audit. In 1997, MG Road was cleared off by unauthorised vendors and the administration provided these hawker stalls of five feet by four feet and totally 565 shops came under the agreement. The report pointed out that many shopkeepers used plastic curtains as partitions, which are hazardous in the event of a fire, and the narrow ways inside make it difficult to move. There are stalls outside the market serving as cafeterias or hotels and use fuels like LPG and kerosene, the report stated. According to the records and earlier verification carried out by the revenue staff of PCB, the place is not safe if any fire incident takes place. Also, it is difficult for a fire vehicle or ambulance to reach there due to narrow and congested roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcb-orders-vendors-to-maintain-status-quo-at-fashion-street-101626364328724.html
15-07-2021||Patna||Large number of Bihar PSUs not preparing accounts: CAG official||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has taken exception to the Bihar government continuing to provide funds to a large number of state public sector undertakings ( PSUs) despite the fact that many of them have been non-functional and have not been preparing accounts for decades. “Around 30 state PSUs have their accounts pending for last many years. In the absence of accounts, there is always scope of financial irregularities. One does not know how the funds are being spent,” said Rakesh Mohan, additional deputy CAG (eastern region), who was on a visit to Patna during which he met deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad and top officials.Mohan said the state government gave these PSUs ₹30, 481 crore in loans and equity as in 2018-19, which was a wrong practice.“Some PSUs have not given accounts for the last 43 years. It is really surprising. If there are no accounts, there is no accountability,” he said. Mohan said there were 36 working and 37 non-working PSUs while eight PSUs were making profit in the state. He said the implementation of the comprehensive financial management system( CFMS) by the state fianancé department was a good step which would facilitate financial discipline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/large-number-of-bihar-psus-not-preparing-accounts-cag-official-101626364328084.html
15-07-2021||Pune||Two house helps booked for stealing from locked house||Two women working at a house in a society in Pune as house helps were booked by Pune police on Wednesday for stealing valuables in the house while their employer was away. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Chandrasen Deshmukh (52), a resident of Aditya Garden City in Warje Malwadi area of Pune, according to the police.The complainant told the police that gold jewellery worth ₹7, 20,000 had been stolen. The women are suspected to have used the duplicate key given to them by Deshmukh to ensure access to the house for cleaning.“They do not live here. They stay away. However, they had recently come here and realised what had happened. We are questioning the two women based on teh suspicion,” said senior police inspector Shankar Khatke of Warje Malwadi police station.A case under Section 381 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Warje police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-house-helps-booked-for-stealing-from-locked-house-101626364208708.html
15-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Four DSPs shifted for ‘illegal sand mining’||Four deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) in various districts were removed from their posts on Thursday and directed to report to the state police headquarters, a decision which, officials familiar with matter said, was part of the ongoing crackdown on the nexus between the police and the sand mafia involved in illegal mining. A notification issued by Jitendra Kumar, additional director general at the state police headquarters, identified the officers removed from their posts as Paliganj DSP Tanvir Ahmad, Sadar DSP (Aurangabad) Anup Kumar, DSP (Ara) Pankaj Rawat and DSP (Dehri) Pankaj Rawat.Sources said the action has been taken on the basis of a report by the Economic Offences Unit (EoU), which conducted an inquiry into illegal sand mining in Sone and Ganga rivers in Patna, Bhojpur, Aurangabad and Rohtas districts. A senior official of home department said several other officials would be booked soon. The official said EOU’s report has been placed before chief minister Nitish Kumar and his nod was awaited to initiate legal action against them. On Wednesday, the home department had removed Aurangabad SP Sudheer Kumar Podika and Bhojpur SP Rakesh Kumar Dubey and directed them to report to state police headquarters. A motor vehicle inspector, Binod Kumar of Bhojpur, was suspended and several officials transferred. On July 12, altogether 18 police officers were shifted from their posts on “administrative grounds”. Sand mining is banned in Bihar since May 1, but videos of illegal sand mining and transportation keep circulating on social media, showing police personnel accepting money from truckers transporting sand in Bhojpur and other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharfour-dsps-shifted-for-illegal-sand-mining-101626364208059.html
15-07-2021||Pune||Engineer beaten up for using gravel from another project to fix potholes||A civil engineer was beaten up by truck drivers in Lonikalbhor village for taking gravel from trucks meant for another project to fix potholes in the village road where he lives, according to the police. Eight people have been booked based on a statement recorded by the injured man from the hospital. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Anil Jagtap (39), a resident of Jagtap Mala in Tarde village of Haveli, Pune. Jagtap has a diploma in civil engineering and works in a private company in Kothrud.Jagtap has sustained scratches on his face and arms and some blunt force injuries on the body but has escaped without any serious injury, according to the police.He was not contracted to do the work but he allegedly took it upon himself to fix the potholes in the road, according to the police.“He was stopping the vehicles and taking a bit of gravel from trucks carrying gravel that were passing from their village. The owners of these trucks and Jagtap have an old dispute and this became a reason for violence,” said assistant police inspector Shrishailya Chiwadshetty of Lonikalbhor police station who is investigating the case.Jagtap has identified eight people who have been booked in the case. The truck owners insisted that Jagtap not take gravel from their trucks which were purchased by someone else.A case under sections for rioting and 324 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act was registered at Loniklabhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/engineer-beaten-up-for-using-gravel-from-another-project-to-fix-potholes-101626364090727.html
15-07-2021||Pune||87 schools reopen in rural Pune||Pune: As per the directives by school state department, 84 secondary schools (Class 8-12) in rural Pune started offline class from Thursday. As per the government resolution (GR) released las week, zones with zero Covid-19 case will be allowed to restart physical classes for Class 8-12 after receiving the consent of parents. Secondary school restarted in 11 talukas. Indapur taluka leads the charts where 32 schools reopened followed by nine in Velhe; eight in Purandhar, Mulshi; five in Bhor, Daund; six in Khed, four each in Junnar, Maval and Shirur and two in Haveli. “87 schools restarted in rural Pune of the total 1,256 schools. More schools are going to reopen in the near future. Many respective grampanchayat are still to give permission to restart the school while at many places RT-PCR tests of student and teachers are still going on. At few places result of tests is awaited,” said Sunanda Wakhare, secondary school officer, Zilla Parishad. An eight-member committee is formed in every village under the sarpanch to monitor the implementation of Covid safety guidelines. Following all the standard operating procedures is must for all the schools. Rural administration is making sure to keep tap on operation on regular basis. “We have given permission to reopen schools as per guidelines. More schools are expected to open in next few days,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad. “We are following Covid norms and only 20 students are allowed per class,” said Suresh Koli, principal of Zilla Parishad school, Pabe, Velhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/87-schools-reopen-in-rural-pune-101626363129155.html
15-07-2021||Bangalore||BMRCL cracks down on Namma Metro passengers violating Covid protocol||The Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) will strictly implement the Covid Standard Operating Protocol (SoP) in Namma Metro. The special officers who will travel in the metro coaches on all the four lines in the city will impose fines on passengers who are violating the SoP, according to a report in Kannada Prabha.The drive which began last Tuesday took note of passengers not wearing the mask or even not wearing it right, not maintaining social distance inside the coaches or even resorting to crowding in the Metro stations.“We are left with no alternative but to use penal provisions to keep our coaches free of Covid virus. Our objective is to give safe service to the passengers,” said BMRCL Public Relations officer B L Yeshwanth Chavan.The BMRCL collected fines from 189 passengers which is the highest since the drive began. Till now the BMRCL has imposed fine on 3,084 people and collected ₹7,63,070 thus far.According to BMRCL Executive Director A S Shankar, the revenue of the BMRCL from regular operations on a day to day basis is to the extent of ₹25-30 lakh in comparison with ₹1.16 crore the corporation earned before the onset of the pandemicThe number of passengers is also increasing steadily notwithstanding the 50 per cent capacity restriction that the government has imposed due to the Covid pandemic. The daily number of commuters has gone up from 1 lakh people to 1.1 lakh people per day. It was 1.5 lakh people per day before the second wave of the pandemic.The BMRCL top brass is in touch with the government for increasing the number of passengers on metro lines. Sources stated that BMRCL has also assured the government to take all measures to make the journey safe for every passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bmrcl-cracks-down-on-namma-metro-passengers-violating-covid-protocol-101626357906879.html
15-07-2021||Other||‘Boundary issues with Assam to be sorted out of court’: Arunachal Pradesh CM||Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu said on Thursday that Assam and Arunachal have agreed in principle to sort out their inter-state boundary issues out-of-court. Participating in a virtual meet convened by newly appointed DoNER (ministry of development of northeastern region) minister GK Reddy, Khandu said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah have stressed that the inter-state boundary issue should be resolved amicably out-of-court. “Inter-state boundary issue has been long pending. I have discussed it with my Assam counterpart, Himanta Biswa Sarma, and we have agreed to go for an out-of-court solution to all issues related to our boundary,” he said.“In fact, we have already started working at the ground. If everything goes well in the next few months we may see some concrete results towards instilling peace permanently along our boundaries,” Khandu added.Assam shares an 804 kilometre-long boundary with Arunachal Pradesh. Though there was no dispute initially, over the years allegations of residents of one state encroaching land on the other have led to disputes and violence. A suit has been pending in Supreme Court since 1989 on the issue. The border issues between both states hit headlines last month after Kimin in Arunachal Pradesh, where Union defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated 12 roads in presence of CMs of both Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, was shown as Bilgarh in Assam. After protests by several organizations in Arunachal Pradesh and Khandu and Union minister Kiren Rijiju pointing out the ‘serious mistake’, Border Roads Organisation (BRO), which had organised the event, tendered an unconditional apology for the ‘unintentional error’.Besides Arunachal, Assam has long-standing boundary disputes with Mizoram, Nagaland and Meghalaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boundary-issues-with-assam-to-be-sorted-out-of-court-arunachal-pradesh-cm-101626359288964.html
15-07-2021||Other||Cellphones, SIM cards seized from ‘high security’ prison in Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir police have seized a dozen mobile phones and SIM cards from some prisoners in the high-security Kot Bhalwal Central Jail on the outskirts of the Jammu city during a surprise raid on Thursday morning, officials said. The raid was conducted jointly by a team of police and CID wing on Thursday morning following a tip-off about mobile phones being used by terrorists lodged in the high-security prison, said officials privy to the development. It may be stated that many terrorists and their overground workers, who were part of terror attacks hatched from across the border, have been lodged in the prison. “A probe has been ordered to know how these mobile phones with SIM cards reached inside the high-security prison and who was using them,” said a senior police officer. Recoveries included ten mobile phones, including five Android phones, seven SIM cards, 12 earphones, four pen drives, five mobile chargers, one mobile battery, two Bluetooth headphones, three data cables, seven knives, two diaries, eight paper pieces with mobile numbers. “The possibility of smartphones having been used to communicate across the border via social apps cannot be ruled out,” said the people cited above. According to an official statement issued on Thursday, conducting an unplanned surprise search has led to the confiscation of mobile phones and SIM cards from some of the inmates of the high-security Kot Bhalwal Central Jail. Repeated calls and messages to DG prisons Dr B Srinivas remained unanswered. Kot Bhalwal is the prison from where Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Maulana Masood Azhar and other terrorists, such as Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar and Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, were released from the prison in exchange for the passengers and crew of IC-814 in Kandahar on December 31, 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cellphones-sim-cards-seized-from-high-security-prison-in-jammu-101626357848857.html
15-07-2021||Other||Taste of life: Pune Bhojanagruha is state’s first native restraurant||January 10, 1882. An unusual editorial appeared in “Kesari”. Written by Vishnushastri Chiplunkar, the self–proclaimed “Shivaji of Marathi language” and one of the founders of the newspaper, it tried to educate the residents of Pune about the many virtues of a unique and recently opened institution named “Pune Bhojanagruha” - the first restaurant in Pune, and the first “native restaurant” in Maharashtra. Chiplunkar began the article by reminding his readers that “a new, innovative institution” had started business in Pune six months ago. “Bhojanagruha is a Western concept and has been absent in our country all these years. Our culture dictates that we honour our guests and feed them. In the earlier times, one would wait on the streets in the afternoon to look for guests they could feed and earn virtue. Kings would feed thousands of Brahmins, and students would be fed in temples and in schools. But in the modern times, both Goddess Lakshmi and Goddess Annapurna have left this country, and the modern Political Economy has made us believe that feeding a guest is to make them lazy”, he wrote.He then went on to explain how important a restaurant was to ensure that the students and travellers got their meals - “These days, it is difficult for a householder to feed his relatives and students who visit his house. It becomes more difficult when one arrives unannounced. The houses are small and the money, less. One cannot just sit idly in the home and serve the guests; livelihood has to be earned. Hence, a Bhojanagruha is the need of the hour. The students and the travellers would eat there without causing inconvenience to anyone”.When Chiplunkar mentioned in his editorial that “Pune Bhojanagruha” was the first of its kind “in the country”, there were a few “hotels” in the Poona Cantonment which served food to their European clientele. Royal Family Hotel had opened in 1861 and could accommodate five families and 14 single guests. It charged ₹120 per month for lodging and boarding. Then there was Poona Hotel which was started in 1873 and was owned by M/s Sohrabji Jehangirji & Sons. Napier Hotel was situated on Arsenal road and was the grandest of them all. It was established by Nusserwanji Nowrosji who had also established the first ice factory in Pune. Sixty guests could stay at the Napier Hotel at a time.But these “hotels” in the Cantonment area served food only to the European guests who were staying on the premises. They did not have restaurants where anybody could walk in and order food at any time of the day. There were four tea-shops nearby (one of them being Ms. Dorabjee) that served only tea and biscuits then. They did not serve food.There were a few restaurants in Bombay, like the famous Jerusalem Refreshment House and The Paradise Refreshment House that had opened in the early 1870s, and had a fixed menu for their (strictly) European patrons. In that sense, “Pune Bhojanagruha” was indeed the first restaurant in Maharashtra where natives could walk in, with or without a monthly membership, and have their meals any time of the day. Economic reports on various towns and cities published between the 1860s and 1900s also support Chiplunkar’s claim.Even though it is quite fascinating that an immensely popular leader and author like Vishnushastri Chiplunkar (he was called “Lokmanya”, his essays were being read all over Maharashtra and he had established a school and two newspapers, along with a book shop and a printing press) would endorse a restaurant in his newspaper, the editorial in itself does not help much in understanding more about the “Bhojanagruha”. Probably because he did not want the editorial to look like an advertisement, Chiplunkar did not mention the name of the proprietor of the newly opened “Pune Bhojanagruha”. Nor did he mention the menu, or the address of the restaurant.To find out more about the “Bhojanagruha”, one has to dig deep into the archives of the newspaper. On May 31, 1881, six months before it opened, “Kesari” reported that M/s Narayan Ramchandra & Co. was planning to start a restaurant that would benefit Brahmin students and people visiting the city. It further reported that “the rates would be moderate and monthly memberships would cost Rs5 / Rs6 / Rs7”. This report did not mention the address of the “Bhojanagruha”.This detail could be found in an advertisement which appeared on June 14, 1881, on page 6 of “Kesari”. The title of this ad made it clear that the “Bhojanagruha” was meant only for Brahmins, and that its target patronage was that of students, travellers, and workers. “We have started a Bhojanagruha from June 1, 1881, in a wada owned by Tukaram Kisandas Patwekari, in front of the Dhamdhere wada. We are aware of the hardships faced by the members of the working class who have to take their meals in a khanaval. We assure you that we would strive hard to satisfy you. Wise residents know how important this Bhojanagruha is for this city, and it would not succeed without the patronage of all the Brahmins. All your queries would be answered by the Manager of the Bhojanagruha when you visit.” – the ad read. It was signed by M/s Narayan Ramchandra & Co.“Kesari” was a weekly in those days and was published every Tuesday. This ad appeared on all Tuesdays till the end of August 1881. It is interesting to note that the content, style and language of these ads were very similar to the editorial which appeared six months later. These ads also tell us that “Pune Bhojanagruha” was situated at a prime location in the city. It was right next to the Budhwar chowk, which was a commercial hub in those days.A couple of months after the ads stopped and before the editorial appeared, a reader with the pseudonym “Shodhak” complained to “Kesari” that he found that “there was severe mismanagement at the eatery”. On November 15, 1881, the editor of “Kesari”, Gopal Ganesh Agarkar, replied that he himself had visited the “Bhojanagruha” and found that “there was no mismanagement at all”.Perhaps the letter written by “Shodhak” and the suspicion in the minds of people about an altogether new institution might have compelled Chiplunkar to write the editorial. He passed away three months later. This was the last editorial he wrote.After his demise, “Pune Bhojanagruha” changed its location twice, and Gopal Ganesh Agarkar took it upon himself to make the people of Maharashtra understand the importance of restaurants.More about this and the owner of “Pune Bhojanagruha”, Mr Narayan Ramchandra, next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-pune-bhojanagruha-is-state-s-first-native-restraurant-101626357427524.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Ex-armyman shot dead in Dera Baba Nanak||A former armyman with criminal background was shot dead by two bike-borne men outside his house at the border town of Dera Baba Nanak, 18 kilometres from Batala in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, police said on Thursday.Though a gangster claimed responsibility for the murder in a Facebook post, police have booked two other men named by the victim’s brother.Karamjit Singh, aka Sabi Fauji, 40, was walking outside his house after dinner around 9.45pm on Wednesday when the assailants opened fire at him. “When we heard the gunshots, we rushed outside, but the killers had fled by then,” said Karamjit’s brother Gagan Ajit Singh.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kamalpreet Singh said Karamjit received two bullets injuries — one in the head and the other in his back. “He was rushed to a nearby hospital, from where he was referred to a private hospital in Amritsar, but he succumbed to his injuries on the way.Two booked; gangster claims responsibility tooIn his complaint, Gagan named two men — Mandeep Singh and Jagdeep Singh of Batala — with whom the family has an old financial dispute. On its basis, an FIR was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act against the duo.However, Amarjot Bal, an absconding gangster, claimed responsibility for the attack in a post on Facebook on Thursday.According to the DSP, Karamjit was booked in six criminal cases and had an altercation with other inmates in the jail in 2018.Bal’s post, written in Punjabi, claims that he was one of the persons beaten up by Karamjit in the jail and “yesterday night, I took revenge”. “The next turn is of the man who was with him... Police are requested not to harass anyone illegitimately,” the post reads further.According to sources, Karamjit once also had links with gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is at present lodged in the Patiala jail. The DSP said police are investigating the matter keeping Bal’s Facebook post in mind, but refused to comment on the victim’s alleged links with Bhagwanpuria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ex-armyman-shot-dead-in-dera-baba-nanak-101626357068487.html
15-07-2021||Other||‘JMB leader running business in India; Bengal linkman married Dhaka woman’: STF||Dreaded Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) leader Ansar Ali Hriday, who was jailed in Bangladesh two years ago for committing robberies to raise funds for terrorist activities, was siphoning part of the money to India to run his private business, officers of the special task force (STF) of the Kolkata Police have learnt from the three alleged JMB sleeper cell members and Ali’s Indian linkman who were arrested between Sunday and Wednesday. Ansar Ali’s present whereabouts are unknown to security agencies. “Interrogation of the suspects has exposed a well-organised cell. The JMB refers to these cells as markaz, which, in Arabic, means centre. The investigation has revealed that Ali had sent money to India through hawala operators apparently keeping other JMB leaders in the dark. This money was invested in several businesses that have Indian partners. Ali also runs a human trafficking racket that has sent Bangladeshi men to several European countries,” an STF officer said on condition of anonymity. The STF on Sunday arrested three JMB members, Naziur Rahman Pavel, 30, Mekail Khan, 30, and Rabiul Islam, 22. The three Bangladeshi nationals were living in a rented room at Haridevpur in the southern outskirts of Kolkata. They illegally entered India over the last few years. Naziur Rahman was the local leader of the group. On Wednesday, an Indian national, Lalu Sen alias Rahul Sen, 38, was arrested from his residence at Barasat in North 24 Parganas district, said V Solomon Nesakumar, joint commissioner of police (STF). “Two Laptops, an iPad, two mobile phones and some incriminating documents were seized from Sen’s possession. He is a close associate of Naziur Rehman and provided logistic and financial support to JMB activists,” added the joint commissioner. “It is suspected that Sen prepared fake Indian documents such as voter card, PAN card, Aadhar card and other testimonials for the JMB members. A probe is on,” Nesakumar said. “Investigation has revealed that when Ansar Ali Hriday, was in jail, Sen used to visit him. During his trips to Dhaka, Sen got involved in the human trafficking racket. During this period he had an affair with a Bangladeshi national’s wife. The man lodged a police complaint and Sen was arrested and sent to judicial custody. He said during interrogation that he later married the woman,” an STF officer said on condition of anonymity. “Ansar Ali was helped by Sen to send money to India through hawala operators. They became associates. Ali secretly visited India once and stayed at Sen’s residence in Barasat. His present location is unknown to us,” the officer added. The investigation has also revealed that Naziur Rahman Pavel and JMB leader Al Amin, who is now in jail in Dhaka, are married to sisters from the same family that lives in the Gopalgunj area of Bangladesh. “To avoid detection, Pavel used the Hindu name Jayram Bepari. He and Mekail Khan alias Sheikh Sabbir befriended two Hindu women in the Haridevpur area and had plans to get married next month. This would have helped them recruit more people without arousing suspicion. We have kept the identity of these women secret to protect their families,” said a second STF officer who did not want to be named. “The main job of this markaz was to raise funds and recruit people. Ever since the JMB got divided into two groups in Bangladesh, the faction headed by Al Amin is facing a cash crunch. To instil fear and respect among sympathisers of fundamentalist activities, Al Amin told people that he works for the Al Qaeda. Sometimes he also used the name of Harkat-ul-Jihad-al Islami or Huji. His associate Ansar Ali took to robbery and carried out around a dozen operations,” the STF officer added. The STF is hunting for another operative, Salim Munshi, who allegedly ferried cash and fake identity cards from one unit to another. The investigators have learnt that Munshi is not a JMB member but works for the outfit for money. “During interrogation, Naziur Rahman said he rarely left the room rented in Haridevpur. Mikail Khan used to spread JMB’s propaganda messages on social media while Rabiul Islam, the youngest in the group, used to communicate with their leaders using a VPN (virtual private network),” said an STF officer. The trio posed as traders and sold fruits and mosquito nets. The arrests come months after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested several men from Bengal’s Murshidabad district for alleged links with the Al Qaeda. In September last year, the NIA arrested 10 people from West Bengal and Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jmb-leader-running-business-in-india-bengal-linkman-married-dhaka-woman-stf-101626356289349.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab open university begins admissions to first academic session||Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University kicked off admissions to eight certificate courses on Thursday. Established in Patiala to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of the Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, it is the first open university of the state. To highlight its mission of equipping the youth with skill and knowledge, the university chose World Youth Skills Day to launch admissions to its first academic session. Addressing a press conference, founder vice-chancellor Karamjeet Singh said need-based innovative programmes ranging from technologically driven courses in cyber security, digital marketing, artificial intelligence and its applications, and creativity and innovation in school education to progressive courses in values and learnings of Sikhism, rural management, effective business and social communication and science of happiness are being offered at the university.“The certificate courses are of six-month duration, but the learner can take up to two years to complete a course. For the first academic session (2021-22), a very nominal fee of ₹4,000-6,000 has been fixed,” he said.The V-C said the freedom offered in the form of pace of learning, transfer of credits, eligibility for enrolment and age of entry makes the courses suitable not only for new learners but also for in-service professionals and entrepreneurs. The degrees earned through the distance education mode from this university will be on a par with courses done through the regular mode of education from traditional universities, he said.Highlighting the prompt assistance offered to students across the state, registrar Dharam Singh Sandhu said six learner support centres have already been set up at government colleges in Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Patiala and at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, and the process is underway to set up five more in the districts of Bathinda, Sangrur, Mohali, Ferozpur and Faridkot. These centres will advise, counsel, provide vocational guidance, hands on experience, library services and render any other assistance required by the learners during their course of study, he said.To apply and for more details, students can visit the university website: https://psou.ac.in/. For any queries, they can call on 9463082523 between 10am and 5pm on weekdays or write to admission2021@psou.ac.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-open-university-begins-admissions-to-first-academic-session-101626355149341.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 tally drops to 72; single-day death toll stays at 1||Delhi recorded 72 cases of Covid-19 infection on Thursday rose by 72 , while only one fatality was reported during the previous 24 hours. The overall tally of the national capital now stands at 1 ,435 ,353 and the death toll stands at 25 ,022.The number of daily cases on Thursday was slightly lower than that the city recorded a day earlier. On Wednesday , Delhi had recorded 77 cases and one death , while on Tuesday the daily infection tally was 76 with two deaths.Also Read | Delhi schools won't reopen now amid third Covid wave fears: CM Arvind KejriwalAccording to the state health department data , the positivity rate in the city improved to 0.10%. The number of cumulative recoveries reached 1 ,409 ,660 after 88 people got cured of Covid-19.Delhi faced a brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in May-June that claimed a large number of lives daily. The exponential rise in the number of cases led to a severe shortage of medical oxygen at city hospitals. At the time of the peak , the city had reported a record 28 ,395 cases on April 20. On April 22 , the case positivity rate was 36.2% , the highest so far. At 448 , the highest number of deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-tally-drops-to-72-single-day-death-toll-stays-at-1-101626353930636.html
15-07-2021||Other||Extension of schemes will help improve infra in judiciary: Pathak||LUCKNOW UP law minister Brajesh Pathak on Thursday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving five-year extension to the centrally sponsored schemes (CSS) run by the union government for augmenting infrastructure in judiciary. “With this effort of the Prime Minister, justice will be accessible to the person standing on the last rung,” said Pathak. It may be pointed out that centrally-sponsored schemes had been extended from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026. During this period, ₹9,000 crore would be spent. In this, the union government’s share will be ₹5,357 crore. This includes ₹50 crore for the Gram Nyayalaya scheme. Elaborating on the benefits of extension of this scheme for judiciary, Pathak stated it would help in construction of 3,800 court rooms for judicial officers and subordinate courts. In addition to this, 4,000 residential units, 1,450 lawyers’ rooms, 1,450 toilet complexes, and 3,800 digital computer rooms will come up across the state in courts with the help of this scheme. Funds will be released to the states only when the notified Gram Nyayalayas start functioning with the appointment of judicial officers. Till February 2020, the state government had constituted Gram Nyayalayas in nine tehsils. These have been constituted in tehsils Sikandra (Ballia), Fatehpur (Barabanki), Meerganj (Bareli), Bhanpur (Basti), Amratpur (Farrukhabad), Badlapur (Jaunpur), Puranpur (Pilibhit), Bangarmau (Unnao) and Jalalpur (Ambedkar Nagar). The government approved 72 vacancies in these Gram Nyayalayas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/extension-of-schemes-will-help-improve-infra-in-judiciary-pathak-101626352927198.html
15-07-2021||Other||‘Uttar Pradesh’s tackling of second Covid wave unprecedented’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the Covid-19 crisis and said the way it controlled the second wave of the infection was “unprecedented.” His comments came during his visit to Varanasi on Thursday. Describing the efforts of the government in combating Covid-19 as “commendable”, the prime minister said Uttar Pradesh’s population was more than that of a dozen big countries but the way “it has controlled the second wave of coronavirus and stopped its spread is unprecedented”.The prime minister, who arrived at his parliamentary constituency in the morning, also appreciated the Yogi Adityanath-led government for working with a development-oriented approach and bringing in rule of law in the state.He also said Uttar Pradesh was emerging as the leading investment destination of the country due to the environment created by the UP government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The prime minister was addressing a public gathering at IIT-BHU ground in Varanasi after inaugurating and laying the foundation stones of multiple development projects worth ₹1,583 crore.He also inaugurated the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre-Rudraksh, constructed with Japanese assistance.Earlier, even minor problems assumed monstrous proportions due to the shortage of health facilities and the lack of willpower, he said.The people of Uttar Pradesh, the prime minister said, had seen an era when there were problems in tackling diseases such as encephalitis. “And this (Covid) is the biggest problem the world is facing in 100 years. It is the biggest pandemic, hence efforts made by Uttar Pradesh to tackle the corona are commendable.” Modi, who is on a one-day visit to the city, said the last few months had been very difficult for humanity.“But Kashi, along with UP, faced such a big problem with full strength. Even during difficult times, Kashi has shown it does not stop, nor does it get tired.”“I am especially grateful to corona warriors and people of Kashi for dealing with the corona crisis with courage and patience. The way you mobilized day and night to create arrangements in Kashi, it is a great service,” PM said.He recalled the “difficult” last few months when the “mutated coronavirus attacked with full force.”“Today, UP is the state with the highest number of tests and vaccinations,” he said.According to the CoWin digital platform, Uttar Pradesh has administered over 3.93 crore (39.3 million) doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. The figure includes over 3.30 crore first and over 62 lakh second jabs.He appealed to the people, “You have the responsibility of not allowing corona to gain strength once again.”He cautioned people that despite slowing down (of the virus), any carelessness can invite a massive wave. He called upon everyone to strictly follow the protocol and get vaccinated under ‘vaccine for all-free for all’ campaign.Stressing that Kashi is emerging as a major medical hub for “Purvanchal” (eastern region), he said medical treatment for which people had to go to Delhi and Mumbai earlier are now available here.Even today, 14 oxygen plants, which have been installed at various hospitals, were inaugurated, he said. The infrastructure being developed to fight the coronavirus will also be useful in future, he added.The state government also came in for praise for the law and order situation.“There is rule of law in UP today. Mafiaraj and terrorism, which were once out of control, are now controlled by law. Criminals who dare to eye sisters and daughters know they will not be spared,” Modi said.“The way parents always lived in fear and (there were) apprehensions regarding the safety of sisters and daughters, that situation has also changed,” PM said.“Today, the government in UP is run by development, not on corruption and nepotism. That is why the people in UP are getting the benefits of the schemes directly and new industries are being set up in UP, employment opportunities are increasing,” he added. “UP, which was considered difficult to do business in a few years ago, is becoming a favourite place for Make in India today. UP is now emerging as a leading investment destination of the country,” PM said, adding that it happened because of the environment created by “UP government led by Yogi Ji”.Even before 2017, so many schemes were sent to UP from Delhi, he said, adding that they used to get blocked in Lucknow. After 2017, the scenario and the environment changed in the state as the people “gave their blessings to us to serve them”, he said.“CM Yogi himself is working hard today. He visits every district, reviews schemes and monitors them due to which schemes caught pace in the state,” PM said.He reiterated that the cleanliness of the River Ganga and beautification of Kashi were the top priorities for his government.He mentioned the Purvanchal Expressway, defence corridor, Bundelkhand Expressway and road constructions in UP.Speaking on development works in Kashi in the past seven years, he said it was marching ahead on the development path while maintaining its original identity.He also mentioned various developmental projects, including cruise service, regional ophthalmology centre, skill development centre, some of which were inaugurated in Varanasi on Thursday. He said that he had been discussing so many works for the development of Varanasi and the entire UP for so long, but this list was so long that it would not end so soon.The broadcast of the aarti at the Ganga ghat and at Kashi Vishwanath temple will be possible in the entire city through big screens, said the PM.Large LED screens being installed all over the city and technology-equipped information boards on the ghats will be of great help to the visitors to Kashi.Mentioning the recent Union government’s decision of setting up a special fund of ₹1 lakh crore for improving agriculture infrastructure, he said it will prove to be a step towards making the mandi system modern and well equipped.”Improving the system connected with government procurement and providing many more opportunities to farmers is a priority of the government and the record purchase of wheat and rice this year are its results,” he said.These facilities, which present the history, architecture, crafts and art of Kashi in an attractive way, will be of great use to the devotees, he added. He said that all possible efforts are being made for the all-round development of the city.Earlier, starting his speech in the local dialect, PM Modi wished the people of Kashi and said, “After a long gap, I have got a chance to meet you directly. Pranam to all the people of Kashi and I bow my head to the feet of Baba Kashi Vishwanath and Maa Annapurna.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-s-tackling-of-second-covid-wave-unprecedented-pm-modi-101626352627800.html
15-07-2021||Other||India, Japan share the same fundamental values: Yoshihide Suga||VARANASI Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Thursday said India and Japan shared the same fundamental values and both countries had maintained cordial relations through the long history of exchanges. “The Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICCC), Rudraksh, will be used as a stage to showcase Japan-India cooperation by hosting international conferences, cultural and art events. The centre will become a new symbol of friendship between Japan and India,” he said in a video message, which was played on the occasion of the inauguration ceremony of VICCC. “I would like to convey my heartfelt congratulations on the inauguration of Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre,” said Suga. “Varanasi is the centre of India’s long history and rich culture. The city has a close relationship with Japan and has continued cultural and academic exchanges with Kyoto. The exchange between Banaras Hindu University and Kyoto University is one such example,” he added.“I am very pleased to see that the VICCC was built in such a special city as a symbol of friendship between Japan and India. The centre was designed and constructed by Japanese companies and shows what Japanese technology can achieve,” said Suga. He said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi named this centre Rudraksh with a hope to make it a symbol of wisdom. I hope this centre will be used as a stage to showcase close Japan-India cooperation through hosting international conferences, cultural and art events and it becomes a new symbol of friendship between Japan and India.” “It is true that the Covid pandemic has made our mutual visits difficult at this moment. However, Japan and India will work to overcome this challenge, and make utmost efforts to further develop bilateral ties under special strategic and global partnerships through cooperation in areas such areas as green society, digital, cyber, healthcare and enhancing connectivity,” said the Japan PM.“I am looking forward to the day when I can visit India at an appropriate time so as to further strengthen Japan-India ties together with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Yoshihide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/india-japan-share-the-same-fundamental-values-yoshihide-suga-101626352087186.html
15-07-2021||Other||Assam: Police ‘seize’ female elephant for killing 14-year-old boy||Police in Assam’s Golaghat district on Wednesday “seized” a domesticated female elephant for killing a 14-year-old boy last week. The pachyderm’s 8-month-old calf has also been taken into custody. According to the police, the elephant named Dulumoni, which is owned by former Bokakhat MLA Jiten Gogoi, had killed the child on July 8 at Bijuli near Naharjan tea estate. Following the death, there was intense pressure by local residents on forest officials to take action. “We lodged a case under Section 304 of Indian Penal Code for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. We seized the elephant and her calf in connection with the case and have handed them over to the forest department for custody,” an official of Bokakhat police station told journalists. Also Read | Kidney selling racket busted in Assam; 3 arrestedA local forest officer stated that the elephant attacked the child after the latter reportedly tried to hug its calf. The incident was reportedly the third time the pachyderm had attacked humans. “The forest department is not involved in investigation of the case. Since the police had no means of keeping the elephant and its calf, they placed them under our custody,” said Ramesh Gogoi, divisional forest officer, Kaziranga. Director of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR), P Sivakumar, said that though it was rare, domestic animals can be seized by police or forest department as part of collecting evidence during investigation of a case. In 2013, a male domestic elephant called Thechikottukavu Ramachandran was arrested by the forest department in Kerala after it killed three women during a temple festival at Perumbavoor. The elephant’s owners had to submit a bond of ₹30 lakh to secure its release. In October last year, forest officials in Assam seized a railway locomotive for mowing down a female elephant and her calf. According to information provided by forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya in the state assembly on Wednesday, 812 people have died due to human-elephant conflict in the past 10 years in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-police-seize-female-elephant-for-killing-14-year-old-boy-101626351847838.html
15-07-2021||Bangalore||38 foreigners booked for staying without valid documents in Bengaluru||The Bengaluru City police on Wednesday morning booked as many as 38 foreigners, who were found to have been staying without valid documents such as passport and/or visa in the city, police commissioner Kamal Pant said on Twitter.Taking to the microblogging site, Pant also stated that the foreigners were detained when the police team conducted a special drive against overstaying foreign nationals. More than 60 houses were raided by the police team, and the 38 individuals were detained during the searches, Pant confirmed.Moreover, the team also seized narcotic substances, including 90 ecstasy pills and cannabis, during the raid. “A case has been registered under the Foreigners Act and NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act,” Pant wrote in another Twitter post.He added that further investigation into the case is underway.A special drive was conducted this morning against overstaying foreign nationals by the @CCBangalore. Over 60 houses were checked and 38 foreigners were found to be staying without a valid passport & visa. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/HMZwHlnCtSThe Bengaluru police reportedly deployed a deputy commissioner of police-level officer, 20 police inspectors, as many as 100 head constables or police constables, and six additional commissioners for the special drive.Last month, according to a report by the New Indian Express, Mangaluru city police detained a total of 38 Sri Lankan nationals for living in various lodges across the city after entering India illegally without valid documents. The foreign nationals were, as per the report, promised jobs in Canada and had also paid hefty amounts to the agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/38-foreigners-booked-for-staying-without-valid-documents-in-bengaluru-101626350762847.html
15-07-2021||Jaipur||ASI to remove Haldighati plaques proclaiming retreat of Maharana Pratap in Rajasthan||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will remove plaques at Rakta Talai in Rajasthan’s Rajsamand district that state Maharana Pratap’s forces retreated from the Haldighati battle. The Battle of Haldighati was fought on June 18, 1576, between cavalry and archers supporting the Rana of Mewar, Maharana Pratap, and the Mughal emperor Akbhar’s forces. The ASI has directed its state unit to replace the plaques. Public representatives and Rajput organisations have been demanding ASI do so for years. On June 25, Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari had requested the union tourism and cultural minister correct the plaques. Union minister of state for culture Arjun Ram Meghwal has confirmed that orders have been issued to the ASI. “Yes, the order has been issued,” he said, when asked whether the ministry has given orders to remove plaques at Haldighati. Also Read | 11 cases of Covid Kappa variant detected in Rajasthan: Health min Raghu SharmaASI Jodhpur circle superintendent Bipin Chandra Negi said that they have received the communication to remove the plaques.“The plaques are over four decades old and in dilapidated condition. These plaques do not belong to the ASI as they were put up by state’s tourism department. In 2003, this site was declared a Centrally protected monument of national importance,” said Negi. The plaques should have an ASI notification number, a declaration stating it a monument of national importance and logo. The purpose of fresh plaques is to highlight the importance of the place and vent.Negi said the current plaques have factual inaccuracies such as wrong date of battle. The ASI will verify and put the right information. He said the new plaques will be put up following tendering process, which will take around 20-25 days.The battle was fought between Pratap and Akbar in 1576. NCERT books mention the date of the battle of Haldighati as June 18, 1576, while the date mentioned on the plaques is June 21, 1576. Member of Parliament from Rajsamand, Diya Kumari said, “I had urged the union art, culture and tourism minister to understand the sentiments, as the information mentioned on plaque are factually incorrect, including the dates. I am happy that the plaques are being removed today and correct information will be provided to people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/asi-to-remove-haldighati-plaques-proclaiming-retreat-of-maharana-pratap-in-rajasthan-101626350287783.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Four killed as car rams into truck in Hoshiarpur||Four occupants of a car were killed when it rammed into a cement-laden truck near Shergarh bypass in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday night.Police said three occupants of the car died on the spot, while the fourth succumbed to injuries during treatment. Also read: Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh: Harish RawatThe deceased were identified as Pushp Kumar, Vikas Sharma, Parkash Jha and Narinder Kumar, all residents of Purhiran locality. Aged between 25 and 35 years, they were friends and had gone for an outing, their families said. Passers-by informed the police, who extricated the bodies from the mangled vehicle with the help of locals. One of the car occupants, Parkash Jha, died in hospital. Purhiran police post in-charge Sukhdev Singh said the car had hit the truck from the rear. However, a case has been registered against the truck driver, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-killed-as-car-rams-into-truck-in-hoshiarpur-101626349088037.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mirrors don’t lie, we get best results when we smile||“Mirror, mirror on the wall, who is the fairest one of all?” Unlike Snow White’s stepmother, I’ve never dared to ask any mirror that. I don’t have the gumption or the narcissistic streak that needs gratification. My use of the mirror is need-based. I spent the teens fighting a battle with the bulge. As I stepped into the volatile, wacky, egotistical and impractical stage of growing up, I had already grown to substantial proportions. I now realise that the mirror had a significant role to play. My childhood memories are of a vibrant, joyful home well-equipped with mirrors. Each room had one on the wall, another on the inside of the cupboard and my room had an ornate framed one. Even the utility room had one for convenience. Though my image has never been flattering, I still nurture a strong affinity to mirrors. I guess happiness like a mist will touch all aspects of that time and place. While leaving school, we all got our teachers and friends to sign in our autograph book. These are priceless treasures I love to go through. Our math teacher would write the words of wisdom in mirror image. One had to hold it up before a mirror to read the sentence. I find the idea of this out-of-the-box skill intriguing and the reason for doing so even more fascinating. About three decades ago, we visited a friend in Mumbai. The guest room was big and spacious with a view of the ocean. As though that was not enough, half a wall was fitted with a huge mirror, adding to the space and elegance of the room. Welcome to the infinite world of interior design. Recently, when we moved into our new house, the role of Vastu Shastra in mirror placement added another dimension to this item of our daily life. Vastu experts say that mirrors, if placed in the right direction, can double prosperity and health, while sucking up the negative energy lurking around. They balance the power and the intensity, the negative with the positive. I received a picture of a college friend whom I had not been in touch with since a long time. I complimented her because she looked just as I remembered her. To my praise, she replied, “Thanks, but mirrors don’t lie.” Reality check, yet another purpose. Like American pastor and author Joel Osteen said: Cars have a big windshield on the front and a small rear-view mirror, the reason the windshield is so large and the rear-view so small is because what happened in your past is not near as important as what is in your future. Of the numerous uses of this necessity, everyone gets to choose the reason for it, and whatever that might be, we will find this item in every household. Life, as they say, is like a mirror, we get the best results when we smile. promildada@yahoo.com The writer is a Ludhiana-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mirrors-don-t-lie-we-get-best-results-when-we-smile-101626347947505.html
15-07-2021||Other||BKU leader Charuni’s suspension comes as setback to followers||Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni’s weeklong suspension from Samyukt Kisan Morcha has caused resentment among his supporters, HT has learnt.According to his followers, the decision to suspend Charuni was taken two days after he led a convoy of thousands of farmers from Fatehgarh Sahib and Gurdaspur districts of Punjab.During his visit to Punjab earlier this week, Charuni travelled to several districts including Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Patiala and openly advocated that the SKM leaders should launch Mission Punjab and contest the coming polls.“Charuni’s suspension has come as a major setback to the lakhs of farmers of Haryana who were facing FIRs, police action and are away from their families for the past seven months in support of this agitation,” said his follower Nirmal Singh from Yamunanagar district.Harpal Singh, state secretary of the BKU (Charuni), said that leaders from Punjab were worried about his popularity not only in Haryana but he was also given a rousing welcome in Punjab and that is why they decided to sideline him.Support was pouring in for Charuni on social media too and people were slamming the decision of Morcha leaders. “Punjab leaders failed to enter Haryana until Charuni’s supporters helped them and removed barricades from Shambhu border,” stated Karaminder Bains, a follower.Difference of opinion Since the beginning of the agitation in November last year, Charuni had differences of opinion with the Morcha leaders on several occasions. Farmer leaders from Punjab were planning to start a sit-in at Shambhu border on November 25 and later Charuni insisted that they should break the barricades and try to reach Delhi. Even, he assured them that farmers from Haryana will clear the barricades to make a way for them and his supporters removed most of the barricades from Shambhu border to Kundli border in Sonepat district. Charuni was also against the decision of Morcha leaders over holding Kisan Panchayats in Haryana and Punjab as he was in favour of taking the protest to other states. In January Charuni was snubbed by Morcha members for meeting political leaders and the move was strongly condemned by Morcha members and he assured that he would not share the platform with any political party till the farmers’ agitation was on. Charuni also slammed his counterpart from UP Rakesh Tikait on several occasions. Recently, Charuni without naming anybody, also raised questions about why the farmers were not holding protests against BJP leaders in BJP ruled Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.What nextThe development has exposed the fissures within Morcha members and Charuni has himself slammed the decision of his suspension but made it clear that he will continue his support to the agitation.People close to him said that he was still at the Singhu border and his supporters were planning to lead a convoy of thousands of farmers from Yamunanagar district on July 20 to Singh border. “The decision will not affect our association with the agitation and we will continue our fight for the rights of farmers as it is,” said BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains. Dr Ramji Lal, principal of political science and retired principal of Dyal Singh College Karnal said, “This decision may have an impact on the agitation as it could demoralize supporters from Haryana. But Charuni’s call for a political foray could go either way as he had already contested polls unsuccessfully”.Who is CharuniA resident of Kurukshetra’s Charuni village, Gurnam Singh Charuni led hundreds of farmers’ protests over several issues in the past more than 30 years even during the regimes of Bhajan Lal, OP Chautala and Bhupinder Singh Hooda. He organised one of the first farmers’ meetings in September in Haryana’s Pipli (Kurukshetra) to protest against the three laws. Having huge support in northern districts, now Charuni has spread his union in several parts of Haryana even though it got good support in the Jat heartland Hisar, Sirsa, Rohtak, Jind and Sonepat districts.In 2014, he joined the Aam Aadmi Party and his wife Balwinder Kaur contested the Lok Sabha elections on AAP ticket from Kurukshetra unsuccessfully. In the 2019 state assembly elections, he contested from the Ladwa Assembly seat independently but lost his security deposits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-leader-charuni-s-suspension-comes-as-setback-to-followers-101626345789395.html
15-07-2021||Other||Odisha chit fund scam: CBI arrests brothers of firm’s managing director||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested two men from Jaleswar area in Balasore in connection with Odisha’s ₹2,000-crore Green Ray International chit fund case that the agency is investigating. The two men are brothers of Mir Sahiruddin, the managing director of Green Ray International who was arrested four years ago.A CBI team conducted a raid in Jaleswar area and arrested Mir Sahimat alia Kalu and Mir Jamiruddin, both directors of the firm. Green Ray International is one of the 44 such companies being probed by the agency following a Supreme Court directive that the investigation of all chit fund cases in Odisha be transferred to the CBI. Sahiruddin, who had been hiding in Nigeria, was arrested from Kolkata airport in February 2017 while he was allegedly trying to enter on a Bangladeshi passport. He is accused of duping nearly ₹2,000 crore from investors in Odisha and many other states on the promise of quick returns and diverting the funds to Dubai, and then Nigeria through hawala transactions.Also Read | Odisha forest officer’s family blames his wife, boss for his deathThe company promised each of its investors a monthly dividend of ₹2,000 against a fixed deposit of ₹1 lakh. Between 2011 and 2013, it managed to collect over ₹500 crore from people.Apart from the 41 branches in Odisha, Green Ray had 67 branches in Maharashtra, Goa, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat besides its international branch in Dubai. At least 13 cases are registered against the company in Odisha under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act 1978. The Economic Offences Wing of state CID has seized 20 acres of land and more than ₹57 lakh bank deposits in the name of the firm.Sahiruddin was first arrested by State Security Service, the primary domestic intelligence agency of Nigeria in July 2015 over suspected money laundering. Later, he managed to obtain bail. He also reportedly planned to meet Dawood Ibrahim in Dubai and had links with the underworld mafia in Mumbai, Dubai and Nigeria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-chit-fund-scam-cbi-arrests-brothers-of-firm-s-managing-director-101626342967338.html
15-07-2021||Pune||17-year-old apprehended for stepmother’s murder in Pune||A minor boy was apprehended on Thursday by Pimpri Chinchwad police in Pune for allegedly killing his stepmother in Talegaon Dabhade area on Wednesday night, officials said.The deceased woman was identified as Rekha (40), a resident of Shrihari Gruha Nirman Society in Talegaon Dabhade area of Pune. She was found lying in a pool of blood in her house. The deceased woman married her neighbour, who was already married and had a 17-year-old son (the accused), after her husband died of cancer two years ago. The woman had a 15-year-old from her first marriage who moved the complaint regarding her mother’s murder by his stepbrother. Some 8 months ago, both the families moved to Pune for business. The families have a shop and sell food grains by the roadside to make ends meet.“While the now-deceased woman was at her house, her son had gone to the stepfather’s house for dinner as they had cooked meat. The couple got into a fight about how the man spends more time with the second wife than his own family,” said Senior police inspector Bhaskar Jadhav of Talegaon Dabhade police station.The 17-year-old got involved in the fight and walked out of the house. He later made a phone call to his wife and called her out as well, according to the complainant. The accused went to the woman’s house and used a sharp weapon to make several gashes on her neck, hands, back, and head, according to the police.“His wife also sustained injuries on her hand but we suspect she was trying to stop him and got injured in the process. When they walked out nobody suspected the murder. Even the deceased woman was unaware and let them in, as they always visited each other’s homes,” said Senior PI Jadhav.While the teenager is being produced in the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), his wife was treated for the cut wounds and taken back home by her in-laws. The apprehended boy is married and lives with his wife and parents, according to the police. His wife and he went to school together and are of the same age. They got married in February 2021 at their native place.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)(3) with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station against the minor accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/17yearold-apprehended-for-stepmother-s-murder-in-pune-101626342007145.html
15-07-2021||Other||Kidney selling racket busted in Assam; 3 arrested||The Assam Police have busted a gang allegedly involved in selling human organs after the arrest last week of a woman, who allegedly lured unemployed people to sell their kidneys. The woman, Lilimai Bodo, was arrested after she went looking for “donors”. Police said the gang would allegedly offer around ₹5 lakhs for a kidney. Police said around a dozen people from the state’s Morigaon district allegedly sold their kidneys to the gang, which would get the organs removed in Kolkata. They added Bodo’s son and another person have also been arrested and a search was on for more accused. “Till now, we have arrested three persons. In their statements, the accused have revealed the names of few more persons involved in the racket. Efforts are underway to trace and arrest them,” said Morigaon district police superintendent Aparna N on Thursday.Also Read | Assam Cabinet allows online sale of liquor in Guwahati on trial basisPolice cited their probe and said most of the victims were lured since the pandemic struck last year as many of them were unable to repay bank loans or were left jobless. They added the racket was active for four to five years.Srikanta Das, one of the persons who sold his kidney, said he was in desperate need of money to get his son, who has a hole in his heart, treated. “As I had no work since last year due to (Covid-19) lockdown, selling a kidney seemed to be the only option. I was promised ₹5 lakh, but given only a fraction of that amount,” Das told local journalists this week.Krishna Das, another person who sold her kidney, said she was forced to do so as she failed to repay a loan taken from a micro-finance company. She, too, was promised ₹5 lakh but received ₹3.5 lakh.Reports said nearly 30 people have “donated” their kidneys but only a handful have approached the police.Aparna N said since the matter came to light, they have been trying to gather details of all persons who may have been duped. “Till date, we have found 11 persons. All of them are from two villages in Morigaon district.”Local media reports suggested the racket could be linked to several such cases in other districts of the state. Police said those arrested in Morigaon do not seem to have been operating elsewhere.Buying and selling of human organs are prohibited under the Transplantation of Human Organs Act. Organs can be donated to close relatives, others in need of transplantation for medical reasons after proper authorisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kidney-selling-racket-busted-in-assam-3-arrested-101626338646956.html
15-07-2021||Other||Chennai and suburbs receive widespread rains||Chennai and its suburbs received widespread rainfall on Wednesday night and Thursday morning, according to Tamil Daily Dina Thanthi. Rains lashed Nungambakkam, Egmore, Kodambakkam, Guindy, Porur, Vadapalani, Villivakkam, Koyambedu, Mylapore, and Adyar areas in the heart of the city. The suburbs like Avadi, Poonamallee, Red Hills, Chromepet, Tambaram, Guduvanchery, Medavakkam, Kovilambakkam, Nanganallur, Vandalur, and Anakaputhur areas too received rains the entire night.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast of more rain in the Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts in coming days.The IMD has also stated that the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu and union territory of Puducherry and Karaikal are also likely to receive rains on Thursday.The regional meteorological centre in Chennai has predicted light rains in many parts of Tamil Nadu on Friday. In a rough weather warning issued to fishermen earlier, the IMD asked them to keep away from Bay of Bengal. That warning has now been withdrawn.Meanwhile, the regional centre warned Tamil Nadu fishermen to avoid fishing in Kerala, Karnataka, and Lakshadweep seas since the weather conditions remain rough on the western coast. The wind speed is anticipated to exceed 50 kilometres per hour in these parts of the sea on Thursday and Friday, according to the regional centre.The weather conditions in Chennai and Tamil Nadu turned salubrious after the southwest monsoon set in the Western Ghats in June. The state capital and districts bordering the Western Ghats have been receiving heavy to mild showers in July. Heavy rains coupled with winds damaged crops in southern and western districts last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chennai-and-suburbs-receive-widespread-rains-101626337384403.html
15-07-2021||Other||J&K: Qualified aspirants irate after being barred from Class IV jobs||Hundreds of graduate and postgraduate youth of Jammu and Kashmir, who cracked the entrance test for Class IV jobs, are aghast as the officials have decided not to consider them for final selections. They want the administration to reconsider the decision.Last year, Jammu and Kashmir Service Selection Board (JKSSB) announced vacancies for 8,575 Class IV posts in various departments of the Union Territory. The minimum qualification for the posts was set as matric while the maximum was set as Class 12, though aspirants with higher qualifications were also allowed to appear in the entrance tests.Now the agency has called 9,652 shortlisted aspirants for document verification; however, it has sought an affidavit from the candidates stating that they don’t have a qualification higher than Class 12 as of August 2020 and if JKSSB comes to know that the candidate possesses a qualification above that, his/her services will be terminated ab-initio.Also Read | Army sets up school with modern facilities in J&K’s Poonch“It is unconstitutional, unethical, illogical and inhuman. These rules are so injustice driven. They declare fresh graduates eligible and highly qualified candidates who have struggled for years and are also at the verge of becoming overage ineligible,” said Aijaz Ahmad Bhat, an MBA.He said he was desperate for the job as he has a family to look after. “I will choose a Class IV job any day over depression and being idle at home. Some candidates have secured less percentage in their graduation, which makes them ineligible to apply for any graduate level post. Where will they go?” he said.Nasreena Fayaz, 37, said she was a postgraduate in psychology and had an M.Ed degree from Kashmir University. “I am a single parent and have to look after my son. I applied for a JKSSB jobs many times but unfortunately was not successful before. This is the first time my name appeared in any selection list. I want to do this job as I am on the verge of becoming overage for any government job,” she said.Shahid Akbar Wani, who said he has done MA, MEd and MPhil, said that he wanted to become a teacher but there had been a freeze on the posts from 2018.“In such circumstances, I have no other option but to go for a Class IV job. If the administration wants me to burn down all my higher degrees to get this job, I am ready, because I have a huge responsibility to take care of my aged parents, two siblings, wife and a daughter,” he said.Ashiq Hussain Lily, JKSSB’s member controller of examinations, said that they are following the policy of the government.“Whatever general administration department has decided we are following that,” he said.Another official of the SSB, on condition of anonymity, said that these posts were for lower qualified aspirants who are not eligible for higher posts.“Of the 50,000 posts which have to be filled, 8,575 have been kept for lower qualified youth while the rest are for those with higher qualifications,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-qualified-aspirants-irate-after-being-barred-from-class-iv-jobs-101626336546691.html
15-07-2021||Bhopal||Rescued by villager, leopard cub united with mother in MP||A villager rescued a month-old leopard cub and helped the forest department in reuniting it with its mother within hours earlier this week in Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh. The cub lost its way in the Harrai forest range of the district when Jaswant Singh, a resident of Dhadhara village, spotted it this Tuesday. Stray dogs were trying to corner the cub. “I shooed the dogs away but they started following me so I kept the cub in a bag. I reached the forest outpost of Dhadhara and informed the forest official,” said Singh. Chhindwara south, divisional forest official (DFO), Akhil Bansal said, “The duty officers were surprised when they saw the man with a bag holding a leopard cub. After first aid, we kept the cub in a cage for the night.” Also Read | In MP, schools for classes 11, 12 to reopen with 50% attendance “We set up a camera trap to keep a vigil on the cub. Late in the night, the mother reached the spot and took the cub with her,” said the DFO. This is the result of a sensitisation programme of the forest department which we are running in the nearby villages to end man-animal conflict, he said. Madhya Pradesh has 3,421 leopards and earned itself the tag of leopard state for having the highest population of the animal in the country, according to the Union environment ministry’s ‘Status of Leopards in India 2018’ report released in 2020. (With inputs from Bhojraj Raghuvanshi from Chhindwara)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/rescued-by-villager-leopard-cub-united-with-mother-inmp-101626334146638.html
15-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata gears up for Durga Puja, all involved to be vaccinated in 3 months||The community Durga Puja committees in Kolkata will ensure that all those who are involved in the rituals and other related works are vaccinated in the next three months, an official said on Wednesday.The puja committees will also make certain that people visiting the pandals wear masks covering the nose and maintain social distancing, Forum for Durgotsab official Partha Ghosh told PTI."From our members and locals frequenting the pandals to artisans, priests, dhakis and electricians -- everyone will have to get Covid vaccines in the next three months," he said."We expect everyone to get both doses but for dhakis (traditional drummers) coming from villages two-three days before the puja, we will ensure they get at least one dose," Ghosh added.Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella organisation of 550 community Durga Pujas in Kolkata and neighbouring areas, also published guidelines to ensure that the festivities are held following Covid-safety protocols.The pandals have to be built in such a way that devotees can see the idols from a distance and need not come near, as per the guidelines."For 'pushpanjali', offering of cut fruits won't be allowed and physical distancing has to be maintained during the ritual," it said.The guidelines, which will be submitted to the government, were similar to the ones set by the Calcutta High Court last year as it banned the entry of people to the pandals.The puja committees are hoping that like last year no big turnout is witnessed amid the threat of the third wave of the pandemic, said Ghosh, who is also a member of the Shibmandir Durga Puja committee in south Kolkata."The challenge for every crowd-puller puja committee like ours will be how to strike a balance so that the pandals are built maintaining aesthetics while the idols can be seen from a distance," he said.The Durga Puja committees in the city are also focussing on digital presence to ensure that people can view the artworks from home."We will project the idol and the decorations in such a way on social media that people may not feel the urge to come to the pandal," said Soumen Dutta, the secretary of the award-winning Kashi Bose Lane Durga Puja committee in north Kolkata."We will put a great emphasis on digital presence and project images with 3D effect to make it an enriching experience, even better than physical viewing," he said.Several big-budget Durga Puja committees, including Sribhumi Sporting Club, Santoshpur Lake Pally, Hindustan Club and Shib Mandir, held the 'Khuti Puja' on Ratha Jatra.The ritual of 'Khuti Puja' or worshipping a pole marks the beginning of the building of pandals.The festivities will begin this year on October 12 with Maha Saptami and go on till October 15 -- Bijaya Dashami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-gears-up-for-durga-puja-all-involved-to-be-vaccinated-in-3-months-101626333922868.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||NGT notice to owner of 7-floor building in Shimla||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has issued a show-cause notice to the project proponents who have built a seven-storeyed building to set up a petrol station in the Chhota Shimla locality of Shimla town and given them a month to file a response. Passing an order on a petition filed by Abhishek Katara on July 9, in which the applicant sought to quash the building plan sanctioned by the Shimla Municipal Corporation on August 26, 2020, to Narinder Pal and Kunal Rai Sethia. Also read: Scientists introduce China’s monkfruit in HimachalKatara sought to quash all NOCs and approvals for construction of the retail petrol pump at the site. According to the applicant, the building plans violate an NGT judgment restricting the number of buildings and height on account of environmental considerations, particularly the carrying capacity of the ecosystem, including seismicity. The building is a seven-storeyed one with five storeys up to the road level and two above. Wrongly classified as public utility Sanction was granted for setting up a petrol pump at the proposed site after the removal of trees in a planned manner. The supervisory and implementation committees stipulated in the judgment have granted sanctions even as construction permissible in Shimla is up to four storeys. The petrol pump, in question, has been wrongly classified as public utility, instead of commercial utility. The NGT, through its order on March 10, 2021, sought a factual and action taken report from a joint committee, comprising the secretary, urban development, principal chief conservator of forests, municipal commissioner and the state pollution control board. The committee found that against the approval for the construction of level structure height of 16.25m and plinth of 2m, the plinth height at the spot varies from 3.5m to 6m. The retaining wall has been illegally constructed. According to the proceedings of the joint committee, the Shimla Municipal Corporation has issued a notice dated June 4 to the private respondents to stop construction at the site till final disposal of the matter. “With regard to violations in the height of the plinth beyond the permissible limit, the accountability of the project proponent and the authorities permitting such violations has to be fixed,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-notice-to-owner-of-7-floor-building-in-shimla-101626333726500.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi entrepreneur donates oxygen plant in Gujarat||“If there is no solution to the problem then don’t waste time worrying about it. If there is a solution to the problem then don’t waste time worrying about it.” ― Dalai Lama XIVOne Delhiite who has continued to overcome challenges and pre-plan, without wasting any time during the pandemic, is Vikramjit Singh Sahney. The oxygen crisis that led to a dire need of it, especially during the recent second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, has motivated the philanthropist to donate an oxygen plant in Gujarat. This donation will help many Covid-19 patients. But this isn’t the first time that Sahney has swung into action to help the deprived. In the recent past, Sahney’s charitable institution named Sun Foundation has provided donations to help hospitals, build Covid-19 care centres, supply oxygen and over a thousand concentrators in Gurdwaras, and even support a few NGOs in taking up relief work. Sahney’s efforts, as the president of Sun Foundation and Punjabi Organisation, have always tried to save the children who are vulnerable. He says: “We have been doing selfless service as corona warriors, by donating the first corona mobile testing clinic and ambulances, 1,000 oxygen concentrators, 2,000 oxygen cylinders and now this oxygen plant. This will serve the underprivileged patients battling Covid-19, and is being especially attached to the paediatric ward of GMERS (Gujarat Medical Education & Research Society) Hospital, to save the children from the pandemic.”The PSA oxygen plant of one metric tonne capacity, named after the Iron Man of India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, was inaugurated by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, in Gandhinagar. And on the occasion, Shah said that this plant will go a long way in serving the needy Covid-19 patients in this city. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-entrepreneur-donates-oxygen-plant-in-gujarat-101626333006783.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Scientists introduce China’s monkfruit in Himachal||In a first, scientists of CSIR’s Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), Palampur, have introduced the cultivation of monkfruit in Kullu district of Himachal Pradesh. IHBT director Sanjay Kumar said monkfruit cultivation was initiated on a trial basis by planting 50 seedlings in farmer Manav Khullar’s fields at Raison in Naggar tehsil of Kullu on Monday. If successful, the fruit will be grown commercially. Also read: Covid positivity rate in Himachal drops to 1%Monkfruit (Siraitia grosvenorii) was originally grown only in China and known as luohan guo. It’s a small, green melon named after the monks who cultivated it. The fruit is known the world over for its sweetness and is used as a non-caloric natural sweetener. Despite its demand, this crop was only cultivated in China till recently. “Suitable agro-climatic conditions are also available in India, particularly in Himachal Pradesh. Keeping in mind the importance and essentiality of non-nutritive natural sweeteners, we have introduced monkfruit in Kullu,” Kumar said. ICAR brought fruit seeds from China in 2018 He said the monkfruit seeds were brought to India from China through Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi, in March 2018. Principal scientist Probir Kumar Pal and his team developed the technology for generating quality planting material, its basic agronomic cultivation practices, fruiting technique and post-harvest management. At present, monkfruit is being cultivated at the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-run IHBT with good quality fruits under farm conditions. “The plant grows well in mountainous areas with an annual mean temperature of 16 to 20°C and humid conditions. Himachal Pradesh is a suitable for its large-scale cultivation,” said Kumar. He said initially the project was funded by CSIR and now its cultivation is being promoted with financial support from the Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology and Environment, Shimla. Pal said the plant starts bearing fruit in eight months if the atmosphere is conducive. Experiments have shown that the average life of the plant is four to five years. The fruit weighs 60-65g and in some cases 100g. The average yield is 1kg from each plant. Healthy alternative for sugar Kumar said the intake of added cane sugar can lead to lifestyle diseases such as insulin resistance, Type-2 diabetes, liver problems, metabolic syndrome, and heart disease. Monkfruit offers a healthy alternative. Since India is home to 6.24 crore people with Type-2 diabetes, this is a wonder fruit for them, said the director. He said the IHBT has signed a material transfer agreement with Khullar and provided 50 plants of monkfruit for field trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scientists-introduce-china-s-monkfruit-in-himachal-101626331206904.html
15-07-2021||Patna||Plea on recruitment of assistant profs: HC asks Bihar govt to file affidavit||The Patna high court has asked the Bihar government to file an affidavit within a week on how the reservation provided for assistant professors reflects in the advertisement put out for the vacancies for the same.While hearing a plea challenging the recruitment process on the ground that the reservation formula has not been properly adopted,the bench of Justice Vikas Jain on Wednesday asked the state to file the affidavit within a week as to how reservation has been provided in the advertisement. “With regard to recruitment, any decision will be affected by the final outcome of the case ,” the court said. The next hearing will take place after a week. The court observation came a day before the interview process is set to begin with the interview for Angika subject starting Thursday.The petitioners, Amod Prabodhi and others, who are guest lecturers, have sought that the advertisement of the Bihar state university service commission, dated September 21, 2020, be quashed and direction given to the concerned authorities to work out the vacancies in accordance with the law.They have asked that the authorities be restrained from making appointments against the notified vacancies of reserved category beyond the permissible limit of 50%. The Bihar state university service commission had, at the time of issuing the advertisement for appointment, said it had followed the calculation of vacancies adopted by the universities.Former advocate general and senior counsel, PK Shahi, who appeared for the petitioners, said that out of 4,683 vacancies, 1,223 only had been marked for general category. “This is much lower, as there should be 2,319 vacancies for general category. Besides, the number of vacancies notified by the commission is much lower than the actual number. In some universities, zero vacancy has been shown in some subjects while the ground situation is different,” he added.The petition, which has made the department of education, the commission as well as all the vice-chancellors of the state universities parties in the case, also questioned why the clubbing together of previous vacancies with fresh vacancies, if done, had not been mentioned in the advertisement along with backlog vacancies. “The backlog vacancies have been allocated in contravention of norms,” said the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/plea-on-recruitment-of-assistant-profs-hc-asks-bihar-govt-to-file-affidavit-101626329886144.html
15-07-2021||Lucknow||SP to hold protests against ‘rigging’ in UP dist panchayat, block head polls||The Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) is holding statewide demonstrations on Thursday over the alleged rigging in district panchayat chairpersons and block heads’ polls that concluded on July 10 in Uttar Pradesh. Akhilesh Yadav, the SP chief, said the protests will be organised at the tehsil level.Also Read | India reports 41,806 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload currently at 432,041“The Samajwadi Party won the maximum seats in the zila (district) panchayat election but the (ruling) BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) misused the government machinery to grab the zila panchayat chairpersons and block pramukh (head) posts. The SP candidates were not allowed to file nomination papers, the ward members were kidnapped, the police committed atrocities on several candidates.”The SP plans to send a memorandum to the President over the alleged poll fraud.The Uttar Pradesh Police have sounded an alert over the demonstrations and directed vigil at district levels to ensure that Covid protocol is not violated, and law and order is maintained, said an official.The Uttar Pradesh government has denied allegations of rigging in the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-to-hold-protests-against-rigging-in-up-dist-panchayat-block-head-polls-101626326645826.html
15-07-2021||Patna||Bihar private transporters seek revision of passenger bus fares||Bihar’s private transporters have sought a revision in passenger bus fares from the state government amid the rising fuel prices. “The last fare hike of private buses was in 2018 when fuel prices were much lower than the prevailing rates. Our business is not feasible anymore, with low footfall due to Covid, and high fuel rates,” said Uday Shankar Singh, president of Bihar Motor Transport Federation (BMTF), the apex union body of private transporters. Singh said the BMTF had written to chief minister Nitish Kumar and chief secretary Tripurari Sharan on the issue. “We have sought the CM’s intervention to help us tide over this financial distress,” he said. Also Read | Fuel price hike in Bihar: RJD to stage protest on July 18, 19The BMTF president also took exception to the transport department’s recent drive to impose penalty on buses for demanding arbitrary fare. “Transporters are not charging excessive fare in general. But such action against them is only causing us more distress,” he said. Singh said transporters will hold meetings in Patna and Begusarai on July 16 and July 18 respectively to chalk out their course of action in case fares are not revised. “ We might pull our vehicles off road as a last resort,” he added. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agrarwal could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-private-transporters-seek-revision-of-passenger-bus-fares-101626325925477.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||‘Mumbai couple invested fund siphoned from insurance firm’s in real estate’||The couple accused of allegedly siphoning off ₹170 crore from the United India Insurance company’s account allegedly invested the money in real estate in the National Capital Region (NCR) and Jaipur, according to Mumbai Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) probing the matter. Khushel Singh and Neelam Singh, who worked with the public sector insurer as assistant managers, were arrested on June 30.The company initially reported a fraud of ₹8.09 crore when it lodged a First Information Report (FIR) in the case last month. The EOW later found the couple allegedly siphoned off ₹170 crore over the years.Also Read | Rainfall intensity dips in Mumbai, temperatures to start rising“...the accused booked 72 properties, including residential flats and commercial spaces in various projects in north India mostly in the NCR. ...they paid approximately ₹100 crore to book these properties. These properties are located in Delhi, Gurgaon, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, and Jaipur,” said an EOW officer on condition of anonymity.The couple also allegedly invested over ₹7 crore in a firm for developing an online education mobile application. EOW has managed to recover around ₹10 crore and opened an escrow account to deposit the money.Police have charged the couple under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.The police are probing how they managed to dodge the audit system of the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-couple-invested-fund-siphoned-from-insurance-firm-s-in-real-estate-101626324065305.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Rainfall intensity dips in Mumbai, temperatures to start rising||The city received 38mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Wednesday, according to the automatic weather station in Santacruz -- which is representative of the entire city. This is down from 89.6mm recorded the day prior, indicating a slowdown in the intensity of showers.South Mumbai recorded 52mm of rainfall through the last 24 hours, according to the Colaba weather station (down from 111.2mm recorded the day prior). As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), “moderate to heavy rain in city and suburbs with possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places” is likely over the next few hours.“The entire MMR and also Thane regions have seen some reduction in rainfall. Across the area, monitoring stations have recorded between 20 to 50mm of rain. There were no particularly heavy spells at night,” said a spokesperson for IMD’s regional meteorological centre in Mumbai.Also Read | Vortex: A tiny weather system that interfered with Mumbai monsoonThe city is expected to receive moderate rainfall during the day on Thursday. Mumbai has been placed under a yellow category storm warning on Thursday and Friday, and green category alert on Saturday and Sunday.Until 8:30am on Thursday, Mumbai had received a total of 1291.8 mm of rain since June 1, which is about 48% in excess of the seasonal normal. In the past week itself, Mumbai received about 302mm of rain, which is 77% above the seasonal normal. A significant portion of the rainfall deficit for the first 14 days of July has been made up in the past week, though it is still -22% short of the normal for the period of 376mm, as per IMD’s rainfall information.As per official forecasts, the maximum temperature over the next five days is expected to rise to 32 degrees Celsius (up from 30 degrees Celsius on Wednesday evening), and the minimum temperature will rise to 26 degrees Celsius -- up from 24.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rainfall-intensity-dips-in-mumbai-temperatures-to-start-rising-101626323706390.html
15-07-2021||Other||Covid vaccination comes to a halt in Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi||Covid-19 vaccination was stopped in Ranchi, the state capital of Jharkhand, on Thursday as it had only 350 doses left in stock. “We received 21,000 doses on Tuesday evening. Almost all of it was used on Wednesday as the demand is rising. We have no option but to stop general vaccination in the district today,” said Vishal Sagar, Ranchi deputy development commissioner (DDC), nodal officer for vaccination in the district. Of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, Ranchi has been the worst affected -- it recorded the maximum cases as well as deaths, both during first and the second wave of the pandemic. Also Read | India reports 41,806 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload currently at 432,041Sources said the state was expected to get 350,000 doses by Wednesday evening and Ranchi could get its proportionate share from it. “As per the scheduled shared by the Centre, the state is expected to receive around 1.7 million vaccine doses between July 15 to August 3. However, that won’t be enough as the state administers around 140,000 doses daily if vaccines are available,” said a health department official.As per the latest health departement data available, of the 24.9 million eligible beneficiaries in the state, 7.8 million had been inoculated till July 14. Of these 1.3 million have received both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-comes-to-a-halt-in-jharkhand-s-capital-ranchi-101626322145068.html
15-07-2021||Other||Assam cabinet allows online sale of liquor in Guwahati on trial basis||Assam cabinet on Wednesday took the decision to allow liquor to be sold online in the state capital Guwahati for a month on a trial basis, news agency ANI reported.“If it succeeds, we will expand it to the entire state,” state minister Pijush Hazarika was quoted as saying by ANI.The West Bengal government last year gave nod to home delivery of liquor by permitting people above 21 years to place orders online. The Delhi government also took the same move last month by allowing home delivery of liquor via mobile apps and websites under the amended excise rules.Following Wednesday’s cabinet meeting, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took to Twitter to apprise the key decisions that were made during the event. He mentioned that the decisions were aimed at “further administrative reforms in the state”.According to the post shared by Sarma on Twitter, during winter, workers of tea gardens will be employed in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) jobs such as road construction, pond excavation, and more.The post also mentioned that Golaghat and Sarupathar have been declared as drought-hit revenue circles. It said that revenue and disaster management minister Jogen Mohan and irrigation minister Ashok Singhal will travel to the affected areas, accompanied by finance minister Ajanta Neog to inquire about incidents pertaining to droughts for releasing compensations to affected families.“We also decided to provide relief in calamity-hit areas, improve education at grassroots, boost economic activities in tea gardens and rural areas, among others,” Sarma tweeted.These decisions come close on the heels of Assam tabling the Cow Protection Bill 2021 on the first day of the budget session of the assembly that commenced on Monday. It proposes to ban interstate transport of cows via Assam with the aim to check the smuggling of the animals to neighbouring Bangladesh.The Bill also aims to stop cattle transportation from any place in Assam to places outside the state where “slaughter of cattle is not regulated by law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-cabinet-allows-online-sale-of-liquor-in-guwahati-on-trial-basis-101626320018145.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Rain likely today, mercury to dip further||The national Capital is likely to receive moderate showers on Thursday as well , two days after the monsoon hit Delhi, after being delayed by 16 days. The maximum temperature is also likely to drop a bit further over the next few days, said forecasters. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast isolated and scattered rainfall over northwest India till July 16, including in Delhi. “Rainfall activity is likely to intensify between July 17 and July 19, as the monsoon trough reaches close to the Northern plains. Isolated, heavy rainfall is likely over Delhi during this time,” a senior IMD official said. Also Read | Vortex: A tiny weather system that interfered with Mumbai monsoonA dip in the mercury is likely from July 17 because of increased rainfall, the official added. On Wednesday, the Safdarjung Observatory, the official marker for the city’s weather, had received 54.6mm rainfall in the ‘moderate’ category. The maximum temperature was recorded as 35 degrees Celsius, within the normal temperature range for this time of the year. The minimum settled at 26 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. The southwest monsoon hit Delhi on Tuesday. It is the most delayed monsoon since 2002 when it had arrived on July 19. The usual monsoon onset date for Delhi is June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-rain-likely-today-mercury-to-dip-further-101626317524480.html
15-07-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata vaccine scam: CBI searches office of fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb||The West Bengal CID on Wednesday evening conducted a search at the office of Debanjan Deb, the fake IAS officer who was arrested last month for organising dubious vaccination camps against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Kolkata, news agency PTI reported, citing a senior official familiar with the development. The CID sleuths searched Deb's office at Kasba area, from where he used to run his operations, for over an hour.Deb, the prime accused in the fake Covid-19 vaccine case, and his four arrested associates were taken to the office during the search."We have seized several documents and other materials from the office which may help us in our investigation," the officer said.28-year-old Debanjan Deb was arrested on June 23 for masquerading as the joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and operating a dubious vaccination camp in Kasba, where actor and Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty also took a jab.Chakraborty, who was invited to attend the camp, had said she became suspicious about the vaccination process as she did not receive the customary SMS that is sent to people after they are administered a dose, and informed the police.Eight of Deb's associates have been arrested so far and cases against them range from cheating to attempt to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-vaccine-scam-cbi-searches-office-of-fake-ias-officer-debanjan-deb-101626314490697.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The sherbet stall’s history||He’s here, still all smiles—or so it seems, for he’s in a mask. He has survived through the two surges of the coronavirus pandemic. He is the face of a long-time Old Delhi institution.Nafees Khan runs a sherbet stand in Old Delhi’s Gali Suiwallan. It’s a landmark so modest that when he wraps up his things for the night, no sign of the stall is left, as if it had never been. And yet, it is so much part of the daytime landscape that not finding Mr Khan would be like living in a world suddenly bereft of a beloved friend.“I stayed at home during the lockdown… I survived by borrowing money from friends,” he says, insisting he has no complaint to make about his situation. “Everyone is suffering with their businesses these days.”Mr Khan’s juice kiosk exists only for the summer. As soon as the winter ends, he is done selling diapers and turns his street establishment back into what his late father founded decades ago—a sherbet stall.There’s only bel, or wood apple, sherbet here. Watching the man is as calming as dunking down his drink. He sits as motionless as a statue, which makes him look like a hallucination—for the rest of the street is a maddening blur of pedestrians and rickshaws.The stall consists of a table with a large pan filled with sherbet. “My papa, Hakeemuddin, started it decades ago... he would sit on this same spot.”The sherbet is kept cold with slabs of ice that stand like icebergs in the sea. In the evening, the market lights shine out of the still surface of the sherbet. Inevitably, the sherbet seller stirs the liquid at some point, instantly destroying the world that was existing in it.This humid afternoon, masked shoppers are stopping by the stall, clamouring for a cool glass of the drink. Life appears to carry on as if the pandemic-related tragedies were but a blip in the sherbet stall’s history.It used to stay open until beyond midnight, but now, in obedience of the new regulations, shuts down at 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-sherbet-stall-s-history-101626301554674.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||In the city of cars, auto thieves make a killing||On May 28 last year, when the first Covid-19 lockdown was still in force, a Toyota Fortuner SUV belonging to the father of former Indian cricketer and BJP’s east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir was stolen from outside their Old Rajendra Nagar house in central Delhi. A CCTV camera in which the crime was captured showed the thieves took nearly two minutes to dismantle the Fortuner’s security gadgets, start the vehicle, and flee in it. More than 10 months after, the stolen car is yet to be recovered.“Police filed an untraced report, saying they could not find the vehicle. The insurance company compensated the loss. There has been absolutely no progress in the case,” said Gambhir’s media manager Animesh Choudhary.Delhi tops the list when it comes to cases of vehicle theft reported in all of India’s 28 states and eight Union territories (UTs). A vehicle is stolen every 12 minutes in the national capital; in Mumbai, one is stolen every four hours , and in Bengaluru every two hours, according to 2019 data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).Cars and two-wheelers are the most common items stolen across the city after mobile phones (at least 175 mobile phones were stolen every day in Delhi between January and February 2017, the Union government had told the Lok Sabha that year).Delhi Police data shows that, in the last 10 years (between 2011 and 2020), a total of 307,000 vehicles were stolen in the Capital. This number is more than the number of registered vehicles in all of Srinagar on March 31, 2017 (according to a report mentioned in the road transport year book 2016-17 of the ministry of road transport and highways).According to the Delhi Economic Survey report, there were 11.8 million motorised vehicles in Delhi as of March 31, 2020. Cars and jeeps make around 28% of the total registered vehicles, and two-wheelers about 67%.Delhi Police officers say that vehicle thefts constitute about 14% of all the crimes in the city. Even during the first hard lockdown, which restricted the movement of people, about 83 vehicles (more than three an hour) were stolen every day in Delhi between March 15 and 30, 2020.“The lockdown not only restricted the movement of people but also increased the presence of security personnel on streets and borders. But that made little difference to auto lifters as they still managed to steal 1,243 vehicles in just 15 days,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.Between January 1 and June 15 last year, 13,130 vehicles were stolen in the city. This number rose to 15,667 during the corresponding period this year.Experts say that stealing a vehicle is a less risky crime for thieves because it is often carried out either late at night or in secluded areas where human intervention or physical contact with the owners is minimal. At the same time, it is highly profitable as compared to thefts of cellphones or wallets.Of the 35,019 vehicle theft cases in 2020 only just 4,183 (11.94%) stolen vehicles were recovered. Among them, 72% were two-wheelers, 21% were cars, and the others were commercial vehicles.“Unlike other traditional crimes such as snatching and robbery, vehicle thefts aren’t the matter of attention during crime review meetings as they should be. The e-FIR facility (launched in 2015) has helped complainants register FIRs, and within 21 days get the “untraced” reports of their stolen vehicles needed for insurance claims. It has, however, given a free run to auto lifters, who know that vehicle thefts aren’t an area of attention for the police because they are largely non-violent. Earlier, complainants used to pester police officers -- but with the e-FIR facility, complainants hardly mount pressure because the report is generated automatically,” said Delhi Police’s retired assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Rajender Singh, who was instrumental in catching Delhi-NCR’s notorious burglar and auto thief, Bunty.Retired IPS officer Prakash Singh, who headed the Uttar Pradesh Police between 1991 and 1993, also believes that by giving less attention to vehicle theft cases, police are encouraging criminals to commit such crimes without the fear of law.“Delhi Police personnel may be overburdened, but they cannot simply overlook the high number of vehicle theft cases reported every day. If this lack of concern continues, more and more criminals will join this crime and it will be the vehicle owners who will ultimately suffer. The police should work on curbing this menace and encourage vehicle owners to install gadgets that can secure their vehicles,” said the former IPS office.Experts also say that Delhi’s geography, and the sheer number of vehicles here, make the crime extremely hard to crack down on. Delhi shares over 100 porous border points with Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan in an amorphous National Capital Region that make it easy to take stolen vehicles across state lines .Organised networkUnlike the other street crimes, such as snatching and robbery, which only need collaboration between criminals and receivers, there is an organised network of vehicle thieves with multiple channels spread across various states for stealing vehicles in Delhi, and selling them in places as far as the North-East, and sometimes even smuggle them into Nepal. Earlier this month, the central district police arrested two auto lifters from Kashmir who would come to Delhi to steal cars, and sell them to buyers in the Valley. Since 2015, their tally was over a 100 stolen vehicles.A serving Delhi Police officer, who asked not to be named, said that gangs involved in vehicle thefts are of two types -- locals, and those from other states. The local gangs primarily steal engine control modules (ECM), batteries, and tyres of parked cars, and some steal vehicles to dismantle them and sell them for parts. The gangs from outside the city are part of a larger machine -- they steal makes and models of vehicles as demanded by their receivers, who even ask them to look for a particular colour, he said.“They also use a code word for each member of the gang. “Surveyors” look for vehicles in demand and conduct reconnaissance of the area where they are parked. “Mechanics” dismantle the security gadgets of the vehicle, steal it, and park it a few kilometers away. The other members of the gang then collect the stolen vehicles, drive them out of the city, and hand them over to the receivers, who sell them to potential clients after preparing fake documents,” the officer said.Another police officer said that while cars or their parts are mostly stolen for sale, motorbikes and scooters are also stolen in Delhi by criminals involved in street crimes such as snatching and robbery.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said several interstate gangs operate in Delhi to steal vehicles, and there are several challenges in preventing thefts and recovering vehicles.“Firstly, we get very less time to react. The vehicles are mostly stolen during night and the crimes are reported to the police in the morning after the owners find their vehicles missing. By that time, the stolen vehicles pass through various channels and reach other states. As the registration number plates are replaced with fake ones, the vehicles easily cross the borders. Even if we follow the trail, the chances of recovering the stolen vehicles are less because many of them are dismantled quickly at scrap markets,” he said.Refuting the contention that vehicle thefts are not an area of concern for the city police, Biswal said that every police district in Delhi has a dedicated anti auto theft squad (AATS) that works on vehicle theft cases, and on gangs involved in such crimes.“We take several measures to check the rise in vehicle theft. They include analysis of the vehicle theft pattern and modus operandi of the gangs. Identification of affected areas and time zone is done and deployment of police staff is done accordingly. Meetings are also held with resident welfare associations (RWA) for restricting entry-exit points of their colonies during night, deploying security guards and installing CCTV cameras,” Biswal said.Raman Mehta, RWA president of Greater Kailash Part-1 said, “Vehicle theft incidents were quite common in our neighbourhood because of the scarce parking space and multiple entry-exit points. We analysed the problem and held meetings with the local police. We restricted the entry-exit and the results were impressive and there was a drastic decline in vehicle theft cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-the-city-of-cars-auto-thieves-make-a-killing-101626301082869.html
15-07-2021||Dehradun||Dehradun cops look for online fraudster who got woman to pay ₹66 lakh for a pup||Dehradun: A woman in Dehradun has complained that an unidentified online fraudster got her to pay ₹66 lakh for a puppy but didn’t deliver on their commitment despite missing several deadlines. The woman has filed a complaint with the Uttarakhand Police’s cyber cell in state capital Dehradun.Senior superintendent of police, cyber cell and special task force, Ajay Singh said the woman, a resident of Dehradun’s Mothrowala area, told the police that she wanted to give a Golden Retriever puppy to her daughter as her birthday gift.According to her complaint, Singh said, she searched for pet dealers online on June 20 and came across one who offered to sell her one for ₹15,000. Once she agreed, the person sent her an email asking her to deposit ₹5,000 as advance. She was told to pay the remaining amount after delivery.The following day, she received another email from the accused who asked her to deposit ₹1.30 lakh in his bank account as a refundable amount.“She again deposited the amount. Following that, the accused then sent several more emails demanding money on pretext of shipping charges, handling charges and others totalling ₹66.39 lakh. She deposited all of it in the accused’s bank account,” said Singh.It is not clear why she made the payments running into lakhs.But, Singh said, it was only after the accused sent her another email on July 3 telling her that the “puppy has arrived at Jolly Grant airport of Dehradun for delivery” but demanded more money that she decided to file a First Information Report.“In the email, the accused demanded ₹25lakh more as other handling charges…. This time, the woman decided to inform the police and file a complaint. We have registered a case and have started a probe to nab the accused,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/dehradun-cops-look-for-online-fraudster-who-got-woman-to-pay-rs-66-lakh-for-pup-101626299342635.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Phagwara ex-tehsildar’s interim bail plea dismissed in attached property sale case||The district and sessions court in Kapurthala has dismissed the interim bail petition of former Phagwara tehsildar Praveen Kumar Chibber, who is accused in a case of selling properties that were attached in the multi-crore Bhola drug case. On June 30, the police had booked Chibber, who is now posted as Shahkot tehsildar in Jalandhar district, Harmesh Kumar Gaba, an accused in the Bhola drug case, and a patwari for allegedly selling around 14 kanal land attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Phagwara superintendent of police (SP) Sarabjit Singh said Chibber is absconding. The Enforcement Directorate (ED)’s zonal office (Jalandhar) had filed a complaint with the Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) in October last year against Gaba, brother of Goraya-based businessman Chunni Lal Gabba, who is also facing money laundering charges in the Bhola drug case. The ED said it came to light that Gaba sold properties, including 14 kanal land situated in the Hadiabad area of Phagwara, attached by the adjudicating authority (PMLA). “Despite the issuance of provisional attachment order and eviction notice to sub-registrar, Phagwara, the authorised officer in connivance with Harmesh Gaba, knowingly allowed the sale of properties, which is subject matter in the appellate tribunal and the special PMLA court,” the ED said. The police in their probe found that Harmesh sold the 14 kanal land to eight persons on different dates. According to the Phagwara SDM’s report, negligence was found on part of Chibber and the area Patwari. A case was registered under Section 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) at the Phagwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/phagwara-ex-tehsildar-s-interim-bail-plea-dismissed-in-attached-property-sale-case-101626294903738.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dera chief’s name dropped from sacrilege FIR, says jathedar; SIT rebuts claim||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Wednesday accused the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents of dropping the name of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh from an FIR in one of the desecration cases. The SIT, however, denied the charge saying the Sirsa-based sect chief was not named in the case and it did not give a clean chit to anyone. Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, the jathedar of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhism, said the probe team filed a chargesheet pertaining to FIR number 128 in a Faridkot court a few days ago. “It is surprising that the SIT, which filed a challan regarding the FIR number 128, removed the name of Dera Sacha Sauda chief from the case. It raises suspicion. There is politics at play. We have been saying there should not be politics over this issue,” he claimed. “Why his name (dera chief) was removed quietly? Is it for taking mileage in the 2022 assembly polls?” he asked. He demanded that the dera head be brought to Punjab from a Haryana jail and be questioned about the sacrilege incident. Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh is serving a 20-year jail term in a Haryana jail for raping two of his women disciples in his ‘ashram’. He was convicted in August 2017 by a special CBI court in Panchkula. The FIR pertains to finding of torn pages of the Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari on October 12, 2015 and it was registered at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot. ‘Probe in cases moving fast’ SIT head SPS Parmar asserted the investigation in the cases is moving fast in the right direction. He denied giving a clean chit to Gurmeet Ram Rahim or anyone else, rejecting the claims as “malicious social media propaganda”. Parmar said nobody is above the law and if evidence is found against anyone at any point during the ongoing investigations, due action would be initiated against such persons as per the law of the land. Investigations into the three cases pertaining to Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala are still open, Parmar underlined. He said as per challan of FIR number 128, it is clearly mentioned that if and when any evidence comes against anyone in these desecration cases, they shall be brought to book and supplementary challans shall be presented against those who figure at any point during the ongoing investigation. Parmar said the Dera Sacha Sauda head was named as accused in FIR number 63, which pertains to theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara. In this case too, the investigation is underway by the same SIT and nobody has been given clean chit, he said. On July 9, the SIT filed its first chargesheet against six dera followers in a case of desecration. The six accused who were arrested were Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny; Shakti Singh; Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola; Baljit Singh; Nishan Singh; and Pardeep Singh. They were arrested in May. In February this year, the CBI on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had handed over the documents and files related to the 2015 incidents to the Punjab Police SIT. The previous SAD-BJP government had handed over the three cases -- theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from a Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara; putting up of handwritten sacrilegious posters in Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala; and torn pages of the holy book found at Bargari-- to the CBI. The Punjab government had handed over the probe to an SIT in September 2018 after the state assembly passed a resolution withdrawing consent to the CBI to probe these cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-chief-s-name-dropped-from-sacrilege-fir-says-jathedar-sit-rebuts-claim-101626294902478.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting unemployed teachers marching to CM’s residence cane-charged||Unemployed teachers demanding jobs were cane-charged by police when they were holding a protest march to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence in Patiala on Wednesday. Over 100 protesters were detained, with over a dozen receiving minor injuries.Earlier, the protesters under the banner of the Unemployed TET-Passed ETT Teachers’ Union marched towards the CM’s residence in support of their demand for jobs. However, they were stopped by the police near YPS Chowk in the city. Union’s state president Deepak Kumar said that the Punjab government promised to hold meetings with them but the officials failed to turn up on the scheduled day. “The police are resorting to lathi-charge every time we try to hold a protest near the CM’s residence. We were holding a peaceful march when the police used force against us. The government has completely ignored our demand for jobs in government schools. Now, the government has scheduled a meeting with us on July 20,” he said. The union is demanding a notification for recruitment for all 12,000 vacant posts of TET-ETT teachers and an increase in the upper age limit to 42.Other teachers’ unions condemned the action against the protesting ETT teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-unemployed-teachers-marching-to-cm-s-residence-canecharged-101626294062801.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Children bound to look after parents, says HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has upheld the cancellation of property transfer from a senior citizen to her son by a single judge bench, observing that the children are expected to look after their elderly parents properly “which is not only a value-based principle but a bounden duty as mandated by law”. The high court bench of justices AG Masih and Ashok Kumar Verma observed that the Parliament enacted the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, to uphold the dignity and respect of a senior citizen in old age. “State had serious concern about the challenge faced by the people in their old age. Apart from physical vulnerabilities, they face emotional and psychological challenges. On account of these frailties, they are totally dependent,” the court added. The case in hand was of a 76-year-old widow whose husband had left one house and one shop in her possession in order to ensure her well-being. As per order, her son started giving her beatings and transferred this property in his name fraudulently in 2015. The widow approached the panchayat for conciliation proceedings two to three times but it did not yield any result. Consequently, she approached the Tohana sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Fatehabad, who acts as the maintenance tribunal under the 2007 law. She had pleaded for the registry of the house and the shop to be returned to her and for the protection of her life, liberty and dignity. The SDM in 2019 directed the son to transfer the house back in mother’s name and provide ₹2,000 per month as subsistence to her. The transfer deed of 2015 was also ordered to be cancelled. Against this order, the son approached the appellate tribunal, Fatehabad, which reversed the findings but said that widow be paid maintenance and allowed to reside in her house. This order was challenged by the widow before a single judge bench whereby the SDM order was directed to be maintained. Before this bench, the son had challenged order of the single bench. Now, the high court has upheld the order by the SDM. The high court observed that Section 23 (1) of the Act of 2007 explicitly stipulates that in case the children fail to take care of their parents after transfer of their parent’s property in their favour, the said transfer of property shall be deemed to have been made by fraud or coercion or under undue influence and shall at the option of the transferor be declared void by the tribunal. “It is often seen that after receiving the property from their parents, the children abandon them. In such a situation, (2007) law is an enabling lifeline for such old-aged parents and senior citizens who are not looked after by their children and become neglected lots,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/children-bound-to-look-after-parents-says-hc-101626294002140.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar arms seizure: Cops say consignment flown from Pak via drones||A large cache of arms and ammunition, including 48 foreign-made pistols, recovered from a car at Kathunangal village in Amritsar on June 11 was dropped on the Indian side by Pakistani drones at three locations in Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts, the Punjab Police’s state special operation cell (SSOC) has claimed. Nearly 80-kg heroin, which was also part of the consignment, is yet to be recovered, the officials said.The SSOC had intercepted a Hyundai i-20 car at a checkpoint at Kathunangal and recovered two nylon bags containing the pistols and ammunition. Jagjit Singh, alias Jaggu (25) of Purian Kalan village in Gurdaspur was arrested on the spot.The cache included 19 Turkey-made 9mm Zigana pistols, 37 magazines and 45 rounds; nine China-made .30 bore pistols and 22 magazines; 19 Star Mark pistols of .30 bore, 38 magazines and 148 rounds; and an Italian Baretta 9mm pistol and two magazines. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had said Jagjit was directed by Darmanjit Singh, alias Darman Kahlon, a former gangster based in the US, to collect the consignment and wait for further instructions. The weapons were meant for ‘carrying out terror activities’ across the country, he had said.An SSOC official asking not to be named said, “It has emerged that the weapons were dropped by drones at Dera Baba Nanak, Kalanaur (Gurdaspur) and Khemkaran (Tarn Taran). We are working to find where the heroin was further smuggled to. We have also initiated the process to bring Darman back from the US.”He, however, didn’t disclose the exact time of the weapons being dropped on the Indian side.On Tuesday, the SSOC brought an alleged Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) operative Maan Singh Nihang of Samurai village in Gurdaspur on a production warrant from a Ferozepur jail for questioning in connection with the weapon seizure case. Maan was produced in the court of judicial magistrate who sent him to police custody till July 16. Maan’s name emerged in the case during interrogation of the other accused.Maan, who is facing several criminal cases, was one of the prime accused of a alleged terror module that was busted by the counter-intelligence wing in September 2019. With the arrest of the module’s members, the police had recovered five AK-47 rifles, 4 Chinese-made pistols, nine hand grenades, five satellite phones, ₹10 lakh in fake Indian currency. The consignment was also allegedly flown from Pakistan in drones. A drone was also recovered by the police later on.SSOC assistant inspector general (AIG) OS Ghuman said, “Our investigation is still underway and we can’t disclose anything as yet.” Sources said earlier the SSOC had brought five accused from various jails of the state on production warrant in this case. Darman, the alleged kingpin in the case, has been linked to banned organisations like the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and the Babbar Khalsa International (BKI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-arms-seizure-cops-say-consignment-flown-from-pak-via-drones-101626293702589.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks trial court to adjourn ED case against Hooda||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday directed a Panchkula special court to adjourn the hearing into an Enforcement Directorate (ED) case against the former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda beyond August 18.The matter pertained to the ED probe of alleged money laundering in allotment of a plot to Associated Journal Limited (AJL), publisher of the National Herald newspaper. “The trial court directed to adjourn the case beyond the date fixed in high court,” said Hooda’s counsel, Arshdeep Singh Cheema. A detailed order is awaited.The plea was taken up by the bench of justices Ajay Tewari and Vikas Bahl of the ED case registered on July 15, 2016. It filed prosecution complaint before Panchkula trial court on August 26, 2019, and trial court took note of it on September 26, 2019 and summoned Hooda as accused. On Thursday, the trial court was to consider the issue of framing of charges against Hooda. The CBI court has framed charges against him in the case but trial stands stayed from the high court. He has argued that there is neither any legal sanction nor any material warranting for his prosecution under the offence of money laundering. The complaint is liable to be dismissed as same is violative of constitutional protection granted under Article 20 (1) of the Constitution of India against the retrospective operation of penal provision. He has claimed that no prosecution can be lawfully launched on the basis of a complaint which, admittedly from respondent side, is subject matter of further investigation before the prosecuting agency. Hence, he has sought quashing of August 2019 complaint and September 2019 proceedings under which cognisance was taken by the trial court. The money laundering probe was based on a CBI probe into the same controversy in which allegations are that the property allotted to AJL in the year 1982 was taken back in 1992 since AJL did not comply with the conditions of allotment. But when Hooda became the chief minister in 2005, he allowed the re-allotment of the plot to AJL at old rates. At the time of the registration of the CBI FIR, late Moti Lal Vora was the chairman of AJL and Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul were among the shareholders. The newspaper was launched in 1938 by Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-trial-court-to-adjourn-ed-case-against-hooda-101626293521930.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Additional guidelines issued for floor-wise registration of homes||Chandigarh Haryana revenue department has issued additional guidelines pertaining to registration of floors as separate dwelling units in Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) residential sectors. Financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal said that this has been done to check leakage of stamp and registration duty. He said that in case of residential plots developed by HSVP, different floors have been allowed as separate dwelling units. However, it has been observed that the various instructions/guidelines issued in this case are not being strictly followed. Therefore, additional guidelines/instructions have been issued. All the decisions taken by the HSVP should be followed in letter and spirit. As per the guidelines, a single floor cannot be registered by the registering officers in the name of two or more separate persons by dividing the same. Hence, only horizontal complete floor is allowed to be transferred and registered under the Registration Act, 1908. There shall be no fragmentation of the plot vertically and all independent floor owners shall jointly own the full plot of land having independent floors. The apportionment of land cost for the purpose of stamp duty and registration fee shall be in equal proportion amongst all independent floors. It shall be 50% each for two floors, 33.33% each for three floors and 25% each for four floors and as per the collector rates fixed from time to time Prior permission of HSVP shall be mandatory before registration of a specific floor of a plot whether vacant or built up. If a constructed floor is transferred, apportioned cost of plot as well as cost of construction of that floor as per the collector rate shall be combined for the purpose of levy of stamp duty and registration fee. For the registration of such independent floors, in addition to the normal stamp duty, 1 % extra stamp duty will be paid by the applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/additional-guidelines-issued-for-floor-wise-registration-of-homes-101626293347307.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to have ‘grain ATMs’ across state||The Haryana government is planning to install “grain ATMs” across all the government-run ration depots to ensure speedy and transparent distribution of wheat, rice and millet among the eligible ration card holders. Already, as a pilot project, and in what the government says “country’s first grain ATM” has become functional in Farrukhnagar of Gurugram. “The grain banks will function on the lines of ATM system, and the consumer will be able to fetch food grains from the machine with the press of a button,” deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of food and civil supplies, said in Chandigarh on Wednesday. He said that after the successful completion of this pilot project at Farrukhnagar, there is a plan to install such food grain supply machines at government depots across the state. The deputy CM said these machines will prove helpful in distributing food grains to the government depot operators and also save their time. The grain ATMs will be installed under the World Food Programme of United Nation and is called automated, multi commodity, grain dispensing machine. According to Ankit Sood, an officer associated with this programme, the error in the measurement of grain is negligible and this machine can dispense up to 70-kg grains in five to seven minutes. It is equipped with biometric system and a touch screen. The beneficiary has to enter the Aadhar card or ration card unique number. On biometric authentication, the food grains prescribed by the government to the beneficiaries will be automatically filled in the bags installed under the machine. Three types of grains wheat, rice and millet can be distributed through this machine. Dushyant said with the installation of ‘grain ATMs’, complaints regarding long queues and ration quantity will be redressed. “The objective of installing this machine is to ensure that the right quantity should reach the right beneficiary, besides the transparency in the public food distribution system,” said Dushyant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-have-grain-atms-across-state-101626293044381.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||PO in ₹30 theft case, arrested after 31 years||Thirty-one years after he was booked, arrested and released on bail for stealing ₹30 from the pocket of a farmer in 1990, Kaithal police arrested the accused, a proclaimed offender. However, the court released him as he had already spent a night in the police custody immediately after the crime was committed. The accused, Subhash Chand, 52, of Dhrondi village of Jind district, was declared a proclaimed offender by a local court in September 1996. According to the case file, Karam Singh of Jaswanti village had filed a complaint on December 3, 1990, at the Kaithal sadar police station that he was standing at a bus-stand near Keorak village when the accused allegedly stole ₹30 from his pocket. On his complaint, Subhash was booked under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code. Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh said a day after the registration of the FIR, the police had arrested Subhash and also recovered the stolen money from his possession. An official said Subhash was arrested and released on bail the next day by a court (December 4, 1990). However, after that, Subhash never showed up and on September 16, 1996, the then Kaithal judicial magistrate (1st Class) declared him proclaimed offender. Subhash was arrested on Tuesday under Kaithal police’s special drive to arrest proclaimed offenders. A spokesperson said Subhash was produced in a local court on Wednesday and the court released him as he had already spent a night in the police custody. Subhash admitted before the court that he had stolen ₹30 when he was 21. “Subhash pleaded before the court that he has to take care of his mother, his paralyzed wife and two kids. The court released him,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/po-in-30-theft-case-arrested-after-31-years-101626292567007.html
15-07-2021||Other||6th pay panel report: Ludhiana MC employees to observe pen down strike today||In protest against the 6th pay commission recommendations and alleged pressure on municipal corporation (MC) employees to accept the same, the Municipal Employees’ Sangharsh Committee has announced to go on pen-down strike for three hours (9 am till noon) on Thursday.The members of the union handed over memorandums regarding the same to mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Wednesday and demanded that the employees should not be forced to accept the recommendations.Union chairman Ashwani Sahota and president Jasdev Sekhon stated that the employees’ unions in different departments across the state are protesting against the 6th pay commission report, and the MC employees have also opposed the same as the recommendations are not in favour of the employees.Sekhon and Sahota said some of the senior officials in MC are trying to pressurise the employees by saying that their salaries won’t be released if they don’t accept the recommendations. The MC employees’ union stands united with other unions protesting against the report across the state, they added.“The decision regarding further agitation will be taken after discussing the issue with the state level employees’ unions,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6th-pay-panel-report-ludhiana-mc-employees-to-observe-pen-down-strike-today-101626292565735.html
15-07-2021||Other||Physical classes from next session: Ludhiana’s PU-affiliated colleges gather data on vaccination status of students||After the state government allowed colleges to re-open for students, the educational institutions affiliated with Panjab University have started gathering information on the current status of Covid-19 vaccination among students. Students and staff must be vaccinated to be able to attend offline classes in the next session.The college principals have directed the teachers to encourage students to get vaccinated. The authorities will also send details regarding the vaccination status of their teaching and non-teaching staff to the director of public instruction colleges, Punjab. With semester exams going on online, the college authorities have decided to begin the physical classes from the next session.There are over 4,000 students enrolled in undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Satish Chander Dhawan Government College. Last month, the college had organised a two-day vaccination camp wherein over 600 students received the first dose.College principal Gurpreet Kaur said, “We are not asking the students to get vaccinated right now as their exams are underway. After the exams get over, we will circulate messages to students asking them to get themselves vaccinated. Over 1,000 students have received the first dose of vaccination to date.”Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, has a strength of 3,000 students. The college teachers have been collecting data regarding the vaccination status of the students. Principal Mukti Gill said, “We will have details of vaccinated students this week, and then we will request the health department to hold a vaccination camp in our college so that the students who are left can get themselves vaccinated.”As per the instructions from the director, public instructions (DPI) (Colleges), the college authorities have to ensure that each teaching and non-teaching staff member is vaccinated, and the students have also received the first dose. Master Tara Singh Memorial College for Women principal Kirandeep Kaur said, “We will send the report of all staff members to the DPI office tomorrow as all of them have been vaccinated. We will also hold camps in college for students so that they are eligible to attend offline classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/physical-classes-from-next-session-ludhiana-s-pu-affiliated-colleges-gather-data-on-vaccination-status-of-students-101626292564695.html
15-07-2021||Other||GADVASU launches on-campus shop for sale of dairy products||The College of Dairy Science and Technology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), launched an on-campus shop for the sale of its in-house fresh milk and milk products. Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, while inaugurating this sale point located near the College of Agricultural Engineering roundabout on campus, applauded the endeavours of the department.The Experimental Dairy Plant (EDP) of the college is using milk produced at GADVASU’s dairy farm to prepare pasteurized milk, and various types of clean, hygienic, and nutritious processed milk products such as plain lassi, masala lassi, sweetened lassi, paneer, milk cake, flavoured milk, mozzarella cheese, and ice-cream, among other things.The EDP has been established for imparting hands-on training to the students, entrepreneurs, and preparing fresh and hygienic milk products for the consumers.These products will be available for sale at the shop from 7 am to 10 am and from 4 pm to 6 pm daily. While liquid milk can be purchased with coupons only, other products can be bought with cash payments. Milk coupons will also be available at this sale point on selected days.Ramneek, dean, CODST said the EDP of the college is committed to supplying fresh and quality milk and milk products. He praised the scientists of the college for their dedication and hard work in the preparation and distribution of fresh, hygienic, and quality milk products to consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gadvasu-launches-on-campus-shop-for-sale-of-dairy-products-101626292561760.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Veggie rates shoot up in Ludhiana due to fuel rate hike, unfavourable weather||The hike in fuel prices coupled with unfavourable weather condition has affected the vegetable supply, causing its rates to shoot up in the city. Vegetables such as capsicum, onion, and tomatoes are burning holes in pockets and disturbing the household budget of many. Another reason cited by vegetable sellers behind the inflation is the increase in transportation cost. Rain in the areas from where vegetables are supplied has also impacted their prices. The rate of capsicum and French beans has increased ₹20 in the last seven days. The price of bottle gourd and cucumber has also shot up by ₹20 and ₹15, respectively, while onion has become ₹10 costlier. A wholesale dealer at the vegetable market, Rakesh Bhatia, said, “Due to rain in Himachal Pradesh, the supply of a few vegetables has been affected. Vegetables such as capsicum and cauliflower come from the state. Cabbage and bottle gourd arrive from Kullu. The prices are expected to remain the same next week as well.”A homemaker, Geetika Chaudhary, said, “The increase in vegetable prices has impacted our household budget. My kids are fond of pasta, pizza and capsicum is the main ingredient to prepare these items. With the hike in rates, I have cut down on the consumption of a few vegetables and prefer buying paneer than French beans and capsicum.”Subhash Kumar, a vegetable seller, said, “If the supply remains affected in the coming days too, then the vegetable price are likely to increase more by ₹10 to ₹20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/veggie-rates-shoot-up-in-ludhiana-due-to-fuel-rate-hike-unfavourable-weather-101626292506291.html
15-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC gears up to prevent water logging during monsoon||The municipal corporation (MC) officials are taking various measures to prevent water logging during monsoon.Apart from deploying machinery and staff for continuous cleaning of Buddha Nullah, the civic body has identified seven vulnerable points of the nullah from where it overflows every year. They include New Kundanpuri, Shivpuri, Madhopuri, Gandhi Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Fish market at Tajpur road, and near Jamalpur sewer treatment plant (STP).The civic body has also identified 172 low lying points including, those in Haibowal, Shivpuri, Transport Nagar, Sundar Nagar, Chaura Bazar, Sekhewal, Dhoka Mohalla, Cycle market at Gill Road, Partap Chowk to Dholewal Chowk, Giaspura, Daba Road, Panj Peer Road, New Kundanpuri, Damoria Bridge, CRPF Colony in Dugri, etc.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said,” Staff will be deployed at these points during the rainy season to expedite the process of draining out the rainwater. Sandbags have also been arranged to prevent the nullah from overflowing.”The officials stated that the civic body has also ensured that the drains that go through the interior parts of the city including, Haibowal, Domoria bridge, Chaura Bazar, Dholewal chowk, among other areas, and drain out into the Buddha Nullah, have been cleaned.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The sewer lines and road gullies are being cleaned. Storm sewers have also been installed at a few sites including, the Clock Tower area. I had inspected the ongoing work of cleaning of Buddha Nullah for the second time this season on July 10.”24/7 flood control room established in Daresi areaThe district administration has set up a 24/7 flood control room (0161-2749120) in the Daresi area to deal with the menace of water logging. Sabharwal said upon receiving a complaint, the staff will promptly reach the spot.Ongoing projects might cause trouble: ResidentsThe residents are apprehensive about the tall claims being made by the MC. They rued that the ongoing projects of installation of sewer lines near Lakkar Bazar Chowk, and cleaning of sewer lines in different parts of the city, will leave them a harried lot during the rainy season. Former councillor Parminder Mehta said, “The MC had earlier dug up the road from Rekhi Cinema Chowk to Clock Tower for laying of storm sewer lines. It failed to level and repair the patch after the work was done owing to which the potholed road might lead to accidents.”Now, they have dug up the road near Lakkar Bazar chowk for laying sewer lines when the monsoon has already arrived, this too poses risk to the commuters, he added.Area councillor Rakesh Prashar said the storm lines have already been installed near the Clock Tower area. “The work of laying sewer lines near Lakkar Bazar Chowk will be completed in a day or two. The projects were taken up so that residents don’t face any trouble due to water logging during monsoon season,” he added. Meanwhile, Surinder Kaur Manna, councillor of ward number 54, stated that the MC is working to clean the sewer lines but this should have been done before the monsoon.Water logging was witnessed for a short period in areas including Abdullapur Basti, and Chandigarh Road after the city received 25.2 mm of rainfall on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-gears-up-to-prevent-water-logging-during-monsoon-101626292505064.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Akali leaders detained while trying to gherao residence of Punjab cabinet minister||More than 24 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including former ministers Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Hira Singh Gabria, and Darshan Singh Shivalik, were detained by police following the protest they held outside the residence of Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu near Kochar Market here on Wednesday.The SAD leaders have been accusing Ashu of sheltering LIP chief Simarjeet Singh Bains who was booked under rape charges two days ago. Akali leader Harish Rai Dhanda and suspended DSP Balwinder Singh Sekhon had been raising the issue for the last one year and mounting pressure on both the police and the ruling Congress regime.After the registration of FIR on Monday, Dhanda, Grewal and party’s district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon had sought the arrest of Bains within 24 hours failing which they warned of gheraoing the house of Ashu.Gabria sustains injuryHira Singh Gabria sustained an injury while being taken to the police station, which prompted councillor Mamta Ashu, who is the wife of Bharat Bhushan Ashu, to visit Sarabha Nagar police station to take stock of Gabria’s condition.However, heated arguments were witnessed between Mamta and SAD leaders at the police station. Mamta accused the Akali leaders, particularly Dhanda, of deliberately dragging Ashu in the controversy. She said “there were many rape victims who were also seeking justice, but the SAD leader never stood with them”.“Mamta Ashu complained that SAD leaders dragged her husband into the controversy. We told her that Ashu represents the government, and we are asking the government to tell us as to why Simarjeet Singh Bains was being given shelter,” Grewal said.The protest began at 10am when a large number of SAD workers led by Dhillon, Grewal, Dhanda, and Youth Akali Dal (rural) president Prabhjot Singh Dhaliwal gathered outside the house of Ashu.Dhanda was highly critical of the cabinet minister and said that it was at “Ashu’s behest that Bains was roaming free”.Soon, women workers from Istri Akali Dal arrived at the protest site and begin raising anti-Congress slogans. Heavy police deployment was made outside the minister’s residence to tackle any eventuality.The protesters headed towards Ashu’s house in Model Gram but were stopped by police at the Kochar Market chowk.Traffic leading to the chowk from ESI Hospital Road was also diverted for over an hour, leading to chaos in Jawahar Nagar and surrounding area.The agitation gained momentum as women workers of the party first tried to scale the barricades.However, on failing to do so, the male workers of the Youth Akali Dal attempted to break the security cordon, but the police foiled their plan.A tug of war-like situation went on for half an hour following which the police detained Gabria, Grewal, Shivalik, Dhanda and Dhillon, while several others were also taken into custody.‘Bains is a Congress worker in disguise’“We will continue to fight for the justice to the rape victim. Now, it is no secret that Bains is a Congress worker in disguise and being provided full shelter and support by his political masters,” said Dhillon.“This is an utter lawlessness. Instead of taking action against Simarjeet Singh Bains and his accomplices, the police have arrested the SAD leaders, who are fighting for the justice,” said Dhaliwal.Meanwhile, ACP (Civil Lines) Jatinder Singh Chopra said the SAD workers were detained for security purpose and later released from the custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-leaders-detained-while-trying-to-gherao-residence-of-punjab-cabinet-minister-101626292503988.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Foetus found dumped in sewer, Ludhiana police register FIR||Daba police have registered a case against an unidentified woman for dumping her foetus in a sewer. The incident came to light after a man found the foetus while supervising cleaning of a choked sewer line in Basant Nagar on Tuesday. A team from Daba police station reached the spot on being informed. The foetus was in a polythene bag and the police have sent it to the civil hospital.ASI Naveen Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR was registered against an unidentified woman under Section 318 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The case was registered on the basis of the statement given by Satnam Singh, a resident of Basant Nagar.He said that for the past two days, the sewer line near his area was blocked and sewage was overflowing. “We had hired a private sewerman to clean the choked line. During cleaning, he took out a polythene which had blocked the line and in that bag, there was a foetus,” he added.ASI Kumar said that the case is under investigation. The police are trying to identify the accused, he added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/foetus-found-dumped-in-sewer-ludhiana-police-register-fir-101626292502617.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||At 5, Covid cases at all-time low in Ludhiana||The daily figure of Covid cases reached another all-time low on Wednesday with five persons testing positive in district in the last 24 hours. No death was reported on Wednesday due to Covid. There are 154 active cases in the district currently. The month of July has brought a major respite for the residents of Ludhiana as only two deaths have been reported in the last two weeks. However, this is no time for complacency, warned authorities. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday emphasised that only vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing and observing good hygiene, would protect the people from the imminent third wave of the pandemic.Addressing the viewers in his weekly Facebook live session on the official page of DPRO Ludhiana, the DC said if the people kept following the Covid-appropriate behaviour and got vaccinated, then they can be saved from the third wave.He said that people must not let their guards down at any cost against Covid-19 as scientists and experts are repeatedly warning against carelessness and crowding, which can lead to a massive surge in the number of cases.On queries of some residents regarding the reopening of schools, he said the district administration will send their feedback to the government and expressed hope that regular classes would resume soon. Operator booked for opening spa centre without getting staff vaccinatedDivision Number 2 police on Wednesday booked a woman for running her spa centre without getting her staff vaccinated.Sangeeta Kumari has been charged with Section 188 of the IPC. She ran her spa centre near Lakkar Bazaar.“Soon after receiving the information, a raid was conducted at the centre and it was found that neither the accused nor her staffers were vaccinated,” ASI Des Raj said.Although the district magistrate has allowed gyms, restaurants, and spa centres to reopen, there is a condition that all staff members and visitors must have received at least one dose of Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-5-covid-cases-at-all-time-low-in-ludhiana-101626292444625.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tea vendor falls into canal in Ludhiana, dies||A 60-year-old tea vendor drowned after accidentally falling into Sidhwan Canal while washing utensils here on Wednesday. The deceased is Jugal Kishor, a resident of Shimlapuri. His body has been retrieved and sent to hospital. Inquest proceedings have been initiated on the statement of his sister Anita, who said Jugal slipped into the canal and was swept away with the water current. His body was recovered from Dhuri Line bridge later in the day. Body of 10-year-old boy recoveredThe body of a 10-year-old boy was fished out of the Sidhwan Canal by Dehlon police on Wednesday evening.He is yet to be identified. The body has been taken to the civil hospital. The incident came to light in the evening when commuters spotted the body floating near Gill bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tea-vendor-falls-into-canal-in-ludhiana-dies-101626292443567.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat tutor gets 20-year RI for sodomising two minor brothers||A Panipat-based private tutor was awarded 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment for sodomising his two minor students, who are real brothers, in 2019.A fast track-court of the additional sessions judge Sumit Garg, set up under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, also imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on the convict, Anil Sharma.According to the police records, Anil was booked under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and Sections 377 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code in February 2019 on the complaint of the grandfather of the victim brothers. The complaint lodged at the Model Town police station, Panipat, stated the victims, aged 10 and 12 (students of classes 4 and 8), used to go to Anil’s house for English language tuitions. The incident came to light in February 2019, when the elder brother fell ill and was taken to a doctor. He shared his trauma with his mother, a widow, and later his younger brother also disclosed that the tutor had also sodomised him.The victims said the teacher sexually exploited them on several occasions and threatened them of dire consequences if they didn’t keep mum. Following the complaint, the medical examination of the kids and the tutor was conducted on February 23, 2019. The fine imposed upon the convict will be given to the victims as compensation, reads the judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-tutor-gets-20-year-ri-for-sodomising-two-minor-brothers-101626292021792.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two inmates held for running fake website from Nabha jail||Two inmates of Nabha’s high security jail in Patiala district have been arrested for running a fake website in the name of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). The accused have been identified as Aman Kumar and Sunil Kalra, who were also involved in the infamous 2016 Nabha jailbreak case. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused were planning to run a fake recruitment drive of volunteers for rescue works from the jail as the website (sdrfindia.org) they were running is point-to-point copy of official website of the National Disaster Response Force. The phone numbers mentioned on the fake website were being operated from inside the jail. Both the accused posed themselves as IPS officers on the SDRF website. While Aman masqueraded as additional director of the SDRF, Sunil Kalra claimed to be an IG-rank official.“It came fore that they were planning to run a fake recruitment drive by charging ₹500 per volunteer. The website looked so real that even national signages and other links were copied,” said Nabha Kotwali SHO Surinder Bhalla.He added that the matter came to light when police received information on June 17 about some mobile number running illegally from inside the jail. It was found that Aman was using the phone number following which he was brought on production warrant. During interrogation, he confessed to running a fake website along with Sunil, the SHO said. It was found that Aman contacted a Hoshiarpur-based woman and introduced himself as an IPS officer working in the SDRF. “He also sent his photographs in police uniform to her to win her trust. The woman along with her brother, who is a website developer, prepared a website for Aman without knowing that they were falling in a trap. They arranged hosts so that the website could work for at least a year,” the SHO said.A police official said the woman and her brother were paid ₹75,000 and fake receipts were issued. The money was sent to her through another accused, Himanshu Kakkar, who is Sunil’s cousin. He is yet to be arrested.“The sister-brother duo told the police that they were not aware that Aman was committing a fraud as he submitted fake photographs and IDs to them,” said a senior official.A case under Sections 170 (personating a public servant), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) of IPC and other sections of the Information Technology (IT) Act and the Prisons Act has been registered. Habitual offender Aman, a law graduate and a resident of Kurukshetra in Haryana, is a habitual offender as he was earlier arrested for impersonating as an IPS officer. More than 20 cases of impersonating top police officials in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh have been registered against him. In 2014, Aman was arrested by Chandigarh Police for duping a woman of ₹35 lakh by posing as a CBI officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-inmates-held-for-running-fake-website-from-nabha-jail-101626291902534.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police bust another weapon supply module in MP, two arrested||Punjab Police on Wednesday busted another interstate module involved in manufacturing and supply of illegal weapons across the state with the arrest two of its members from Madhya Pradesh. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said in an interstate operation, a team of the state counter intelligence, Amritsar, arrested Jeevan, 19, a resident of Jamli Gaytri Dham village in Barwani district and Vijay Thakur, 25, of Umrypani in Barwani of Madhya Pradesh from Sendhwan village in Barwani and recovered 39 pistols of .32 bore along with magazines from their possession.The development came just four days after Kapurthala police busted an illicit weapon supply network with the arrest of its main supplier from Barwani in MP. This is the fourth such MP-based illegal weapon manufacturing and supply module busted by Punjab Police in the last eight months. Prior to the Kapurthala bust, Amritsar rural police had unearthed two such modules, including one small arms manufacturing unit in MP with the arrest of smugglers, who were supplying weapons to gangsters, criminals and radicals in Punjab.Raising concern that the areas of Khargone, Barwani and Burhanpur districts of MP have been emerging as a big-time base for manufacturing and supply of high-quality .30 bore and .32 bore weapons to gangsters of the country, the DGP said apart from unearthing illicit weapon manufacturing units in MP, different units of Punjab Police had earlier recovered huge caches of MP-manufactured illegal weapons from the state. According to information, Punjab Police have recovered 122 MP-manufactured illegal weapons since September 2020.Sharing details, the DGP said the counter intelligence wing in Amritsar had arrested two persons, identified as Hira Singh and Harmandeep Singh, both residents of Tarn Taran, after recovering three country-made pistols and ammunition from their possession on June 12, 2021, and during interrogation, they revealed that they procured these weapons from Madhya Pradesh.The DGP said following these inputs, a special team led by inspector Inderdeep Singh was sent to MP to bust the entire module. He said that preliminary investigations revealed that these weapons were meant to be supplied to various criminal gangs and other anti-national elements in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-bust-another-weapon-supply-module-in-mp-two-arrested-101626291781633.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt’s wrong policies turning industry to other states: Mann||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday said industries were turning to other states due to the wrong policies of the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government. In a statement, Mann said the state government had failed miserably to provide 24-hour uninterrupted power supply along with other facilities to the industry. “During the 10-year rule of the Badal government, traders were troubled by goonda taxes and now the Congress leaders are harassing industrialists, due to which they are showing interest in investing in Uttar Pradesh,” he alleged in a statement. The AAP leader claimed that over 50 industries in steel parts, dyeing units, yarn, cycle parts, textile and other sectors had reportedly shown interest in investing in UP and got details of land available in different districts, sops, including 24-hour power supply. “This will be disadvantageous for Punjab,” he said, demanding that the state government should compensate the industry for their financial losses due to power shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-s-wrong-policies-turning-industry-to-other-states-mann-101626291661581.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces waiver of ₹590-cr loans of labourers, landless farmers||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Wednesday announced waiver of loans worth ₹590 crore under the farm debt waiver scheme for labourers and landless farmers. The cheques would be issued at a state-level function on August 20, said an official spokesperson after a high-level meeting held here. The government will pay off loans to the tune of ₹520 crore of 2,85,325 members of primary agricultural cooperative societies, thus ensuring a relief of ₹20,000 per member, said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. He directed the finance and cooperation departments to kick off the process for effective implementation of the decision on the ground. The spokesperson said the government had formulated a debt relief scheme for farm labourers and landless farming members of PACS-2019, which would cover only consumption loans to the members of the primary agricultural cooperative societies advanced by district central cooperative banks in Punjab through primary agricultural cooperative societies.So far, loans worth ₹4,624 crore have been waived of 5.64 lakh farmers under the scheme. Besides, loans of the SC and BC categories have been written off up to the amount of ₹50,000 each, including waiver up to ₹58.39 crore of 6,405 beneficiaries by the SC corporation and ₹20.71 crore of 1,225 beneficiaries by the BC corporation, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-announces-waiver-of-rs-590-cr-loans-of-labourers-landless-farmers-101626291481508.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda central varsity to start PG diploma in geoinformatics||BATHINDACentral University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda, has collaborated with the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre to start a one-year postgraduate diploma in geoinformatics.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed at the CUP on Wednesday. Dr Sunil Mittal, dean, school of environment and earth science of CUP, said the programme will be rolled out from this academic session for BTech students.Fifteen students will be admitted this year and seats may be increased seeing the response, he added.“Geospatial technology is geographical mapping for various purposes including, agricultural fields, paleochannels, forest cover. This academic collaboration will empower youth with the skill of using emerging scientific technologies for sustainable development,” said Mittal.Vice-chancellor Prof Raghavendra P Tiwari said classes for 1st semester will be held at the Bathinda campus whereas students will take the later session on the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre’s Ludhiana campus.Punjab Remote Sensing Centre director Dr Brijendra Pateriya said it will help researchers initiate joint research projects, exchange research materials, write research papers in international scientific publications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-central-varsity-to-start-pg-diploma-in-geoinformatics-101626291182002.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees lowest positivity rate of 0.27% in 15 months||Punjab on Wednesday reported five more Covid-related fatalities taking the death toll to 16,207, while 111 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 5,97,929, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government.With this, the state recorded its lowest positivity rate of 0.27% in the past 15 months. Fresh deaths were reported from Amritsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Jalandhar and Patiala. The number of active cases stood at 1,386, the bulletin said. Bathinda reported 20 infections, followed by 13 in Jalandhar and 10 in Amritsar, the bulletin said. With 141 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,80,336. A total of 1,14,85,744 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-lowest-positivity-rate-of-0-27-in-15-months-101626291005357.html
15-07-2021||Other||Neurological disorder incidence has doubled in Punjab: ICMR study||Chandigarh Neurological disorders like stroke, headaches, and epilepsy have doubled in Punjab over the past 30 years, experts in field have found after research.The empirical result that has been established is that in 1990, 4% of all disorders were neurological disorders; in 2019, this percentage doubled to 8%. Neurological disorders affect the brain and nerves, especially in the spinal cord.The Indian Council of Medical Research and the Public Health Foundation of India conducted the research. Their findings have been published under the title ‘The burden of neurological disorders across states of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study 1990–2019’ in one of the leading global medical journals, Lancet Global Health, on July 14 (Wednesday), under the name of India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative. The study aimed at increasing awareness about these disorders, early identification, cost-effective treatment, and rehabilitation.Speaking on the trend of neurological disabilities in Punjab, Dr Gagandeep Singh, professor, Dayanand Medical College, Ludhiana, said, “The burden of non-communicable neurological disorders is increasing across the country. In Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, these spread mainly due to the ageing population. Communicable diseases contributed to the majority of total neurological disorders burden in children younger than five years, non-communicable neurological disorders were the highest contributor in all other age groups.”“Among other neurological disorders — stroke, headache, and epilepsy are the leading contributors in Punjab. The state has lower disability burden due to stroke, when compared to the national average, but residents of Punjab have higher incidence of headache and epilepsy disorders, as compared to the national average,” he said. “There is, however, a need to scale up the treatment coverage of epilepsy in governmental schemes such as the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram and Ayushman Bharat. Policies and practices focusing on safe births, preventing head injury and stroke would help in averting a substantial proportion of epilepsies,” Dr Gagandeep added.He cautioned that high blood pressure, air pollution, dietary risks, high-fasting plasma glucose, and high body-mass index are increasing the risk of neurological problems in adults.Dr Dheeraj, professor, department of neurology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, who was also part of the study, said, “Hypertension is very common among Punjab residents, as a result of which neurological disorders have also doubled. The state is making efforts to create awareness about stroke due to which, lower number of deaths were reported due to this disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neurological-disorder-incidence-has-doubled-in-punjab-icmr-study-101626289861641.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay set to conduct next semester online as well||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay will conduct the autumn semester online, even as the institute opens up its campus to students gradually.Institute director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “We are opening more and more gradually for PhD students, senior BTech and MTech students requiring lab access. However, the teaching will still be online and not physical until it is advised so by the appropriate health authorities.” The autumn semester for undergraduate or BTech students kicks off on July 26.The institute shut down completely on March 28 last year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic with an early summer vacation announced on April 1. Then on June 25, the institute declared that the entire autumn semester will be conducted online in the interest of students’ safety. Since then, almost all teaching and academic activities, barring research work, are held online.However, in December last year, the institute put in place a plan for slow rebooting of research work and to determine which students should be called in first and how. A committee was set up with student and faculty representatives.While undergraduate students and incoming masters and PhD students can complete their semester remotely, research scholars and senior masters students have to mandatorily complete their research projects to complete their course work. Thus, scholars who needed access to laboratories for their work were allowed to come back on priority.Prita Pant, head of the reboot committee and professor in the department of metallurgical engineering and materials sciences, had earlier told HT that measures were put in place to ensure social distancing and rational shifts in labs. “A checklist has been shared with labs and department heads. The heads and the guides will take a final call on whether it is essential for the student to come to campus,” Pant had said. Currently there are around 3,000 students on campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-set-to-conduct-next-semester-online-as-well-101626289500690.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||TMC deputy commissioner booked for sexual harassment||Kapurbawdi police registered a case against the deputy commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) for allegedly sexual harassing a former nurse. The nurse had allegedly complained to her senior about the same earlier, but she was removed from her job after that. The nurse, 38, had joined the hospital in Thane on a contract basis a year ago. According to police, when the woman was working for the hospital, deputy municipal commissioner Dr Vishwnath Kelkar, who was in-charge of all activities related to Covid-19, had passed a few comments/ sexual remarks on her. Following this, she complained to her senior as well as senior officials in TMC. She claimed she was immediately removed from the job citing inefficient documents submitted by her for the job. She then went to the Vishakha committee and Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) state vice-president Chitra Wagh on Wednesday who met the TMC commissioner and police to help the woman. A police officer said, “ A case has been registered against Kelkar under section 354 A(1) for sexual harassment of the Indian Penal Code after taking the statement of the complainant. The arrest is yet to be made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tmc-deputy-commissioner-booked-for-sexual-harassment-101626289440706.html
15-07-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple: Second-phase construction work likely to start from Diwali in November||The ongoing foundation work of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is likely to be completed by the last week of September or the first week of October and, thereafter, the second phase of the construction work of the temple will start in November. According to people familiar with the issue, the second phase of the construction work is likely to start on the festive occasion of Diwali in November. “The foundation work of the Ram temple is likely to be completed by the last week of September or the first week of October,” Dr Anil Mishra, member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, said to journalists after Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Ram temple construction committee, presided over a meeting with engineers of Larsen and Toubro, the construction agency, Tata Consulting Engineers and members of the Trust. Thereafter, construction work of the outer walls of the temple will start, Anil Mishra added. Nripendra Misra is in Ayodhya on a two-day visit to review progress of the construction work.It is his first visit to Ayodhya after the controversy related with irregularities in land purchase deals carried out by the Trust came to light last month. Interacting with engineers during the meeting, the construction committee chairman sought details of the foundation work and the expected time of its completion. He enquired about the Mirzapur sandstones which will be used in the construction of the temple. The famous sandstones of Mirzapur are also being used in the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project in Varanasi. Engineers of Larsen and Toubro also displayed details of the second phase of the construction work of the temple during a visual presentation before Nripendra Misra.Earlier in the day, Nripendra Misra visited Ram Janmabhoomi complex and reviewed construction work. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, and other members were also present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-second-phase-construction-work-likely-to-start-from-diwali-in-november-101626289141309.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Admn to involve community in road safety initiatives||The district administration has decided to ensure community involvement in various road safety initiatives and to form a team of volunteers to assist departments concerned.Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that along with the police, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), department of public works (building and roads), Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and the municipal corporation, it was also the responsibility of every citizen to actively contribute towards road safety.“Any resident who intends to work as a volunteer could give his name in the office of Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Panchkula. The road safety volunteers will also be invited to the meetings of the District Road Safety Committee. Their suggestions on further improving road safety in the district will be duly considered,” he added.The volunteers would be entrusted with the task of making people aware of traffic rules through awareness programmes and campaigns from time to time. Apart from this, they would also assist the traffic police in road traffic management by way of moral policing.Identify accident-prone spotsIn view of the ongoing monsoon season, the DC has directed the road construction agencies to identify accident-prone sites and black spots so that speed breakers and arrangements for adequate lighting could be made. Directions have also been issued that repair of roads damaged due to rain in the district be started at the earliest.Meanwhile, with the state government deciding to open schools for Classes 9 to 12 from July 16, the DC has directed the RTA to conduct checking of school buses for the safety of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-admn-to-involve-community-in-road-safety-initiatives-101626289021227.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rock Garden reopens after three months||On the first day of its reopening after it was closed in April this year in the wake of the second Covid wave, the world-famous Rock Garden registered a footfall of around 2,700 on Wednesday.Of the total 2,700 visitors, 2,500 were adults and 200 children of varying age groups. A visitor, Jaswinder Singh, said he and his family were happy to visit the Rock Garden, and that his children had been waiting for a long time to visit here.The decision to reopen the garden was taken in a review meeting of the UT administration on July 13. Earlier, the garden was reopened in November last year, eight months after it was closed in March 2020 due to the outbreak of the pandemic.Nearly 5,000 people used to visit the Rock Garden every day after it was reopened in November last year. From earning nearly ₹30 lakh per month from entry tickets to closure for several months, the administration had to suffer a huge loss during the national lockdown.Amid rush, garden closed in afternoonAfter witnessing a huge rush of people on Wednesday, however, the garden was closed for around 45 minutes in the afternoon by the advisory committee chief and the deputy commissioner during a visit. Nek Chand’s son Anuj Saini said, “Covid is not over yet, people are requested to take all the necessary precautions, so we can take care of each other as the third wave can still come.”Measure to avoid spread of Covid-19On the first day, the staff was stationed at the entry of the garden for thermal scanning of visitors. “The garden was sanitised and visitors without face masks were not permitted to roam around. Strict social distancing norms were followed,” said Sushil Bhardwaj, the ticket counterman.“There is no cap on the maximum capacity of visitors set by the administration,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-rock-garden-reopens-after-three-months-101626288961801.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMSH to start RT-PCR testing soon||In an effort to strengthen the medical facilities at the government hospitals before a possible third Covid wave, the UT health department has decided to start reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 here.RT-PCR test detects the presence of viral RNA and is quite accurate. It is the most recommended test for tracing infection in individuals suffering from influenza-like symptoms and Covid-19.During the peak of the first and second waves, the health department was struggling to conduct RT-PCR tests at the government facilities and to catch up with the daily testing targets set by the Union ministry of health.Besides private hospitals, the UT health department was dependent on Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, for RT-PCR testing.GMSH only has TrueNat machineMeanwhile, GMSH-16 only has a TrueNat machine that gives results in three to four hours, but is only meant for testing of emergency cases and not mass-scale testing. Besides, rapid antigen tests (RAT) are being conducted at various government facilities in UT, which gives results in 30-45 minutes, but is not accurate.The PGIMER has a capacity to test 4,000 RT-PCR samples per day. In the absence of the machine at the UT health department’s hospital, GMSH-16 sends around 1,000 to 1,200 samples to PGIMER daily for testing. Some samples are also being sent to GMCH-32.During the peak of the second wave in April and May, more than 600 samples were being given to private labs daily, and a huge amount of money was being paid to them by the UT administration.A top official of the GMSH, on the condition of anonymity, said, “RT-PCR testing is the need of the hour as a third wave can hit any time. A proposal has been sent to the central government to set up a RT-PCR machine at GMSH, which will initially have the capacity to test 400 samples daily. Testing, where we were lacking during the first and the second wave, will be enhanced. It will take approximately a month to start the facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgmsh-to-start-rt-pcr-testing-soon-101626288841297.html
15-07-2021||Other||HC issues guidelines for bail pleas under Pocso Act||The Allahabad high court, while dealing with a bail matter under the Pocso Act, has laid down a time frame for service of notice of bail application to the child welfare committee (CWC) and thereafter listing of bail application before high court for its hearing on merit. It will ensure that bail applications involving Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act are listed timely before court and version of the victim is also heard before passing any order on bail application. Justice Ajai Bhanot passed the order while hearing a bail application filed by one Junaid of Siddharthnagar, an accused under Pocso Act. The court said that on service of notice to government advocate office at high court, before moving bail application, the police station concerned will ensure serving of bail notice within three days to CWC and within five days to the family members of child concerned. The bail application will be placed before court for hearing on completion of 10 days after service of notice to GA office, the court added. The court directed the director general of police, UP to ensure compliance of its directions including nomination of officials for the same. The court further directed, “The registry shall ensure that the child or its parents are not joined as parties to the bail application by name. It should also be ensured that any other information like address or neighbourhood which will reveal the identity of the child shall not be stated in the bail application.” Considering the facts of the case, the court granted bail to the accused Junaid with directions that he must not misuse the bail and shall co-operate in the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-issues-guidelines-for-bail-pleas-under-pocso-act-101626288600661.html
15-07-2021||Other||Chorus of support for Joshi; state unit moves to quell disquiet||Chandigarh With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expelling former minister Anil Joshi last week over his perceived tirade against the party on the issue of farm agitation, the saffron party is now moving fast to placate leaders who have publicly extended support to Joshi.Prominent leaders who have opposed Joshi’s expulsion include former chief parliamentary secretary and former Jalandhar North MLA, KD Bhandari; former minister Master Mohan Lal; former deputy mayor from Ludhiana RD Sharma and former state youth wing chief, Mohit Gupta. A senior party functionary said the core committee of the state unit has deputed senior functionaries to talk to these leaders. He added that disciplinary action against them would be initiated only if they continue to give statements on the lines of Joshi. Sources added that Avinash Rai Khanna, who is in-charge of BJP for Himachal Pradesh, and Union minister Som Parkash have been asked to speak to Bhandari on the issue of supporting Joshi. Bhandari is also a close relative of Khanna. Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, himself, has successfully placated former minister Master Mohan Lal. The two leaders met over a cup of tea on Sunday. Lal had criticised the Centre for not giving enough representation to Punjab in the recent Cabinet reshuffle. After his meeting with Sharma, Lal said, “The party is like my mother and I won’t leave it.” “Those leaders who have expressed their feelings over Joshi’s expulsion have done no wrong. The party respects their feelings. These leaders are well aware that Anil became ‘minister Anil Joshi’ only because of the BJP. The party expelled him with a heavy heart,” Sharma said. Joshi had already decided to leave party: Sharma The state BJP chief, who is being targeted by Joshi for giving wrong feedback to the party high command on farmers’ protests, claimed that Joshi was lying on the issue. “Even Joshi is aware that how closely the Central and the state unit functions. You look at Sunday’s Rajpura episode. Within half an hour of some miscreants attacking our leaders and holding them hostage, our Central leadership called them up and extended full moral support. Can anyone believe, that the Central leadership was not aware what was happening in Punjab when these laws were enacted?” he claimed. He added that Joshi had already made up his mind to leave the BJP and did media interviews against the state and Central leadership in a well-planned manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chorus-of-support-for-joshi-state-unit-moves-to-quell-disquiet-101626288301117.html
15-07-2021||Other||Agra doctor goes missing||A practising doctor went missing after he left home for his nursing home in trans-Yamuna area on Tuesday night. An FIR had been registered in this connection at Itimad-ud-Daula police station of Agra, police said. Circle officer (CO) of Chatta in Agra, Deeksha Singh, said, “Efforts are on to trace the missing doctor who left home for his nursing home on Tuesday night, but did not reach the hospital. The mobile phone of Dr Umakant Gupta is switched off, but its last location has been traced at Saiyyan in outskirts of city. Wife of the missing doctor, Dr Vidya Gupta, has lodged an FIR of missing at Itimad-ud-Daula police station.” “CCTV footages are being checked. Police have also contacted Rajasthan police of the border district as last location Saiyyan falls on way to Rajasthan,” the CO said. Meanwhile, family members have raised apprehensions about his kidnapping. Dr Umakant is a surgeon and his wife is gynaecologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-doctor-goes-missing-101626288240626.html
15-07-2021||Lucknow||32 UP NRIs proposed investing in state during pandemic: Minister||Thirty-two Indian-origin foreign investors have made investment proposals worth ₹1,045 crore for Uttar Pradesh (UP) during the pandemic, the state’s minister for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) Sidharth Nath Singh said on Wednesday. These investment proposals are for areas like agriculture, defence, information and technology among others, the minister said. He was reviewing the work of the project monitoring unit that has been set up to attract investments into the state from Indian origin investors. “We contacted 116 Indian embassies and with their help collected data on 3,064 NRIs and these investment proposals have resulted from sustained contact,” the minister said. “Efforts are on to identify more Indians settled abroad and seek their help in developing the state,” he said. The minister said that UP will train 35,000 skilled workers for Japan’s ‘New Status of Residence: Specified Skilled Workers’ programme. The Japan initiative is aimed at addressing a serious labour shortage there. “We will train and ready these 35,000 workers who will also be taught Japanese and given training of specific skill sets,” the minister said. “To ensure employment of skilled manpower abroad, overseas manpower recruitment agencies have been linked with e-district and employment portal. UPites settled abroad and having specific skill sets will also be provided NRI cards so that they could get better facilities. Such NRI cards have been issued to 540 people so far,” the minister said. 7 proposals for upgrading UP industrial areas The UP government has ordered industrial areas in the state be upgraded on a war footing and that availability of road and power be ensured in those areas. “Under the centre’s ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises-cluster development programme (MSME-CDP) we are sending proposals for upgrading the state’s industrial areas. So far seven proposals have been sent and 23 more are being readied,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/32-up-nris-proposed-investing-in-state-during-pandemic-minister-101626288061731.html
15-07-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party to hold protests across Uttar Pradesh today, police sound alert||The Samajwadi Party would hold a statewide demonstration on Thursday (July 15) against what it called the “rigging of zila panchayat chairpersons and block pramukh polls” that concluded in Uttar Pradesh on July 10.In view of the SP’s protest plan, the state police have sounded an alert. The superintendents of police of all the districts have been directed to maintain vigil on SP workers to ensure that Covid-19 protocol is not violated during the demonstration as well as to maintain law and order, said a state government officer. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav called upon the party leaders and workers to make the protest at the tehsil headquarters across the state successful.SP to highlight projects launched by its govtThe Samajwadi Party (SP) has decided to highlight the development projects launched under its government (2012-17) as well as its achievements, in the 2022 assembly election campaign.The party has also decided to target the ruling Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) government over the issues of unemployment, rise in prices of the essential commodities, law and order, farm laws, and the alleged failure to provide basic health facilities to the people when second wave of Covid pandemic hit the state. The SP leaders will tell the people that the BJP government failed to fulfil their aspirations but failed on all fronts, said SP state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel.A meeting of the SP MLCs was held under the chairmanship of party chief Akhilesh Yadav to discuss the strategy for the 2022 assembly election. SP national general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav, leader of opposition in the legislative council Ahmed Hasan and state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel were present in the meeting.To win the support of the masses, the SP has decided to compare the development of UP under its government (2012-17) with that of the BJP regime. It will also highlight the welfare schemes launched for the weaker sections under its government, said a party leader.Samajwadi Party (SP) spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said the party leaders and legislative council members stated at the meeting that under the BJP government the farmers and youths were a harassed lot and the farmers did not even get minimum support price for their crop, nor their income was doubled. The party leaders alleged that the BJP government brought the three farm bills to pave the way for the entry of the capitalists in the agriculture sector. The SP leader also highlighted the alleged deterioration in the law-and-order situation under BJP rule, a supposed spurt in crime against women, the weakening of the Constitutional bodies under the BJP government, he said.The SP enjoys the confidence of the people, it is capable of taking Uttar Pradesh on the path of development, Chaudhary said.Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said as the Covid-19 pandemic was continuing, people should remain alert to protect themselves from infection. He called upon the people to take the Covid vaccine jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-to-hold-protests-across-uttar-pradesh-today-police-sound-alert-101626288061254.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole: Maharashtra Congress’s man of the moment||Even as senior Congress leaders resorted to damage control over his statements that irked allies Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena, state Congress chief Nana Patole continued with his remarks targeting friends and foes of his party. “We have to be prepared so that we do not face betrayal like we had to in 2014,” Patole said on Wednesday, while justifying his announcement that the Congress will prepare to be on its own in next Assembly elections in 2024. His remarks, a jibe at alliance partner NCP, came in less than 24 hours after a group of Congress leaders comprising AICC in-charge of Maharashtra HK Patil and state ministers Ashok Chavan and Balasaheb Thorat met NCP chief Sharad Pawar to discuss various issues related to the three-party coalition in the state. Patole, who was the first Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP to speak against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policies in 2017 and later quit the party to return to the Congress, has been kicking up controversies since he took up the responsibility of the party’s state unit five months ago. His statements have led to tension within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on several occasions as allies NCP and Sena have reacted angrily. Patole, who was appointed as the state unit chief of Congress in February this year, has been in the news ever since he took over. Immediately after taking over, he announced to not allow Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar to release their films in Maharashtra for their “one-sided political stand”. He also alleged that his phone was put under surveillance by previous Fadnavis government. More recently, he irked Congress’s allies by announcing to go solo in all the forthcoming elections. His demand to probe allotment of a tender in mining and energy departments had stunned leaders from his own party as the bidding was directly related to a department held by his party colleague Nitin Raut.His latest controversy is over his remarks that he was under surveillance by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and home minister Dilip Walse-Patil. The remarks were dismissed by the NCP which said the state Congress chief misunderstood the routine function of state police’s intelligence branch that keeps tabs on all political activities in the state. In a meeting with party’s local leaders in Lonavala on Saturday, Patole also said that Sena and NCP backstabbed the Congress when it came to releasing funds for the local bodies under them.This irked the other two ruling parties who reacted sharply. NCP chief Sharad Pawar ridiculed Patole by saying that the latter was “a minor leader whose comments do not warrant a response”.Pawar’s reaction upset the senior party leaders even in Congress, as they feel that it could have a negative impact on smooth functioning of the three party-ruled MVA. It was one of the reasons why HK Patil-led delegation called on Pawar on Tuesday. Pawar reportedly asked the delegation if Congress was serious about going solo in the forthcoming elections. Party insiders said HK Patil on Tuesday held a separate meeting with Patole and advised the latter to avoid any direct attack on Pawar or leaders of the MVA.It, however, did not stop Patole from continuing his statements. On Wednesday, he said his party was firm on its decision as they do not want to be cheated like 2014. Patole was referring to the 2014 assembly polls, when NCP pulled out of the alliance with Congress just ahead of the elections. Pawar’s party was irked with then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan who they suspected was trying to corner NCP leaders by raking up various scams and helping the BJP to target them. The Congress was caught unaware as the NCP withdrew support to the government. Both the parties lost the election. NCP leader Shashikant Shinde reacted: “Every party has its own right to expand its base, but Patole should take care of a few facts, why talking.”Patole, 58, comes from Bhandara area of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. A three-term Congress MLA, he shifted to the BJP ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha elections. He defeated NCP’s Praful Patel to get elected as MP from Bhandara-Gondiya. He quit in December 2017 by openly criticising Modi for the ‘anti-farmer policies’ of the central government. He returned to Congress and was appointed as head of the party’s farmers’ wing, All India Kisan Congress. He returned to the Assembly in 2019 as a Congress legislator and was made speaker of the assembly, the post he held till he resigned in February this year. His task was cut out: Reviving the Congress which was pushed to the fourth position in 2014 and 2019 Assembly elections in the state. Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said Patole has his own style of working. “He has been doing his work of expanding the party base in Maharashtra and as a state unit chief he is following his brief. There could be misinterpretation of his statements. Sometimes his analysis could be based on misreading. Whatever Patole says is in the interest of the party with the sole intention of encouraging the party workers. Even in the past, most of the local body elections were fought separately by Congress and NCP, barring a few exceptions,” he said.Former Maharashtra Congress chief Manikrao Thakre said that Patole has been able to charge up party cadre ever since he has taken the charge. Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana too has slammed Patole for his controversial statements and said that it needs to be seen if they have helped them in energizing the party cadre. He said that if it has energised the party, the Sanjivani buti, the magical herb in mythology, needs to be given to the party at national level as it is in very bad shape in many states. Meanwhile, Patole has announced a cycle rally to Raj Bhavan (Governor’s house) on Thursday to protest against Central government over rising fuel prices. Political analyst Prakash Akolkar said, “Patole’s rhetoric may be the party’s strategy to occupy political space. I will say what Raut is doing for the Sena, Patole is doing for his party. Thackeray and even Pawar know the final decision over alliance and other critical issues will be taken by the party’s central leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nana-patole-maharashtra-congress-s-man-of-the-moment-101626287940553.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||‘Sachin Vaze never said he handed over money to ex-home minister’||Terming the probe initiated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh “unjustified”, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s lawyer on Wednesday claimed that dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze has not made any mention of handing over money either to Deshmukh or his personal assistant in his affidavit before justice KU Chandiwal’s inquiry commission. Deshmukh came under the scanner after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in a letter to the chief minister and others levelled serious allegations of corruption against him. Singh claimed that Deshmukh had summoned some Mumbai Police officers, including Vaze, and informed them that he had a target to collect ₹100 crore from Mumbai and had instructed them to collect at least ₹3 lakh- ₹4 lakh from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours and such other establishments in Mumbai every month. Deshmukh’s lawyer, advocate Kamlesh Ghumre, claimed at a press conference that the probe being conducted by ED was more in the nature of harassment than a genuine investigation. Ghumre pointed out the contradictions in affidavits submitted before the inquiry commission and the statements being recorded during the probe by the central agencies. Ghumre said Deshmukh’s son and wife were also being summoned by the ED, but they have chosen not to join the agency’s probe. The lawyer added that Deshmukh’s wife, in reply to ED’s summons, has said that she is aged and is suffering from various ailments and has requested the ED to interview her through video-conferencing. Ghumre added that she was just a housewife and has nothing to do with the entire episode. “Deshmukh feels this investigation is not justified, hence he is not joining the investigation. Whatever documents ED wants, the agency should at least tell us. We have Zoom and other ways to hold video conferences, but you are directly asking us to join questioning.” Ghumre on Wednesday claimed that Singh’s allegations have turned out to be false. “Vaze hasn’t mentioned anywhere in the affidavit (filed before the inquiry commission) that he has given any money to Deshmukh. Vaze, in his affidavit, has never said that he met Deshmukh in February. In fact, he has mentioned that he had just met Deshmukh once,” Ghumre claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-never-said-he-handed-over-money-to-ex-home-minister-101626287762839.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: First-year classes likely to get delayed||With Panjab University yet to announce the schedule for common entrance test for undergraduate courses, the commencement of teaching for first-year students is expected to be delayed in the upcoming academic session. Like last year, the delay is expected for first-year students in postgraduate courses as well.As per the academic calendar for 2020-21, the next session (2021-22) was to begin on August 9. However, amid a delay, classes for first-year UG students are expected to start by the end of August and for the first-year PG students in September. Even admission process for first-year students is likely to start after completing it for the ongoing courses.The varsity has not been able to reschedule PU-CET (UG) yet due to the pending Class-12 results. The entrance test was earlier to be held in June. Last year, the varsity had suspended both UG and PG entrance tests and admissions were conducted on merit basis. However, this year, the varsity will conduct the entrance tests, and that too in physical mode. According to a university official, the new dates for the UG entrance will be announced in the coming days.While the ongoing academic session started in September last year, admissions to PG courses were delayed further and their classes started in November. Academic calendar to be issued soonA university official, while confirming that a delay is expected, said: “The varsity is in the process of finalising the new academic calendar, which will be released soon.” The official, who did not wish to be named, also said that PU will try to reduce the gap between the ongoing and first-year batches later during the academic year. The university is planning to start the even semester of the upcoming session simultaneously for both first-year and ongoing batches.It is expected that winter and summer breaks will be given in the upcoming session, after they were suspended last year due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-first-year-classes-likely-to-get-delayed-101626287522330.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Covid vaccination pace plummets as Delhi short on supplies again||Nearly half the vaccination centres in Delhi were closed on Wednesday and new vaccinations dropped nearly 50% compared to the previous day, as the state government ran short of supplies again.Officials warned that the pace was likely to drop further on Thursday.Just over 64,000 doses were administered on Wednesday at 671 vaccination centres — the city has 1,374 centres in all.On Tuesday, 129,000 doses were administered.State health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the drop was due to shortage of doses. “We have to shut down vaccination centres because of a lack of vaccines,” Jain said.In a tweet on Wednesday, he stressed that the city has “gained control over the second wave of Covid-19”, and said the government was strengthening Delhi’s health infrastructure.Senior government officials said the state had fewer than 64,000 doses of Covishield in stock as on Wednesday morning.It was not immediately clear how many doses of Covishield were administered on Wednesday, but officials said Delhi was yet to receive new doses till the time of going of print.The government also had a stock of around 246,000 doses of Covaxin — only 20% of which were to be used for first doses — as on Wednesday morning.“Only 20% of Covaxin stocks can be used for first dose, since Covaxin stocks are limited and have irregular delivery cycles,” said the government’s vaccination bulletin on Wednesday.Delhi’s vaccination rates have been erratic even after June 21, when the Centre took control of purchasing and distribution.In over three weeks since then, vaccinations peaked on June 26, when the city administered over 207,000 doses in a single day. On three days, between June 26 and 29, Delhi administered doses to more than 200,000 every day.However, the numbers dipped sharply on weekdays, with jabs falling to 22,353 doses on July 7 (not including Sundays, when most government vaccination centres are shut).“Our stock has been completely exhausted. We are waiting to hear from the state store on whether we will get any more doses before opening the slots for tomorrow (Thursday),” said a senior official from New Delhi district, where vaccinations actually picked up on Wednesday with 6,716 jabs administered as against 3,992 the day before.The worst performer on Wednesday was north-east district where only 918 jabs had been administered till 6pm, compared to over 10,800 jabs administered the day before, according to data from the Centre’s CoWIN dashboard.“Yes, there is a shortage of vaccines; the supply isn’t regular. For now, we are not looking at adding any centres because we have more capacity than vaccines at the moment,” said an official from the district.This is likely to continue for the month, another senior district official said on Wednesday.“We had to shut some of the vaccination centres on Wednesday. There have been days when we could run only a couple of centres because of the shortage of doses. And, this is likely to continue for the month because Delhi’s allocation for the month was low. Hopefully, with production being ramped up, more doses will be available from next month,” the official added.In a series of tweets, Union health minister Mansukh Mandviya on Wednesday said problem with vaccine slots was down to mismanagement by the states.“In June, 11.46 crore vaccine doses were made available in the states and union territories and in July this was increased to 13.50 crore doses. How many doses will be available in July was communicated to the states on June 19. If despite the information being provided by the Centre in advance, there is mismanagement and long queues, then it is clear where the problem lies and who is responsible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccinations-slump-as-delhi-falls-short-of-jabs-101626287520562.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai accounts for 35.11% traffic violation cases in Maharashtra in 6 months||Mumbai has recorded 35.11% of all the traffic violation cases reported in Maharashtra in the past six months, reveals the latest statistics compiled by Maharashtra highways. Mumbai, which caters to 20% of the state’s vehicular population, has recorded 38 traffic violation cases from January to June 2021, followed by Pune with 16.83 lakh cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad with 5.6 lakh traffic violation cases stands at third place, followed by Thane (5.4 lakh cases), Nagpur (4.6 lakh cases) and Navi-Mumbai (4.2 lakh cases).Police officers said there has been 61% growth in traffic violations in the state for the six months — January to June 2021, as compared to the corresponding period last year.“We are concentrating on enforcement. Our aim is not to collect money but maintain a record of traffic violators and also collect fines from those who violate traffic laws. This will send the right message and people will soon start following the law. The e-challan system has helped us maintain a good record of traffic violators and those repeating violations will be dealt with strictly,” said additional director general of police, Traffic, Maharashtra, Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay.Collection of traffic fines has, however, gone down by 9% in the past six months. As per the latest figures of Maharashtra highways from January to June 2021, around 108 crore cases of traffic violations have been registered in the state, levying a total fine of ₹333 crore. The authorities, however, could collect only ₹59 crore from the violators.Last year in all 67 lakh cases was registered and the total fine collected via e-challan stood at ₹65 crore and the pending due amount was ₹209 crores.Mumbai, which has around 20% share of the vehicle population of the state, contributed to 35% cases of violations, levying 31% of the fine and recorded 26.4% of the fine collected.“Mumbai has around 38.04 lakh cases of a traffic violation for the six months period which was 59% more from last year’s 23.85 lakh cases. The Mumbai traffic police managed to collect fines of ₹16 crores, while challans issued were of ₹104 crores,” said a Mumbai Police officer.Pune recorded 16.83 lakh cases of traffic violations which were 70% more compared to last year, the overall vehicle share of Pune city stood at 11% of the vehicle share of the state. The total outstanding fine from Pune violators stood at ₹64 crores and Pune Police managed to collect ₹8 crore.The Pimpri-Chinchwad police registered around 5.6 lakh traffic cases, a whopping 212% more compared to last year and collected ₹2.3 crore in fines. Their outstanding e-challan fines was at ₹16 crore in the twin city having 5% of the state’s vehicle population.Thane city, though has a larger vehicular population - 9.31% of the state’s population - ranked fourth in traffic violations with around 5 lakh traffic violation cases for the period of six months - around 79% more than the corresponding period for 2020. While the violators owed ₹19 crore towards fine, Thane police could collect only ₹3 crore from them.In the past six months, Nagpur Police have recorded around 4.6 lakhs traffic violations - about 84% more than the cases recorded in the corresponding period last year. Nagpur police collected a fine of ₹6.7 crore from traffic violators however they owed ₹15 crore from the violators in form of unpaid e-challan by motorists. Nagpur city has around 11 per cent of the total vehicle share in the state.The Navi-Mumbai recorded 4.2 lakh cases, about 27% more compared to the cases registered in the corresponding period last year, and levied a fine of ₹16 crore. However, collected ₹2.21 crore towards outstanding fines. The vehicle share of Navi-Mumbai is 6% of the state.“Apart from the high vehicular density, implementation of traffic regulations in Mumbai is stricter also the number of traffic policemen in the city is far higher than any other city in the state. Also, the system of booking violators through close circuit television cameras is far more effective in Mumbai than any other city,” said transport expert Ashok Datar, explaining perhaps why more cases of traffic violations are registered in Mumbai than any other city in Maharashtra.Datar said the comparative hike is seen in the past six months because of relaxation in lockdown norms and less fear of Covid, as compared to last year.“People are coming on streets for work purposes this year more and trains having been closed (for except those engaged in essential services) they are taking out their vehicles,” said Datar.In this period the lowest number of cases - 16,353 were recorded in Vidarbha’s Gadchiroli town where the traffic authorities levied fines of ₹38 lakh and recovered ₹21 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-accounts-for-35-11-traffic-violation-cases-in-maharashtra-in-6-months-101626287521115.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Vortex: A tiny weather system that interfered with Mumbai monsoon||After a dry spell at the beginning of the week, rainfall activity intensified in Mumbai on Wednesday morning and moderate showers continued through the day. The Santacruz station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) — which is indicative of the city — received 5.5mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday while the Colaba station, representative of the island city, recorded 37.6mm rainfall in the same period. A small low pressure system called a vortex formed towards the north of the city’s coast made conditions more conducive for rainfall on Wednesday. It amplified the southwesterly winds, resulting in more rain. The city clocked in a total 89.6mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8:30am on Wednesday. Mumbai has so far seen 1,259.3mm rain since June 1, which is about 48% in excess of the seasonal normal for the period. However, in the first 12 days of July, the city recorded 148.3mm of rain, which is -55% of the normal (332.9mm).IMD had anticipated as much as 200mm of rainfall in about 24 hours between Sunday and Tuesday. However, on Monday, the city received only 2.8mm of rainfall as most of the rainfall had been deposited in the sea. Incidentally, a similar vortex had moved clouds away from the city earlier this week, resulting in little rainfall inland.So, what is this weather phenomenon that interrupted or meddled with the southwest monsoon rains? Usually, during the monsoon season, southwesterly winds in the lower part of the atmosphere push clouds and rain from the Arabian Sea towards land. While this is the ideal condition for monsoon activities, some low-pressure activities near the coast can interfere with the wind movement. Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading, England, said, “Imagine mixing coffee in a cup of milk with a spoon. You can see the coffee swirl in the cup. This is what a vortex would look like in the atmosphere if we were able to see it straightaway. It is a small low-pressure circulation that is powerful enough to interfere with southwesterly winds.”The location of these vortices and their subsequent interaction with southwesterly winds can have an impact on how much rain the city gets. A vortex forms when there is a significant upward motion of the air over a region, for example hot air rising from the sea. In such a situation, the air from surrounding regions rushes to this region and the effect of earth’s rotation adds a swirling effect.The most common reason for the formation of a vortex is low pressure along the west coast. Usually, low pressures occur when hot air over the sea rises and wind starts blowing from the land into the sea. This creates a vortex of air swirling along the coast. On Sunday, even as clouds formed along the coast, a vortex disturbed the wind pattern, blowing clouds away from the city, said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist at IMD Mumbai. “Incidentally, Raigad received a decent amount of rainfall as the clouds moved south on Sunday and Monday,” Bhute added.However, on Wednesday, as the vortex moved towards the north-end of Mumbai’s coast, it amplified the southwesterly winds, thereby increasing rainfall activity. Estimating where the vortex can form can help predict heavy rain spells in Mumbai, said Deoras. “One can well predict such heavy rains in Mumbai by estimating where a vortex can form. However, numerical weather prediction models, which can well predict large-scale features of the monsoon, are often not able to well simulate the location and intensity of small vortices, resulting in forecasting failures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vortex-a-tiny-weather-system-that-interfered-with-mumbai-monsoon-101626287461585.html
15-07-2021||Other||HC asks CBSE to take decision on refunding board exam fee in 8 weeks||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to take a decision within eight weeks on the full or partial refund of exam fees of classes 10 and 12, the tests for which were cancelled following the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. Justice Prateek Jalan ordered the CBSE to consider a petition by Deepa Joseph, mother of a Class 10 student studying in a CBSE-affiliated school in the city, who paid ₹2,100 as examination fee.The CBSE opposed the plea, saying that the exams were cancelled after the preparations were made for the exams.Advocate Rupesh Kumar submitted that CBSE was a self-financing body and its expenditure was principally funded by the examination fees collected from students appearing for Class 10 and 12 board examinations. He added there is no direct correlation between the physical conduct of board exams and fees charged from students.Advocate Robin Raju, appearing for Joseph, contended that since the board examinations have been cancelled, at least some part of the examination fee ought to be refunded to the students.The court disposed of the matter with the direction to the CBSE to take a decision on the representation by Joseph for the refund of the examination fees. It also recorded that the parties will have no objection to justice Jalan hearing the petition even though he will be a beneficiary on account of his son being in Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-cbse-to-take-decision-on-refunding-board-exam-fee-in-8-weeks-101626287461007.html
15-07-2021||Mumbai||Water levels rise at lakes supplying water to Thane||With good rainfall over the past few days in the catchment areas of lakes that supply water to Thane, water stock in Barvi dam is now 41%, Bhatsa has a water stock of around 37% while Andra Dam has almost 20% water. The irrigation department has claimed there will be no immediate water cuts in the district. Barvi dam has received a total of 651mm rainfall this year, followed Bhatsa at 542mm and Andhra at 428mm. With the temperatures soaring in the city in the last week of June, fear of water cuts was looming over Thane city. However, with the heavy rains recorded over the past few days, water stock in major dams like Bhatsa, Barvi and Andhra increased. Last year at this time, the water level in Barvi dam was at 44%, Bhatsa had a water stock of 44.9% and Andhra 33%. Except Andhra dam in Pune district which has less water stock, the other dams situated in Thane district have received good rainfall and increased water stock. An irrigation department official said, “If the rainfall continues, Barvi dam may overflow soon and we will not have to announce water cuts this year. Soon we shall start using only the surface run-off water that flows into Ulhas river, which will also help save additional stock of water.” Jambul and Mohane areas of the Ulhas river are the prime source of water for Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/water-levels-rise-at-lakes-supplying-water-to-thane-101626287400572.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Admn set to rationalise regulatory norms||The Chandigarh administration is set to give a major overhaul to the UT’s governance process by simplifying rules, laws, procedures and different sets of compliances.The process will need a thorough scrutiny of various legislations, regulations, administrative processes and procedural requirements. In view of this, UT adviser Dharam Pal on Wednesday chaired a meeting with all administrative secretaries and heads of departments in attendance. The aim was to examine the relevance and rationale of various compliances, and to rationalise and simplify them. “The burdensome regulatory compliance adds unnecessary procedure, time and cost for citizens/business that hinders the overall ease of living and doing business. These compliances become no longer relevant due to innovative practices and economic developments,” said Pal.The adviser directed all officials to take necessary steps to make government to business and government to citizen interface simple and transparent. According to the adviser’s directions, the reforms process involves four steps. After exhaustive analysis of various legislations, rules, regulations, schemes, grants and subsidies, officials will have to conduct stakeholder consultation to identify burdensome aspects of different compliances. In addition to it, steps will be taken to decriminalise acts and provisions in case of minor civil offences, while redundant laws will be repealed, amended or subsumed.The bureaucracy dominated Chandigarh administration has consistently failed to deliver on ease of doing business. For the second year running, the UT was at the bottom of the ease of doing business rankings in 2020. Of the 187 reform points under the rankings, Chandigarh implemented only nine. There was no action on the rest of the 178. According to the report, reforms were implemented in some areas falling under the reform heads of access to information, obtaining electricity connection, and environment. However, the performance or quality of implementation was “not good”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhadmn-set-to-rationalise-regulatory-norms-101626287281588.html
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||SKM suspends Haryana BKU leader Charuni for a week for advocating Mission Punjab||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday suspended Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni for seven days for suggesting that Punjab farmer outfits involved in the stir against the Centre’s farm laws should contest the assembly polls next year. The SKM is an umbrella body of various farmer unions protesting the Centre’s farm laws. The suspension of Charuni, a prominent farm leader from Haryana and a core member of the agitation, has exposed the rift within the farmer union leadership on testing political waters ahead of the assembly elections “Following Charuni’s repeated statements that morcha members should launch mission Punjab and contest polls, we have decided to suspend him for a week”, senior SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters. Rajewal said Charuni had been telling the Punjab farmer leaders to take a political plunge. “We had been telling him that we have no such programme. The SKM was not formed to contest polls but to lead the agitation,” said Rajewal, adding that during the suspension period Charuni will not be allowed to share the morcha stage and make any statement on behalf of the umbrella body. Charuni, in a video message, said his suspension was wrong and it won’t change his stand. “I want to make it clear that I am still in favour of farmer leaders from Punjab contesting the upcoming assembly polls,” he said. The farmer leader, who enjoys a huge support in Haryana, especially in northern districts, said he floated the idea of Mission Punjab to ensure that farmers join active politics and have a say in the policy making process. “All political parties, including those in the Opposition, have done nothing for the farmers. Defeating the BJP will not help us until we form our own government. If we don’t do so, it will directly benefit the opposition parties in the poll arena,” he said. Charuni, however, made it clear that his suspension will not have any impact on the agitation, and he will continue his support to the protest against the controversial farm laws. Since the beginning of the agitation in November last year, Charuni’s supporters were leading the protests at several toll plazas in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-suspends-charuni-for-advocating-mission-punjab-101626286560411.html
15-07-2021||Noida||New system tested to remove barriers at toll plazas on Delhi-Meerut Expressway||Vehicles could soon zip past the toll plazas on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway [DME] without halting to pay as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has successfully tested a system that can read FASTags and deduct the toll.The authority is currently testing toll-collection through the automatic number plate readers (ANPRs), which automatically reads vehicle registration plates at entry as well as exit points and compute the toll according to distance travelled. The vehicle will be required to stop at the exit point to pay the toll. The new system, which will be the first in India, is expected to remove this as well.“We are also testing a new setup which will automatically detect vehicles with FASTags and will read the registration plate of the vehicle at both ends and automatically deduct the toll. The barriers at the exit point will remain open. In case of non-FASTag vehicle, the barrier will not open,” said Mudit Garg, project director from NHAI.“This facility has passed tests conducted in the last seven days at two lanes on each side at the three toll plazas in phase 4 of the DM. No vehicle passes through the new setup without detection.”The DME connects Delhi to Meerut over a stretch of about 60km with about 10km in Delhi under phase 1 of the project.The phase 2 spans 19.8km from UP-Gate to Dasna in Ghaziabad while 32km phase 4 is an access-controlled expressway of six lanes and connects Dasna to Meerut.“Initially, the FasTags were issued on the basis of chassis number of the vehicle and not linked to registration plate. Through our ANPR mode, we are reading the registration plates for determining distance travelled by the vehicle. So, only few of such vehicles have issues while passing the new setup at tolls. But we will resolve it soon. The new setup will be made operational once we start tolling for DME,” Garg added.The phase 2 and 4 of the DME were opened for regular passenger movement in April but is yet to toll its users.The entire DME stretch has several entry/exit points like the ones at Akshardham in Delhi besides the ones at Indirapuram, ABES College, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and Bhojpur in Ghaziabad and a final at Kashi toll at Partapur in Meerut.The officials familiar with development said that a team from the Centre is likely to arrive soon for inspection of the DME stretch, especially the phase 4.“Once, the team conducts inspection and submit report, the tolling is likely to start. They will inspect the new systems installed on the expressway and examine functioning,” the officer added.The NHAI has already made it clear that no two-wheelers will be allowed on expressway lanes of the DME. In case they do, the ANPRs will be used for getting the registration number of vehicle and violations will be sent to respective district police for issue of chalans.At present, the phase 1 sees almost 120,000 passenger car units (PCUs, a measure of traffic that takes into account different vehicle makes) per day while it is about 60,000 in phase 2 and in range of 35,000-40,000 for phase 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/new-system-tested-to-remove-barriers-at-toll-plazas-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-101626286260420.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt, Google join hands to provide real-time bus data||State transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday that the Delhi government has collaborated with Google to launch a system to enable commuters to track bus locations, arrival and departure times, and routes on real-time basis on their mobile phones.“With this move, Delhi will join the league of global cities where real-time data of all buses is being incorporated onto the Google Maps platform... static and dynamic location data of Delhi buses will be available for passengers in real-time,” said a press statement issued by Gahlot’s office. It did not say when the project will be launched.A user will get information of all the routes and bus stops, arrival and departure time in real-time, and even bus (route) numbers. They will also get updates about delays, which will cut wait times and crowding at bus stops, said the statement.“Open Google Maps... enter destination and tap the ‘Go’ icon or separately enter the ‘Source’ and ‘Destination’... tap the ‘transit’ icon (the little tram) to view times, bus numbers, routes and real-time arrival info... Tapping a recommended route lets you view information on the stops. Tap the bus stop to see a listing of all arriving buses, where relevant real-time information is depicted by the green or red beacon,” said the statement.“We would like to thank DIMTS and the Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology in Delhi for their partnership in this integration,” said Ramesh Nagarajan, director product management, Google.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-google-join-hands-to-provide-real-time-bus-data-101626285360250.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Tughlakabad-Aerocity line gets Ridge board approval||Delhi Metro’s Tughlakabad-Aerocity corridor got the green signal from the Ridge Management Board (RMB) on Wednesday, senior officials aware of the matter said. At least 1,000 trees will have to be cut in the Ridge, considered the green lung of the Capital, for the construction of the section.HT first reported in February that the Metro line would traverse the Ridge, and flagged its environmental impact.A senior government official, who attended the RMB meeting confirmed that the Tughlakabad-Aerocity corridor -- a 5.2-km portion of which will pass through the Ridge -- was cleared after “considering alternative alignments”. The total length of the Tughlakabad-Aerocity corridor is 23.6km. Of the 5.2km corridor in the Ridge, 1.739 km will be in the Southern Ridge, 1.182 km in South Central Ridge, and 2.373 km in Morphological Ridge (a part of the Ridge that has ridge-like features, but is not part of the notified forests).“The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) presented three alignments before the RMB today (Wednesday), and after deliberations it was decided that the original alignment presented by the DMRC will cause the least damage to trees. The project has been given a go-ahead,” said an official who asked not to be named. In a meeting in June, RMB asked DMRC to explore all alternative alignments for the section.Permission letters exchanged between DMRC and the Delhi forest department showed that 1,072 trees will be cut, of which 466 are in the Southern Ridge, 455 in the South Central Ridge, and 151 in the Morphological Ridge.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC said the agency made a lot of effort to minimise the impact of construction on the Ridge.“An area of 31 hectares with approximately 8,000 trees was earmarked in the Ridge at Rangpuri Pahadi for the train depot on this line. But now, the plan for the depot has been dropped, and the DMRC is augmenting capacities in the Sarita Vihar and Ajronda depots and extending this line beyond Tughlakabad up to Sarita Vihar Depot to cater to this new line,” Dayal said.He added, “In addition to this, DMRC has saved over 350 trees during station construction. We appreciate the decision by the Ridge Management Board to approve the alignment of the Tughlakabad-Aerocity corridor. This will help us in taking the project forward.”The Tughlakabad-Aerocity corridor of Delhi Metro came under the environmental scanner early this year when permission documents submitted before the forest department revealed the Metro’s plan to take this section from within the Ridge. In March, the proposal was first presented before the RMB, where a decision on its clearance was deferred.All construction in the Ridge have to be cleared by both the city forest department as well as RMB.Later, activists filed a petition in the Delhi high court, where the matter was referred to the central empowered committee (CEC) for a thorough inspection of the Metro route to see if there was a possibility of saving trees or re-routing the section from outside the green space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-ridge-board-gives-go-ahead-to-metro-s-tughlakabad-aerocity-corridor-101626285302718.html
15-07-2021||Other||Woman falls from ninth floor in Ghaziabad||A woman was severely injured after she fell from the ninth floor of a highrise in Crossings Republik Township in Ghaziabad, said police on Wednesday. A video of the incident that happened on Tuesday went viral.The video showed that a woman’s husband had grabbed her hand, while she was hanging from the balcony. Seconds later, the woman fell.ग़ाज़ियाबाद में पति से झगड़े के बाद एक महिला ने 9वीं मंज़िल से छलांग लगाई,पति ने 3 मिनट तक हाथ पकड़कर रखा और शोर मचा दिया,शोर सुनकर नीचे लोगों ने गद्दे बिछा दिए,पकड़ कमजोर पड़ते ही महिला नीचे गिरी और गंभीर से घायल हो गई pic.twitter.com/6WPYzEMI3A“The man and woman in the video are a married couple. We have come to know that the woman had slipped from the balcony and the man held her hand in an attempt to save her,” said Mahavir Singh, SHO of Vijay Nagar police station.“We have not received any complaint so far about the incident. The woman is admitted to a hospital in Noida and presently under treatment. Once we receive a complaint, we will investigate,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-falls-from-ninth-floor-in-ghaziabad-101626285300893.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||34 more oxygen plants in Delhi by October 31: LG’s office after review||At least 34 more pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants are likely to be commissioned in different hospitals in the city by October 31, said a senior official in Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal’s office on Wednesday. Of the 34 PSA plants, 30 will be installed in hospitals run by the Delhi government and four in central government hospitals.On Wednesday, Baijal chaired a review meeting on the installation of 160 PSA oxygen plants, which are to be installed in both government and private sector hospitals in the city this year and collectively produce more than 148 metric tonne (MT) of medical oxygen per day, said the official who asked not to be named.Baijal stressed on sticking to the deadlines for each plant and ensuring that a situation, such as the last and the worst wave of Covid-19 so far in the Capital, does not get repeated, said the official.“The LG’s office was informed that a total of 160 PSA plants with a capacity of 148.11MT were being installed... The LG enquired how the figure of 160 plants was arrived at, and was informed that it was based on the requirement of around 150MT as submitted by hospitals,” said the official.While 66 PSA plants, including 17 under the PM-CARES fund, are being set up in state-run hospitals, 10 are being installed in central government and 84 in private hospitals. Of the 66 plants planned in Delhi government hospitals, 36 have been commissioned, 27 are expected to be unveiled by August 31, and three more by October 31, said the official.“Six out of the 10 plants to be installed in central government hospitals have already been commissioned. The remaining four are to be commissioned by August 15... In private hospitals, 37 out of 84 plants have been commissioned,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/34-oxygen-plants-to-come-in-delhi-hospitals-by-october-31-lg-reviews-progress-101626285300341.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Rain to intensify later this week: Met||The Capital on Wednesday continued to receive moderate to heavy rain, with temperatures settling around 35 degrees Celsius a day after monsoon hit Delhi, 16 days behind schedule.Some parts of the city received over 100mm rainfall on Wednesday, and officials of the India Meteorological Department said showers were likely to intensify in the coming days.IMD recordings showed that, the distribution of rain on Wednesday was patchy -- Safdarjung weather station recorded 54.6mm, Palam 10.8mm, Lodhi Road 62.8mm, the Ridge weather station 118.8mm, and Aya Nagar 13.3mm of rain.“Isolated and scattered rainfall is expected over north-west India till July 16, with isolated, heavy rains over Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh between July 17 and July 19,” IMD in its Wednesday forecast.Officials also said that Delhi was likely to receive “normal to slightly below normal” rain this monsoon.“There are various meteorological parameters — such as easterly winds and monsoon trough, among others — a combination of which determine the intensity of the rainfall received in a particular area. Looking at the current parameters, it can be predicted that Delhi may have a near-normal monsoon,” a senior Met official said.Temperatures on Wednesday were slightly higher than the previous day, but officials forecast a dip in the mercury from July 17 because of increased rainfall.The maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory on Wednesday was 35°C, higher than Tuesday’s 30.9°C, but within the normal temperature range for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 26°C, a notch below normal.At Palam, the daytime temperature was 34.5°C, one degree below normal, and the minimum temperature was 27°C.Akshay Deoras, an independent weather forecaster and PhD student at University of Reading in England, said, “It seems that this weekend will be good for rains in Delhi, particularly July 18, since current forecast suggests reduced maximum temperature on July 18, cloud cover and good rainfall in the region.”The southwest monsoon arrived in Delhi on Tuesday, after several incorrect predictions by IMD. This is the most delayed monsoon onset in the national capital since 2002, when monsoon rains arrived on July 19. According to the weather office, the usual date for monsoon onset in Delhi is June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/showers-in-delhi-likely-to-intensify-later-this-week-says-met-101626285241038.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Cop hurt after nabbed suspect attempts to flee||A Delhi Police head constable and an arrested man involved in over 50 cases of snatching and robbery were injured in an exchange of fire when the suspect, who was arrested on Tuesday night, attempted to escape police custody after snatching a constable’s service pistol in outer Delhi’s Aman Vihar on Wednesday morning, officers said.The police and the suspect, identified as Sumit Bagga, were on the way to Rajiv Nagar Extension near Begumpur, when Bagga asked policemen to stop the vehicle so he could relieve himself, said DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.“Bagga grabbed constable Pramod’s service pistol fired two rounds, one of which hit head constable Jaswinder. He retaliated and fired at Bagga, who was then overpowered,” said Tayal.The constable and suspect were taken to a hospital. They are both out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-cop-injured-after-arrested-suspect-attempts-to-flee-in-aman-vihar-101626285240389.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Monsoon malady: Roads flood with just 2 days' rain||Even as the monsoon arrived in the national capital 16 days behind schedule on Tuesday, a delay that state officials said gave them enough time to de-silt the city’s drains and prepare it for the rains, all it took was a few hours of rain to lead to waterlogging and for Delhi’s traffic to be thrown out of gear. Data from the state traffic police shows that at least 96 roads from a list of 150 stretches identified as “waterlogging prone” last month ended up with knee-deep water after Tuesday’s showers.The list of stretches was sent to all road-owning agencies, including the state Public Works Department (PWD), the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the three municipal corporations (north, south and east MCDs), the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and the Delhi Cantonment Board, warning them of impending snarls and choked drains as a result of the showers.Despite this, information from the Delhi traffic control room revealed that long traffic jams were reported from and around many of these stretches on Tuesday and Wednesday.The list includes Azadpur underpass, Pragati Maidan, Airport underpass, Palam Colony (below Palam flyover), Adchini T-junction, Hyatt flyover, RK Puram Sector 12 (near DPS School), Dabri Mor, Najafgarh-Uttam Nagar T-junction, Okhla underpass, Patparganj Road, Swami Dayanand Marg, Ramdev Chowk in Narela, Bhajanpura main road, Jahangirpuri Metro station and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) flyover, among others.Traffic police said that Azadpur Chowk, which was among the stretches flagged by the department last month, was submerged in rainwater on Tuesday. The stretch was shut and traffic diverted towards Mukarba Chowk, as PWD officials worked on getting the road dry.Similarly, road 57 near Swami Dayanand Marg (towards Shahdara), which also featured in the list, was also closed for traffic on Tuesday evening because of severe waterlogging.And, officials said, traffic is only likely to get worse, with the Met department predicting more intense showers in coming days.Muktesh Chander, special commissioner of police (traffic), said a list of flood-prone stretches is prepared and shared with road-owning agencies every year.“These stretches are no longer a secret. All the agencies by now know which roads under their jurisdiction are prone to water-logging. Though the job of the traffic police is only to manage traffic, every year we communicate our concerns and send a list of such stretches. But ultimately it will have to be fixed by the agencies concerned,” he said.As traffic on these roads crawled, civic and road-owning agencies blamed each other.“Even though the work of de-silting drains was delayed this year because of the Covid-19 lockdown, we have completed the process. Usually, de-silting large drains takes around three months, but we started it in March and despite the break, managed to finish work on all the drains by the first week of July,” said a senior PWD official.The official added, “The major reason behind water-logging every year is the large quantities of waste, mostly plastic, that gets clogged in drain mouths and leads to water flowing back to roads. No matter how much you clean the drains, the trash continues to pile up and end up clogging them.”Meanwhile, municipal bodies directed blame at the PWD and the state’s Irrigation and Flood Control Department, for not maintaining drains along arterial roads, which they said then overflows into internal streets.“Our drains are 100% de-silted, but since the Delhi government has not done its share to clean the main drains, water overflows from arterial roads into colony roads,” claimed south Delhi mayor Mukesh Suryan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-at-least-96-of-150-stretches-flagged-by-traffic-cops-witness-waterlogging-after-first-monsoon-rain-101626285186182.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Containment zones dip to lowest in over a year||With the Covid-19 caseload in the Capital at its lowest level in over 15 months, Delhi on Wednesday saw the lowest number of containment zones in over a year, and one district has no containment zone for the first time in 13 months, government records showed.According to data from the state government’s revenue department, 472 spots in Delhi’s 11 districts were demarcated containment zones as on Wednesday. This is the lowest since 448 containment zones were recorded in the city on July 8 last year, days after the state government implemented a micro-containment policy.Also, as on Wednesday, none of the 472 containment zones were in the south-east district, which houses areas such as New Friends Colony, Lajpat Nagar, Jangpura, Okhla, and Sarita Vihar. The last active containment zone in the south-east district was de-notified on Monday (July 12), government records said.At the same time, over 37% of the contained areas (176) as on Wednesday were in the New Delhi district, followed by north Delhi (86) and south Delhi (64).No district in Delhi has had zero containment zones since June 14, 2020, according to the data, and in that time, around 73,000 separate spots have been identified as Covid-19 hot spots, and subject to strict curbs as the Capital went through four waves of the infection (between June and July; September; November; and from April to May).In 2021, so far, the fewest number of containment zones was recorded on March 12, when the city had 488 hot spots. However, on that date, no individual district recorded zero containment zones, senior officials said.At its peak, Delhi touched 24,000 containment zones, for the week ending April 30, 2021.Containment zones are spots with high instances or clusters of Covid-19 cases where economic activities are regulated, and movement is prohibited. The phased relaxations on lockdown regulations do not apply in areas notified as containment zones, and state teams deliver essential goods to doorsteps. Containment zones can be de-notified only 14 days after the last new case. Under the government’s micro-containment policy, these zones are limited to single houses, flats, apartment buildings or clusters of a few houses in a lane, blocks or pockets in residential or commercial areas.Till late June 2020, the city had much larger containment zones — entire lanes and blocks, which government officials said led to several complaints from people who were not infected and were still put under a lockdown-like situation. These areas could be de-notified only after 28 days of not recording a new case. The policy was changed following a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on June 26, 2020, in the light of the first wave of the pandemic in the city.The Centre stressed on adopting a policy of micro-containment – essentially sealing smaller areas and keeping fewer people under heightened surveillance. The new policy was implemented on June 30, 2020.At its peak, Delhi added a daily average of 25,294 new Covid-19 cases for the seven days ending April 23 this year, as a fourth wave of infections took hold of the city. However, since mid-May, cases, hospitalisations and deaths have reduced, and in the seven days ending Wednesday, Delhi added a daily average of 72 new cases, showed state government data.The Capital on Wednesday added 77 new Covid-19 cases, and one more virus death.State officials and health experts said the containment policy had paid off.“The city has very few active cases, and zero containment and single-digit containment numbers are achievements. To effectively manage the disease, the government will continue with its micro containment policy,” said Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, “Micro-containment has been a very effective strategy in terms of arresting the spread of the disease. The policy is effective and has to face less resistance from people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-for-the-first-time-in-over-a-year-no-hot-spots-in-south-east-delhi-101626285121003.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Metro body, DDA join hands to expand network in Narela||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) are working on a plan to expand Metro connectivity in north-west Delhi’s Narela, where the land-owning agency has planned large-scale housing and commercial projects.DMRC has planned a 23km-long Metrolite corridor between Rithala and Narela as part of its Phase-4 project. A DDA official said the current alignment of the corridor either does not touch or just passes by the periphery of the areas where economic activities have been planned.The two agencies are now working on a proposal to construct a 5.6km-long line from the Rithala-Narela corridor to connect the Pooth Khurd and Holambi Kalan areas.The land-owning agency has decided to pay DMRC ₹1,000 crore for the construction of the Metro project and has made provision of ₹400 crore in its budget for the fiscal 2021-22, officials said.“We have been holding joint inspections with DMRC officials to finalise the alignment of the line. Our teams recently did a site inspection to assess the feasibility of the proposed line that will cater to a much larger area in Narela sub-city,” said a senior DDA official aware of the development.Last year, DDA wrote to DMRC to rework the alignment of its Phase 4 Rithala-Narela line — one of the two Metrolite projects in Delhi — to sync it with the development proposed in Narela. The corridor will pass through sectors 25, 26, 31, 32 and 36 in Rohini, Barwala, Pooth Kalan, Bawana industrial areas 1 and 2, Narela, etc.DMRC officials said DDA has been informed that one single alignment cannot serve the entire Narela area.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said, “In addition to the original corridor already proposed between Rithala and Narela, a spur of 5.6km from Puth Khurd to Holambi Kalan has been suggested to serve future developments in the area. However, these alignments have not yet received the mandatory approval from the government.”With over 25,000 flats in Narela DDA plans to develop the area which is one of the three sub-cities planned by it (other two are Rohini and Dwarka) in a big way. The agency has hired a consultant to develop a concept for “development of Narela sub-city”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-dmrc-working-on-metro-connectivity-to-narela-101626285061754.html
15-07-2021||Delhi||Have collected 100k+ signatures against corporation’s ‘harsh’ policies, say AAP leaders||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said that they have collected the signatures of more than 100,000 traders across the national capital as part of its ongoing campaign against taxes and duties levied by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD). The BJP dismissed the AAP’s claim as “misleading”.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations.The Capital goes to the municipal polls next year.During a press conference of the AAP’s head office in central Delhi on Wednesday, the party’s spokesperson and Greater Kailash MLA, Saurabh Bhardwaj, said, “Milestone of 100,000 signatures reached by AAP in its ongoing signature campaign against BJP-ruled MCD’s harsh new policies and increase in taxes. Shopkeepers in bazaars have a lot of resentment towards the BJP-ruled MCDs...Traders and professionals are openly admitting that the MCDs are looting as much money as they can because the BJP knows that it might lose the next elections.”Dismissing the statement as “misleading”, Delhi’s BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “I am an Old Delhi-based trader and have not heard of any AAP campaign among traders in Old Delhi or any other prominent market. Traders of Delhi have always stood by BJP... Problems that traders are facing due to rise in some civic charges will be resolved soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/resentment-among-traders-towards-mcds-says-aap-bjp-refutes-claim-101626285061074.html
15-07-2021||Pune||Internet connectivity in Pune rural areas major hurdle for online classes||PUNE It’s been 15 months of various degrees of Covid lockdown, and students from rural Pune are struggling to get an online education. Access to internet in the rural areas is a major challenge.“In 15 months, no concrete steps to provide devices have been taken by the rural administration. When they talk about online school, steps should at least be taken for an internet connection,” said educational activist Sachin Jamage, working president, Vande Mataram Organisation.To beat the network issues, villagers are finding different ways to ensure education happens.“We don’t have internet network, so what we do is we find a big open space and arrange offline classes, either in a temple hall or on a ground. We make sure social distancing is followed,” said Kisan Gore, teacher, Tamini High School, Mulshi taluka.The state school state department has released the updated GR which says: “Zones with not a single Covid-19 case will be allowed to restart physical classes for Class 8-12, after receiving the consent of parents.”“We held meeting with parents and they have agreed to offline classes for students. RT-PCR test or rapid antigen tests will be done for every student and tracher,” said More.A teacher from Shirur taluka on condition of anonymity, said, “Rural administration should have done something to increase internet reach in villages. However, many social organisations came forward, but the administration is missing.”Uhlas Vairagi, a parent from Maval, said, “There is network in the village, but it is only used for calling, internet range hardly exists. The government should start working on these aspects in the rural parts”Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad and education officer (secondary) Sunanda Wakhare did not respond to phone calls or queries made via WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/internet-connectivity-in-rural-areas-major-hurdle-for-online-classes-101626281040015.html
15-07-2021||Other||‘Don’t throw me out’: Sister Lucy argues her case in Kerala HC||Sister Lucy Kalappura, the Catholic nun who was expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation in 2019, and who had spoken out against rape-accused bishop Franco Mulakkal, pleaded her case in the Kerala high court on Wednesday as she argued against her eviction from a convent in Mananthawady, Wayanad. The Congregation defrocked the 55-year-old nun alleging indiscipline, and even the Vatican turned down her appeals against her eviction from the convent. The Congregation moved court after its attempts to have her vacate failed. “Do not throw me out on the street. I have been a practising nun for 39 years. I do not have anywhere else to go. It is important for me to stay at the convent to continue my position as a nun,” said Kalappura as she broke down in court. Earlier her lawyer withdrew from the case as Kalappura does not have enough money to pay the fees.The court has provided her with police protection, but the Congregation has argued that her continued stay at the convent and the presence of police personnel has been troubling others staying there. “I am a woman, a nun fighting for justice. It is important for my nunship that I continue in the convent,” Kalappura pleaded. She added that she filed a suit before a court in Wayanad against her eviction and sought permission to stay there till her plea was heard.A single bench of Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan said it is difficult for her to stay at the convent and get police protection too. “This is for your own safety. You have made serious allegations against the vicar. You have admitted yourself that you are subjected to ill-treatment... It is better to move out. We can give you protection,” the court said. But Kalappura insisted she will have to stay at the convent to continue her religious duty and obligation. The court reserved its judgment.The nun has maintained that she was victimised for supporting the agitation for the arrest of Mulakkal, the deposed bishop of Jalandhar who was accused of sexual assault by another nun in 2018. In her book titled Karthavinte Namathil (In the name of Christ), she has claimed that sexual abuse and assaults have been rampant in convents and seminaries and there needs to be institutional reforms. She has also alleged in the book that there were four sexual assault bids on her, and many nuns succumb to intimidation. The church has rejected the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-throw-me-out-kerala-nun-argues-her-case-in-court-101626262139588.html
15-07-2021||Noida||Yamuna Expressway authority allots residential plots via lucky draw||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Wednesday allotted residential plots via a lucky draw. Officials said the process was video-recorded to maintain transparency.The lucky draw was organised at the Community Centre in Sector P3 amid presence of at least 2% of the allottees out of a total of 15,634, who had applied for a total of 440 plots, sized 1000 square metre (sqm), 60sqm, 90 sqm and 120sqm, said officials. The draw was supervised by a three-member committee.“We sent links to all applicants so that they can join the allotment process via Facebook. We called only 2% of all applicants to make sure social distancing rules are adhered to,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.The property title will be transferred after finishing the formalities and offering possession to successful applicants, said officials.Officials said the scheme was intended for those looking for small plots in the two categories. Residential plots were available in sizes of 60sqm, 90 sqm and 300sqm, and a few plots of 1,000 sqm, available in sectors 18, 20 and 22D, among other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yamuna-expressway-authority-allots-residential-plots-via-lucky-draw-101625682020940.html
15-07-2021||Noida||Working to resolve realty sector issues in Noida: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh infrastructure and industrial development minister Satish Mahana on Thursday said the state government is trying to resolve the issues of stalled real estate projects in Noida and Greater Noida.Addressing the media via video, the minister said that working on various suggestions given by stakeholders, the government is trying to resolve bottlenecks in stalled projects. “A number of builders in Noida and Greater Noida have been declared defaulters as they have not delivered their projects on time. It’s obvious that with their hard-earned investments stuck for many years, thousands of homebuyers must be cursing their fates. The state government has received some proposals, which include pledging units with different development authorities,” he said.He added that there are huge investments coming in the electronic sector. “All industrial development authorities in the state have been asked to provide land to mega and above-category industries within 15 days from the date of application. Through this preferential allotment system, three mega companies, including a tech giant, have been benefited so far. Also, the state government set up a dedicated helpdesk at Invest UP in April 2020, which has far attracted more than 96 investment intents, including intents from companies from around 10 countries, including Japan, US, UK, Canada, Germany, South Korea, Singapore worth around ₹66,000 crores,” he said.Claiming to provide an ecosystem through industrial parks, Mahana said that the country’s “first mega leather park” is being made in Unnao. “Spread over 42 acres, the park is planned with a total estimated cost of ₹550 Crores. It’ll also improve Kanpur’s position among the top 10 largest leather-producing hubs of the country. Besides, a logistics hub and a heritage city are also coming up along the Yamuna Expressway,” he said.Mahana also said that the government is developing a Trans-Ganga City on 1,144 hectares at Unnao. “To capitalise on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, we are developing a Perfume Park along with a perfume museum at Kannauj on 30 hectares of land. A mega food park at Baheri in Bareilly is also being constructed and is likely to be ready-to-move by October this year,” he said, adding that the state government is providing instant incentives to new industrial units to create growth centres in the Poorvanchal, Madhyanchal and Bundelkhand regions.Replying to a query on the progress of upcoming expressways, the minister said that the 340.82-km-long Purvanchal Expressway will be in operation from next month as 95% of the work has been completed. “Over 60% of the work has been completed on the 297-km Bundelkhand Expressway. For the proposed Ganga Expressway, more than 5,000 hectares has been acquired. Besides, our government has paid ₹5,000 crore to approximately 63,500 farmers for this project as compensation,” he said, adding that work on the Ganga Expressway is expected to start from September and will be completed within 36 months of commencement.He also claimed that UP has been the only state to have reported “zero man days loss” during the second wave. “It was mainly due to the activation of district industries centre (DIC) at the ground level in coordination with the district administration, to issue orders for opening of factories of essential services, like food and milk processing units, and to ensure essential services vehicles keep on moving. During the initial days, the department of industries also ensured the duty passes to all the concerned persons,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/working-to-resolve-realty-sector-issues-in-noida-up-minister-101625159377457.html
15-07-2021||World||US surgeon general Vivek Murthy calls for efforts against health misinformation during Covid-19 pandemic||The United States’ surgeon general Vivek Murthy on Thursday warned that misinformation during the times of Covid-19 pandemic has led to people declining the vaccines against the disease and also made people reject public health measures , such as face masks and social distancing. Murthy also urged individuals, health professionals, journalists and technology platforms to help in slowing the spread of misinformation.In his 22-page advisory titled 'Confronting Health Misinformation,' his first as surgeon general under US President Joe Biden, Murthy also detailed the efforts that could be taken to curb the spread of health misinformation , which he termed as “serious threat to public health.” He also served as the surgeon general under former President Barack Obama.Health misinformation is information that is false, inaccurate, or misleading according to the best available science at the time. During this pandemic, it's divided our friends, families, and communities. It’s led to threats against our health workers. And it’s cost us lives.“Because it pollutes our information environment, misinformation is harmful to individual and public health. Together , we have the power to build a healthier information environment,” Murthy said, listing the efforts so far by health professionals, researchers and the media in addressing misinformation. However, he said that there is more to be done.“How do we curb the spread of harmful misinformation while safeguarding user privacy and free expression?” he asked. A whole-of-society effort would be required to address health misinformation, he further said.Also read | US coronavirus cases rise again due to DeltaMurthy’s advisory came as the rate of progress of Covid-19 vaccination has slowed across the US, partially due to vaccine hesitancy because of unsubstantiated claims about the safety of the shots, the Associated Press reported on Thursday. The report also noted that the death toll in the US due to Covid-19 recently crossed the 600,000-mark.Noting that misinformation spreads at “unprecedented speed and scale” in today’s world, Murthy called upon technology platforms to “assess the benefits and harms of products and platforms and take responsibility for addressing the harms” of misinformation. He also said that such platforms should redesign their recommendation algorithms, which suggests content to users , and also make it easier for consumers to report misinformation.“Impose clear consequences for accounts that repeatedly violate platform policies,” he further said. He directed the platforms to amplify the communications from subject matter experts and direct the users to such credible sources of true information. He also highlighted the need to protect health professionals, journalists from online harassment.“Misinformation hasn’t just harmed our physical health—it has also divided our families, friends, and communities,” he said in the report, noting that efforts against the spread of it is a moral and civic imperative for all of society.(With inputs from the Associated Press)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-surgeon-general-vivek-murthy-calls-for-efforts-against-health-misinformation-during-covid-19-pandemic-101626371159561.html
15-07-2021||World||18-year-old to join Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos on Blue Origin's 1st human spaceflight||An 18-year-old will be the first paying customer of Blue Origin to fly to space on its reusable rocket on July 20, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos’s space company announced on Thursday. Blue Origin had auctioned a spaceship berth for a whopping $28 million but the winner, presumably an ultra-wealthy space aficionado, has chosen to fly on a future New Shepard flight “due to scheduling conflicts.”With a vacant berth on New Shepard’s first human flight, Blue Origin has picked OlivDaemen, who is about to become the youngest person in space, to fly along with Jeff Bezos, Mark Bezos, and Wally Funk, an aviation pioneer who will become the oldest person ever to do so at age 82. Daeman’s presence on the flight will also mark the beginning of commercial operations for the program. The company didn’t disclose the amount paid by the teenager for the spaceflight.“We thank the auction winner for their generous support of Club for the Future and are honored to welcome Oliver to fly with us on New Shepard,” said Bob Smith, CEO of Blue Origin. “This marks the beginning of commercial operations for New Shepard, and Oliver represents a new generation of people who will help us build a road to space.”According to Blue Origin, Daeman graduated from high school in 2020 and took a year off to obtain his private pilot’s license. He will attend the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands to study physics and innovation management, the company said.Currently, Soviet cosmonaut Ghermon Titov, the second human to orbit the Earth after Yuri Gagarin, holds the record for the youngest to fly in space. Titov was 25 when he blasted off Vostok 2 to orbit the Earth way back in 1961.New Shepard’s first human spaceflight will take off on July 20 from its Launch Site One in a remote location in the West Texas desert. While there are no on-site public viewing areas in the vicinity of the launch site, it will be broadcast live on BlueOrigin.com beginning at 11:30am UTC (5:00 pm IST).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/18yearold-to-join-amazon-ceo-jeff-bezos-on-blue-origin-s-1st-human-spaceflight-101626370369328.html
15-07-2021||World||Indian foreign secretary says free, fair polls need of the hour in Libya||India on Thursday called upon the international community once again to “speak in one voice” against terrorism as it sought to draw the attention of the UN Security Council (UNSC) towards continuing presence of Islamic State and al-Qaeda in Libya and their increasing influence in the region.During a UNSC briefing on UN support mission on Libya, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla raised concern over the failure of political parties in Libya to agree to a constitutional and legal basis for elections scheduled in December, which, he insisted, needs to be held as planned and in free and fair manner.“The next six months will be critical for Libya, as it embarks on a journey towards peace and stability,” the foreign secretary said, adding, “It is incumbent upon the international community and the Security Council, in particular, to continue to provide support to Libya in this critical phase.”The Libyan Political Dialogue Forum, a 75-member body comprising people from sectors, concluded five days of UN-brokered deliberations earlier this month without agreeing to the legal basis for the presidential and parliamentary elections that are considered critical to returning the warn-torn country back to peace and stability.Shringla stressed the need for all parties to “continue consultations” and for preparation to remain on course for the election, among key steps needed to be taken over the next six months. He also called for ending foreign interference in Libya and to ensure the “peace process must be fully Libyan-led and Libyan-owned with no imposition or external interference”. And, he added, provisions of the ceasefire agreement must be implemented, such as the “withdrawal of foreign forces and mercenaries”.As one of the worst victims of terrorism, India has relentlessly called on the international community to pay special attention to the scourge of violence by non-state actors. And, Shringla took the opportunity to press the Security Council on the need to prevent terrorist groups from operating unchallenged in Libya.The continued presence and activities of Islamic State in Libya, as attested to by a UN report, Shringla said, “is of serious concern”.The report indicates spread of such activities into the adjoining Sahel region - western and north-central Africa.“Libya has become a logistics platform for al-Qaeda affiliates in Mali,” the foreign secretary said, adding, “This is a matter of grave concern due the potential cascading effect it could have throughout the Sahel region. It is unfortunate that the issue is not drawing the attention it deserves. The international community must speak in one voice against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.”Efforts must be made to also for the “disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration of armed groups and non-state armed actors and, finally India would recommend an “inclusive and comprehensive national reconciliation process is the need of the hour”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-foreign-secretary-says-free-fair-polls-need-of-the-hour-in-libya-101626370329241.html
15-07-2021||World||Pakistan to host peace conference on Afghanistan from July 17 to 19||Pakistan said on Thursday that it will host a peace conference on Afghanistan over the weekend to support efforts for bringing stability in the war-torn neighbouring country."I can confirm that Pakistan is hosting the Afghan Peace Conference on 17-19 July," Foreign Office spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhry said.He said that the conference, which would be attended by a number of Afghan leaders, will provide momentum to the ongoing efforts for peace in Afghanistan.Earlier, Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry said that Prime Minister Imran Khan had a telephonic conversation with Afghanistan's former president Hamid Karzai and invited him to attend the conference."The most important Afghan leadership, including Hamid Karzai, has been invited to attend the proposed conference. It is hoped that new hopes for a solution to Afghanistan's problems will be awakened as a result of this important development,” he said.The News International newspaper had reported that several Afghan leaders have promised to attend the conference.Pakistan has been accused of trying to help the Taliban fighting for supremacy in Afghanistan and the upcoming conference seems to be an effort to assuage that impression.Taliban militants have seized dozens of districts in recent weeks and are now thought to control about a third of the country, ahead of the withdrawal of US and Western troops from Afghanistan by September 11.Under a deal with the Taliban, the US and its NATO allies agreed to withdraw all troops in return for a commitment by the militants that they would prevent extremist groups from operating in areas they control.Meanwhile, the FO spokesman said that Pakistan was concerned over the evolving situation in Afghanistan."As the withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan is nearing completion, we remain concerned at the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. We once again reiterate the imperative of a political settlement in Afghanistan,” he said.The spokesperson said Pakistan has played an important role in the Afghan Peace Process and it remains committed to facilitate the process in future as well. However, ultimately, it is the Afghans themselves who have to decide about their future.He called on all Afghan stakeholders to work out an inclusive, broad-based and comprehensive political settlement for durable peace and stability in Afghanistan.He also said that economic integration and regional connectivity cannot be achieved without peace and stability in Afghanistan.Pakistan has a direct stake for peace in Afghanistan because the security situation in Afghanistan has a direct bearing on the security situation in the country and any security vacuum in Afghanistan can be exploited by spoilers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-to-host-peace-conference-on-afghanistan-from-july-17-to-19-101626368285479.html
15-07-2021||World||Fugitives, politicians purchasing Vanuatu’s ‘golden passport’: Report||A controversial ‘Citizenship by Investment’ programme run by Pacific nation Vanuatu has become a way out for fugitives, high-profile former politicians and disgraced businesspeople from their home countries, according to a report by The Guardian. Vanuatu, an archipelago made up of roughly 80 islands in the South Pacific ocean, offers a so-called golden passport through a scheme that allows people to purchase citizenship for $130,000.The Citizenship by Investment programme also enables the golden passport holders to gain visa-free access to 148 countries and territories, including the UK and the EU member states. Agencies have been marketing the citizenship scheme as “one of the fastest and simplest second passport options” available in the world, with processing time as low as 30 days.The citizenship of Vanuatu can be obtained without ever setting foot in the country. Vanuatu also serves as a tax haven since the archipelago has no income tax, wealth tax, capital gains or inheritance tax. While the government has pitched the programme for applicants who must have a clear criminal record, The Guardian reported that the beneficiaries include “a slew of disgraced businesspeople and individuals sought by police in countries all over the world.”According to the report, more than half of the passports issued under the scheme in 2020 were to Chinese nationals. The other recipients of the golden passport with the most common nationality were Nigerians, Russians, Lebanese, Iranians, Syrians, and Afghans, the report said. The controversial scheme has raised concern about the Pacific becoming a hub for trafficking drugs and money laundering.Floyd Mera, the director of Vanuatu’s Financial Intelligence Unit, reportedly told The Guardian that most people flagged in the report have “allegations, pending investigations and ongoing court proceedings.” “If there are substantial convictions against any of these names, their citizenship may be revoked,” Mera was quoted by the English daily as saying.The sale of passports has been a huge source of government revenue for Vanuatu, one of the poorest nations, and analysis by Investment Migration Insider suggests that the Pacific nation recorded a revenue of $132.6 million through the programme last year. Despite a raging pandemic, the revenue collected through citizenship by investment exceeded those raised in 2019, as per IMI analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fugitives-politicians-purchasing-vanuatu-s-golden-passport-report-101626365774570.html
15-07-2021||World||Pakistan admits bus blast that killed 9 Chinese could be terror attack||A day after claiming that a gas leak within a bus resulted in the death of nine Chinese nationals, Pakistan’s information minister Fawad Chaudhry said on Thursday that traces of explosives had been found in the vehicle and terrorism couldn’t be ruled out in the incident. Beijing pushed back strongly in the face of Islamabad’s claim on Wednesday, describing the incident as a “bomb attack” and demanding punishment for the perpetrators and steps to ensure the safety of Chinese personnel, institutions and projects in Pakistan.Thirteen people, including nine Chinese nationals, were killed when a bus taking workers to the 4,300-MW Dasu hydropower project was hit by a blast in Upper Kohistan area of Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province. “Initial investigations into Dassu incident have now confirmed traces of explosives. Terrorism cannot be ruled out, PM is personally supervising all developments in this regard. Govt is in close coordination with Chinese embassy we are committed to fight menace of terrorism together,” Chaudhry tweeted on Thursday.In the face of pressure from China on Wednesday to investigate the incident, Pakistan’s Foreign Office had said in a statement that the bus carrying Chinese workers had “plunged into a ravine after a mechanical failure resulting in leakage of gas that caused a blast”. Experts cited images of the bus shared on social media and said the damage appeared to have been caused by an explosion, instead of a fall into a ravine. They also questioned the contention that the bus was powered by gas.A statement on the incident issued by the Chinese embassy in Islamabad referred to an “attack on the Dasu Hydropower Project” and said a “Chinese company’s shuttle bus...was hit by a blast on its way to the construction site” in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. The statement said the Chinese embassy had contacted the Pakistani military and foreign and interior ministries and sought steps to “strengthen security protection for the Chinese citizens, institutions and projects in Pakistan” and a thorough investigation of the incident. “The Chinese embassy in Pakistan reminds Chinese citizens, enterprises and projects in Pakistan to stay on alert, pay close attention to the local security situation, take strict precautions, and stop going out unless necessary,” the statement said.Asked about the issue during a regular foreign ministry news briefing in Beijing, spokesperson Zhao Lijian was equally blunt. He said China was “astonished to learn that the incident has caused heavy Chinese casualties”. The Communist Party of China and the Chinese government attach high importance to the incident, and no effort should be spared to “promptly find out what happened, conduct in-depth assessment of security risks, and do our utmost to ensure the safety of Chinese personnel,” Zhao said. “We have asked the Pakistani side to lose no time in conducting a thorough investigation, properly transfer and treat the wounded, strengthen security measures, eliminate security risks, and ensure the safety and security of Chinese personnel, institutions and projects in Pakistan,” he said. China will send a “cross-departmental joint working group” to Pakistan to help investigate the incident, Zhao said.Hours before Chaudhry’s tweet, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had maintained that the incident was an accident during a meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of a conference in Uzbekistan. “Preliminary investigation shows that it’s an accident and no background of terrorist attacks has been found,” Qureshi was quoted as saying in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry on his meeting with Wang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-admits-bus-blast-that-killed-9-chinese-could-be-terror-attack-101626364869958.html
15-07-2021||World||UK records 48,553 new Covid-19 cases, 63 deaths||Britain recorded 48,553 new coronavirus infections on Thursday, and 63 deaths within 28 days of a positive test, official government data showed.That compared to 42,302 cases and 49 deaths reported a day earlier.Daily positive cases have been rising in Britain for over a month but one of the world's fastest vaccination programmes appears to have weakened the link between infections and deaths, with daily fatalities remaining low. They have also started to edge up however.The data also showed that 46.1 million people have had a first dose of the vaccine and 35.3 million have had two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-records-48-553-new-covid-19-cases-63-deaths-101626363752402.html
15-07-2021||World||HIV ‘significant’ independent risk factor for severe, critical Covid-19, says WHO in new report||The World Health Organization on Thursday warned that the human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV), which causes AIDS, is a “significant independent risk factor” for severe and critical cases of Covid-19 infection. “A new WHO report confirms that HIV infection is a significant independent risk factor for both severe/ critical Covid-19 presentation at hospital admission and in-hospital mortality,” the WHO said in a statement.Nearly a quarter of the people (23.1% to be exact), who were infected with HIV and hospitalised for Covid-19, lost their lives, the global health body noted in the report, based on the clinical surveillance data from 37 countries about the risk for people living with HIV (PLHIV) admitted to hospital for Covid-19.For PLHIV, the risk of severe or fatal Covid-19 infections was 30% more than those who are not infected by HIV. And in male PLHIV over 65 years of age, common underlying conditions such as diabetes and hypertension caused an increased risk of severe and fatal Covid-19 infection and subsequently putting people at increased risk of severe disease and death, the WHO report showed.Also read | Africa on 'destructive pathway' due to Delta variant, says WHO amid record surgeResearchers have analysed the data of 15,500 PLHIV and received hospital treatment for Covid-19. The average age of the participants was 45.5 and over 66% were found with severe or critical Covid-19 infection, news agency AFP reported. Also, 92% had received antiretroviral therapy for AIDS prior to their hospitalisation.“This highlights the need for PLHIV to stay as healthy as possible, regularly access and take their ARV medications and prevent and manage underlying conditions. This also means that people living with HIV – independent of their immune status - should be prioritised for vaccination in most settings,” the WHO statement further said. WHO also cited an informal poll, according to which, 40 countries have prioritised PLHIV for Covid-19 vaccination out of 100 countries with information.Meanwhile, UNAIDS, the United Nations body for action on AIDS, said that the Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted the efforts against HIV, such as testing, in many countries. “Rich countries in Europe are preparing to enjoy the summer as their populations have easy access to COVID-19 vaccines, while the global South is in crisis,” UNAIDS executive director Winnie Byanyima said in a statement.“We have failed to learn the lessons of HIV, when millions were denied life-saving medicines and died because of inequalities in access. This is totally unacceptable,” Byanyima added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hiv-significant-independent-risk-factor-for-severe-critical-covid-19-says-who-in-new-report-101626363299179.html
15-07-2021||World||'Strong likelihood' of more dangerous Covid variants, warn WHO experts||The emergency committee of the World Health Organization (WHO) has warned about the “strong likelihood” for the emergence of more virulent and dangerous variants of coronavirus that may be more challenging to control. After the eighth emergency committee meeting on Wednesday regarding the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the WHO experts released a statement saying the pandemic remains a challenge globally.“The Committee recognised the strong likelihood for the emergence and global spread of new and possibly more dangerous variants of concern that may be even more challenging to control,” the experts said.Amid the rapid spread of the highly contagious Delta variant, the committee noted that Covid-19 continues to evolve with four variants of concern and unanimously agreed that the pandemic still “constitutes an extraordinary event” that poses a health risk to people around the world. The committee also emphasised the risk of the emergence of new zoonotic diseases while the world is still responding to the ongoing pandemic.“As such, the Committee concurred that the Covid-19 pandemic remains a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) and offered the following advice to the Director-General,” it concluded.Due to different paces of vaccination around the world, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said, the committee has called on all countries to vaccinate at least 10% of the population of every country by the end of September. The WHO chief urged the world to take a new approach in global health security, warning that if the world continues on the same path, it will “continue heading for the same destination”."One key area in which improved cooperation is needed is in the way information about emerging pathogens and outbreaks is collected, analysed and disseminated," Ghebreyesus told a news conference in Geneva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-likelihood-of-more-dangerous-covid-variants-warn-who-experts-101626359931139.html
15-07-2021||World||Monitoring Chinese ship sailing towards Queensland to spy: Australia||Australian authorities said they are constantly monitoring a Chinese spy ship that is set to arrive in the region in an apparent attempt to observe a joint military exercise with the United States off the coast of Queensland.According to the Voice of America (VOA), the auxiliary general intelligence Chinese ship is expected to monitor the Talisman Sabre 2021 exercises that officially began Wednesday.Canberra today said it "fully expected a ship of this class to arrive in our region" during military exercises with the United States.The exercises are designed to strengthen the alliance of the two countries and boost combat readiness. The drills include amphibious landings, ground force manoeuvres, urban operations, air combat and maritime operations.A VOA report said that it is the largest bilateral training exercise between Australia and the US. "In addition to the United States, this year will involve participating forces from Canada, Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand and the UK," Australian Air Commodore Stuart Bellingham."Due to Covid-19, you will notice fewer international participants this year compared to the past," he added.During the next two weeks, the Chinese electronic vessel is expected to observe the Talisman Sabre war games. Back in 2019, a similar ship was also tracked during military maneuvers in Australia. According to experts, such surveillance has become commonplace."This is the kind of thing we should expect to see happen and expect to see increasingly happen as the Asia-Pacific, the Indo-Pacific becomes increasingly a theatre of strategic rivalry as it is," Military analyst and former Australian Defense Department Secretary Hugh White told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.The Chinese ship is expected to remain outside Australian territorial waters to monitor the multinational war games. According to Australian officials, they do not expect its presence to impede the war drills in Queensland.This comes as diplomatic ties between Australia and China, have deteriorated over the years over various commercial and geopolitical disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/monitoring-chinese-ship-sailing-towards-queensland-to-spy-australia-101626353681810.html
15-07-2021||World||Taliban offers Afghan govt 3-month ceasefire in exchange for release of prisoner||The Taliban have offered a three-month ceasefire in exchange for the release of 7,000 insurgent prisoners, an Afghan government negotiator said Thursday, as Pakistan confirmed the militant group had control of a key border crossing."It is a big demand," said Nader Nadery, a key member of the government team involved in peace talks with the Taliban, adding the insurgents also demanded the removal of their leaders' names from a United Nations blacklist.It was not immediately clear how the government would react to the ceasefire offer, or how new it was, and it comes as the United States accelerates the pace of a troop withdrawal due to be finished by August 31.A spokesman for the Taliban, whose leaders are scattered across the region, said he was only aware of the suggestion of a ceasefire over the forthcoming Eid al-Adha holiday.Nadery's revelation came as Pakistan security forces used tear gas Thursday to disperse hundreds of people who tried to force their way across the border from Chaman to Spin Boldak in Afghanistan.On Thursday, Pakistan's foreign ministry confirmed the border crossing was in the hands of the Taliban."They have taken control of Spin Boldak border crossing," said ministry spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri, a day after the Taliban seized the town.The border was closed Wednesday by Pakistan officials after the Taliban seized Spin Boldak and raised insurgent flags above the town."An unruly mob of about 400 people tried to cross the gate forcefully. They threw stones, which forced us to use tear gas," said a security official on the Pakistan side.He said around 1,500 people had gathered at the border Wednesday waiting to cross.Jumadad Khan, a senior government official in Chaman, said the situation was now "under control".An Afghan Taliban source told AFP that hundreds of people had also gathered on the Afghan side, hoping to travel in the other direction."We are talking to Pakistani authorities. A formal meeting to open the border is scheduled for today, and hopefully, it will open in a day or two," he said.Later on Thursday, a Pakistani border official told AFP that the border would open Friday.The crossing provides direct access to Pakistan's Balochistan province where the Taliban's top leadership has been based for decades along with an unknown number of reserve fighters who regularly enter Afghanistan to help bolster their ranks.A major highway leading from the border connects to Pakistan's commercial capital Karachi and its sprawling port on the Arabian Sea, which is considered a linchpin for Afghanistan's billion-dollar heroin trade that has provided a crucial source of revenue for the Taliban's war chest over the years.- 'Ceasefire to consolidate power' -Spin Boldak is the latest in a string of border crossings and dry ports seized by the insurgents in recent weeks as they look to choke off revenues much needed by Kabul while also filling their own coffers."The bazaar is closed and traders are scared that the situation will turn bad," Mohammad Rasoul, a trader in Spin Boldak, told AFP by phone."They fear that their products will be looted. There are scores of opportunists waiting to loot."Muska Dastageer, a lecturer at the American University of Afghanistan, said the Taliban ceasefire offer was a likely attempt by them to consolidate the positions they have gained so swiftly in recent weeks."A ceasefire now would effectively prohibit ANDSF from retaking the crucial border points which Taliban have captured recently," she tweeted, referring to Afghan forces."I think the timing of this ceasefire offer has more to do with their wish to consolidate power over these areas."At least one Kabul resident said the Taliban could not be trusted."Last year the government released 5,000 Taliban prisoners but their release did not bring peace," Ahmad Jawed told AFP."Instead most of them are now fighting government forces."Now they are asking for 7,000 prisoners to be released. That is a big number."Authorities last year released more than 5,000 Taliban prisoners to help kick start peace talks in Doha, but negotiations have so far failed to reach any political settlement, and the latest offensives suggest the insurgents are now set on a military victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-offers-afghan-govt-3-month-ceasefire-in-exchange-for-release-of-prisoner-101626358063464.html
15-07-2021||World||Long Covid has more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems: Study||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who experience prolonged symptoms have reported more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems, according to a global study published on Thursday. The researchers conducted an online survey to characterise the symptom profile and time course in patients with suspected and confirmed Long Covid.They analysed the responses from 3,762 participants from 56 countries with confirmed or suspected Covid-19, making the study the largest to date of ‘long-haulers’. The data were collected from September 6, 2020, to November 25, 2020. The researchers estimated the prevalence of 203 symptoms in 10 organ systems and traced 66 symptoms over seven months.The study, published in The Lancet’s EClinicalMedicine, suggests that the time of recovery for the majority of patients exceeded 35 weeks. During the illness, the patients experienced 55 symptoms on average across nine organ systems. As per the study, the most frequent symptoms after six months were fatigue, post-exertional malaise -- worsening of symptoms after physical or mental exertion -- and cognitive dysfunction, which varied in their prevalence over time.Other symptoms included visual hallucinations, tremors, itchy skin, changes to the menstrual cycle, sexual dysfunction, heart palpitations, bladder control issues, shingles, memory loss, blurred vision, diarrhoea, and tinnitus."While there has been a lot of public discussion around long Covid, there are few systematic studies investigating this population," said Athena Akrami, a neuroscientist at University College London in the UK, and senior author of the study."Relatively little is known about its range of symptoms, and their progression over time, the severity, and expected clinical course (longevity), its impact on daily functioning, and expected return to baseline health," she added.Also Read | Over 2 million in England may have had long Covid-19: StudyThe researchers are calling for clinical guidelines on assessing Long Covid to be significantly widened beyond currently advised cardiovascular and respiratory function tests. The researchers said that the study highlights the importance of slowing the spread of the virus through validated public health measures and vaccinations and the necessity of a robust safety net, including sick leave, family leave, disability benefits, and workplace protections and flexibilities."Memory and cognitive dysfunction, experienced by over 85 per cent of respondents, were the most pervasive and persisting neurologic symptoms, equally common across all ages, and with substantial impact on work," said Akrami.Due to the retrospective nature of the study, the researchers acknowledged the possibility of recall bias, which could impact the reliability of symptom prevalence estimates. Highlighting the limitations of the study, they said that both overreporting and underreporting of symptoms are possible. They also said that the study may not be representative of the entire Long Covid population or their experiences.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/long-covid-has-more-than-200-symptoms-impacting-10-organ-systems-study-101626350976032.html
15-07-2021||World||Brace for Covid-19 surge: WHO warns South Africa after riots||South Africa should prepare itself for a surge in coronavirus cases after days of widespread rioting and looting in the two most populous provinces, the World Health Organization’s Africa director said.The deadliest and most widespread unrest since the end of apartheid followed the imprisonment of former President Jacob Zuma on July 7. The looting sprees have occurred amid the country’s third and most severe wave of Covid-19 infections.“We are concerned about the last three or so days of rioting in some parts of South Africa, it may exacerbate the situation of a very severe wave,” Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO’s Africa director, said on a conference call on Thursday. “The government has to brace itself, and we in the WHO will be preparing, to see an increase in the cases again.”South Africa’s Covid-19 vaccination program has been disrupted by the unrest with the government halting inoculations in the southeastern province of KwaZulu-Natal and parts of Gauteng, the country’s commercial hub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brace-for-covid-19-surge-who-warns-south-africa-after-riots-101626350117918.html
15-07-2021||World||South Africa riots: Jacob Zuma's arrest and the connection with Indian community||South Africa is under unrest and chaos since the arrest of former president Jacob Zuma earlier on July 7. As many as 72 people have died and more than 1,200 people have been arrested, according to news agency AFP. The Indian community living in South Africa is living in apprehensions of dangers to their homes and businesses as cases of riots, arson and violence are being reported.The South African government has sought to deploy around 25,000 troops to quell the unrest, amid fears of fuel and food shortages. The government has said that 208 incidents of looting and vandalism were recorded on Wednesday, reports AFP.Let's take a look at the violence in South Africa and its connection with the Indian communityZuma had faced many legal challenges before, during and after his presidency, including allegations of rape, embezzlement of public fund, corruption and fraud among many others. Of all the corruption issues charged against him, the most significant one is the involvement of the Gupta family.The Gupta family, with their roots in Uttar Pradesh, moved to South Africa in 1993. Among the prominent members of the family are three brothers --Ajay, Atul, and Rajesh Gupta –and Atul's nephew, Varun. Atul founded Sahara Computers. The Gupta brothers own coal mines, computer manufacturing business, newspapers and a media outlet.The Interpol issued a red corner notice against the three brothers over a 2016 graft report.Guptagate corruptionA chartered plane was used to transport guests for the wedding of one of the relatives of the Gupta family. The plane had landed at the Waterkloof Air Base near Pretoria in 2013. What was odd about the incident was that the airbase is allowed for use only by visiting heads of states and diplomatic delegates. The incident stirred an immediate outcry and the South African media dubbed it as 'Guptagate’.India raises concerns with South AfricaIndia on Wednesday reached out to South African President Cyril Ramaphosa’s government, which assured it that the attacks were not racially motivated. Foreign minister S Jaishankar spoke to his South African counterpart Naledi Pandor on the phone.Zulu King asks to stop riotsZulu King Misuzulu KaZwelithini has called for an immediate end to the violence and looting between Zulus and Indians,” news agency PTI reported.“Our Indian brothers are our neighbours and we have the second biggest population of Indians in KwaZulu-Natal outside of India and through that, we have had certain people who have come to us to say thank you to the Zulu nation and to the Zulu royal family that you are living with our Indian brothers in peace," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-riots-jacob-zuma-s-arrest-and-the-connection-with-indian-community-101626339269470.html
15-07-2021||World||Africa on 'destructive pathway' due to Delta variant, says WHO amid record surge||African is witnessing an unprecedented resurgence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as the third wave of the pandemic continues its “destructive pathway” in the continent, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Thursday. WHO’s regional director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti, told a press briefing that the highly contagious Delta variant has been detected in 21 African countries, with a 43% rise in Covid-19 deaths week-on-week in the continent.Moeti said that African has recorded an additional one million cases of coronavirus over the past month, the shortest time it has taken so far to add one million cases. The top WHO official said that the fresh surge, driven by the Delta variant, is brutally costing lives and the already stretched health systems are now buckling under the pressure of Covid-19.“We’ve seen hospital admissions in around 10 countries increase rapidly and at least five countries, including SouthAfrica, Namibia and Zambia, are facing shortages of ICU beds,” she said, adding that oxygen production remains the “number one priority for African countries.”This week, Africa reached the sombre milestone of six million Covid-19 cases amid a low vaccination rate. As per Our World in Data, African has administered at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to less than 3% of its total population, and the presence of the Delta variant could become a “toxic mixture” as warned by the WHO emergencies programme head Michael Ryan.“Countries opening up who have very low levels of vaccination coverage in the presence of variants is a real toxic mixture for your hospitals filling up again. And this is something that must absolutely be avoided,” Ryan told a news conference in Geneva last week.African countries are heavily dependent on COVAX, a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, for vaccinating their citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/africa-on-destructive-pathway-due-to-delta-variant-says-who-amid-record-surge-101626347456666.html
15-07-2021||World||30 killed in Germany as heavy rain, flood wreak havoc||At least 30 people have been killed in Germany which is battered by heavy rain and floods. The local authorities say 50 people are missing, adding that rising waters led several houses to collapse on Thursday.Rhineland-Palatinate and North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) are the states worst hit by the unusually heavy rain, which caused the Ahr river to burst its bank south of Bonn. Ahr is a tributary of the Rhine, the longest river in Germany."There are dead people, there are missing people, and many who are still in danger," Rhineland-Palatinate’s state premier Malu Dreyer was quoted as saying in regional parliament."We have never seen a catastrophe like this," the premier added. Rhineland-Palatinate has deployed all emergency services, which are working round the clock. Two firemen were killed in the line of duty in the towns of Altena and Werdohl, reported the local media.Heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorms brought traffic to a stop in the area, toppled trees and overflowed basements on Wednesday.In NRW, 135,000 households are reported to be without power.The police in badly affected states have set up a hotline where people can report missing residents and relatives. The cops have also asked the locals to send the pictures of their loved ones which will help in looking for them.Publications like Bild reported that some people are stuck on rooftops for which helicopters have been deployed. The German military has said it is ready to send its troops to assist in the rescue operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/19-killed-in-germany-as-heavy-rain-flood-wreak-havoc-101626348133179.html
15-07-2021||World||Top US generals informally planned ways to stop Trump from attempting coup, new book reveals||Top US military officer Gen Mark Milley and other senior officials had informally planned different ways to stop then-President Donald Trump from attempting a coup after the November elections, according to excerpts of an upcoming book reported by CNN. Shortly before the US Capitol riots on January 6, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff Gen Miley reportedly warned his aides that the country was facing a “Reichstag moment”, referring to the arson attack on the German parliament in 1933 which Nazis used to consolidate their rule.The book titled ‘I Alone Can Fix It’, authored by Pulitzer Prize-winning reporters Carol Leonnig and Philip Rucker, gives “definitive behind-the-scenes story” of Trump’s final year in office when the government failed to contain coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, followed by presidential elections which saw regime change, as per the publisher. After Joe Biden’s election victory became evident, Trump blamed the results on baseless claims of electoral fraud, causing concern for top US officials as the country prepared for a transfer of power.Also Read | ‘Hitler did a lot of good things’: New book reveals ‘stunning’ comments by former US President Donald TrumpIn the book, the authors report that Milley’s “old friend” warned the general that Trump and his allies were trying to “overturn the government” after Biden’s win. But the army general was confident that any such attempt would be thwarted since the military wouldn’t go along, reported the New York Magazine quoting the excerpts from the book.“They may try, but they’re not going to f****** succeed. You can’t do this without the military. You can’t do this without the CIA and the FBI. We’re the guys with guns,” Milley is reported to have said.At one point, Milley and other joint chiefs even discussed a plan to resign rather than carry out orders from an outgoing president that they deemed illegal and dangerous, reported CNN. According to Penguin Random House, publisher of ‘I Alone Can Fix It’, the book “reveal[s] a dysfunctional and bumbling presidency’s inner workings in unprecedented, stunning detail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-us-generals-informally-planned-ways-to-stop-trump-from-attempting-coup-new-book-reveals-101626343922876.html
15-07-2021||World||Germany storms leave at least 9 dead, dozens missing||Heavy rains and floods lashing western Germany have killed at least nine people and left around 50 missing, as rising waters led several houses to collapse, police said on Thursday.Four of the people reported dead were in the municipality of Schuld where a number houses were swept away by floods, a police spokesman in the city of Koblenz told AFP.Rhineland-Palatinate and North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) states were the worst hit by the unusually heavy rainfall, which has caused rivers to burst their banks and threatens to bring down further homes."The storms hit our state hard," Rhineland-Palatinate Premier Malu Dreyer tweeted."I am worrying along with everyone who's in danger," she said, thanking "all the volunteers, fire fighters and emergency workers fighting tirelessly and with great effort against the deluge".NRW leader Armin Laschet, who is running to succeed Chancellor Angela Merkel in September elections, hastily cancelled a party meeting in Bavaria to keep tabs on the situation in his state.Emergency workers struggled to evacuate people in endangered buildings and two firemen were killed in the line of duty in the towns of Altena and Wedohl.Another two men died in flooded cellars in nearby Solingen and Unna while a further death was reported in Rheinbach.Police set up a crisis hotline for people to report missing loved ones and residents were asked to send in videos and photos that could help them in the search.Rescue workers were deployed in helicopters to pluck desperate people off streets and rooftops.Regional official Juergen Pfoehler called on people to stay home "and, if possible, go to higher floors" of their homes."The situation is very serious," he said.- 'Rarely experienced' -Neighbouring Belgium has also seen several days of heavy rain that has caused rivers in the French-speaking region of Wallonia to burst their banks.The provinces of Liege and Namur were especially affected, with the resort town of Spa completely flooded. In the town of Chaudfontaine, daily Le Soir reported that nearly 1,800 people had to evacuate."We have rarely experienced such intense flooding. You have to go back to 1998 to have experienced this," Chaudefontaine mayor Daniel Bacquelaine told RTL radio.The country's Infrabel rail network said it was suspending services in the southern half of the country on Thursday, given the risks to travel."It is indeed impossible to ensure the safe movement of trains for passengers or to have access to strategic areas for their staff," Transport Minister Georges Gilkinet told Belga news agency.Belgium frequently experiences floods. Those in June 2016 were recognised as "calamities" by the Walloon region, giving the right to exceptional compensation.But this year the country is experiencing a particularly rainy start to the summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-storms-leave-at-least-9-dead-dozens-missing-101626338475109.html
15-07-2021||World||Johnson & Johnson voluntarily recalls sunscreens on benzene concerns||Johnson & Johnson said on Wednesday it is voluntarily recalling some of its sunscreen products from the market after a cancer-causing chemical was found in some of the samples.The company said all lots of Neutrogena and Aveeno brand aerosol sunscreen products were being called back as a cautionary measure after internal testing identified low levels of benzene in some samples, news agency Reuters reported.Benzene is classified as a human carcinogen, a substance that could potentially cause cancer depending on the level and extent of exposure."While benzene is not an ingredient in any of our sunscreen products, it was detected in some samples of the impacted aerosol sunscreen finished products," the company said."Daily exposure to benzene in these aerosol sunscreen products at the levels detected in our testing would not be expected to cause adverse health consequences."The recalled aerosol sunscreens are Neutrogena Beach Defense, Neutrogena Cool Dry Sport, Neutrogena Invisible Daily defense, Neutrogena Ultra Sheer, and Aveeno Protect Refresh. The products come in many different sizes and sun protection factors -- the list posted on Neutrogena’s website is 23 pages long.J&J said consumers should stop using the affected products and appropriately discard them.Consumers should contact their physician or healthcare provider if they have any concerns, questions or have experienced any problems related to using these products.According to a Bloomberg report, Valisure, an independent testing lab in New Haven, Connecticut, found in May some widely used sunscreens and after-sun products contained up to six parts per million of benzene. The company filed a petition with the Food and Drug Administration asking for the products to be recalled. Neutrogena topped the list of sunscreens with the highest levels of benzene.“When the industry was alerted to this matter, we immediately began a comprehensive end-to-end investigation of our manufacturing process and raw materials, including internal testing and a thorough data review,” said Jake Sargent, a spokesman for J&J.Valisure also detected benzene in CVS Health Corp. sunscreens as well as after-sun care products, among many other sunscreen brands, though it did find sunscreens that didn’t contain benzene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnson-johnson-voluntarily-recalls-sunscreens-on-benzene-concerns-101626337286708.html
15-07-2021||World||Karaoke lounges new Covid-19 hotspots in Singapore, authorities intensify probe||Karaoke clubs and lounges have become the new hotspots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Singapore. On Wednesday, the country registered 56 local cases of the viral disease following the discovery of a cluster among social hostesses and customers of KTV karaoke lounges. Of the 56 new infections, 42 were from the KTV karaoke cluster, the health ministry said on Wednesday.The emergence of the above cluster surfaced at a time Singapore is gradually easing its pandemic-related restrictions, including allowing people to meet in larger groups and also rolling back dining curbs, a report by the BBC said on Thursday. Groups of five can now dine-in at restaurants compared to the earlier limit of just two.The health ministry has now launched an investigation into the infections found among the hostesses, a majority of them being Vietnamese, who frequented KTV lounges. Free Covid-19 testing is also being provided to anyone who was exposed to the virus in such venues, news agency Reuters reported.In another major development, 20 women were arrested on late Wednesday for alleged vice activities at the lounges. Police said the arrested included women from South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam. An investigation is also underway against operators of three lounges for breaching Covid-19 protocols, police said, adding they are also planning to step up the crackdown against vice activities in Singapore along with increasing checks on lounges, according to Bloomberg.Karaoke lounges were initially closed as part of the government’s Covid-19 restrictions, but a majority of them reopened after they obtained licences to operate as food and beverage outlets.Four establishments operating as food and beverage outlets have been identified as having an ongoing transmission of Covid-19 and have been closed for two weeks, the health ministry said.As of now, Singapore is not looking at reversing the relaxations in restrictions due to a high level of vaccination rate in the country. Over 70 per cent of the population has been inoculated with at least one dose of the vaccine, one of the highest rates across Asia, Bloomberg further reported.Health minister Ong Ye Kung on Wednesday urged the public to be cautious and only meet people if they have to. ”We are in a much more resilient position than before,” Kung said while addressing reporters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/karaoke-lounges-new-covid-19-hotspots-in-singapore-authorities-intensify-probe-101626336468462.html
15-07-2021||World||‘Won’t turn blind eye’: US Senate passes bill to ban goods from China’s Xinjiang||The US Senate passed a bill on Wednesday to impose a ban on the import of all products from or manufactured in China’s Xinjiang region. The ban will only be waived if importers can prove that the products weren’t made with forced labour, thereby marking the US’ latest effort to punish Beijing for their treatment of Uyghurs and other Muslim groups.The Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act reportedly needs the US Department of Homeland Security to form a list of entities working with the Chinese government to suppress Uyghurs and other groups. The bill would create a “rebuttable presumption” assuming that all products made in Xinjiang are done with forced labour and thus banned under the 1930 Tariff Act, unless importers can prove otherwise.The bill has currently received unanimous consent, and has to mandatorily pass the House of Representatives before being sent to President Joe Biden to be signed into law. Republication Senator Marco Rubio – who introduced the bill, with Democrat Jeff Merkley, called for fast action on the bill by the House.“We will not turn a blind eye to the CCP’s ongoing crimes against humanity, and we will not allow corporations a free pass to profit from those horrific abuses,” Rubio said in a statement.Democrat Merkley, on the other hand, highlighted that no US corporation “should profit from these abuses” and that no US consumers should be “inadvertently purchasing products from slave labour”.The US administration has consistently criticised Beijing over its actions against ethnic groups, saying they amount to genocide and crimes against humanity. In 2018, UN experts cited that anywhere from tens of thousands to over 1 million Uyghurs have been detained in China, and coerced into taking jobs under a labour-transfer programme. After this, the US put a ban on Xinjiang solar products, tomatoes, and cotton. Besides the US, the European Union (EU), Canada, and the UK have declared sanctions on China for their treatment of ethnic groups. However, China, in retaliation, has called the allegations the “biggest lie of the century,” stating that the country’s policies are to lift it out of poverty, counter-extremism, and uplift the economy.Last week, the US included 34 new entities to its blacklist, including 14 Chinese ventures with alleged links to human-rights abuses in the Xinjiang area of China. If passed, the latest Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act also brings in the chance of visa and asset-blocking sanctions in connection to Xinjiang to include foreign people and entities.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-turn-blind-eye-us-senate-passes-bill-to-ban-goods-from-china-s-xinjiang-101626333791400.html
15-07-2021||World||World Youth Skills Day today: All you need to know about the UN event||The World Youth Skills Day, an event organised by the United Nations (UN), celebrates the strategic importance of equipping the youth with skills for employment, entrepreneurship and work. It is observed on July 15 every year. The day first came into existence back in 2014, and has since then provided “a unique opportunity for dialogue between young people, technical and vocational education and training (TVET) institutions, firms, employers’ and workers’ organizations, policy makers and development partners,” according to the UN’s website.Once again, the World Youth Skills Day is taking place amid unprecedented times due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The theme for 2021 is ‘Reimagining Youth Skills Post-Pandemic’, which will pay a tribute to the resilience and creativity of the youth.This time a virtual panel discussion has been organised by the permanent missions of Portugal and Sri Lanka to the United Nations, together with UNESCO, International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Office of the Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth.The World Youth Skills Day aims to achieve the Incheon Declaration: Education 2030, “which devotes considerable attention to technical and vocational skills development, specifically regarding access to affordable quality TVET; the acquisition of technical and vocational skills for employment, decent work and entrepreneurship; the elimination of gender disparity and ensuring access for the vulnerable,” the UN further said in its website.The UN also listed out some important facts with regard to the state of youth employment, schools along with educational and vocational training amid the Covid-19 crisis:> According to the estimates of UNESCO, schools were shut down for over 30 weeks in 50 per cent of the countries between March 2020 and May 2021.> Respondents to a survey of the TVET, which was jointly collected by UNESCO, the ILO and the World Bank, revealed that distance learning was the most common way of imparting skills.> Youth employment fell 8.7 per cent last year, compared with 3.7 per cent for adults.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several cabinet ministers took to their social media to mark the event. PM Modi said that skill development for the youth is of national importance and is also an important basis for making India self-reliant.“On the occasion of World Youth Skills Day, we reiterate our commitment to empower youth with professional skills that improves employability and entrepreneurship,” Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted.Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan wrote on the microblogging site that on the occasion of the World Youth Skills Day, “let us build an India that is the skilling hub for the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-youth-skills-day-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-unevent-101626328503939.html
15-07-2021||World||‘Embrace the Indians’: Zulu King asks his people to stop riots after Zuma jailed||Zulu King Misuzulu KaZwelithini has called for the violence and looting between Zulus and Indians to come to an end with “immediate effect,” news agency PTI reported.KaZwelithini’s address to the Zulus on live television came on Wednesday afternoon, even as the rampant violence across the KwaZulu-Natal province in South Africa continued for the sixth day. “Our Indian brothers are our neighbours and we have the second biggest population of Indians in KwaZulu-Natal outside of India and through that, we have had certain people who have come to us to say thank you to the Zulu nation and to the Zulu royal family that you are living with our Indian brothers in peace,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.The Zulu King appealed to his people to “embrace the Indians” because they share a land with them and also called for peace.The looting and violence started off as a protest against the 15-month imprisonment of the former president of South Africa Jacob Zuma – also of Zulu descent, for contempt of court. South African government agencies and ministers on Wednesday said that the violence and looting was no longer about Zuma’s jailing, but organised by people with different vested interests, PTI reported.Notably, police and army called in by president Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday were also unable to control the violence that also saw the committing of arson by thousands of people. Several groups of people, mostly armed, have been mobilising – primarily in Indian suburbs across South Africa and the port city of Durban, to oppose attacks and looting that has caused several Indian-owned businesses and factories, among those, to be completely destroyed.Addressing the Zulu people’s dissatisfaction with the imprisonment of Zuma, KaZwelithini on Wednesday said that violence is “not the right way of expressing” it. “It creates a picture of people who have lost their dignity,” he added, as per the PTI report.KaZwelithini said that the incidents have brought “great shame” to the Zulu people as “fingers are pointed at my father’s people”. Notably, he took the crown three months ago after the passing of his parents within weeks of each other.The Zulu King pointed out that it was unexpected for him to see his “own people so complicit” in “burning down” South Africa. “I must appeal to all of us to take a great step back and consider the damage that is being done by our own actions,” KaZwelithini said, adding that he “fully understands” the depression born of poverty and joblessness.The King also said that the destruction would largely affect the poor people as significant supply chains of medicine and food have been ripped off owing to the ongoing violence at the crucial time of Covid-19 pandemic.According to the PTI report, senior former intelligence officers and other politicians loyal to Zuma, who have all not been charged or named yet, are being probed for being instigators of the violence.KaZwelithini’s remarks came as the death toll in South Africa from riots rose up to 72 on Tuesday, with several losing their lives by getting trampled during looting at stores. Over 1,200 people have till now been apprehended in the lawlessness that has even caused some Covid-19 vaccination centres to shut down, PTI reported.In a statement on Tuesday night, police major general Mathapelo Reters said that as many as 27 deaths in KwaZulu-Natal province and 45 in Gauteng province were probed. Additionally, police were probing explosion-caused deaths from when people attempted to break into ATM machines as well as other loss of lives triggered by shootings, as per the PTI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/embrace-the-indians-zulu-king-asks-his-people-to-stop-riots-after-zuma-jailed-101626326815017.html
15-07-2021||World||As Twitter discontinues Fleets feature, Elon Musk posts a request||Shortly after microblogging platform Twitter announced it will discontinue its Fleets feature, the platform's own version of stories, Tesla CEO and billionaire posted a request to its CEO Jack Dorsey. Musk asked for a new laughing emojis."A new laughing emoji on DMs would be great," Musk said in his tweet.👋🏼 https://t.co/iHKqClJDFvOther users too used Musk's tweet to post their own wishlist for the microblogging platform. "And a edit button," said a user who goes by the name The Chairman.Twitter's latest announcement means that the company will end the feature it rolled out last year to compete with the stories features available in Snapchat and Instagram."We're removing Fleets on August 3, working on some new stuff. We're sorry or you're welcome," Twitter posted on its social media handle and tagged by Dorsey."We hoped Fleets would help more people feel comfortable joining the conversation on Twitter," Ilya Brown, Twitter's vice president of product, said in a statement. "But, in the time since we introduced Fleets to everyone, we haven't seen an increase in the number of new people joining the conversation with Fleets like we hoped."Twitter introduced Fleets in November 2020. The feature lets Twitter users post full-screen photos, videos, reactions to tweets or plain text that disappears after 24 hours. Fleets came years after Snapchat and Facebook introduced similar options for their users.The Verge reported that Twitter's decision to discontinue Fleets is not just an admission that the feature didn't work, but that the company still hasn't figured out how to get people tweeting more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-twitter-discontinues-fleets-feature-elon-musk-posts-a-request-101626327097966.html
15-07-2021||World||Colonial-era street in Toronto to be renamed||Dundas Street, a major thoroughfare in Canada’s largest city Toronto will be renamed. It comes after a petition sought the removal of the person it was named after because of his role in delaying the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade.Other civic assets named after Henry Dundas, 1st Viscount Melville (1742-1811), a Scottish lawyer, politician, and one of British Prime Minister William Pitt’s most trusted and powerful ministers, will also be renamed. They include two stations of Toronto’s subway system as well as the Yonge-Dundas Square, a major venue for outdoor events including concerts and in earlier years, the India Day Parade held to celebrate August 15.The reason for scrubbing Dundas’ name was given as his “controversial legacy”, according to a document from the Toronto City Council. It said, “The petition called for the street to be renamed because of Dundas’ role in delaying the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade in the 1790s. It was not until 1807 that the Slave Trade Act was enacted, ending the slave trade in the British Empire. During this period, more than half a million more Black people were enslaved in British territories.”The council voted upon and passed the proposal on Wednesday.A statement said this was part of the city of Toronto’s “commitment to confronting anti-Black racism, advancing truth, reconciliation and justice, as well as building a more inclusive and equitable Toronto”. A new name will be decided upon next year.“The renaming process will be led by a Community Advisory Committee made up of black and indigenous leaders and representatives from the diverse communities living and working along Dundas Street, including business improvement areas and resident associations,” the statement added.Commenting on the council decision, Toronto mayor John Tory said, “We acknowledge that this is just the first of many steps to come, but this a genuine step in the right direction of who we are and what we can be. The names of our public streets, parks, and monuments are a reflection of our values as Torontonians.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colonialera-street-in-toronto-to-be-renamed-101626326465720.html
15-07-2021||World||'Solar wind enveloped Earth, phenomenon lasted for few hours': NOAA||A dense stream of solar wind enveloped the Earth late on Wednesday, according to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), but no notable impact was observed as the event wasn’t particularly powerful on the space weather scale. In fact, few people probably even knew it happened.The phenomenon lasted for a few hours and slightly unsettled the planet's magnetic field, according to the American agency.According to NOAA alert, the storm passed through the Earth at 16:41 UTC (22:11 IST) with a geomagnetic K-index of 4. The K-index is used to characterise the magnitude of geomagnetic storms, and a level of 4 indicates minor disturbance.NOAA said that weak power grid fluctuations occurred due to the solar storm, and expected auroras to be visible at high latitudes such as Canada and Alaska. However, the local US media has not reported any such sightings.While invisible and harmless to anyone on the Earth’s surface, the geomagnetic waves unleashed by solar storms can cripple power grids, jam radio communications, bathe airline crews in dangerous levels of radiation and knock critical satellites off kilter.As a space weather storm leaves the Sun, it passes through the corona and into the solar wind. When it reaches Earth, it energises the planet's magnetosphere and accelerates electrons and protons down to Earth’s magnetic field lines where they collide with the atmosphere and ionosphere, particularly at high latitudes. Each component of space weather impacts a different technology.In 2017, a solar storm caused ham radios to turn to static just as the Category 5 Hurricane Irma was ripping through the Caribbean. In 2015, solar storms knocked out global positioning systems in the US Northeast.In March 1989, a solar storm over Quebec caused a province-wide outage that lasted nine hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/solar-wind-enveloped-earth-phenomenon-lasted-for-few-hours-noaa-101626322877587.html
15-07-2021||World||‘Early stages’ of Covid-19 third wave, amid Delta surge: WHO||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is now in the "early stages" of the third wave, warned World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday, even as he sounded a fresh alarm over a global surge in cases of the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. “Unfortunately…we are now in the early stages of a third wave”, Ghebreyesus said in an address to the emergency committee on Covid-19 established under the International Health Regulations (IHR), a treaty that guides global response to public health risks.“The Delta variant is now in more than 111 countries and we expect it to soon be the dominant Covid-19 strain circulating worldwide, if it isn’t already,” a UN report quoted World Health Organization chief Ghebreyesus as saying. He added that the coronavirus is continuing to evolve and resulting in more transmissible variants.Also Read | Centre warns states against rising 'R' factor of Covid-19. What is this factor?Tedros Adhanom, the director-general of the international public health agency, pointed out that Covid-19 cases and deaths were on the decline for a while due to increasing vaccination rates in Europe and North America, but the global trend has now reversed and cases are rising once again, the last week being the fourth consecutive one which witnessed rising cases in all but one of WHO's six regions. Deaths are also rising again, after 10 weeks of steady decline, it said.WHO said that the recent spread of the Delta variant of the coronavirus is being fueled by "increased social mobility" and inconsistency in the use of proven public health and social measures.Vaccination against Covid-19 is important but that alone will not stop the pandemic, the global health body said, pointing out that countries need to undertake a "comprehensive risk management approach to mass gatherings", an updated guidance for which was recently issued by WHO.Also Read | Covid-19 cases rising again in US, daily count doubled in 3 weeksMoreover, there is also a "shocking disparity" in the global distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, Ghebreyesus added. This inequity has resulted in different countries taking separate approaches to battle the pandemic, resulting in a 'two-track pandemic', per se. One track is for countries with the greatest access to vaccines, who are lifting restrictions and reopening their societies, and the second track is for those without vaccine access and are left “at the mercy of the virus,” he said.There needs to be a massive Covid-19 vaccination push worldwide, WHO highlighted. The global health agency said that every nation must vaccinate at least 10% of their entire population against the coronavirus by September, at least 40% by the end of 2021, and at least 70% by mid-2022.Meanwhile, India reported 41,806 fresh cases and 581 more fatalities due to the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,987,880 and 411,989 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-now-in-early-stages-of-third-covid-19-wave-delta-variant-dominant-who-101626320258118.html
15-07-2021||World||Why Indians are choosing Canada over US, experts testify before US lawmakers||Indians are now choosing Canada over the United States because of the outdated US immigration policies, immigration and policy experts have said testifying before a panel of US lawmakers, underlying that the per-country quota on issuing the green cards is driving Indian talent away from the United States. Testifying before the House Judiciary Committee-Subcommittee on Immigration and Citizenship, National Foundation for American Policy Stuart Anderson said the backlog is increasing and, within a decade, more than 2 million people will be waiting in line for the green cards and they might have to wait for years and decades.Without Congressional action, the total backlog for all three employment-based categories (EB 1, EB 2, EB 3) for Indians would increase from an estimated 9,15,497 individuals currently to an estimated 21,95,795 individuals by fiscal 2030, Anderson said, as reported by PTI.In March 2021, employers filed 3,08,613 H-1B registrations for cap selection for FY 2022 for only 85,000 H-1B petitions, which effectively means over 72 per cent of H-1B registrations for high-skilled foreign nationals were rejected even before an adjudicator evaluated the application.On the other hand, it is easier for international students to work in temporary status and then acquire permanent residence in Canada. Jennifer Young, CEO, Technology Councils of North America, said Canada's pre-pandemic immigration rules allowed its companies to hire high-skilled foreign talent in even four weeks.Canada says no to Covid-19 test report from India, wants flyers to take 'third country' routeIndia has been contributing significantly to the number of international students in the United States. For example, out of the US's total full-time graduate students pursuing Computer Science, 75 per cent is from outside. In the 2016-17 academic year, two-thirds of the international students were from India. According to an analysis of the US government data by the National Foundation for American Policy, this share has declined by more than 25 per cent between 2016-17 and 2018-19.At the same time, Indian students studying at Canadian universities rose by 127 per cent, from 76,075 in 2016 to 1,72,625 in 2018, according to the Canadian Bureau for International Education."In sum, Canada's immigration policies are much better than America's for facilitating the entry of talented individuals. Congress established America's policies in 1990, before smartphones, e-commerce, social media, cloud computing and the daily use of the internet exploded the demand for high-skilled technical labour. The world has changed since 1990. US immigration policy has not,” Anderson said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-indians-are-choosing-canada-over-us-experts-testify-before-us-lawmakers-101626318957145.html
15-07-2021||World||Covid-19 cluster emerges at Japan hotel hosting Brazilian Olympians||At least eight staff at a Japanese hotel hosting Brazil's Olympic judo team have tested positive for coronavirus, local officials said Thursday.Health and sports officials at Hamamatsu city, west of Tokyo, said virus screenings were done before the judo delegation of around 30 members arrived there on Saturday.None of the infected individuals came in contact with the athletes, they said.The news comes as Tokyo prepares to host the Olympic Games mostly behind closed doors, with strict anti-infection measures placed on athletes, officials and journalists."Only those who have proof of a negative test are working" with the judo team, said Yoshinobu Sawada, a sports official at the city."We explained to the team that only (healthy workers) are in the bubble. We think they have understood the situation and our counter-infection measures," he told AFP.A family member of one of the infected hotel workers also tested positive, Hamamatsu officials added.Tokyo is currently under a virus state of emergency, with infections surging. The city recorded 1,149 cases on Wednesday, the highest figure since January.Several areas around the capital are under looser virus restrictions.Olympic participants will be subject to strict virus rules and kept largely away from the Japanese public.Separately, a staff member with the Russian rugby sevens team was hospitalised after testing positive, an official in their host town Munakata in western Japan told AFP.The team, comprised of 16 athletes and 10 staff members, landed at a Tokyo airport on July 10, and has had no close contact with local officials or residents since then, he said.The rest of the team is now quarantined in their accommodation, but if they test negative on Thursday, they will be able to resume training as early as Friday, the official added.The International Olympic Committee said Wednesday that of over 8,000 people who arrived between July 1 and 13, just three tested positive after arrival and were isolated.IOC chief Thomas Bach also pledged "not to bring any risk" to Japan with the Games, which open on July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cluster-emerges-at-japan-hotel-hosting-brazilian-olympians-101626319635805.html
15-07-2021||World||As Moscow bakes in record heat, Vladimir Putin changes tune on climate change||Russian president Vladimir Putin, notorious for his scepticism about global warming, has now said that climate change is a priority and vowed to work along with the United States to battle increasing global temperatures, news agency AFP reported on Thursday. The development comes amid a record-breaking heatwave in Russia during June which experts say could lead to the hottest summer that the country has experienced in more than a century.Moscow bakes in soaring temperatures.The meteorological service says Russia could see its hottest summer in 120 years after a record-breaking heatwave in June.Notorious for his scepticism about global warming, Putin now says climate change is a priority 📸 Alexander Nemenov pic.twitter.com/iUeCpdV17YMoscow is baking in temperatures soaring towards record highs, news agencies reported a day ago, adding that people are heading to lakes to cool off as the heatwave sweeps western Russia. Daytime temperatures in Moscow are forecast at 30-35 degrees Celsius in the coming days and could break record highs on three days this week that have stood since 1936, 1951, and 2010, the RIA news agency reported.Also Read | The Arctic is on fire: Siberian heat wave alarms scientistsTaking global warming as a cue, Russian president Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that his government is willing to work with the US to battling climate change, a rare area of common ground between the nations.For years Putin was notorious for his scepticism about man-made global warming and saying Russia stands to benefit from it. But in recent months he has also made statements to the effect that climate change is not just a boon to Moscow.In a phone call with US climate envoy John Kerry on Wednesday, Putin said that Moscow and Washington have "common interests and similar approaches" when it comes to the "climate problem". He also told the former US secretary of state that Moscow "attaches great importance" to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement and "advocates de-politicising" dialogue on climate change.Also Read | Where climate scientists see danger, Russia sees an opportunityMoscow registered a temperature of 34.8-degree Celsius last month, the hottest recorded in June in 142 years of monitoring. Last Monday, temperatures in the city reached 31-degree Celsius, reported news agency Reuters, citing weather officials familiar with the matter. "The increase in the frequency of dangerous weather events and in particular heatwaves unavoidably accompany global warming," a meteorologist at the Moscow state university told the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-moscow-bakes-in-record-heat-russia-s-vladimir-putin-changes-tune-on-climate-change-101626311824453.html
15-07-2021||World||Covid-19 cases, deaths rise again globally||Covid-19 deaths and cases are on the rise again globally in a dispiriting setback that is triggering another round of restrictions and dampening hopes for a return to normal life.The World Health Organization reported Wednesday that deaths climbed last week after nine straight weeks of decline. It recorded more than 55,000 lives lost, a 3% increase from the week before.Cases rose 10% last week to nearly 3 million, with the highest numbers recorded in Brazil, India, Indonesia and Britain, WHO said.The reversal has been attributed to low vaccination rates, the relaxation of mask rules and other precautions, and the swift spread of the more-contagious delta variant, which WHO said has now been identified in 111 countries and is expected to become globally dominant in the coming months.Sarah McCool, a professor of public health at Georgia State University, said the combination amounts to a "recipe for a potential tinderbox.”Also Read| Sydney's extended lockdown suppress Covid-19 cases of contagious Delta variant"It’s important that we recognize that Covid has the potential for explosive outbreaks,’’ warned Dr. David Dowdy, an infectious disease specialist at Johns Hopkins University.Amid the surge, the death toll in hard-hit Argentina surpassed 100,000. Daily coronavirus deaths in Russia hit record highs this week. In Belgium, Covid-19 infections, driven by the delta variant among the young, have almost doubled over the past week. Britain recorded a one-day total of more than 40,000 new cases for the first time in six months.In Myanmar, crematoriums are working morning to night. In Indonesia, which recorded almost 1,000 deaths and over 54,000 new cases Wednesday, up from around 8,000 cases per day a month ago, people near Jakarta are pitching in to help gravediggers keep up.“As the diggers are too tired and do not have enough resources to dig, the residents in my neighborhood decided to help,” Jaya Abidin said. “Because if we do not do this, we will have to wait in turn a long time for a burial."In the US, with one of the highest vaccination rates in the world, newly confirmed infections per day have doubled over the past two weeks to an average of about 24,000, though deaths are still on a downward trajectory at around 260 a day.Los Angeles County, the most populous county in the US, reported its fifth straight day Tuesday of more than 1,000 new cases.Tokyo is under a fourth state of emergency ahead of the Summer Games this month, with infections climbing fast and hospital beds filling up. Experts have said caseloads could rise above 1,000 before the Olympics and multiply to thousands during the games.Also Read| US coronavirus cases rise again due to DeltaThe spike has led to additional restrictions in places like Sydney, Australia, where the 5 million residents will remain in lockdown through at least the end of July, two weeks longer than planned. South Korea has placed the Seoul area under its toughest distancing rules yet because of record case levels.Parts of Spain, including Barcelona, moved to impose an overnight curfew. London Mayor Sadiq Khan said masks will be required on buses and trains even after other restrictions in England are lifted next week. Italy warned all those going abroad that they might have to quarantine before returning home.Chicago announced that unvaccinated travelers from Missouri and Arkansas must either quarantine for 10 days or have a negative Covid-19 test.Connecticut lawmakers voted Wednesday to again extend Democratic Gov. Ned Lamont’s emergency declarations, despite pushback from Republicans and some Democrats who argued it is time to get back to normal. Among other things, the move keeps in place orders requiring masks in certain settings.An Alabama military base has ordered troops to show proof of vaccination before they can go maskless as the state sees an uptick in Covid-19 cases, a rise attributed to low vaccination rates. The measure was put in place Tuesday at Fort Rucker, home to the Army’s aviation program.As troubling as the figures are around the world, they are still well below the alarming numbers seen earlier this year.Seven months into the vaccination drive, global deaths are down to around 7,900 a day, after topping out at over 18,000 a day in January, according to Johns Hopkins data. Cases are running at around 450,000 a day, down by half since their peak in late April.Also Read| ‘Perfect storm of factors’: UN expert warns of Covid-19 crisis in MyanmarWHO acknowledged that many countries are now facing “considerable pressure” to lift all remaining precautions but warned that failing to do it the right way will just give the virus more opportunity to spread.Pressure is growing worldwide to boost vaccination rates to counter the rise.“If you have been waiting, if you have been on the fence, sign up and get that shot as soon as possible,” New York City Health Commissioner Dr. Dave Chokshi pleaded.Eighteen-year-old actress and singer Olivia Rodrigo appeared at the White House on Wednesday as part of an effort by President Joe Biden to persuade more young people. Getting a vaccination is something "you can do more easily than ever before,” she said.While nearly 160 million Americans have been fully vaccinated, or over 55% of the population, young adults have shown less interest.Ohio is planning another prize program to encourage vaccinations, and Gov. Mike DeWine urged the government to give the vaccines full approval instead of just emergency authorization to ease people's doubts.“The reality is we now have two Ohios,” said Bruce Vanderhoff, the state's chief medical officer. “An Ohio that is vaccinated and protected on the one hand, and an Ohio that is unvaccinated and vulnerable to delta on the other.”Michigan already started a Covid-19 vaccine sweepstakes and announced the first four $50,000 winners Wednesday. Bigger prizes, including a $2 million jackpot, are coming.In Missouri, second only to Arkansas with the worst Covid-19 diagnosis rate over the past week, political leaders in and around St. Louis have stepped up efforts to get people vaccinated through gift cards and by enlisting beauty salons and barbershops to dispense information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-deaths-rise-again-globally-101626312556050.html
15-07-2021||World||UAE becomes 1st Gulf nation to open embassy in Israel||The United Arab Emirates on Wednesday became the first Gulf nation to open an embassy in Israel, nearly a year after both countries signed an agreement to normalise diplomatic ties.The new mission is located in Tel Aviv Stock Exchange building. The ceremony was attended by new Israeli President Isaac Herzog, The Times of Israel reported.UAE Ambassador Mohammad Mahmoud Al Khajah officially presented his credentials at the beginning of March but the official opening was not held until now."It is a great honour to open the embassy here. Ten months ago our two countries signed the Abraham Accords with a vision of dignity, prosperity and peace for the two peoples," Khajah said at the ceremony Wednesday.He added: "This is just the beginning. Both countries are innovative nations and we will harness these new approaches for the prosperity of the countries."Herzog, who took office last week, hailed the embassy opening as an "important step for the entire Middle East."Last month, Israel Foreign Minister Yair Lapid visited the UAE on the first official trip by an Israeli minister to the Gulf state, where he inaugurated the Israeli embassy in Abu Dhabi and a consulate in Dubai.The visit came nearly a year after Israel and the UAE announced they would normalise ties, and after months during which planned visits by Israeli officials were stymied by a series of issues, ranging from health crises to diplomatic scuffles.Israel and the UAE announced in August 2020 that they would normalise diplomatic relations, bringing over a decade of covert ties into the open. Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco later also joined the US-brokered Abraham Accords, and other countries were also rumoured to be in talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-becomes-1st-gulf-nation-to-open-embassy-in-israel-101626304584361.html
15-07-2021||World||White House may ease ban on remittances as part of Cuba review: Report||President Joe Biden's review of Trump-era Cuba policy could lead to big changes in the U.S. posture toward the communist government in Havana as U.S. officials take stock of large protests in that country.The White House says Biden's primary goal is helping the people of Cuba as they reel from pandemic-driven economic woes. Two sources familiar with the review said on Wednesday it could lead to the easing of restrictions on payments Americans can make to their families in Cuba.Remittances to Cuba are believed to be around $2 billion to $3 billion annually, representing its third biggest source of dollars after the services industry and tourism.The sources also said whether to ease a travel ban between the United States and Cuba is also under consideration, as well as whether to lift the designation of Cuba as a "state sponsor of terrorism," a label then-President Donald Trump gave to Cuba just days prior to leaving office in January.Biden is also considering reviving the Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program, which had provided a legal way for Cuban families to be reunited in the United States, the sources said.Trump's withdrawal of U.S. diplomats from Cuba in 2017 in response to mysterious, possibly sonic, attacks on Americans in Havana basically froze the reunification program.Cuban-born Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas on Tuesday warned Cubans and Haitians not to attempt to enter the United States illegally by sea, saying the trek was too dangerous and they would be repatriated.The Cuba review is being coordinated by the White House National Security Council with input from the State and Defense departments as well as the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies.The outcome of the review is not considered imminent.White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters the Cuba policy review is being conducted "with an eye toward its impact on the political and economic well-being of the Cuban people.""There's no question that the protests over the weekend and the events of the last several days are significant events, and it was the largest protest we've seen in Cuba in a long time. That will obviously have an impact on how we proceed," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-may-ease-ban-on-remittances-as-part-of-cuba-review-report-101626296729079.html
15-07-2021||World||9 Chinese nationals killed in Pakistan bus ‘blast’||A blast on a bus killed 13 people in north Pakistan’s Khyber-Paktunkhwa on Wednesday, including nine Chinese nationals in what Beijing said was a bomb attack but Islamabad called a vehicle failure.Two Pakistani soldiers were also among the dead after the explosion sent the bus over a ravine, local government and police sources told Reuters.Chinese engineers and Pakistani construction workers have for several years been working on hydroelectric projects as part of Beijing’s Belt and Road Initiative in the western province of Khyber-Paktunkhwa.China’s embassy in Pakistan confirmed that nine of its nationals died.Terming the explosion a bomb attack but not giving more details, the Chinese foreign ministry offered condolences and urged both a thorough investigation and protection of its personnel and projects.“Recently, our workers at a business on a certain project in Pakistan were attacked and have suffered deaths and injuries. We have notified Chinese citizens in Pakistan to avoid venturing outside unless required by work or business and pay especial care to their safety,” the Chinese embassy statement said.In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said China was “shocked by and condemns the bomb attack”.“We have demanded the Pakistani side get to the bottom of the incident, arrest and strictly punish the assailants as soon as possible, and earnestly protect the safety of Chinese personnel, institutions and projects in Pakistan,” Zhao said at a press briefing.Pakistan’s foreign ministry on Wednesday maintained that a mechanical failure caused a gas leak, which led to the explosion.The bus “plunged into a ravine after a mechanical failure resulting in leakage of gas that caused a blast. ... Further investigations are underway,” the ministry’s statement said.However, the province’s top police official, inspector general Moazzam Jah Ansari, earlier in the day said foul play was suspected. “Looks like sabotage,” he said.A senior administrative officer of the Hazara region, who asked not to be named, said the bus was carrying more than 30 Chinese engineers to the Dasu dam in Upper Kohistan.The Dasu hydroelectric project is part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), a $65 billion investment plan aiming to link western China to the southern Pakistani port of Gwadar.“This is clearly an act of terrorism that has been carefully planned and was supported by information,” said an editorial in Global Times, a Chinese tabloid run by the ruling Communist Party’s official People’s Daily, calling it the most serious attack on Chinese nationals in recent years.Using an air ambulance, rescuers took the injured, including Chinese engineers, to a hospital in Dasu, about 10km from the blast site, authorities said.“Police and the bomb disposal squad are at the site,” added regional official Arif Khan Yousufzai outside the hospital, adding that an investigation was awaited to ascertain details.Pakistan’s foreign ministry said it was in close contact with the Chinese embassy in Islamabad, adding in a statement: “Pakistan attaches great importance to the safety and security of Chinese nationals, projects and...”Recently, Pakistan has seen a resurgence in terrorist attacks, increasing worries of Prime Minister Imran Khan, who is already trying to overcome an economic crisis with the help of Chinese investment under President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative.Pakistan’s military has reported 11 such incidents in the north and south-west region since June that have killed 22 soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/9-chinese-nationals-killed-in-pakistan-bus-blast-101626292909483.html
15-07-2021||World||US coronavirus cases rise again due to Delta||The Covid-19 curve in the US is rising again after months of decline, with the number of new cases per day doubling over the past three weeks, driven by the fast-spreading Delta variant of the coronavirus, lagging vaccination rates and the July 4 Independence Day gatherings.Confirmed infections climbed to an average of about 23,600 a day on Monday, up from 11,300 on June 23, according to Johns Hopkins University data. All but two states - Maine and South Dakota - reported that case numbers have gone up over the past two weeks.Indonesia reported more than 54,000 new cases for the first time on Wednesday, surpassing recent daily infections in India, whose disastrous outbreak is declining, and becoming Asia’s new Covid-19 hot spot. Officials fear that the Delta variant is now spreading from the islands of Java and Bali, where outbreaks prompted a partial lockdown that closed places of worship, malls, parks and restaurants.The health ministry reported 54,517 new cases and 991 Covid-related deaths on Wednesday, taking the number of confirmed cases since the pandemic began above 2.6 million and the number of confirmed fatalities to more than 69,000. A month ago, daily cases were running at about 8,000.Spanish court: Lockdown is unconstitutionalSpain’s constitutional court ruled on Wednesday that last year’s strict stay-at-home lockdown order by the government under a state of emergency was unconstitutional. The court ruling was in response to a suit brought by the far-right Vox party. It was a split decision according to a brief statement issued by the court.Masks mandatory for London public transportThe UK is headed for a mixed bag of rules on masks in enclosed spaces, as protection against the spread of the virus, after London mayor Sadiq Khan said that they would remain a mandatory requirement on public transport in the city. UK PM Boris Johnson had earlier said face coverings would no longer be a legal requirement in England from next Monday.French star Lea Seydoux was forced to pull out of the ongoing Cannes film festival on Wednesday after coming down with Covid-19 despite being fully vaccinated against the disease. The popular actress is in three films running for the festival’s Palme d’Or top prize.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-cases-rise-again-due-to-delta-101626287332241.html
15-07-2021||World||Bangladesh to lift lockdown for festival despite record infections||Bangladesh will lift its nationwide coronavirus lockdown for the country's second-biggest religious festival, the government said Tuesday, even as new infections soared to record levels.The cabinet said all restrictions would be eased in the Muslim-majority country of 169 million people from Thursday, ahead of the Eid al-Adha festival which will be celebrated from July 20 to 22 this year.The removal of the curbs would "normalise economic activities" ahead of the celebrations, it added.Tens of millions of people usually head back to their villages to mark Eid al-Adha with their families.Bangladesh imposed its strictest-ever lockdown at the start of the month as new Covid-19 cases and deaths climbed to pandemic highs.Under the lockdown, people were only allowed to leave home for emergencies and to buy essentials, with public transport, shops and offices shut.But infections have continued to climb, with nearly 14,000 people testing positive on Monday -- a new daily record -- to take the total number of cases to just over one million.The death toll has risen above 16,600. But experts say the real figures could be much higher amid fears of underreporting.Mohammad Shahidullah, who heads a health committee that advises the government on how to manage the pandemic, said his group of experts opposed the easing of the lockdown."The committee opines that this strict lockdown should be continued till there is a declining trend in infections," Shahidullah told AFP."Amid the lockdown, there is an increasing trend of infections and fatalities. The infection level is still very high."There are also fears that crowding at markets to buy animals for slaughter and big gatherings during the festival could become super-spreader events.- Revived vaccination drives -The announcement came as authorities restarted the country's Covid-19 vaccination drive, which virtually ground to a halt in late April after imports of shots from neighbouring India were suspended to meet local demand amid a massive virus surge.The revived inoculation programme kicked off on a large scale on Tuesday with two million shots of Sinopharm from China and 2.5 million Moderna doses from the United States via the Covax programme.So far, 4.2 million people in Bangladesh have been fully vaccinated with two doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine bought or donated from India.A further 1.6 million have received one shot.In nearby Bhutan, half a million Moderna doses arrived late Monday from the United States via Covax.More shots are expected to be donated by Denmark, Croatia, Bulgaria, China and several other countries.The tiny Himalayan kingdom, which has a population of 770,000, had pleaded for more shots after using up most of the 550,000 AstraZeneca doses donated by India.It had inoculated more than 60 percent of its population with first doses in late March and early April.In the world's second-most infected nation India, where cases have declined from record highs in May, Prime Minister Narendra Modi warned against people flocking to northern Himalayan states to escape the scorching summer heat."The virus does not come and go on its own... we bring it with us when we disobey the rules. Experts are warning us repeatedly that careless behaviour -- like overcrowding -- will lead to an increase in Covid cases," he said Tuesday during a meeting with state leaders.The health ministry said more than 230 million rupees ($3 million) was being allocated to an emergency package to increase the number of ambulances and ICU beds in public hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-to-lift-lockdown-for-festival-despite-record-infections-101626283412521.html
15-07-2021||India||Former Kerala police chief blames intelligence officials for forcing him to arrest ISRO scientist in 1994 fake espionage case||S Vijayan, who was among the 18 former policemen booked last month for allegedly framing scientist Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case, has accused the latter of influencing the probe into the matter through “financial transactions” with a federal investigator in the 1990s. He made the claims in his anticipatory bail plea in the Kerala high court on Wednesday and produced purported documents of land transferred to the then deputy inspector general of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), who probed the case in the 1990s and exonerated Narayanan. The claims came on the day former Kerala Police chief Sibi Mathews accused Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Research And Analysis Wing (RAW) officials of pressurising him to arrest Narayanan in the espionage case. He made the claim in his anticipatory bail application filed in the Thiruvananthapuram district court on Wednesday. Mathews was a deputy inspector general and headed the special investigation team that investigated the espionage case. The CBI booked former IB deputy director R B Sreekumar, Mathews, Vijayan, and 16 other policemen in June for allegedly framing Narayanan. The Supreme Court ordered the CBI to investigate the conspiracy behind the framing while calling the matter serious. It said the case required “deeper investigation” into the role of the police officers responsible while accepting the report of a committee the court constituted in 2018 to probe the circumstances that led to the framing. Narayanan, 79, was arrested in 1994 in the alleged espionage case. He was exonerated two years later after a CBI probe. Narayanan was arrested after his phone numbers were found in a diary recovered from two Maldivian women, Mariyam Rasheeda and Fousia Hassan, arrested in 1994 on charges of overstaying in the country. The Supreme Court ordered compensation for Narayanan and constituted the committee that recommended a central agency probe the conspiracy angle. Mathews insisted Narayanan was not heading ISRO’s cryogenic division when he was arrested and that he had moved an application for voluntary retirement in 1994 after some officials superseded him. He claimed Narayanan came up with a “cryogenic theory” to get more attention and sympathy. Mathews insisted Narayanan was in touch with some foreign nationals. The district court on Wednesday directed the CBI to produce case diaries of the 1994 case, the ongoing conspiracy probe, and details of the Supreme Court-appointed Jain Commission report. A retired RAW official, who preferred not to be named, said confidential issues related to the country’s security should not be raised while calling for in-camera proceedings in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-police-chief-blames-intelligence-officials-for-forcing-him-to-arrest-isro-scientist-in-1994-fake-espionage-case-101626373688727.html
15-07-2021||India||Denying people livelihood by linking jobs to jabs is illegal: Manipur HC||IMPHAL: The high court of Manipur ruled that “denying people their livelihood by linking their employment to their getting vaccinated would be illegal on the part of the state”.The ruling of the division bench of Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Kh Nobin Singh, issued on Tuesday, also observed that such a measure would also trample upon the freedom of the individual to get vaccinated or choose not to do so.“Restraining people, who are yet to get vaccinated from opening institutions, organizations, factories, shops, etc., or denying them their livelihood by linking their employment, be it NREGA job cardholders or workers in government or private projects, to their getting vaccinated would be illegal on the part of the State, if not unconstitutional,” the bench said.The July 13 ruling of the high court was issued responding to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed against Manipur government in connection with a state government notification which proposes to prioritise opening of institutions, organisations, factories, shops, markets, private offices etc where its employees and workers are Covid vaccinated.The state government order issued by the home department on June 30 also said that it would also apply to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act (MNREGA) job card holders and workers of government/private projects.The PIL said that the notification violates of Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India, which guarantee right to equality, freedom, and right to life and personal liberty, wherein unvaccinated people are being discriminated at large by prioritising the vaccinated people by the Government of Manipur.Observing that the state government apparently issued the impugned notification, in keeping with the policy of the central government, seeking to promote Covid vaccinations, the court in its order said that it is the duty of the State to spread awareness of the vaccination. “It is for the State Government to dispel such fears by educating people as to the advantages of getting vaccinated and erase their apprehension of the adverse consequences of getting vaccinated. Without addressing this issue, the State cannot seek to impose conditions upon the citizens so as to compel them to get vaccinated, be it by holding out a threat or by putting them at a disadvantage for failing to get vaccinated,” the bench added.The court ordered the state to file their reply within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denying-people-livelihood-by-linking-jobs-to-jabs-is-illegal-manipur-hc-101626372848700.html
15-07-2021||India||Sisir Adhikari, Sunil Mondal get Lok Sabha notice on TMC’s disqualification plea||New Delhi: The Lok Sabha secretariat on Thursday evening issued notices to two Trinamool Congress (TMC) members and a rebel YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) member under the anti-defection law after their respective parties sought their removal from the House, people familiar with the matter said.Sisir Adhikari, senior TMC MP and father of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, and Sunil Kumar Mondal, Trinamool’s two-term MP, have been served notice months after the party filed a complaint under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution for anti-party activities.K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, who has taken on Andhra Pradesh chief minister and party chief Jagan Mohan Reddy, has also been issued notice.According to the Lok Sabha secretariat, the three members of Parliament (MPs) have been told to send their reply within 15 days of receiving the notice.People familiar with the matter said while TMC leaders filed for disqualification of the two MPs a few months ago but now, ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, the process of evaluating the alleged anti-defection cases has started. Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Lok Sabha, sought Sunil Kumar Mondal’s disqualification, on January 4 this year. The request to remove Sisir Adhikari was sent on May 17, a fortnight after his eldest son Suvendu defeated Mamata Banerjee from the Nandigram seat by 1,958 votes.Mamata Banerjee, who is yet to become a member of the Bengal assembly, has challenged Adhikari’s victory in the Calcutta high court. Her party on Thursday petitioned the Election Commission to hold early bypolls to enable her to contest.Sunil Mondal, TMC Lok Sabha member from the East Burdwan seat, joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in December last year.Sisir Adhikari, the MP from Contai in the East Midnapore district, did not formally pick up the BJP flag but shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the election campaign.Section 2A of the Constitution’s Tenth Schedule provides for disqualification of MPs and MLAs “if he (a lawmaker) has voluntarily given up his membership of such political party.” Legal experts pointed out that this is being used by the Trinamool as it wants to argue that the two MPs campaigned for the BJP and therefore, they have voluntarily given up their membership.”Neither of the two lawmakers has formally quit the Trinamool, which won Bengal once again, but their acts triggered a long-drawn tussle between the BJP and the Trinamool.In June, the TMC twice approached Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to take a call on the disqualification petitions. After his second request on June 14, Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Lok Sabha, told HT that the speaker assured him that a committee to review the petitions for disqualification would be set up soon.The TMC’s hard push to force the two MPs out of the Lok Sabha coincides with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s efforts to seek disqualification of Mukul Roy, who won the Krishnanagar North assembly seat, on a BJP ticket in May and joined the TMC on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sisir-adhikari-sunil-mondal-get-lok-sabha-notice-on-tmc-s-disqualification-plea-101626371950892.html
15-07-2021||India||Govt waives import tax, GST for TN girl’s medicine worth ₹16 cr||Following the political intervention, the Union government has offered a special exemption from payment of customs duty and GST for importing a life-saving drug required for a 2-year-old baby girl KS Mithrra from Tamil Nadu. She suffers from a rare disease called spinal muscular atrophy for which treatment costs are exorbitant, HT has learnt.A statement from the Union finance ministry dated July 14 said that under exceptional circumstances and in the public interest, 55ml of Zolgensma, import taxes on 55ml of drug Zolgensma have been exempted. The exemption is one less burden on the baby’s family which has been crowdfunding for her treatment.“Her disease is getting progressive,” her mother Priyadarshini said over the phone amidst Mithrra’s loud wails. “She is much weaker than she was three months ago so it is crucial that we administer the drug for her at the earliest,” she said.The family-based in Namakkal, was in Bengaluru on Thursday for a medical assessment. The child’s father, a textile businessman, received help from donors to meet the drug’s cost which is about 16 crore for a single dose and required additional funds to meet various taxes levied while importing the drug.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, requesting her to take steps as a policy to exempt customs duty, integrated GST and other such taxes on the import of life-saving drugs for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy. Children affected by this rare disease should ideally undergo gene therapy before turning two years old. In Tamil Nadu, 90-100 such cases are being reported annually. Stalin’s letter to Sitharaman was in the backdrop of the vernacular media highlighting Mithrra’s case.On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu BJP president K Annamalai also wrote to Sitharaman regarding Mithrra’s treatment. The cost of the Zolgensma drug is around 16 crores while duties and GST come to around another ₹6 crore, Annamalai said in his letter. Annamalai requested Sitharaman to consider waiving off all duties and taxes on an “urgent basis” and “humanitarian grounds” so that the girl could be “saved in time”. This was followed up by BJP national Mahila Morcha president and Coimbatore MLA, Vanathi Srinivasan.The finance ministry has offered such exemptions on a case-by-case basis with respect to spinal muscular atrophy. Activists have been calling for a blanket exemption so that every time a family need not approach the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-waives-import-tax-gst-for-tn-girl-s-medicine-worth-rs-16-cr-101626371173943.html
15-07-2021||India||West Bengal Speaker to hear petition seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy on July 16||Hearing on a complaint seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy, a member of the legislative assembly who recently switched to Trinamool Congress (TMC) from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), will take place on Friday, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The hearing will take place before West Bengal assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee, acting on a petition filed by BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in West Bengal. He also expected to be present at the hearing.Roy joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president. He switched over to the TMC on June 11 along with son Subhranshu, a former MLA, in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.This came a month after the TMC secured a landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly elections. The TMC had bagged 213 of the 294 assembly seats to retain power, and the BJP managed to gain only 77 seats.Adhikari, who is also a former TMC leader, is seeking Roy's disqualification under Rule 6 of the Members of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, 1986, read with Article 191 (2) and paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India.In a letter sent to the house speaker, Adhikari has claimed that Roy joined the TMC without formally resigning from the BJP, although he was elected to the assembly as a leader of the party.Meanwhile, the ruling TMC has criticised the move. "Adhikari should first impart lessons on defection to his father Sisir Adhikari, who joined the BJP despite being a Lok Sabha member of the TMC," TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, had said earlier.On Monday, Sudip Bandopadhyay, leader of the TMC in the Lok Sabha, called up Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and urged him to take action on the three petitions he filed between January 4 and May 17 seeking the disqualifications of Sunil Mondal and Sisir Adhikari, who joined the BJP prior to the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-speaker-to-hear-petition-seeking-disqualification-of-mukul-roy-on-july-16-101626370584679.html
15-07-2021||India||UP drew ₹4-lakh-crore investments in MSMEs since 2017, says minister||Uttar Pradesh minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Sidharth Nath Singh said on Thursday that the identity of the state has transformed due to the flexible attitude of the government towards industries, and turned it into an emerging backbone of India’s industrial hub.“It is because of the various proactive measures taken by the state government towards transforming the state into a favourable place for industries to grow such as ODOP because of which the exports of UP have skyrocketed by 35%,” Singh said during a virtual interaction with the media.He added that loans worth ₹2.5-lakh-crore were disbursed to the MSMEs in four years, due to which a thumping investment of about ₹4-lakh-crore has come into the state. "Around 2.6 crore people have got direct and indirect employment opportunities," Singh said.He went on to say that the MSME sector of UP generates employment opportunities and has emerged as the backbone of industrialisation. "In 2017, when the BJP government took over the reins of the state, a roadmap was prepared to fix the rural economy. An innovative initiative called ‘ODOP’ was rolled out in 2018 while Common Facility Centers (CFCs) have been set up in 40 out of all 75 districts of the state," the minister outlined.The minister said that during the first wave of Covid-19, industries related to essential commodities and export units continued to operate in the state. "Whereas during the second wave a partial corona curfew was imposed, in which industries and businesses operated as usual," he further said, addding, "The New MSME Act 2020 got implemented amid the ongoing pandemic itself, under which no-objection certificates are being given in 72 hours and exemption from various types of licenses has been given for around 1,000 days."Singh said that work is being done on cluster development by connecting CFCs. In this, eminent fashion designers of the country have been associated with the cluster. Along with this, the Quality Control of India has also been added.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME said, “ODOP is a big reason for the increase in the exports of UP. For this, efforts were made at every level and an export policy was formulated. Export Development Center has been set up at the district level. The export of the state was ₹88,967 crore in 2017-18, which has increased by 35 percent i.e. ₹1,21,139 crore in 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-drew-rs-4-lakh-crore-investments-in-msmes-since-2017-says-minister-101626369135800.html
15-07-2021||India||In Uzbekistan, Jaishankar discusses Afghanistan situation with key leaders||A regional conference on connectivity hosted by Uzbekistan that began on Thursday afforded external affairs minister S Jaishankar an opportunity to discuss the situation in Afghanistan with key leaders such as Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad.Jaishankar arrived in Tashkent after attending meetings of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe during July 13-14. The situation in Afghanistan figured in Jaishankar’s meetings in Tashkent with Afghan President Ghani, his Kazakhstan counterpart Mukhtar Tileuberdi, and US deputy national security adviser Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall and Khalilzad, the special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation.The meeting between Jaishankar and Ghani marked the first high-level contact between the Indian and Afghan sides amid a sustained campaign by the Taliban to capture territory following the rapid drawdown of US forces in Afghanistan.“Discussed the current situation in and around Afghanistan. Reiterated our support for peace, stability and development of Afghanistan,” Jaishankar tweeted after his talks with the Afghan president.Tweets from the official handle of the Afghan president’s office said Jaishankar had assured Ghani of India’s support to Afghanistan. Jaishankar also said India will continue its humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan by providing 150,000 tonnes of wheat. Jaishankar said India “would continue to work together to strengthen the regional consensus to support the regime in Afghanistan,” according to the tweets.Jaishankar tweeted that he had exchanged “views on the evolving situation in Afghanistan” with Sherwood-Randall and Khalilzad. He also tweeted that he discussed the situation in Afghanistan and Covid-19-related cooperation during his meeting with his Kazakh counterpart Tileuberdi. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on these meetings.The Indian foreign minister is expected to hold several bilateral meetings on the margins of the international conference being hosted with Uzbekistan with the theme “Central and South Asia: Regional connectivity, challenges and opportunities”. The meeting is being attended by key leaders such as Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi are also in Tashkent for the conference but people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there were no plans for the Indian side to meet them.Meanwhile, the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan said in a joint statement that the “activity of international terrorist organisations remains a key factor of instability” in Afghanistan. “We are deeply concerned by the growing tension in Afghanistan’s Northern Provinces caused by the increased concentration of various terrorist, separatist and extremist groups. We consider it important to step up joint efforts by SCO Member States to counter terrorism, separatism and extremism,” the joint statement said.The statement said the SCO member states had reaffirmed their commitment to Afghanistan’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and that they intended to “assist Afghanistan in becoming a country free of terrorism, war and drugs”.It added, “The SCO Member States confirm their readiness to further develop cooperation with Afghanistan in combating security challenges and threats in the region, above all terrorism and drug-related crime in all their forms and manifestations, and to jointly confront ‘double standards’ in addressing these tasks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uzbekistan-jaishankar-discusses-afghanistan-situation-with-key-leaders-101626369070496.html
15-07-2021||India||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri vows to work with Saudi Arabia, UAE to calm oil markets||India's new oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri vowed to work with oil producers Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates to reduce volatility in oil markets and make crude prices affordable.Veteran diplomat Puri, who took charge of India's oil ministry last week, on Thursday spoke to Saudi oil minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, a day after his conversation with Ahmed Al Jaber, UAE's minister of Industry and chief executive of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (ADNOC)."I conveyed my desire to work with His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz to bring greater predictability and calm in the global oil markets, and also to see hydrocarbons become more affordable", Puri tweeted after a telephonic conversation with his Saudi counterpart.Relations between Riyadh and New Delhi came under strain this year after Puri's predecessor, Dharmendra Pradhan, blamed production cuts by Saudi Arabia and others for driving up oil prices.India, the world's third biggest oil consumer and oil importer, is facing record high retail prices of gasoline and gasoil.Puri said New Delhi would like to expand its relations with Riyadh to "beyond buyer-seller to see greater two way investment".Saudi Arabia is the second biggest oil supplier to India after Iraq.Saudi Aramco is in talks to acquire a 20% stake in oil-to-chemical business of Relinace Industries, operator of the world's biggest refining complex.Aramco and ADNOC are partners with Indian state run refiners in a joint venture that plans to build a giant refining and petrochemical complex on India's west coast.ADNOC has also leased a part of India's strategic petroleum reserves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-vows-to-work-with-saudi-arabia-uae-to-calm-oil-markets-101626368670017.html
15-07-2021||India||States told to adopt calibrated approach while easing Covid-19 restrictions||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the states and Union territories on Thursday stressing the need for 'test, treat, track and vaccination' and adherance to Covid-19 appropriate in their effort to check the spread of the virus.Bhushan's letter comes at a time when states and Union territories have begun easing the restrictions necessiated owing to the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the second wave of the pandemic.The health secretary raised concerns over violations of Covid-19 protocol across the country, esepcially in public transport, hill stations and markets, and warned that these instances can trigger a surge in infections.He also reiterated the Centre's warning on increase in 'R factor' in some states. "You may be aware that any increase in R factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid-19. Therefore, it is important that the authorities concerned shall be made responsible for ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour in all crowded places....as well as all areas identified as hotspots for transmission of Covid-19 virus," he wrote in his letter. ALSO READ | 'Strong likelihood' of more dangerous Covid variants, warn WHO expertsCalling for focussed public health measures by the states and the Union territories, Bhushan wrote, "It is imperative to adhere to the guiding principles of Covid-19 containment and management with special focus on the 5-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and adherance to Covid-appropriate behaviour.""Focussed and sustained high levels of testing, relentless contact tracing, comprehensive vaccination and ensuring strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour in all crowded places and potential super-spreader events are of essence," he added.ALSO READ | Rising Delta variant cases make Covid-19 third wave real risk for India: ReportBhushan told the states and the Union territories to adopt a carefully calibrated approach for relaxing the restrictions. "The second wave of Covid-19 is not yet over. We ought to remember that while the reach of vaccination is increasing considerably, there is no room for complacency," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-adopt-calibrated-approach-while-easing-covid-19-restrictions-101626363918561.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi calls on President Kovind, briefs him about 'important issues'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi on Thursday to apprise him of "important issues," The President's House informed on Twitter. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan and briefed him on important issues," it wrote on the micro-blogging site.PM Modi and President Kovind’s meeting took place ahead of the monsoon session which is set to commence on July 19. The session will conclude on August 13.Notably, the monsoon session of Parliament will last for a total of 26 days, but excluding holidays, it will work for only 19 days. In these 19 days, the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is preparing to present 30 bills in the Parliament. Of these, 17 are new while the rest are amendment bills.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress party is planning to corner the ruling government over a number of issues including the alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis, border disputes with China, farmers' agitation and the Rafale deal. The Congress leaders are also set to raise the issue over rising fuel prices in the Parliament.The meeting between the PM and the President came close on the heels of Modi’s Varanasi trip, where he inaugurated developmental projects worth over ₹1,500 crore.The key projects that were inaugurated by PM Modi include multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway.He also announced a ₹1 lakh crore special fund to modernise agriculture infrastructure in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-on-president-kovind-briefs-him-about-important-issues-101626367244850.html
15-07-2021||India||Air India privatisation: Boeing pilots’ union reach out to new minister over pending arrears||Air India’s Indian Pilots’ Guild, a recognised trade union representing the pilots of erstwhile Air India ltd., wrote to the new civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday seeking an assurance that their long-pending arrears will be paid as privatisation of Air India Ltd. is in the final stages, HT has learnt. “We wish to bring to your attention an issue which gravely concerns the pilots of Air India as well other employees, and the privatisation process itself,” the pilots said. In January 2013, Air India management cut staff salaries by 25% on an ad-hoc basis amid poor financial conditions.“Despite being in a miserable condition, the pilots continued to bear the ad-hoc pay cut,” said a senior Air India pilot. Former Air India chairman, Ashwani Lohani, in his 2015 letter to employees, stated that the management was absolutely clear that the pending amount belonged to the employees and would therefore be released.Moreover, earlier this year the then minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri had told the media that the employees’ dues with arrears will be paid by Air India assets holding company before the closing of the proposed transaction.“As the privatisation of Air India Ltd. seems to be at the final stage, we turn to you to make good these assurances of payment of our long pending arrears. We sincerely hope that under your tenure, the interests of the employees will be addressed and that you could initiate the payment of these arrears at the earliest,” the letter read. The pilots have requested Scindia for a meeting to discuss various issues and seek help to get back their money.From the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Air India crew has flown crucial cargo and evacuation flights as well as the flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. Moreover, the airline lost five of its pilots to Covid-19 during the second wave. All these pilots operated flights during the first and second waves of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-privatisation-boeing-pilots-union-reach-out-to-new-minister-over-pending-arrears-101626364029954.html
15-07-2021||India||Blocked 2 million accounts in India in 1 month, says WhatsApp in new report||New Delhi: WhatsApp blocked at least 2 million accounts in India from May 15 to June 15, a compliance report released by the Facebook-owned messaging platform said.The accounts were blocked using automated technology. The platform blocks around 8 million accounts a month around the world. In this one-month period, the company received 345 complaints from India, where it has 530 million users. These included 70 cases of account support, wherein users reported problems regarding their accounts, but took action against none, 204 cases appealing the fact that their accounts were blocked (it acted against 63), and 20 issues of other support. There were also 43 cases of product support, referring to product services such as payments offered by the company, involving eight safety issues that were flagged. Overall, of the 345 complaints WhatsApp received, it acted against 63 accounts from May 15 to June 15. The company has challenged the traceability clause of the social media and intermediary guidelines, which also mandate it to publish a monthly grievance compliance report. This is the first such report WhatsApp has published for India. WhatsApp is now the fourth company after Google, Facebook and Twitter to publish the report and appoint officers in keeping with the new guidelines. A person familiar with WhatsApp’s compliance efforts said on condition of anonymity that automated take down of accounts happen using a range of behavioural signals, such as mass broadcasts and without breaking end-to-end encryption. “Even though WhatsApp is an encrypted platform, it takes action against accounts based on automated tools as it is committed to ensuring the safety of its users,” the person said.Kazim Rizvi, founder, policy think tank, The Dialogue, said, “It is possible to take down accounts without breaking end-to-end encryption. WhatsApp utilises AI technology to detect spammy behaviour of users. For instance, if 100 messages are sent to unknown contacts within 15 seconds of registration, in such cases the platform may block the user. The technology keeps learning from such instances of blocking and then prevents abuse by blocking users if it can predict the same through signals and patterns. For instance, behavioural cues like bulk registration along with data points like IP Address help in detecting instances at registration itself. It is important to note that platforms cannot take down content due to end-to-end encryption and can only ban accounts.”Facebook, which published a compliance report last week, said in a more detailed report published Thursday that it received 646 grievances from India between May 15 and June 15 through the newly created grievance channel, with the highest number of complaints being about accounts being hacked. A person familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that while number of complaints were far lower on the grievance redressal channel as opposed to reports filed on the platform, the route provides an opportunity for people who do not have a Facebook account to flag content. Instagram, also owned by Facebook, said it received 36 complaints, of which 25 were regarding nudity. “Of these incoming reports, we provided tools for users to resolve the issues in 10 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc,” the report stated. Instagram took action against two million links across nine categories in the period between May 15 and June 15. In Facebook’s first report released last week, it said it removed a little over 30 million pieces of content (posts, profiles, pages) between May 15 and June 15 in India. The links taken down related to content that was violent and graphic, contained adult nudity and sexual activity, and were about suicide and self-injury. The report released on Friday is an interim disclosure and the company said it will publish details on July 15. “Platforms like WhatsApp also use technology to scan all the unencrypted data sets like Profile Pictures, Group Photos and Statuses to find out if anyone has uploaded any illegal or harmful content. Photo DNA technology is used to find if a user has uploaded child sexual abuse material as their Group or Profile photo. Moreover, any incident of child safety is reported to the Police for further investigation. Such accounts may also be blocked for violation of terms of service or violation of the law of the and. In all the above scenarios accounts are blocked both reactively, and with the help of machine learning technology, proactively, without weakening end-to-end encryption. The transparency report indicates that there are existing technology mechanisms that support safety and security efforts of the State to a reasonable extent, without having to break end-to-end encryption. Investment in such technologies across all similar platforms will create help create a safe user experience while protecting their privacy.” Rizvi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blocked-2-million-accounts-in-india-in-1-month-says-whatsapp-in-new-report-101626363249023.html
15-07-2021||India||Another Pak drone intrudes Indian space on LoC, fired upon by soldiers||Barely a day after the Border Security Force (BSF) opened fire at a suspected Pakistani drone along the Indo-Pak international border in Arnia sector, another drone was spotted inside Indian territory along the Line of Control (LoC) in Pallanwala sector in Akhnoor late Wednesday, officials said. Both the strategic sectors fall in Jammu district.“Alert soldiers observed a Pakistani quad-copter, which had intruded around 150 metres inside the Indian territory along the LoC in Pallanwala late Wednesday,” said official privy to the development. “The jawans immediately opened small arms fire but couldn’t bring it down. The UAV flew back into Pakistani territory. Such machines are being used by the adversary for surveillance on the borders,” they added. An officer said that the incident occurred around 9.10 pm on Wednesday. He informed that during searches of the area nothing was found. Pakistan used such drones to drop arms, ammunition, weapons, drugs and money to fund and fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. On Tuesday BSF troops fired on a suspected Pakistani drone along the India-Pakistan border at Arnia in Jammu. On June 27, two explosive-laden drones dropped payloads on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu that left two personnel injured. Since then, drones are being spotted hovering over military stations in Kaluchak, Ratnuchak, Kunjwani and Sunjuwan in Jammu at regular intervals. The IAF has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks. There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. Meanwhile, a section of media reported that another drone was spotted by the forces hovering over the IAF station in Jammu late Wednesday. They also reported that alert forces were able to thwart the alleged terror bid with the help of the anti-drone equipment which detected the UAV and eliminated it. However, there’s no confirmation of the drone by the defence authorities in Jammu. An official, who insisted on anonymity, said, “a white light was seen by the guards near the IAF station late Wednesday. It was likely to be a satellite and unlikely to be a drone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-pak-drone-intrudes-indian-space-on-loc-fired-upon-by-soldiers-101626363128547.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Long Covid has more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems, says study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Long Covid has more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems: StudyCoronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who experience prolonged symptoms have reported more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems, according to a global study published on Thursday. Read moreMamata Banerjee to visit Delhi; likely to meet Sonia Gandhi, other opposition party leadersWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is set to visit the national capital this month during the monsoon session of the Parliament, she announced on Thursday. Read more‘Not their property’: SC on Kerala appeal to close case against MLAs for clashesThe Supreme Court on Thursday said the Kerala government’s decision to drop criminal proceedings against a group of Kerala lawmakers who broke chairs, threw microphones and climbed atop tables in the assembly in March 2015 was “incomprehensible” as any decision in this regard should essentially be based on “public interest”. Read moreBCCI releases official statement after Rishabh Pant and throwdown specialist Dayanand Garani test positive for Covid-19The BCCI on Thursday confirmed that two members of the Indian contingent – Rishabh Pant and throwdown specialist Dayanand Garani – have tested positive for Covid-19 and will not be travelling with the rest of the team to Durham. Read moreShilpa Shetty: 'In one of my movies, Paresh Rawal played my father, now he's married to me in Hungama 2'Actor Shilpa Shetty has talked about playing Paresh Rawal's wife in their upcoming movie, Hungama 2. The movie is directed by Priyadarshan, who is famous for his comedy movies such as Hera Pheri, Malamaal Weekly and also the original Hungama. Read moreHearts on our sleeves? Indians used the classic red heart emoji the most on their Bumble biosWe don’t know about you, but Indians on Bumble seem to be wearing their hearts on their… profile bios. According to a report shared by Bumble, just before World Emoji Day, the platform witnessed an 89% rise in emoji usage in 2021 as compared to 2020, particularly on Bumble users’ profile bios. Read moreHai ye adaa: Tanuja is the epitome of beauty, grace in ₹12,800 Moresha saree Long before her daughters Kajol Devgn and Tanishaa Mukerji made a mark in Bollywood, Tanuja Samarth, popularly known as Tanuja was ruling the hearts and screens all over India as one of the biggest stars from the Golden Era of Bollywood. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-long-covid-has-more-than-200-symptoms-across-10-organ-systems-says-study-and-all-the-latest-news-101626360382858.html
15-07-2021||India||China claims situation on LAC de-escalated, says border standoff should be set aside||China has said the overall situation in the border areas with India has de-escalated and both countries should set aside the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to expand bilateral cooperation, reflecting the differences between the two sides on the issue.The Chinese position was articulated on Thursday in a statement on the meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe. Jaishankar has said after the meeting on Wednesday that both sides should speedily resolve the remaining issues on the LAC since the standoff was negatively impacting bilateral ties.According to the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement, Wang said that after his meeting with Jaishankar in Moscow last September, frontier troops of both countries disengaged in Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake areas, and the “overall situation in the border area was de-escalated”.Wang reiterated Beijing’s contention that the Chinese side wasn’t responsible for the standoff and said, “The two sides must place the border issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations, expand the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation and create favourable conditions for resolving differences through negotiation.”The Chinese stance is completely contrary to the position taken by the Indian side, as Jaishankar had bluntly told Wang on Wednesday that normalisation of bilateral relations depends on restoring peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Jaishankar had also told Wang that the remaining issues in other friction points on the LAC were “still unresolved” despite the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake area.According to the Chinese statement, Wang said China-India relations were at a “low level, which is not in the interest of either side”. China’s strategic assessment of bilateral relations has not changed, and the two countries “pose no threat but offer development opportunities to each other”, he said. The two countries are partners rather than rivals or enemies, and they should pursue healthy competition and avoid confrontation, with cooperation as the main theme, Wang said. Wang also “pointed out that the rights and wrongs of what happened in the China-India border area last year are very clear and the responsibility does not lie with the Chinese side”. He added, “China is ready to find a solution acceptable to both sides on the issue that needs emergency response through negotiation and consultation.”The principles of China-India relations, Wang said, “should still be mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, and mutual respect for each other’s core interests”. Referring to the situation on the LAC, Wang said the two sides “must consolidate the results of disengagement that have been achieved” and “refrain from taking unilateral actions in sensitive and controversial areas, in order to avoid any recurrence of tensions due to misunderstanding and miscalculation”. Wang further said the two sides “must take a long-term perspective and gradually move from emergency response toward regular management and control” to ensure bilateral relations aren’t prone to interruptions because of border-related issues.The Chinese statement quoted Jaishankar as saying that “India is willing to work with China to push bilateral relations out of a slump”. The Indian side has maintained that there has been a lack of progress in disengagement and de-escalation of frontline troops following a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. Last month, India again blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to alter the status quo on the LAC for the standoff.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash, who closely tracks regional developments, believes the Chinese side is pushing a narrative that is clearly at variance with the Indian position. “It is almost like two boats moving in parallel with slightly different trajectories. At no stage has the Chinese side agreed to restore status quo ante and they’ve always talked about the boundary issue not being allowed to stand in the way of overall relations,” he said. “A solution, as and when it happens, will require interventions at the top political level after the broad contours have been hammered out by officials,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-claims-situation-on-lac-de-escalated-says-border-standoff-should-be-set-aside-101626361749335.html
15-07-2021||India||‘Not their property’: SC on Kerala appeal to close case against MLAs for clashes||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday said the Kerala government’s decision to drop criminal proceedings against a group of Kerala lawmakers who broke chairs, threw microphones and climbed atop tables in the assembly in March 2015 was “incomprehensible” as any decision in this regard should essentially be based on “public interest”.“This is not their personal property. It is public property, and they are custodians of it in public trust. It is incomprehensible what is the public interest being pleaded in the case,” the bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said while hearing the case separate appeals by the Kerala government and the accused MLAs against the Kerala high court’s March 12 order refusing to drop charges against the accused MLAs.The bench on Thursday reserved its order after hearing all sides.Kerala education minister V Sivankutty and Left Front lawmaker KT Jaleel are among the lawmakers who face charges in this case. The other four, CK Sadasivan, EP Jayarajan, K Ajith and Kunjammadu Master, are former members of the legislative assembly (MLAs).From the archives: 14 pictures from 2015 that captured the pandemonium in Kerala assemblyBack in 2015, the CPM-led Left Democratic Front lawmakers had refused to let then finance minister KM Mani present the budget and demanded that he step down on corruption charges. They were charged under sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (causing mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 which is punishable with a maximum sentence of five years. The Kerala Police registered a first information report and submitted a report to the chief judicial magistrate, Thiruvananthapuram. After the trial court took cognizance of the charges, in 2019, the Left Front government sought withdrawal of cases through the public prosecutor. When the judge didn’t accept the prosecution request, the case went to the high court which also declined to close the case.Treating the effort to close the case as a serious issue where a state government was seen defending the actions by lawmakers accused of criminal trespass, mischief, and destruction of public property, a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “We have to consider if the withdrawal of prosecution request (filed by the public prosecutor) was in the public interest where MLAs have thrown furniture and desecrated the sanctum sanctorum of the House.”On July 5, when the Supreme Court admitted the appeals and decided to hear the case, the bench had said that such acts of indiscipline cannot be condoned as legislative bodies are sentinels of democracy where members elected as people’s representatives have to ensure some modicum of decorum.Appearing for the state, senior lawyer Ranjit Kumar on Thursday told the court that the action fell squarely within the domain of the House over which the court cannot adjudicate. Kumar stated that the government of the day felt that the registration of the case raised a political issue as even the ruling party members were involved in the ruckus. He added that the right to protest was recognised to be a right within the freedom of speech and expression that the legislators are entitled to.The bench presented Kumar with a hypothetical situation.“We do not doubt your freedom of speech in the House. But suppose an MLA empties a revolver in the assembly. Will you still say that the House is supreme,” the judges said. Even in the courtroom, there are heated arguments but that will not justify the destruction of public property, the bench added. At one point, the court even reminded Kumar that he was representing the state government and not defending the accused.Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, who appeared for the accused MLAs, cited the public prosecutor’s letter seeking closure of the case due to lack of evidence. The bench, however, pointed out that this was not a case where there is no evidence as the video recording of the proceedings was available. The court said the magistrate’s court while dealing with a request for dropping prosecution, does not act as a post office and must apply its mind.Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani who appeared for a lawyer who opposed the withdrawal of prosecution told the court that property worth ₹2.2 lakh was destroyed by the accused MLAs and privileges of the legislature could not extend to acts involving destruction of public property.The Kerala government earlier argued before the high court that the FIR against the MLAs was filed without prior sanction of the Speaker of the House. Jethmalani, along with advocate MR Ramesh Babu, said that the question of sanction will not arise at the time of registration of FIR but at the time of filing the charge sheet. Moreover, Babu pointed out that there was nothing on record to show that the public prosecutor had applied to the Speaker for sanction in this case before seeking withdrawal of prosecution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-their-property-sc-on-kerala-appeal-to-close-case-against-mlas-for-clashes-101626359770774.html
15-07-2021||India||RBI Bulletin: ‘Tapering second wave, aggressive vaccination push brightened near term prospects for Indian economy’||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in its bulletin for the month of July released on Thursday, said that the near-term prospects for the Indian economy has been brightened by the reducing number of Covid-19 infections in the second wave along with the vaccination drive. “The tapering of the second wave, coupled with an aggressive vaccination push, has brightened near-term prospects for the Indian economy,” the RBI’s bulletin on state of the economy pointed out.The RBI listed factors such as a rise in mobility and the increasing attendance in work places along with the increase in advance tax payments in June and in e-way bills, power consumption, increase in the volumes of payment modes and other such factors, which it called as “forerunner to the revival of business and consumer confidence.”“All payment modes - cash withdrawals at teller machines; cards; unified payments interface; net banking; physical points of sale; and electronic funds transfer - have registered an uptick in volumes in June, forerunner to a revival of business and consumer confidence,” the RBI said in the bulletin.Also read | RBI restricts Mastercard from acquiring new customers from July 22However, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take place despite the recovery of several high frequency indicators of activity, the RBI highlighted. “On the supply side, agricultural conditions are turning buoyant with the revival in the monsoon but the recovery of manufacturing and service sectors has been interrupted by the second wave,” the bank further said.It also said that the increase in inflation is largely due to the adverse supply shocks due to the Covid-19 pandemic which would ease over the year as supply side measures take effect. Retail inflation in India rose above the RBI’s target of 2% to 6% for the second consecutive month in June. “There are also specific demand-supply mismatches as in the case of protein-rich food items, edible oils and pulses, which are being addressed by specific supply-side measures,” it said.The central bank also noted that the economy is “struggling” to regain the momentum of recovery that started in the second half of 2020 -2021 but was interrupted by the second wave. “But more needs to be done. Elevated international commodity prices, especially of crude, are also imparting cost-push pressures. These factors should ease over the year as supply side measures take effect,” it said. “Even with a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in 2021-22, there will be substantial slack in the economy and demand pressures may take some more time to become evident,” it further said.Meanwhile, earlier in the day, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that there were no reasons for the bank to revise the GDP growth rate for FY22 downwards from the previous projection of 10.5 per cent, news agency ANI reported.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-bulletin-tapering-second-wave-aggressive-vaccination-push-brightened-near-term-prospects-for-indian-economy-101626358427266.html
15-07-2021||India||At least 450 Intern doctors in Gujarat go on strike over non payment of Covid-19 allowance||At least 450 intern doctors of three civil hospitals attached to medical colleges run by a Gujarat government-controlled entity went on an indefinite strike on Thursday, claiming that they had not been paid the "Covid allowance" promised by the government. The agitating intern doctors belong to medical colleges run by the Gujarat Medical Education and Research Society (GMERS) in Sola area of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Valsad. After completing their MBBS course, medical students are required to undertake internships at hospitals before they are granted permission to start their own practice. According to the agitating students, the state government had in April announced that intern doctors of government and GMERS-run medical colleges will get ₹5,000 as monthly Covid allowance over and above their stipend for the months of March till June for Covid-19 duty. "While interns of the government-run colleges have received the allowance promised by the government, intern doctors of GMERS-run colleges were not given the sum. Although we made a representation to the authorities several times in the past, there was no positive response. Hence, 450 intern doctors of these three colleges have decided to go on an indefinite strike," one of the interns said. Meanwhile, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who handles the health portfolio, assured that the issue will be resolved soon. In a warning tone, Patel asked the striking doctors to join duty and show some "concern" for patients. "Internship is a must for any medical student. These students must be thankful to the government for arranging their internship at respective government hospitals and also giving them allowances. It's the government which showed a big heart, not the intern doctors," Patel claimed. "They have to complete their internship even if we do not give any allowance, because it's a must to become a doctor. In private medical colleges, students have to pay from their pockets to do an internship. These intern doctors should show some concern for patients," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-450-intern-doctors-in-gujarat-go-on-strike-over-non-payment-of-covid-19-allowance-101626357639101.html
15-07-2021||India||India has highest number of unvaccinated, under-vaccinated kids worldwide at 3.5 million: UNICEF||India has the highest number of under-vaccinated or unvaccinated children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million from 2019, amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the UNICEF said.It also noted that over 3 million of “zero-dose children” in 2020 lived in India.At nearly 4.4 million, South Asia recorded the highest number of children having failed to receive any routine vaccination in the past ten years, in 2020."More than 3 million of these 'zero-dose children' in 2020 lived in India," the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund,(UNICEF) said in a statement.Globally, the UNICEF said the data shows that just 10 countries account for 62 per cent of all under- or unvaccinated children globally.“India - particularly hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic - had the highest number of unprotected children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million compared with 2019, when the number of unprotected children was 2.1 million,” the children's body said.Unprotected children are those who are unvaccinated (no vaccine) or under-vaccinated (incomplete vaccination), that is, any child who has not received any or few doses of their due vaccination.Pakistan had 1.3 million unprotected children in 2020, an increase of 0.4 million, the statement said."…. Most of these children did not receive a single vaccine during the year, an indication that the most vulnerable, hard-to-reach children are paying the steepest price for pandemic-related disruptions to vaccine access," the statement said.Noting that the majority of countries in South Asia experienced drops in childhood vaccination rates, the UNICEF said the rates for diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) vaccine reduced by 9 per cent points in Nepal; 7 per cent points in Pakistan; 6 per cent points in India; 3 per cent points in Sri Lanka; and 2 per cent points in Bhutan and Afghanistan."However, robust recovery efforts mounted in many countries towards the end of the year helped to blunt the impacts of overall declines. In India, for example, vaccination drives in remote areas are helping to reach missed children," the statement said.Yasumasa Kimura, Officer-in-Charge and Deputy Representative programmes, UNICEF India said, “While the health systems are strained by the Covid-19 response, we must be cautious in our fight against the pandemic so as not to interfere with decades of gains against other preventable diseases. We cannot afford to lose out on routine immunisation and letting vaccine-preventable diseases endanger children's health.”“UNICEF is partnering with the Government of India to support continuity of essential health and immunisation services through planning, implementation, and monitoring of various strategies to identify and vaccinate missed children. We also support generating awareness and confidence among communities to vaccinate their children and strengthening the cold chain for routine immunisation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-highest-number-of-unvaccinated-under-vaccinated-kids-worldwide-at-3-5-million-unicef-101626356854546.html
15-07-2021||India||Zika virus has ‘more grave concerns’ than Covid-19, says medical expert||After Kerala has reported dozens of Zika virus cases, an expert has warned that the mosquito-borne disease has more grave concerns than the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to news agency ANI. Dr Naresh Gupta, director and professor at Maulana Azad Medical College, told ANI that detailed lab analysis is extremely important as Zika is something that is occurring in local outbreaks."Zika is a virus of grave concern. Zika virus is something that is occurring in local outbreaks. So, I think if it's occurring in a given state or place, sentinel surveillance must have picked up these cases," he said.On Thursday, the health ministry of Kerala said that five more people have tested positive for the Zika virus, taking the overall number to 28. The fresh cases from Thiruvananthapuram were confirmed after the samples were tested at the National Institute of Virology’s regional centre in Alapuzha. The rising cases of the Zika virus prompted the state health minister to call an emergency meeting of officials on Thursday afternoon to discuss the health issue.Zika virus spreads mostly by the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito, the same that transmit dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. While Dr Gupta, citing the local nature of the outbreak, said that the vector-borne disease has greater concern than Covid-19, many other medical experts have downplayed the concern saying it can be checked with effective vector control measures.The first case of Zika was reported in Kerala after a 24-year-old pregnant woman sought treatment late last month with symptoms like fever, headache, and red marks on the skin, leading to the detection of the virus. Meanwhile, Kerala authorities have started a vector control programme and fogging to control the outbreak.According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), severe disease requiring hospitalisation is uncommon, and deaths are rare. The incubation period of Zika virus disease is estimated to be 3–14 days and the symptoms typically last for 2–7 days. There is no specific treatment or vaccine for the Zika virus and the development of the Zika vaccine remains an active area of research.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-has-more-grave-concerns-than-covid-19-says-medical-expert-101626355139784.html
15-07-2021||India||Pensioners may now get pension slip from banks through WhatsApp also||The Centre has told banks they can use social media apps such as WhatsApp alongside SMS and email to send pension slips to pensioners after their account is credited, according to an official order.It said the decision was taken in order to ensure ease of living of the pensioners.“Banks may also use social media apps WhatsApp etc in addition to sms and email,” said the order issued by the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare.A meeting was held with the Central Pension Processing Centres (CPPCs) of pension-disbursing banks last month wherein the issue of providing the breakup of the monthly pension to the pensioners was discussed, it said.The banks were impressed upon to undertake this welfare measure as this information is required by pensioners in connection with Income Tax, Dearness Relief payments and DR arrears among others, the order said.The banks welcomed the idea and expressed their willingness to provide the information, it said.“Accordingly, all pension disbursing banks should issue pension slip to pensioners after credit of pension on their registered mobile numbers through sms and email (wherever available) also,” said the recent order.The pension slip should provide the complete detail of the monthly pension paid along with break-up of the amount credited and tax deductions etc. if any, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pensioners-may-now-get-pension-slip-from-banks-through-whatsapp-also-101626356422193.html
15-07-2021||India||Antigua police to continue probe into Mehul Choksi extradition case||The Antigua and Barbuda’s cabinet, led by Prime Minister Gaston Browne, on Thursday decided that while fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi has returned from Dominica, the Royal Police Force of the island will continue to investigate his claims of kidnapping.It added that the extradition case brought against him and the case of revocation of his Antiguan citizenship will also continue.Choksi, who the Indian government says had masterminded the Punjab National Bank scam worth $952 million ( ₹7,080 crore), is facing two cases - extradition and revocation of citizenship (which he acquired in November 2017) - in the Antigua high court.Earlier in the day, Choksi reached Antigua and Barbuda, three days after the Dominica high court of justice granted him bail on medical grounds.His lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said Choksi faced no issues while coming back to Antigua, adding that the legal team is gearing up for a long-drawn battle in Carribean island. “My client Mehul Choksi has returned to his home in Antigua safely. He faced no issues while entering back in Antigua. He is receiving medical treatment and his family is feeling relieved however torture during kidnapping has him caused lot of psychological and physical harm. All well that ends well. After tasting success in Dominica. Now, the legal team is gearing up for a long-drawn fight in Antigua”.Also read | Mehul Choksi's arrival a speculation, says AntiguaChoksi had gone missing from Antigua, whose citizenship he holds, on May 23, and was detained by authorities in Dominica, 200km away, the next day, following which his family members had claimed he was abducted. India sought his deportation from Dominica directly as he was a prohibited immigrant there, for which he is facing charges there.Indian government has said that Choksi continues to be an Indian citizen as his declaration for renunciation of citizenship was never accepted by the ministry of home affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antigua-police-to-continue-probe-into-mehul-choksi-extradition-case-101626354773907.html
15-07-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi; likely to meet Sonia Gandhi, other opposition party leaders||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is set to visit the national capital this month during the monsoon session of the Parliament, she announced on Thursday. Banerjee also said that she is planning to meet President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi "if given an appointment," multiple news agencies reported her as saying.According to reports, she is also expected to meet various leaders of opposition parties in Delhi, including Congress' Sonia Gandhi. "Now that the Covid situation has improved, I will go to Delhi during the Parliament session and meet some leaders there," she said."I didn't go to Delhi after the elections. The Parliament session will start. Covid-19 cases have come down. Will go to Delhi and meet some friends," the West Bengal chief minister also said.The meeting comes as Delhi is abuzz over the formation of a coalition of opposition parties to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party () in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.According to the PTI report, Banerjee is likely to arrive in the city on July 25. The monsoon session of Parliament will commence on July 19 and will continue till August 13.The talk of an anti-BJP front got revived after leaders of various parties and prominent individuals congregated at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's New Delhi residence last month.However, there was no tangible movement forward in that direction at the meeting hosted by Pawar and called by former union minister Yashwant Sinha, who is now in the TMC. Sinha, a former BJP stalwart, is a strident critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The speculation was further duelled after election strategist Prashant Kishore held a series of meetings with Pawar and the Gandhis.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-to-visit-delhi-likely-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-other-opposition-party-leaders-101626354262606.html
15-07-2021||India||Job applications of many Indian Gen Z cancelled during second Covid wave||The pandemic has adversely affected careers and education plans of India's youth and job applications of a significant number of Gen Z aspirants, those below 24 years, were rejected or cancelled during the second Covid wave, says a LinkedIn survey.On World Youth Skills Day 2021 on Thursday, LinkedIn launched the 'Career Aspirations Gen Z India' survey that captures the sentiment and outlook of Gen Z professionals in India towards jobs, internships, skilling, and networking opportunities.LinkedIn commissioned research firm GfK to conduct the survey, which was done in June. It focuses on insights of 1,000 Gen Z students and professionals in the age group of 18 to 24 years.As per the survey, 72 per cent students and 65 per cent Gen Z Indians were professionally impacted during the second wave of Covid.The study shows that nearly 70 per cent of Gen Z job applicants did not get a positive response after waiting for long periods while a similar proportion said their applications were either cancelled or delayed indefinitely.Gen Z Indians cited 'fewer opportunities', followed by 'slower recruitment' and 'higher competition' as the top three reasons affecting their job search today. Other barriers in pursuing job opportunities include lack of guidance for skilling and increased familial responsibilities due to Covid.Around 72 per cent of the students stated that internship opportunities had also greatly reduced during the pandemic's second wave. Among those who are currently employed, 32 per cent of Gen Z Indians experienced a pay cut while 25 per cent lost a job opening because the company cancelled the job role due to the pandemic.The second wave of Covid has disrupted the education plans of nearly 75 per cent students and Gen Z Indians. In fact, 40 per cent of those with higher academic aspirations have postponed or cancelled their plans due to safety concerns, financial constraints, and travel restrictions."Such is the disruption that every fifth (20 per cent) Gen Z Indian is now pivoting to a different learning program than originally planned," the report said."As one of the youngest nations in the world, India's future of work will be driven by Gen Z professionals, whose new-age skills can revitalise our economic recovery. But 70 per cent of Gen Z Indians had their job applications rejected due to hiring challenges during the pandemic," said Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn.Employers must treat this as a distress call to urgently re-imagine how they hire and develop talent to prevent young professionals from being left behind, Gupta added.As upskilling and collaboration have become workforce essentials in today's challenging professional landscape, every second Gen Z professional (51 per cent) wants employers and leaders to make skill-based hires today."Skills are the currency for workforce transformation and the only viable solution to tackle the evolving workforce dilemma," Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-applications-of-many-indian-gen-z-cancelled-during-second-covid-wave-101626350784768.html
15-07-2021||India||Railway ministry shares pictures of Gandhinagar railway station before and after revamp: All you need to know||The Union ministry of Railways on Thursday shared images of the Gandhinagar Capital railway station in Gujarat before and after its redevelopment. The visuals shared by the ministry showed ticket booking counters of the station before and after their transformation. The counters have been upgraded with digital display boards and the older grilled windows replaced with glass windows.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the station, along with several key railway projects in the state, on July 16 via video conferencing. The station is the country’s first redeveloped station to provide an “airport-like experience” to passengers, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday citing Railways officials.Exclusive!First Look of Gandhinagar Capital Railway Station's concourse area.#NayeBharatKaNayaStation pic.twitter.com/zCQoO5elYxIn a series of tweets, the ministry promoted the new features in the railway station following its redevelopment and called it a ‘new station for the new India’.From a luxury hotel to an interfaith prayer hall and an external facade with changing theme-based lighting, here is all you need to know about the facilities at the station:Also read | Railways’ 1st redeveloped station to be inaugurated by PM ModiPM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah would attend the ceremony to inaugurate the facility virtually while Union railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani are expected to join the event in Gandhinagar, news agency PTI reported.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-ministry-shares-pictures-of-gandhinagar-railway-station-before-and-after-revamp-all-you-need-to-know-101626352990776.html
15-07-2021||India||Karnataka to have gaushalas in every district||Karnataka on Thursday approved the setting up of gaushalas or cow shelters across the state as per the state’s anti-cattle slaughter law.“The Cabinet has approved to have gaushalas in every district,” said state minister Basvaraj Bommai. He added ₹15 crore will be earmarked for the shelters and the amount will be increased later.In February, when the law was passed, Bommai said the government will increase the capacity of its existing 184 cattle shelters from around 50,000 to 200,000. He added more such schemes will be announced in the Budget to ease the burden of taking care of the cattle.The Karnataka high court is hearing multiple petitions, challenging the law enacted to entirely stop cattle slaughter in a state, where farmers have faced a decline in incomes due to falling prices of produce, floods, and droughts.The law provides for jail terms of three to five years and fines ranging from ₹50,000- ₹10 lakh.Between 2015-16 till 2019-20, the government has said that nearly 1.3 million bulls and bullocks were killed for various reasons including meat. The government has argued the cattle population has dropped drastically in the last eight years. Karnataka exported around $2.5 million worth of beef in 2019-20 to UAE, Qatar, and other countries, according to government data. Leather exports from Karnataka accounted for around $8.25 million, HT reported in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-have-gaushalas-in-every-district-101626351787864.html
15-07-2021||India||Delhi schools won't reopen now amid third Covid wave fears: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said schools will not reopen in the national capital at the moment given the current trends of Covid-19 that point towards an imminent third wave of the pandemic. He said his government would not want to take any risk until the vaccination process against the coronavirus disease is complete.“Not now. Internationally, trends show that the third wave of COVID is imminent. So we don't want to take any risk until the vaccination process is complete,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Delhi reported 72 new coronavirus cases, which was minor dip from Wednesday's figures when it stood at 77. The Union territory also saw 88 recoveries, and one death in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of active cases touched 671, while recoveries reached a figure of 14,09,660. So far, 25,022 people have lost their lives to the virus in the national capital.So far, Delhi has vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 years with the first dose.With the fall in cases and positivity rate, Delhi has also relaxed the restrictions imposed to contain the second wave of the pandemic that wreaked havoc across the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-to-remain-shut-amid-covid-19-third-wave-fears-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101626349719183.html
15-07-2021||India||‘India, Japan share same fundamental values’: PM Yoshihide Suga||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Thursday said India and Japan shared the same fundamental values and both countries maintained cordial relations through the long history of exchanges. Suga’s comments came in a video message, which was played on the occasion of the inauguration ceremony of the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICCC).“The Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICCC), Rudraksh, will be used as a stage to showcase Japan-India cooperation by hosting international conferences, cultural and art events. The centre will become a new symbol of friendship between Japan and India,” he said.“I would like to convey my heartfelt congratulations on the inauguration of Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre,” said Suga.“Varanasi is the centre of India’s long history and rich culture. The city has a close relationship with Japan and has continued cultural and academic exchanges with Kyoto. The exchange between Banaras Hindu University and Kyoto University is one such example,” he added.“I am very pleased to see that the VICCC was built in such a special city as a symbol of friendship between Japan and India. The centre was designed and constructed by Japanese companies and shows what Japanese technology can achieve,” said Suga.कोरोनाकाल में जब दुनिया ठहर सी गई, तब काशी संयमित तो हुई, अनुशासित भी हुई, लेकिन सृजन और विकास की धारा अविरल बहती रही।काशी के विकास के ये आयाम, ये ‘इंटरनेशनल को-ऑपरेशन एंड कन्वेंशन सेंटर- रुद्राक्ष’ आज इसी रचनात्मकता का, इसी गतिशीलता का परिणाम है: PM @narendramodiHe said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi named this centre Rudraksh with a hope to make it a symbol of wisdom. I hope this centre will be used as a stage to showcase close Japan-India cooperation through hosting international conferences, cultural and art events and it becomes a new symbol of friendship between Japan and India.”“It is true that the Covid pandemic has made our mutual visits difficult at this moment. However, Japan and India will work to overcome this challenge, and make utmost efforts to further develop bilateral ties under special strategic and global partnerships through cooperation in areas such areas as green society, digital, cyber, healthcare and enhancing connectivity,” said the Japanese PM.“I am looking forward to the day when I can visit India at an appropriate time so as to further strengthen Japan-India ties together with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Yoshihide.“India and Japan are of the view that our development should be linked with our gaiety. This development should be all-round, it should be for all, and it should be all-encompassing,” the Prime Minister’s Office quoted PM Modi in a tweet.Calling Japan one of India’s most trusted friends, the prime minister said India-Japan ties are lauded as a natural partnership in the region.“There is one more person in today’s event, whom I cannot forget to name. Another friend of mine from Japan - Shinzo Abe. I remember, when Shinzo Abe came to Kashi as Prime Minister, I had discussed with him the idea of Rudraksh,” the PMO tweeted quoting PM Modi.“Prime Minister Suga Yoshihide was the chief cabinet secretary at that time. Since then till the role of PM, he has been personally involved in this project continuously,” the PM said, adding that with Rudraksh, Kashi’s development will shine brighter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-share-same-fundamental-values-pm-yoshihide-suga-101626350228388.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh's leadership and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh: Harish RawatDays after promising to deliver good news for Punjab, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said the party will fight the 2022 assembly election in the state under the leadership of chief minister Amarinder Singh. Read moreRising Delta variant cases make Covid-19 third wave real risk for India: ReportAmid fears of looming third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remains, rising cases of the Delta variant and the subsequent mutations of the virus have now made the probability look a real risk for India, a foreign brokerage firm has cautioned. Read MoreTop US generals informally planned ways to stop Trump from attempting coup, new book revealsTop US military officer Gen Mark Milley and other senior officials had informally planned different ways to stop then-President Donald Trump from attempting a coup after the November elections, according to excerpts of an upcoming book reported by CNN. Read More'Rahul Dravid came up to me and asked me 'can you play for my team?'': India youngster recalls biggest 'moment of lifeIndia batsman Sanju Samson is geared up not only to get an opportunity to perform in the three ODIs and three T20Is against Sri Lanka starting Sunday but also work with the one and only Rahul Dravid, the coach of the team. Read moreKareena Kapoor with ‘two prince sons’ Taimur Ali Khan and Jeh, claim fan clubs as they share unseen photosKareena Kapoor’s fan clubs have got their hands on what they claim are unseen photos of her and her sons, Taimur Ali Khan and Jeh, from her soon-to-be-released book Kareena Kapoor Khan’s Pregnancy Bible. However, she has not shared the pictures on her own Instagram page and they could not be independently verified. Read morePaytm founder tweets he wants to ‘copy’ this idea from ZomatoA tweet about Zomato office has created a buzz online and gathered tons of reactions from people, including one from Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma. He wrote how he wants to ‘copy’ the wonderful idea. Read moreWatch | 'God won't be pleased if lives are lost because of our laxity': Uttarakhand CM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-to-fight-punjab-assembly-polls-under-amarinder-singh-s-leadership-and-all-the-latest-news-101626346194894.html
15-07-2021||India||Human trafficking bill does not address online commercial sexual activity: NGO tells Centre||The newly drafted Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, which is set to be tabled in Parliament during the coming monsoon session, does not adequately address the issue of online commercial sexual activity and exploitation, Goa’s nodal non-government organisation (NGO) dealing with human trafficking has said. The Centre published a draft of the bill last week, inviting suggestions from all stakeholders by July 14, this Wednesday. NGO Anyay Rahit Zindagi (ARZ) sent its feedback to Santanu Brajabasi, under secretary to the Government of India, ministry of women & child development, the department sponsoring the bill in Parliament. ARZ is the nodal NGO appointed by the Goa Police to assist their integrated anti-human trafficking unit said the state remained a hot spot for online means of human trafficking and commercial sexual activity. “There is a need to include online commercial sexual exploitation in the definition of “offences with cross border implications”, especially in the cases where the domain is registered outside India and the website is involved in soliciting girls in India for commercial sexual activities,” ARZ founder Arun Pandey said. “Online commercial sexual activity is an emerging trend in India but the bill is silent on that,” he added. “There is no mention for blocking websites and other electronic forms or digital technology used for sharing information for commercial sexual activity and soliciting, and seducing for the online commercial sexual activities,” he added. ARZ has also called for a special investigating agency similar to the Narcotics Control Bureau to be established under the ministry of home affairs solely to combat human trafficking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-trafficking-bill-does-not-address-online-commercial-sexual-activity-ngo-tells-centre-101626346087517.html
15-07-2021||India||All-party delegation from Tamil Nadu to meet Union minister over Mekedatu Dam||An all-party delegation from Tamil Nadu will meet Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on Friday to hand over a resolution against Karnataka’s Mekedatu dam project.Tamil Nadu’s water resources minister Duraimurugan will lead the delegation days after chief minister M K Stalin held an all-party meeting on the issue on Monday. It was decided at the meeting to send the delegation to New Delhi to oppose the construction of the dam on the Cauvery river. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have been involved in a Cauvery water sharing dispute for decades.“Representatives from 13 political parties in the state have been invited to jointly hand over the resolutions passed at the meeting to the Union government,” said a ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader, who did not wish to be named.Three resolutions were passed at the all-party meeting on Monday, urging the Union government against clearing the project. They cited the Supreme Court order (WHEN) barring any such projects without the approval of lower riparian states.All regional parties and governments in Tamil Nadu have been opposed to the Mekedatu project. But ruling and opposition parties taking up such a matter together is rare in the state that has been known for adversarial politics involving DMK and opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK).AIADMK leader D Jayakumar, who will be a part of the delegation, called Cauvery a lifeline for Tamil Nadu’s farmers. “We cannot give up the state’s rights over the issue and for that, we need to speak in one voice, so we are also going to Delhi.”Shekhawat, who on Tuesday met Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, assured that justice will be done to the state in all irrigation projects including the construction of the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project. Duraimurugan, who also met Shekhawat this month, said that the Union minister assured him that Mekedatu Dam will not be built without Tamil Nadu’s approval.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power at the Centre and in Karnataka. The party’s Tamil Nadu unit has opposed the project.Puducherry chief minister N Rangasamy said he would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urge him that the dam should not be built.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allparty-delegation-from-tamil-nadu-to-meet-union-minister-over-mekedatu-dam-101626345907509.html
15-07-2021||India||Foreign minister Jaishankar’s comments suggest unilateral change of status quo along China border, says Shashi Tharoor||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday said that the comments made by India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar, during his discussion with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, suggested that the status quo on the Line of Actual Control with China has been disturbed. Tharoor made the remarks on Twitter, quoting the original tweets by Jaishankar earlier on Wednesday.Jaishankar met with China’s foreign minister Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Dushanbe on Wednesday.The bilateral discussion between the two sides went on for an hour and focussed on the border issues between the two countries along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in India’s western sector, Jaishankar had said.Also read | Peace at borders crucial to reviving ties: India to ChinaFollowing the discussion, Jaishankar outlined that the two sides had agreed to convene an early meeting of the senior military commanders.“Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders,” he tweeted.Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders.In his reply to this tweet, Tharoor said that the minister’s remarks showed that there are outstanding issues with China along the LAC which required the minister to meet with military commanders.“This suggests that there HAS been a unilateral change of status quo on the Sino-Indian border, that peace & tranquillity have been disturbed, & that there ARE outstanding issues along the LAC that require our EAM to meet w/Military Commanders. Diplomatic code2confirm our concerns!” Tharoor tweeted earlier in the day.This suggests that there HAS been a unilateral change of status quo on the Sino-Indian border, that peace &tranquillity have been disturbed, &that there ARE outstanding issues along the LAC that require our EAM to meet w/Military Commanders. Diplomatic code2confirm our concerns! https://t.co/6O9a6Z8v1STharoor’s comments came as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said that his agenda about national security for a defence committee meeting on Wednesday was not accepted by the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Gandhi walked out of the meeting before it ended along with the other Congress ministers in the meeting. Pakistan, the border issue with China and the Taliban retaking territories with Afghanistan were listed in Gandhi’s agenda.While the committee had met to “review the working of cantonment boards,” Gandhi said that the discussion should rather be about more pressing security issues like the border stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-jaishankar-s-comments-suggest-unilateral-change-of-status-quo-along-china-border-says-shashi-tharoor-101626345391730.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Partial curbs extended in 10 Odisha districts, shops open from 6am-5pm||The Odisha government on Thursday extended the partial lockdown in 10 districts till August 1 in view of the Coronavirus (Covid-10) pandemic. The state government also announced some relaxations in restrictions as it allowed shops and commercial establishments to remain open from 6am to 5pm in districts that fall in Category B. Shops and business establishments in districts classified as Category A can remain open from 6am to 8pm.  The districts have been divided in the two categories based on the caseload and other parameters. The weekend shutdown will be in effect in 10 districts that have been classified under Category-B. These are Khordha , Puri , Nayagarh , Cuttack , Kendrapara , Jagatsinghpur , Jajpur , Balasore , Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj. Parks , malls , cinemas , schools will continue to remain closed.  This comes as the Covid-19 caseload in Odisha touched 9 ,47 ,859 after 2 ,110 more people tested positive for the infection , while 66 fresh fatalities pushed the toll to 4 ,861 , as per the state health department figures.  Of the latest cases , Khorda reported the maximum number of new infections at 458 , followed by Cuttack (323) , Balasore (168) , Kendrapara (132) and Puri (113).  The district with lowest number of cases was Naupada which logged only two cases over the span of 24 hours.  In terms of fatalities from the viral infection too , Khorda was at top with 21 deaths , followed by Bargarh and Sundargarh at 10 each , Balasore at eight , Sambalpur at seven , and Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj at two each.  One person each succumbed to the disease in Bolangir , Cuttack , Ganjam , Jagatsinghpur , Kalahandi and Puri.  Odisha has been registering over 60 fatalities in a day since July 11. The coastal state currently has 22 ,299 active cases , while 9 ,20 ,646 patients , including 2 ,605 on Wednesday , have recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-partial-lockdown-extended-in-10-districts-of-odisha-101626345278966.html
15-07-2021||India||IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in some states till July 19. Check details||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted fresh spell of heavy rainfall over parts of northern India from July 17 and said that ongoing enhanced rainfall activity along the west coast will continue till July 19.In its latest forecast, the MeT department said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy rainfall till July 16.Isolated to scattered rainfall is predicted over plains of northwest India till July 16. There is likelihood of enhanced rainfall activity over from July 17 with widespread rainfall and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17-19, the weather department said.The IMD also predicted increase in rainfall over northeast India during July 17-19. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are likely till July 16 and isolated very heavy rainfall over the region during July 17-19, it said in the forecast.Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain activity is very likely over Konkan and Goa and Karnataka during the next three days, according to IMD. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also very likely over the region during next three days. Decrease in rainfall activity is likely over the west coast and peninsular India from July 16 onwards till July 18, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-in-some-states-till-july-19-check-details-101626342613990.html
15-07-2021||India||'Following predecessor's path': Chidambaram slams new health minister Mandaviya over Covid vaccine shortage||A week after advising newly appointed Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to states, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said the former was following path of his predecessor (Dr Harsh Vardhan) and state after state were complaining of a shortage of doses.As the second wave of the pandemic continued to batter India and the third wave seems to be inching closer, several states and Union Territories (UTs), including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, have flagged a shortage of vaccines. In Maharashtra, health minister Rajesh Tope has said the state needs a minimum of three crore doses per month to vaccinate eligible beneficiaries at the earliest. In the national capital of Delhi, nearly 50 per cent of the vaccination centres were shut on Wednesday as the government ran out of supplies again, Hindustan Times reported.Also Read| Health minister rebuts reports of shortage of Covid-19 vaccine dosesTaking to Twitter, Chidambaram said on Thursday, “New health minister @mansukhmandviya is following the same path as his predecessor. It is a pity. State after state is complaining of a vaccine shortage. Vaccination centers have “no vaccine” boards. People standing in line have to return home after the vaccination centres run out of vaccines.”The new Health Minister @mansukhmandviya is treading on the same path as his predecessor.That’s sad.State after State is complaining of vaccine shortage. Vaccination centres have boards saying “NO VACCINES”. People standing in queues return home after vaccine doses are exhaustedEarlier, amid complaints raised by states regarding the shortage of doses, Mandaiviya said useless statements were being made to create panic among the public and 13.50 crore vaccines were available for use. The central government, meanwhile, on many occasions has asserted that the entire population will be vaccinated by year-end.Chidambaram asked Mandaivya whether complaints raised by the state health ministers were lies. “Are people being turned away in newspapers and TV news because there is no vaccine dose, the news is fake? The conclusion is that the public is being fooled between the Center and the states,” the senior Congress leader said in a subsequent tweet.Also Read| 1.92 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses lying unused with states, private hospitals: GovtChidambaram, along with other prominent leaders of the Congress, including Rahul Gandhi, has been criticising the Centre over its handling of the pandemic. On April 28 this year, the former Union minister said he was “appalled” by the statement of the then health minister Harsh Vardhan that there was no shortage of vaccines, oxygen supplies or Remdesivir in the country and urged people to revolt “against a government that is assuming all the people of India are fools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/p-chidambaram-slams-new-health-minister-mandaviya-over-covid-vaccine-shortage-101626340086573.html
15-07-2021||India||Rising Delta variant cases make Covid-19 third wave real risk for India: Report||Amid fears of a looming third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), rising cases of the Delta variant and the subsequent mutations of the virus have now made the probability look a real risk for India, a foreign brokerage firm has cautioned.According to a PTI report, Tanvee Gupta-Jain, chief economist of UBS Securities India, said the third wave risks are real even more now as economic activity has improved sequentially for the seventh successive week to July 12, with several states gradually easing curbs on movement. The UBS report further said the pace of vaccination has also slowed down to under 3.4 million doses per day as against four million jabs earlier along with 45 per cent of the daily Covid-19 case count being reported from the rural regions of India.In a note on Wednesday, Gupta-Jain said that although the number of daily Covid-19 cases seems to have plateaued, the same still remains much above the 2021 trough and the drop in active caseload has also started to narrow down.The report added that in more than 20 per cent of the top districts accounting for most of the daily cases and where the second wave of Covid-19 has not yet dialled down, the third wave has already set firmly in. The figure was only 5 per cent even a month before, it said.Gupta-Jain added that while economic pointers are coming back to normalcy, they are still mixed. They stated that railway and domestic airline passenger traffic has improved further in the country, but toll collections have plateaued for the latest reporting week, as per the UBS-India activity indicator. Additionally, while power demand rose by 11 per cent partly due to summer, railway freight has dropped by 1.9 per cent week-on-week.The report came at a time when India witnessed a consistent upward swing in the daily Covid-19 cases with the caseload climbing up to 41,806 infections in the last 24 hours as opposed to Wednesday’s 38,792. The daily case count on Tuesday was down to 31,443, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data showed.As far as vaccination is concerned, 39,13,40,491 doses against Covid-19 have so far been administered in the country, with 34,97,058 people receiving the jabs in the previous 24 hours.Meanwhile, World Health Organization (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday said the Covid-19 pandemic is now in the “early stages” of the third wave. “The Delta variant is now in more than 111 countries and we expect it to soon be the dominant Covid-19 strain circulating worldwide, if it isn’t already,” an UN report quoted Ghebreyesus as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-delta-variant-cases-make-covid-19-third-wave-real-risk-for-india-report-101626341217779.html
15-07-2021||India||1.92cr Covid-19 vaccine doses lying unused with states, private hospitals: Govt||The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday said more than 1.92 crore unutilised doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are still available with various state governments, Union territories and private hospitals.The ministry further said around 40.31 crore Covid-19 vaccine does have been provided to the states and Union territories so far while another 83,85,790 doses are in the pipeline.Till Wednesday evening, India administered at least 390 million Covid-19 vaccine doses. However, the pace of the vaccination reportedly started slowing, dropping to levels seen before June 21, when the country covered all adults under the inoculation drive.The Centre on Wednesday directed the health secretaries of at least 15 states and Union territories to review the status of Covid-19 vaccine procurement by private centres, while expressing concerns over the "slow pace" of inoculation, which it called a "cause of serious worry."At least six states sounded the alarm bells over vaccine shortage even as the newly inducted Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya alleged that “misinformed” statements were being put out to “create panic” among people regarding the supply of Covid-19 jabs.The Delhi government said it was forced to shut almost half the vaccination centres in the national capital on Wednesday after the Union territory ran short of supplies again. Delhi administered a little over 64,000 doses of vaccines on Wednesday as compared to nearly 129,000 a day earlier. Delhi's health minister Satyender Jain blamed it on the shortage of vaccine supply by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-doses-lies-unutilised-in-states-union-territories-101626341180167.html
15-07-2021||India||Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh: Harish Rawat||Days after promising to deliver good news for Punjab, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said the party will fight the 2022 assembly election in the state under the leadership of chief minister Amarinder Singh. The Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab further said Singh and party leader Navjot Singh Sindhu with work together for the party and a formula has worked out on the matter.“Captain Amarinder Singh is our chief minister for the last four-and-a-half years and we will go to the elections under his leadership,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“He and Sidhu will work together. A formula has been made around this. We have also worked out a formula for working presidents,” the former Uttarakhand chief minister said when asked if Sidhu would be made the Punjab Congress chief.Also read | 'Good news' in Punjab soon, says Harish Rawat after meeting Rahul GandhiRawat's comments also came a day after election strategist Prashant Kishor held talks with the Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Kishor has been appointed by SIngh as his advisor ahead of the election.Rawat had earlier held a meeting with Rahul on Tuesday as the central leadership’s bid to resolve the months-long tussle between the chief minister and cricketer-turned-politician.A three-member committee, headed by Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, that has been set up to settle the infighting in the Punjab unit, met all the party's legislators to resolve the crisis ahead of the upcoming state elections.While Singh has also met Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu has spoken to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.HT had reported earlier that Singh's leadership was not challenged and Sonia told him "to take Sidhu into confidence." Singh was also told that the party has to be united ahead of the Punjab assembly elections and to be accessible to his party colleagues.HT reported earlier that Singh's leadership was not challenged and Sonia Gandhi told him "to take Sidhu into confidence." Singh was also told that the party has to be united ahead of the Punjab assembly elections and to be accessible to his party colleagues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-fight-punjab-assembly-election-under-amarinder-singh-harish-rawat-101626340942900.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi thanks Japan's Suga for taking personal interest in Varanasi's 'Rudraksh' centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday thanked his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga for the financial assistance in building the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre 'Rudraksh'. During his address at the VICC, PM Modi said that Suga, who was the chief cabinet secretary in the Japanese government when the project began, has been personally involved in the project continuously.“All Indians are grateful to Japan's Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga for taking a personal interest in the project,” the prime minister said.PM Modi also thanked former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who had visited Kashi in 2015 when the idea of ‘Rudraksh’ was discussed between the two leaders. Speaking at the inauguration event, the prime minister recounted numerous projects Japan has been involved with, including Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor project and Zen garden recently inaugurated in Ahmedabad.“I am happy that a new sweet chapter of friendship is being written today,” he added.Praising the culture of Varanasi, PM Modi said that various art forms developed on the ghats of the Ganges and serious deliberations related to humanity have taken place. He highlighted that many developments projects have been initiated in Kashi in the past years, which would have been incomplete without 'Rudraksh' centre.“Now that Kashi has worn this Rudraksh (a prayer bead), the development of Kashi will shine more, and the beauty of Kashi will increase more,” he said.Prime Minister Modi is in Varanasi to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects. The various public projects and works include a 100-bed model maternal and child health (MCH) wing at the Institute of Medical Sciences of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), multi-level parking at Godauliya, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development on River Ganga and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi Ghazipur Highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-thanks-japan-s-suga-for-personal-involvement-in-rudrakash-centre-101626341193765.html
15-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 390 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 390 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, July 14, though the pace reportedly started slowing, dropping to levels seen before June 21, when the country opened up the for all adults.At least six states said they were facing vaccine shortage even as Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya alleged that “misinformed” statements were being put out to “create panic” among people regarding vaccine supply.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 391,053,156 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,210,451 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,382,467 were given the first dose while 157,660 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 117,870,724 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 4,192,141 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of the vaccine in the age group 18-45 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the same age group for the first dose.India recorded 41,806 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 30,987,880, while the active cases increased to 432,041, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.The death toll climbed to 411,989 with 581 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-390-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626339307176.html
15-07-2021||India||Why Ayush medicine? IMA opposes mixing of Ayush with MBBS in internship||A draft for a new internship practice for MBBS doctors, proposed by the National Medical Commission, has mandated that MBBS graduates will have to undergo a mandatory one-week elective posting in any Ayush medicine branch -- Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Homeopathy, Sidhha and Sowa-Rigpa. The Indian Medical Association has taken objection to the draft and said mixing modern medicine with traditional one will result in mixopathy, an issue that the association of the doctors has been fighting tooth and nail.There are many other branches of modern medicine that can be included in the internship like family medicine, bioethics etc., instead of incorporating a completely another system for a week. The IMA has written to the National Medical Commission and expressed its full opposition to the proposal.After four years of medical education, an MBBS graduate has to undergo one year of internship. "Internship is a period of what you have learned will be practiced since medical graduates have no options of learning Ayush in the undergraduate period it is not appropriate for him to come and practice in Ayush. IMA wants the purity of the system to be maintained and not mixing up," IMA president Dr Jayalal said.In February, the association launched an agitation against the proposal of mixopathy where a single doctor will practise all medicine branches. It said that mixopathy is not good for the healthcare system as the doctor practising all branches of medical science will lack in-depth knowledge of any particular system of medicine.During IMA's clash with Patanjali Ayurved, it reiterated the point and opposed the Uttarakhand government's decision to include Coronil in the Covid-19 kit saying that it will again be 'mixopathy'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-ayush-medicine-ima-opposes-mixing-of-ayush-with-mbbs-in-internship-101626338418961.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine drive in Karnataka hits a roadblock over insufficient supply: Report||Karnataka’s Covid-19 inoculation drive has hit a new roadblock, following the further dwindling in numbers of vaccine doses. According to a report in Prajavani today, the state has reached a stage where people who have already received the first dose are nearing the date for their second dose with no solution in sight.The paper quotes an interaction that officials of the Union health and family welfare ministry had with their Karnataka counterparts in a video conference. This interaction states that Karnataka health department officials had already sent indent for vaccines to the central government but the supply did not match their demand.“Karnataka has an overall capacity to vaccinate 11 lakh people per day in both government and private facilities. Only on the first day of the ‘Vaccination Maha Abhiyan’ on June 21 did the state reach the 11 lakh vaccinations per day mark. At present only 2 lakh vaccine doses are available,” says Dr. Arundathi Chandrashekar, mission director at the National Health Mission, according to the paper that quoted her.“On Monday, July 12, the state got 3.40 lakh doses of vaccine followed by 4.80 lakh doses on July 15 (today). They will be distributed depending on the demand from each district based on the number of people who are yet to be vaccinated,” the paper quoted Dr. Chandrashekar as saying.Northern Karnataka has more demand for vaccines. “In an ideal condition, the state must get 5-6 lakh vaccine doses per day to the government sector and 3-4 lakh doses to the private sector. In June, we got 73 lakh doses out of which 59.98 lakh doses have been utilised. We keep sending indents on a day-to-day basis” said Dr. Chandrashekar.According to Karnataka health department officials who participated in the video conference with the central health department officials, it was planned that 7 lakh people will be vaccinated every day after 21 June. But not even 50% of the target could be reached due to the non-availability of vaccine doses. On July 14, a total of 1,24,923 people were vaccinated at government centres and 29,696 people at private centres, officials mentioned during the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-drive-in-karnataka-hits-a-roadblock-over-insufficient-supply-report-101626337431620.html
15-07-2021||India||TMC plans to take its Martyr’s Day event beyond Bengal||West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) plans to involve its supporters outside the state in its annual July 21 programme to commemorate 13 people, who were killed in police firing in 1993 during a rally organised for demanding that voter identity cards be made the sole required document for voting for fair polling.TMC observes July 21 as Martyr’s Day every year in remembrance of the 13 people who were killed at a Youth Congress rally. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was then the leader of the West Bengal Youth Congress. “Our supporters in other states would participate in the programme. They can watch it live as the address of TMC (chief)... Mamata Banerjee would be aired virtually. The format in which the party would observe the programme in other states would be declared later. Preparations are going on.”Also Read | Let Mamata Banerjee’s election plea be heard outside Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari to SCThe announcement comes a month after Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary, who is seen as the in-charge of the party’s expansion plans, announced in June that they plan to expand their base in other states ahead of the 2024 national polls to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).A TMC leader said plans were afoot to set up giant screens outside the TMC offices in some states including Uttar Pradesh and Tripura to beam Mamata Banerjee’s address. “A screen is also likely to be set up outside the TMC office in Delhi,” said the leader, requesting anonymity.Mamata Banerjee will address the annual event virtually for the second year due to the pandemic.Assembly elections are due in Uttar Pradesh in 2022 and in Tripura a year later. TMC leaders, who did not want to be named, said the party hopes to make inroads into Tripura, which has a sizeable Bengali-speaking population. The party has a unit in the state as well.The BJP mocked the TMC’s plans to observe the programme in Uttar Pradesh and Tripura. “The pandemic has necessitated such virtual meetings... Even small groups can hold a virtual meeting which can be seen by one or two persons in the US and even in Antarctica...,” said BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcplans-to-take-its-martyr-s-day-event-beyond-bengal-101626337987032.html
15-07-2021||India||Bengaluru-Chennai Shatabdi Express to get back on track from July 21||Shatabdi xpress trains running between Chennai and Bengaluru will resume operations from July 21 , Tamil daily Dina Thanthi reported on Thursday. It was one of the premium trains that were halted since April 28 due to poor occupancy following the Covid-19 second wave.  South Western Railway , in a statement , announced the resumption of operations for this train. Train Number 02028/02027 Krantivira Sangoli Rayanna (KSR) Bengaluru – Chennai MGR Central – KSR Bengaluru Shatabdi trains will resume operations on both sides from July 21 , the statement noted.  Considered one of the fastest trains to commute between South India’s major cities , Train Number 02028 departs from the KSR Bengaluru city junction at 6am and reaches Chennai MGR Central station at 11am. For the return journey , Train Number 02027 departs from Chennai MGR Central station at 5.30pm to reach the KSR Bengaluru City junction at 10.25pm. Operated six days a week , these trains , with two halts between , take roughly five hours to cross the 359 kilometers between these cities.  Bengaluru - Chennai – Bengaluru Shatabdi trains were stopped after the passenger patronage went southwards. Indian Railways stopped operating several trains during the second wave of the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. As the Covid-19 situation eased with passengers returning for their travels , the trains which were halted are being resumed , according to the railway statement.  The Hubballi-based South Western Railway also announced operating a weekly special train between Hubballi and Chennai on July 21 and 22. The statement from SWR stated that Train Number 07333 Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi – Chennai MGR Central will be operated on July 21 while Train Number 07334 Chennai MGR Central - Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi will be operated on July 22.  This special train connecting Karnataka’s major city in North Western Karnataka with Tamil Nadu’s capital traverses through Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh before reaching Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-update-bengaluru-chennai-shatabdi-express-to-get-back-on-track-from-july-21-101626336202766.html
15-07-2021||India||After cancelling Kanwar Yatra, Uttarakhand to send Gangajal via post to devotees||The Uttarakhand government has decided to send the water of holy river Ganga (Gangajal) via post to devotees, day after cancelling the Kanwar Yatra. News agency ANI quoted Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar as saying that the government is also planning to supply Gangajal in tankers to neighbouring states."We've started process of sending Gangajal via post to devotees. We're also planning to supply Gangajal in tankers and are in talks with administration of neighbouring states to avoid large number of gathering here," Ravishankar said on Wednesday.Uttarakhand had on Tuesday announced that it is suspending the annual Kanwar Yatra this year, scheduled to begin on July 25, in view of the Covid-19 situation. As part of the pilgrimage, lakhs of devotees travel through several states on foot to pilgrimage sites of Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand and Sultanganj in Bihar to fetch holy waters of River Ganga. Later, the holy water is dispensed as offerings to Lord Shiva in temples."We discussed with higher officials and with officials from neighbouring states and decided that we will not hold Kanwar Yatra at this time. A variant has been found in Gadarpur so we don't want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid," chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.Also Read: On allowing Kanwar Yatra, Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, UP govtUnion tourism minister G Kishan Reddy called it a "responsible" decision and appealed to the people to understand the seriousness of the Covid-19."In view of the situation of Covid-19, first Amarnath Yatra and now the Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled. The people must understand the seriousness of the situation. It is our responsibility to save people's lives and look at the economy as well," he said after the Uttarakhand government announced its decision to call off the pilgrimage.The police in Haridwar has asked people to not come to the holy city since the Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled. In a notice, the police said that all entry and exit points of Haridwar district have been sealed.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) too had highlighted the risk of holding the Kanwar Yatra in the wake of a possible third wave of Covid-19.In the letter, IMA Uttarakhand State Secretary Dr Ajay Khanna expressed concerns about the crowds that may gather for the annual pilgrimage and urged the Uttarakhand chief minister to not allow devotees from outside to enter the state for the yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cancelling-kanwar-yatra-uttarakhand-to-send-gangajal-via-post-to-devotees-101626336160126.html
15-07-2021||India||Bandh partially disrupts normal life in Odisha||Bus services were suspended, petrol pumps and businesses remained shuttered in parts of Odisha while blockades were also reported during a six-hour bandh called by the Left parties in the state until afternoon on Thursday. The Congress is also supporting the bandh against the increasing fuel prices.Members of the Left parties resorted to road and rail blockades in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. They blocked a railway track at Bhubaneswar station and disrupted train services. Led by lawmaker Suresh Routray, Congress workers also staged a rail blockade at the Bhubaneswar Railway Station.Congress in Odisha has also called for state-wide protests from July 7 to 17 against the rising fuel prices and other issues. The party has requested people in the state not to purchase fuel.In view of the bandh call, special secretary (home) Santosh Bala on Wednesday asked all collectors to take preventive measures to maintain law and order and ensure essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bandh-partially-disrupts-normal-life-in-odisha-101626336426903.html
15-07-2021||India||Delta in 111 countries, Delta Plus unlikely to be more transmissible | 10 points||The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 , first reported in India in October , has now spread to over 111 countries across the world , according to the latest update of the World Health Organization. The viral strain , which is behind the resurgent rise of global cases , has mutated into Delta Plus. Sporadic cases of Delta Plus in India spread fresh concerns of a fresh wave riding on this new variant. But Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium of Genomics (INSACOG) has recently revealed that Delta Plus is not likely to be as transmissible as Delta.  Here are 10 latest updates on Covid-19 and its variants:  1. WHO chief Tedros Adhanon Ghebreyesus has recently said that the world has entered the early stages of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.  2. The third wave is mainly driven by the Delta variant , the WHO has said. The variant has now spread in more than 11 countries. "We expect it to soon be the dominant Covid-19 strain if it isn't already ," the WHO chief has said.  3. As far as other variants are concerned , Alpha variant has been reported in 178 countries , territories or areas , while Beta was limited to 123 countries and Gamma in 75 countries.  4. WHO said that the emergence of more transmissible variants in the days to come can not be dismissed. And those variants will get coupled with the lifting of the restrictions , which will contribute to rapid surges in cases.  5. In the week ending on July 11 , according to WHO data , India recorded 2 ,91 ,789 cases , recording a 7 per cent decrease.  6. Indonesia has now surpassed India's daily Covid-19 cases of India and has become the epicentre of Covid-19 in Asia.  7. In India , Delta is predominant. Alpha , first documented in the UK , and Beta , first found in South Africa , are rarely found. Delta Plus , on the other hand , was reported in a few states. But experts have said that there is no evidence to suggest that Delta Plus is more transmissible than Delta.  8. Gamma and Lambda variants have not been found in India , INSACOG said. Lambda , which is assumed to be deadlier than Delta , is found in 29 countries.  9. In India , several cases of the Kappa variant have been found in the recent few days. Kappa is a variant of interest and is not new. It was found in India at the same time when Delta was found.  10. As Delta Plus may not be more transmissible than Delta , it will not be the reason for a new surge in India. But the ministry has said that Covid-19 situation has become sluggish in some states , as the number of daily new infections is not going down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-in-111-countries-delta-plus-unlikely-to-be-more-transmissible-10-points-101626335558290.html
15-07-2021||India||Mild Zika virus cases likely present since April in Kerala, claim doctors||Doctors at a hospital in Kerala have claimed that it is likely that there have been mild cases of the Zika virus in the state since April this year, as the patients were not getting tested due to rising Covid-19 cases and lockdown restrictions at that time.Many people reported common Zika symptoms like fever, rashes and red eyes, Dr Rajalakshmi, Senior consultant at the KIMSHEALTH hospital told news agency ANI. "We had been getting patients complaining of rashes and fever since April. I would say that it peaked around May, right after the monsoon season. But since the coronavirus was also peaking at the time, we were conducting teleconsultations and they did not come to the OPD," she added.She said that a few samples were sent to test for dengue, chikungunya and measles but all tested negative. "I presume many people had mild cases and did not come to the hospital. The government has made the test available for the last two days. We are sending them samples. We will only know which pockets in the state have greater prevalence when a serosurvey is done," she said.The first case of the mosquito-borne viral infection in Kerala was confirmed on July 8 in a 24-year-old pregnant woman.According to Dr Niyas, who diagnosed the first patient, Zika virus management and treatment is simple and easy. In pregnant women, however, it can cause malformation in the foetus. "Samples of any person showing Zika Virus symptoms are being sent for testing, not just pregnant women," Niyas said.The state's case tally currently stands at 28, health minister Veena George informed on Thursday, including five new cases.As part of efforts to reduce the spread of Zika virus, the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation and district administrations have intensified preventive activities, including fogging for the next seven days and the setting up of a control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-zika-virus-cases-likely-present-since-april-in-kerala-claim-doctors-101626333809853.html
15-07-2021||India||Bengaluru-Chennai Shatabdi trains to resume services from July 21||Shatabdi express trains running between Chennai and Bengaluru will resume operations from July 21, Tamil daily Dina Thanthi reported on Thursday. It was one of the premium trains halted since April 28 due to poor occupancy after the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit the country.In a statement, the South Western Railway said the Krantivira Sangoli Rayanna (KSR) Bengaluru – Chennai MGR Central – KSR Bengaluru Shatabdi trains (numbers 02028/02027) will resume operations from July 21.Considered one of the fastest to commute between the major cities of south, the train runs six days a week with two halt stations between the destinations covering about 359km. It leaves KSR Bengaluru City Junction at 6am and reaches Chennai MGR Central station at 11am. On return, it departs from Chennai at 5.30 pm and finishes its journey in Bengaluru at 10.25pm.The train services were stopped after passenger patronage went southwards following the pandemic. As the Covid-19 situation improves slightly across the country and the number of passengers slowly returns to normal, the halted trains are being resumed, according to the railway statement.The Hubballi-based South Western Railway also announced operating a weekly special train between Hubballi and Chennai on July 21 and 22. Train number 07333 Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi – Chennai MGR Central will be operated on July 21, while train number 07334 Chennai MGR Central - Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi will be operated on July 22.This special train connecting Karnataka’s major city in the northwestern region with Chennai traverses through Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh before reaching Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluruchennai-shatabdi-trains-to-resume-services-from-july-21-101626333602021.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi attacks govt over vaccine shortage, unemployment and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Built in centuries, destroyed in seconds: Rahul Gandhi’s attack on govtCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the current government did not take even a few “seconds to destroy” what had been built over “centuries” in India. Read moreWorld Youth Skills Day: PM Modi reiterates significance of skilling, re-skilling, upskillingOn the occasion of World Youth Skills Day and the sixth anniversary of Skill India Mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated the significance of skilling, re-skilling and upskilling among the country’s youth. Read moreIndia vs England: Rishabh Pant tests positive for Covid-19, says reportIndian wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant has tested positive for Covid-19 during the 20-day break, PTI reported on Thursday. He will not be travelling to Durham where the Indian team members are scheduled to assemble before the upcoming 5-match Test series against England. Read moreShaheer Sheikh's first thought on playing Sushant Singh Rajput's character in Pavitra Rishta 2: 'People won't accept me'Television actor Shaheer Sheikh has said that his first thought on stepping into the shoes of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to essay the role of Manav in Pavitra Rishta 2, was that people will 'not accept' him. He said he wasn't very sure if he should be a part of the show and was nervous. Read moreAudi India announces charging options for upcoming e-tron, e-tron Sportback EVsAudi India on Thursday announced a range of charging options and benefits for its potential EV customers ahead of the launch of e-tron 50, e-tron 55 and e-tron Sportback EVs on July 22. Read more‘Some light reading with lil X’: Elon Musk posts pic of son X AE A-XIIf you follow SpaceX CEO Elon Musk on Twitter, you may be aware of the various posts he often shares. From talking about cryptocurrency to informing about new technologies to sharing snippets of his personal life, Musk’s tweets are of different taste. Read moreWhy Abhinav Bindra is excited about the Tokyo OlympicsOlympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra speaks to Sharda Ugra, Senior sports journalist and Rudraneil Sengupta, Sports editor, Hindustan Times on India's chances in Tokyo. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-rahul-gandhi-attacks-govt-over-vaccine-shortage-unemployment-and-all-the-latest-news-101626330601846.html
15-07-2021||India||Manduadih railway station renamed as Banaras: Check its facilities||The Manduadih railway station has been finally renamed as Banaras by the North eastern railways (NER). The NER replaced the old signboard with the new one which read 'Banaras' after the Railway Board gave its nod for the new name.The newly painted signboards were put up with Banaras written in Hindi, Sanskrit, English, and Urdu.पूर्वोत्तर रेलवे के वाराणसी मंडल के मंडुवाडीह रेलवे स्टेशन का नाम परिवर्तित कर बनारस कर दिया गया है।अब इस स्टेशन का नाम हिन्दी में बनारस,अंग्रेजी में BANARAS तथा स्टेशन का कोड BSBS होगा। इसके साथ ही इस स्टेशन की नाम पट्टिका पर संस्कृत और उर्दू में भी इसका नाम अंकित किया गया है। pic.twitter.com/QRlqCNyYFeThe process to change the station’s name started in 2019 when former railway minister and the present governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Singh, put forth the request. In the same year, the Uttar Pradesh government accepted the proposal and forwarded it to the ministry of home affairs.The formal renaming of Manduadih railway station as Banaras Railway Station was done on September 16, 2020 in view of the NOC given by the ministry of home affairs on March 31, 2020.The NER authorities have decided to start the replacement of old titles of railway stations from now on, only after all clearances have been acquired from all necessary departments.The code for the station with the new identity will now be ‘BSBS,’ starting from 12am today and will be reflected on all the tickets booked.The Banaras Railway Station, formerly known as Manduadih Railway Station, is one of the most advanced and facility-loaded railway stations. Some of the facilities of the station include food plazas, VIP lounges, escalators, gardens, and an advanced booking station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manduadih-railway-station-renamed-as-banaras-check-its-facilities-101626331289259.html
15-07-2021||India||Weeks after Jammu air base attack, India releases draft drone policy||The ministry of civil aviation on Thursday released the draft drone rules, 2021 for public consultation. The deadline for public comments on the draft is August 5."Built on a premise of trust, self-certification, and non-intrusive monitoring, the Drone Rules, 2021 will replace the UAS Rules 2021 (released on 12 March 2021)," the ministry said in a release.The key approvals cleared by the Centre in the new drone rules include abolition of approvals for certain criteria, reduction of forms to six from 25 and relaxation in granting permission.Opinion: The killer drones are here. Get readyThe ministry said that it has reduced the fees to nominal levels, and it now has no linkage with the size of the drone. "Safety features like 'No permission - no take-off (NPNT), real-time tracking beacon, geo-fencing etc to be notified in future. A six-month lead time will be provided for compliance," it further said."Digital sky platform shall be developed as a business-friendly single-window online system. There will be minimal human interface on the digital sky platform and most permissions will be self-generated," the aviation ministry said in the release.The government has removed the requirement for pilot licence for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drone and for R&D organisations, and relaxed restrictions on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India.Some of the other key takeaways include no security clearance before any registration or licence issuance, increased coverage of drones from 300 kg to 500 kg to cover drone taxis and easier process for transfer and deregistration of drones."The maximum penalty under has been reduced to ₹1 lakh," the ministry said, adding that drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries.The contours of a comprehensive drone policy was discussed at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month (June 29) in the wake of drone attack at Jammu air force station and sightings of more unmanned aircraft system (UAS) in the region.Discussions were also held on emerging security threats and futuristic challenges facing the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-released-drone-rules-2021-relaxes-approval-norms-101626332422677.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka gets raw deal as shortage hits vaccination drive||Karnataka’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has hit a roadblock following a further fall in availability of doses. According to a report in Prajavani on Thursday, there is no vaccine for a large number of people in the state who are scheduled to receive their second dose in the next .The paper quotes an interaction that officials of the Union health and family welfare ministry held with their Karnataka counterparts in a video conference. It was reportedly discussed at the meeting that the state health department had informed the Centre about its vaccine requirements, but adequate vaccines are yet to be sent.“Karnataka has an overall capacity to vaccinate 11 lakh people per day in both government and private facilities. Only on the first day of the ‘Vaccination Maha Abhiyan’ on June 21 did the state reach the 11-lakh mark. At present, only two lakh vaccine doses are available,” National Health Mission director Dr Arundathi Chandrashekar was quoted as saying in the report.“On Monday, July 12, the state received 3.40 lakh doses of vaccine, followed by 4.80 lakh doses on July 15. The same will be distributed depending on the demand from each district based on the number of people who are yet to be vaccinated,” she further said.The report said northern Karnataka has more demand for vaccines. “In an ideal situation, the state must get five-six lakh vaccines every day for the government sector and three-four lakh doses for private facilities. In June, we received 73 lakh doses of which 59.98 lakh doses have been utilised. We keep sending indents on a day-to-day basis” Dr Chandrashekar said.According to state health department officials, who participated in the meeting with the central health team, the initial plan was to vaccinate seven lakh people every day after 21 June. However, even 50 per cent of the target could not be reached due to non-availability of vaccines. On July 14, a total of 1,24,923 people were inoculated at government centres and 29,696 people at private facilities, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-karnataka-gets-raw-deal-as-shortage-hits-vaccination-drive-101626332209957.html
15-07-2021||India||World Youth Skills Day: PM Modi reiterates significance of skilling, re-skilling, upskilling||On the occasion of World Youth Skills Day and the sixth anniversary of Skill India Mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated the significance of skilling, re-skilling and upskilling among the country’s youth. Modi said that the challenges brought on by the pandemic have increased the significance of World Youth Skills Day.On Thursday, while addressing the youth of the country, he said, “The mission of skilling, re-skilling and upskilling the youth should continue relentlessly. Making India Aatmanirbhar through upskilling and re-skilling should the core focus.” He added that this mission needs to be expedited as there is going to be a huge demand for re-skilling due to fast-changing technology. The Prime Minister also spoke of how a skilled workforce helped fight an effective battle against the pandemic.Also Read | PM Modi chairs council of ministers meetThe Prime Minister said that more than 12.5 million young persons have been trained under Pradhanmantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna.He said, “Skill development of the youth of the new generation is a national requirement and a major foundation for Aatmanirbhar Bharat.”Stressing the need for skills in everyday life, the Prime Minister said that learning should not stop with earning. He said only a skilled person will grow in today’s world--this applies to both people and countries. He said that the idea of India providing smart and skilled manpower solutions to the world should be at the core of the strategy of skilling the youth.The Prime Minister also referred to the vision of Babasaheb Ambedkar who placed great emphasis on skilling the weaker section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-youth-skills-day-pm-modi-reiterates-significance-of-skilling-re-skilling-upskilling-101626331866377.html
15-07-2021||India||13 tourists caught with fake RT-PCR reports in Dehradun: Uttarakhand Police||The Uttarakhand Police on Thursday said that they have caught 13 tourists who came to Dehradun with a fake RT-PCR negative report, news agency ANI reported. The tourists were arrested in Clement Town area, ANI reported quoting police officials.It also said that four people accused of making fake documents and registered a case. The said that 100 fake RT-PCR negative reports have been detected till now.Hill stations like Mussoorie and Nainital have seen a huge influx of tourists in the past few weeks, since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs were relaxed by the Uttarakhand government. Though the overall curfew is continuing till July 20, the state government has given many relaxations to resume economic activities.The Union health ministry, as well as Uttarakhand government, have expressed concerns over tourists thronging the popular holiday destinations wither to escape heat in the northern plains or to just move out of their homes.The Uttarakhand government has made carrying RT-PCR reports, not older than 72 hours, before coming to the state. The police have increased surveillance and set up checkposts at border points to catch the violators.Last weekend, the Uttarakhand Police sent back 8,000 people headed to Mussoorie and Nainital. The state government has also cancelled the Kanwar Yatra to check the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-tourists-caught-with-fake-rt-pcr-certificates-in-dehradun-uttarakhand-police-101626330921182.html
15-07-2021||India||Built in centuries, destroyed in seconds: Rahul Gandhi’s attack on govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the current government did not take even a few “seconds to destroy” what had been built over “centuries” in India.Hitting out at the government over a variety of issues, such as, vaccine shortage, border issues with China, price hike, unemployment, and disinvestment of public sector undertakings, Gandhi took to Twitter and wrote in Hindi, “Took Centuries to built, destroyed in seconds, the country knows who brought these difficult times. #VaccineShortage #LAC #Unemployment #PriceHike #PSU #Farmers #OnlyPR.”Amid fresh reports of clashes between Indian and Chinese forces at Ladakh, Gandhi had tweeted on Wednesday, “Modi government has weakened our country by making foreign and defence policy, a national political gimmick. India has never been so insecure.”Sharing a report from an English daily which reported of fresh clashes between Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh, Gandhi added that the Centre’s “use of foreign and defence policy as a domestic political tool” has made India vulnerable.BJP had reacted to the tweet, saying the news report shared by Gandhi was “fake.” “His #FakeStory, rebutted by the Indian Army, was done by Ajai Shukla, a retired Lt Col, with dubious antecedents, brother-in-law of Suman Dubey, a long time Gandhi family crony, accused in the National Herald scam and on the board of RGF! Bogus story written for Rahul to plug?” said Amit Malviya who heads BJP’s Information technology cell.Gandhi’s allegation over vaccine shortage was also slammed by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. “The leaders who make statements that create confusion and concern in the media need to introspect whether they have made such a distance from the governance process and related information that they are not aware of the information already being given in the context of vaccine supply,” Mandaviya tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/built-in-centuries-destroyed-in-seconds-rahul-gandhi-s-attack-on-govt-101626331386473.html
15-07-2021||India||Varanasi gets ₹1,583-cr worth projects, PM Modi says city becoming medical hub||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday gifted developmental projects worth ₹1,583 crore to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi. He had said ahead of the visit that these projects will further improve ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and the entire Poorvanchal region."After a long gap, I have got a chance to meet all of you directly. I bow my head to the feet of Baba Kashi Vishwanath and Ma Annapurna," PM Modi said in his address at IIT-BHU ground."Whatever is happening for the development of Banaras, all that is happening by the blessings of Mahadev (Lord Shiva). Kashi showed that it never tires, it never stops even in time of crisis. With resilience, Kashi faced the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis with courage," he added.He said that Varanasi is becoming medical hub in entire eastern UP. "Work is underway for setting up 550 new oxygen plants in Uttar Pradesh," he added.The Prime Minister arrived at the LBS airport in Varanasi on Thursday morning, He was received by Governor Anandiben Patel, and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Adityanath welcomed PM Modi ahead of the address, and in his inaugural address, said that his regular guidance for effective covid-19 management was praised by various countries in the world."Projects worth about ₹10,300 crore were completed in the last seven years and schemes worth about ₹10,200 crore are in progress," said the chief minister.One of the highlights of the projects inaugurated by the Prime Minister is a state-of-the-art convention centre Rudraksh. Constructed with Japanese assistance, Rudraksh will make Varanasi an attractive destination for conferences thus drawing more tourists and businesspersons to the city, said the Prime Minister.Watch: PM Modi to inaugurate 'Rudraksh' in VaranasiAs many as 108 Rudraksha have been installed at this convention centre and its roof is shaped like a Shiva Linga, officials said, adding that the entire building will glow with LED lights at night.Other key projects which will be inaugurated today include a multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development and three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway. These projects are worth a total of around ₹744 crore, according to Prime Minister's Office (PMO).PM Modi will also lay the foundation stones for a bunch of other public projects and works, including the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission, and a mango and vegetable integrated packhouse in Karkhiyanv.This is PM Modi's third visit to his constituency Varanasi since beginning his second term in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-gets-rs-1-583-cr-worth-projects-pm-modi-says-city-becoming-medical-hub-101626330069960.html
15-07-2021||India||Day after Kishor-Gandhi meet, NCP refutes 'Pawar as presidential face' talks||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday dismissed reports of its chief Sharad Pawar being in contention for the next presidential polls to be held next year. This came a day after election strategist Prashant Kishor held hours-long talks with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and her children Rahul and Priyanka.Pawar, who too has held a few meetings with Kishor in the past few weeks, said he is aware of the numbers involved in the election and he will not be a presidential candidate. "I know what will be the result, given one party (BJP) has more than 300 MPs. I will not be a candidate for the presidential election," said Pawar, a former chief minister of Maharashtra and Union minister.He said Kishor met him twice and there was no discussion regarding leadership for the 2024 Lok Sabha election or the presidential election. "We only talked about a company of his. No discussion was held regarding the leadership for the 2024 elections or the presidential election. He told me that he has left the field of formulating poll strategies," Pawar said, adding he will not assume any leadership in the next Lok Sabha polls."Nothing has been decided so far, be it the 2024 general elections or state elections. The election is far away, the political situation keeps changing. I am not going to assume any leadership in the 2024 elections," he said.NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said the reports are baseless and no such talks have been held either within the party or with other parties. "There are no presidential polls soon. This condition after polls in five states will be reviewed. There has been no such talk in the party or with other parties. The news is fabricated,” Malik was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.President Ram Nath Kovind's tenure will come to an end next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-dismisses-sharad-pawar-as-presidential-candidate-reports-101626329927798.html
15-07-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi thanks Japan's Yoshihide Suga for Rudrakash centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday arrived in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi where he inaugurated several public projects worth ₹1,583 crore. The inaugurals include a 100-bed maternal and child health wing at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU).Modi arrived at the city's LBS airport and was received by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adtityanath and governor Anandiben Patel.Also Read| Varanasi gets ₹1,583-cr worth projects, PM Modi says city becoming medical hubAddressing a gathering at the BHU ground, Modi lauded Varanasi, popularly known as Kashi, as well the entire state for its fight against the coronavirus disease. He said Kashi and UP fought the pandemic with all their might.He further said Varanasi is now becoming a medical hub of Purvanchal, adding facilities are available to treat diseases for which people had to earlier travel to Delhi and Mumbai.As the day progresses, PM Modi will open a multi-level parking at Godauliya, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development on the River Ganga and three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway.Also Read| PM Modi to inaugurate Rudraksh, the symbol of Indo-Japan friendship in VaranasiHe will also lay foundation stones of several projects, including the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology, 143 rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission and a mango and vegetable integrated packhouse in Karkhiyanv.At 2pm, the Prime Minister will inspect the Maternal and Child Health Wing at BHU and interact with officials and medical professionals to review Covid-19 preparedness. He will fly back to Delhi at 3.30pm.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi in his constituency Varanasi - See picturesPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated projects worth ₹1,500 crores including the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre 'Rudraksh' in Varanasi.Click here to see pictures'Proud of Japan's support for this prestigious project': Japanese ambassador Satoshi SuzukiHonoured to have participated with @narendramodi in the Inauguration Ceremony of Varanasi Convention Centre,another symbol of #JapanIndia friendship.We are proud of Japan’s support for this prestigious project through Grant Aid.Hope our friendship will further flourish from here. pic.twitter.com/z1YXGh3xEUJapanese ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki tweeted "Honoured to have participated with @narendramodi in the Inauguration Ceremony of Varanasi Convention Centre,another symbol of #JapanIndia friendship.We are proud of Japan’s support for this prestigious project through Grant Aid.Hope our friendship will further flourish from here."'Kashi will shine more now': ModiNarendra Modi finished his speech saying with the inclusion of the Rudraksh Centre, Kashi (Varanasi) will shine more now. He further said that the city was being beautified for the last few years and the process could not be completed without the 'Rudraksh.'Projects built with cooperation of Japan to be strength of New India: ModiProjects such as the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor and the High speed train which are being built by the cooperation of Japan, have to become strength of New India, Narendra Modi said.'New chapter of friendship': Modi hails relation between India, JapanPM Narendra Modi thanked his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga for his personal interest in the project. He also praised the people to people relation between the two countries. "I am happy that a new sweet chapter of friendship is being written today," Modi said. He further mentioned the Zen Garden recently inaugurated in Ahmedabad. PM Modi thanks Japan's ambassador to India Satoshi SuzukiDuring his address at the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Modi thanked the people of Japan, the Japanese government and the country's ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki.PM Modi reaches Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention CentrePrime Minister Narendra Modi has reached the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICC), which has been constructed with Japan's assistance. The VICC was gifted by the then Japanse Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during his visit to Kashi in 2015Ro-Ro vessels to boost tourism in Kashi: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi also said on Thursday that the Ro-Ro vessels facility, which will begin today, will boost tourism in Kashi. "Our boatmen are also being given better facilties. Diesel boats are being converted into CNG. This will bring down their expenses, benefit the environment & attract the tourists," Modi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Cleanliness of Kashi, Ganga a priority for all of us, says PM Modi"Cleanliness of Kashi, Ganga is not only an aspiration but also a priority for all of us," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, adding work is being done on every front be it it roads, sewage treatment, beautification of parks and ghats.Kashi becoming a big medical hub of Purvanchal: PMPM Modi also said on Thursday that Kashi is becoming a big medical hub of Purvanchal, adding facilities are available in the city to treat diseases for which people had to earlier visit Delhi and Mumbai.Kashi faced Covid-19 crisis with courage, says PM Modiबीते कुछ महीने हम सभी के लिए बहुत मुश्किल भरे रहे हैं।कोरोना वायरस के बदले हुए और खतरनाक रूप ने पूरी ताकत के साथ हमला किया था।लेकिन काशी सहित, यूपी ने पूरे सामर्थ्य के साथ इतने बड़े संकट का मुकाबला किया: PM @narendramodiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded Varanasi and the Uttar Pradesh's fight against the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. "The past few months have been very tough for us. The ever-changing and fatal Covid-19 attacked us with full force. However, Kashi and the entire state of Uttar Pradesh fought the virus with all its strength," Modi said.'Smart Kashi' a model for the entire world, says UP CMUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that the city of Varanasi, which has protected its spiritual and cultural heritage, has emerged as a smart city and has become a model for Uttar Pradesh, India and the entire world.PM arrives at BHU ground in Varanasi, set to inaugurate public projectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) ground in Varanasi.He will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects. pic.twitter.com/yyvNpExkvfPrime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) ground in Varanasi and will soon inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects.PM Modi in Varanasi, to inaugurate public projectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on Thursday, where he will inaugurate several public projects, including a 100-bed maternal and child health wing at Benaras Hindu University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-pm-modi-in-varanasi-to-inaugurate-public-projects-101626327349384.html
15-07-2021||India||Twitter withdraws Fleets feature, says will try ‘bigger and bolder things’||Twitter on Wednesday said it would be withdrawing its Fleets feature starting August 3 as there has been no “increase in the number of new people joining the conversation with Fleets.”“We built Fleets as a lower-pressure, ephemeral way for people to share their fleeting thoughts. We hoped Fleets would help more people feel comfortable … but… we haven’t seen an increase in the number of new people joining the conversation with Fleets like we hoped,” Twitter said in a statement.It added that Twitter was still evolving and trying “bigger and bolder things” to serve the public conversation.“A number of these updates, like Fleets, are speculative and won’t work out. We’ll be rigorous, evaluate what works, and know when to move on and focus elsewhere,” it said adding that “continuous evolving of approaches and winding down features every once in while” are some big steps that Twitter won’t hesitate to take.Also Read | India sent most number of requests seeking account info: Twitter reportFleets feature was introduced in November last year with which users could post full-screen photos, videos, or plain text as “fleeting thoughts” that would last for 24 hours.Meanwhile, following the decision, netizens reacted to the decision with most welcoming the move.“This makes a lot of sense and I’m glad Twitter dares to remove a feature. Too many software products end up with a ton of garbage of old features,” a Twitter user wrote.Another user taking a jibe at Twitter, quote tweeted Twitter’s announcement saying, ” Sometimes, life doesn’t go the way, we want it to go. But there is nothing we can do about it, so we have to follow along in its sick twisted game.”While Twitter said they were also working on “some new stuff”, Twitter users were seen pushing for the introduction of an edit button and suggesting withdrawal of the topic option.While a user said, “don’t give us an edit button (reverse)”, another user tweeted, “Thank you for getting out the fleets. It’s better to just stop feeding us the topics we don’t want to see in our timeline... I (should) only see what I want to see. I am too tired of closing each topic that appears on my timeline even when I have muted it.”Another user said that it was high time to introduce an edit button, but with an option to track changes, “so we can see what the actual first tweet was, to hold people accountable.”Some people also requested Twitter to reconsider its Fleet withdrawal decision as it would affect people who “advertised” their products through fleets.A user wrote, “Twitter is ending Fleets?!?! NOOO, I built my entire start-up business around Fleets, and now it’s ending?!?! I’M RUINED.”Another user said, “They (fleets) were helping my business tweets reach more people. Had quite a few inquiries due to my fleets. They will be missed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-withdraws-fleets-feature-says-will-try-bigger-and-bolder-things-101626325745350.html
15-07-2021||India||'A flight to remember': Dayanidhi Maran honoured to be flown by Rajiv Rudy||DMK's Member of Parliament Dayanidhi Maran boarded a flight from Delhi to Chennai on Tuesday, which turned a memorable one, as described by the politician on Twitter. The reason? His pilot was none other than his parliamentary colleague and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Rajiv Pratap Rudy.Maran described the chance meetign with the fellow MP on Twitter in a thread titled "A Flight to Remember."Maran said he boarded the IndiGo flight 6E864 after attending a meeting of the parliamentary Estimates Committee. "'So you are traveling in this flight as well!' said a person dressed in the Captain’s uniform. I could not recognize him with his mask on, although his voice sounded familiar. I nodded my head, still wondering who it could be," the DMK MP said in his initial tweet."He looked at me and his eyes gave away the smile behind the mask. “So you don’t recognize me!” he exclaimed. I realized then that it was none other than my colleague, senior member of parliament and former Union Minister- my very good friend Thiru @RajivPratapRudy!" Maran said in another tweet.He looked at me and his eyes gave away the smile behind the mask.  “So you don’t recognize me!” he exclaimed.I realized then that it was none other than my colleague, senior member of parliament and former Union Minister- my very good friend Thiru @RajivPratapRudy ! 3/7The politician said he was amazed to see Rudy's transformation "from a politician to a pilot" who he met just two hours ago at the committee's meeting."I could only say that I was honoured to be flown by my good friend and colleague," added Maran.Rudy, a Lok Sabha MP from Bihar who had defeated RJD president Lalu Prasad’s wife Rabri Devi in 2014 general elections, was given independent charge of skill development ministry by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but was later dropped in a cabinet reshuffle.He was appointed BJP national spokesperson in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-flight-to-remember-dayanidhi-maran-honoured-to-be-flown-by-rajiv-rudy-101626324649974.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi chairs council of ministers meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday told the newly inducted ministers in the union council to acquaint themselves with Parliamentary process and procedure and come prepared for the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament according to people aware of the details.During a meeting with the council of ministers, the PM also raised the issue of attendance and said ministers should be present in the House during the session. In the past, the issue of poor attendance in both Houses was raised by the PM. This is the second meeting of the ministers chaired by the PM after the expansion and rejig of the council took place last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-council-of-ministers-meet-101626321304770.html
15-07-2021||India||India reports 41,806 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload currently at 432,041||India reported 41,806 fresh cases and 581 more fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,987,880 and 411,989 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update on Thursday. As many as 39,130 patients recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the cumulative count of recoveries to 30,143,850, the bulletin released at 8am showed. The active cases stand at 432,041 and constitute 1.39 per cent of the caseload.Thursday’s case count is 3,014 more than that of Wednesday’s when 38,792 people were detected Covid-19 positive. On other hand, Thursday’s toll is 43 less/more than that of Wednesday’s when 624 deaths were reported.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday that a total of 438,011,958 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease so far of which 1,943,488 were tested in the last 24 hours.Also Read| Guard against laxity: Centre to states on Covid norms’ breachOver 390 million doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till now, the Union health ministry said, adding more than 3.21 million doses were administered on Wednesday.As people are continuing to flock hill stations and other tourist spots in the country, stoking fears of a more severe third wave of the pandemic, the Union home ministry said on Wednesday that there is no room for complacency and everyone should adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. For the past several days, videos surfaced on social media platforms have shown massive gatherings of people in prominent tourist destinations without adherence to the basic norms such as wearing of masks and ensuring social distancing.Pointing out at the "blatant violations" of Covid norms at hill stations, tourist spots and market places, the MHA instructed states and Union Territories (UTs) to act against officials who fail to ensure compliance to the guidelines. In a letter to states and UTs, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said, “Blatant violations of Covid norms have been observed in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. Massive crowds are also thronging the market places, violating norms of social distancing.”Also Read| Covid-19: Modi flags crowding in hills as 3rd wave triggerThe Union home ministry’s remarks come just a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it was a matter of concern that huge crowds were thronging hill stations and markets without wearing masks or social distancing, adding everyone has to work together to stop the third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-41-806-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-currently-at-432041-101626319162558.html
15-07-2021||India||Boat capsizes in Bengal; 9 fishermen dead, 1 missing||Nine persons were killed when a trawler carrying 10 fishermen capsized in the Bay of Bengal off the West Bengal coast early on Wednesday morning. Police recovered nine bodies from the trawler, and one person is still missing. “We have recovered nine bodies. One person is still missing. Search operation is going on with the help of Coast Guard,” said Anil Kumar Roy, SDPO of Kakdwip in South 24 Parganas. Also Read | Let Mamata Banerjee’s election plea be heard outside Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari to SCThe trawler capsized early on Wednesday around 25-30 km off the Bakkhali-Frazerganj coast. Police said that the capsized trawler was spotted and towed to the coast by at least five to six other trawlers during search and rescue operation. All he nine bodies were recovered from inside the trawler. “It is yet to be ascertained how the trawler capsized. Investigation is going on,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boat-capsizes-in-bengal-9-fishermen-dead-1-missing-101626320104768.html
15-07-2021||India||Canada says no to Covid-19 test report from India, wants flyers to take 'third country' route||India-Canada direct flights remain suspended till July 21, according to the global travel advisory, in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Those intending to travel to Canada from India in the meanwhile need to book a flight via an 'indirect route'. Moreover, the passengers would also need to get themselves tested for the virus at a 'third country' since Canada does not accept the Covid-19 molecular test report from India, the country's official travel advisory noted."The Government of Canada has suspended flights from India until July 21, 2021," the advisory read. "During that period, passengers who travel to Canada from India via an indirect route will need to obtain a pre-departure negative Covid-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada."The updated global travel advisory for India issued by the Government of Canada can be read here.Passengers who previously tested positive for Covid-19 and are intending to travel from India to Canada now must provide proof of a coronavirus positive test conducted between 14 to 90 days prior to departure, the advisory read. "This proof must be obtained in a third country before the continuation of the journey to Canada. You might need to seek entry and stay in a third country for at least 14 days."Also Read | India asks Canada to lift ban on direct flightsLufthansa airlines, while replying to a passenger inquiry about air travel from India to Canada, also said that passengers on the direct route between the countries cannot travel on its flights right now as the Canadian transport ministry does not accept any Covid-19 molecular test performed in India.The Covid-19 related regulations imposed by Canadian authorities come as added hurdles for passengers looking to travel from India to Canada for educational, professional reasons, or otherwise since it requires adhering to specific coronavirus-related protocols in countries that are not the destination for these travellers. Certain countries may put the passenger from India in quarantine for at least 14 days after arrival, thus hampering their timeframe.Moreover, many countries do not allow entry or transit from passengers arriving from India or from passengers who have previously tested positive to Covid-19. If the passenger does test positive for the coronavirus, there is a chance that they might even be sent back to their point of departure.Not all international airports in these 'third countries' have Covid-19 testing readily available, so the passengers might need to seek out testing facilities elsewhere after arriving there.Also Read | Why Indians are choosing Canada over US, experts testify before US lawmakersCanada has also asked citizens to "avoid non-essential travel" to the northeastern part of India, specifically in the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Nagaland. It also asked to "avoid all travel" to the areas in these states sharing a border with Bangladesh and Afghanistan "due to significant conflict".India, in the meanwhile, has officially asked the Canadian government to lift its ban on direct flights from New Delhi. That prohibition has been in place since April 22 and was extended twice. The current ban will expire on July 21 unless extended for a fourth time by the department of transportation. The original April decision came as India faced a devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and due to fears in Canada over the transmission of the Delta variant by air passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-says-no-to-covid-19-test-report-from-india-wants-flyers-to-take-third-country-route-101626315922476.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Widespread rain over NW India likely till July 19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Widespread rain over NW India likely till July 19Widespread rains will continue over northwest India with an increase in rainfall activity between July 17 and 19, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read more.Elon Musk congratulates ISRO on 3rd test on Vikas Engine for GaganyaanSpaceX CEO Elon Musk has congratulated the Indian Space Research Organisation for successfully conducting the third long-duration hot test of the Vikas Engine, as part of the Gaganyaan programme. His one-word tweet also has an Indian flag. Read more.PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, inaugurate public projects worth ₹1,500 crorePrime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Thursday to inaugurate development works worth over ₹1,500 crore there, his office announced a day ago. The projects include, according to news agency ANI -- a 100-bed model maternal and child health (MCH) wing at the Institute of Medical Sciences of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), multi-level parking facilities, highway development projects, and tourism projects as well. Read more.The past and present of two-child policies in IndiaA draft bill on population control prepared by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) State Law Commission to promote the two-child policy has invoked strong reactions from several quarters. Read more.One soldier dead, 7 injured in Army vehicle accident in ArunachalAn army jawan died and seven others were injured in an accident in Arunachal Pradesh. The mishap took place near Pango village in the upper Siang district. Read more.India slams Pak anarchism at SCO meet on Afghanistan, proposes 3-point planIn a veiled jibe at Pakistan, India's external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said that countries in the region must work 'seriously' and 'sincerely' towards peace in Afghanistan, since there are 'forces at work with a different agenda'. Read more.Centre warns states against rising 'R' factor of Covid-19. What is this factor?The Centre, in its recent communications to states, has been pointing out to an increase in R factor of Covid-19, urging the states to practice caution. R factor refers to the reproduction rate which denotes the number of people getting infected by one infected person. Read more.‘We’re having Pluto party, we didn’t even planet’: Nasa’s post intrigues peopleIf you’re someone who follows the various social media handles managed by Nasa, there is a possibility that you may be aware of the various intriguing posts they share about the various celestial bodies. Case in point, their recent post about Pluto. Besides sharing interesting facts, they also shared two incredible pictures. The post may leave you stunned. Read more.'Ponting and Gilchrist actually came up and asked me to bowl wrong ones to him': Hogg reveals battle against TendulkarBrad Hogg only dismissed Sachin Tendulkar once in international cricket but there was no lack of excitement every time the two came face to face. Hogg had Tendulkar out during an ODI between India and Australia in Hyderabad in 2007. After the match, Hogg revealed how he went up to Tendulkar asking him to sing the ball and the former batsman wrote 'Never again, mate' on the ball. Read more.Shahid Kapoor turns ‘DJ+videographer’ as Ishaan Khatter aces kettlebell pull-upsIf you are looking for some workout motivation this Thursday, let Ishaan Khatter inspire you to get up and hit the gym with his latest viral video. At 25 years of age, the Bollywood hunk is giving all the fitness enthusiasts a run for their money and his latest workout video shot by “big brother” Shahid Kapoor is proof. Read more.Malik movie review: Fahadh Faasil is fabulous in Amazon's overambitious but outstanding crime sagaMalik opens with a flashy oner that perfectly captures the adventurous spirit of contemporary Malayalam cinema. But technically speaking, it opens with a paranoid disclaimer that captures the mood of the nation. Directed by Mahesh Narayanan and starring his muse, Fahadh Faasil, Malik walks a thin line, thematically. Props to Amazon Prime Video for picking it up. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-widespread-rain-over-nw-india-likely-till-july-19-101626317569381.html
15-07-2021||India||'Kanwar Yatra suspended, don't come to Haridwar': Police says in notice||The Haridwar Police has asked people to not arrive in the Uttarakhand district for Kanwar Yatra, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The state government has already suspended the religious pilgrimage, slated to begin from July 25, due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In a notice, the police has said that all entry and exit points of Haridwar districts have been sealed and there is no permission to participate in the Kanwar Yatra.It also said that people coming to Haridwar from other states have to mandatorily undergo 14-day institutional quarantine. "Vehicle of anyone attempting to enter the district will be seized and action taken under Disaster Management Act," the police notice further said.Uttarakhand government took the decision to suspend the Kanwar Yatra on Tuesday. It sees lakhs of devotees undertake an arduous religious trek to Haridwar in month of Shravan to take back the water of river Ganga and offer it to Lord Shiva."We discussed with higher officials and with officials from neighbouring states and decided that we will not hold Kanwar Yatra at this time. A variant has been found in Gadarpur so we don't want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid," chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.Uttarakhand minister Subodh Uniyal said on Wednesday that faith in religion doesn't mean we can play with lives. "The IMA (INdian Medical Association) has warned of a third wave. Even the prime minister had expressed concern over it. The decision to cancel Kanwar Yatra has been taken in larger public interest," said Uniyal, who is also the state government's official spokesman.The neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, meanwhile, has said that it will allow the pilgrimage to go on, earning a frown from the Supreme Court which took suo motu cognisance of the issue and issued notice to UP government and the Centre. The top court has sought their responses and posted the matter for hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanwar-yatra-suspended-don-t-come-to-haridwar-police-says-in-notice-101626318160230.html
15-07-2021||India||Maharashtra records 8,602 new Covid cases; 10 dists show high positivity rate||As Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 8,602 new Covid-19 cases, the weekly positivity rate in 10 districts remains higher than the state average of 4.36%. The positivity rate is the number of tests reporting positive out of the total tests for a particular infection.These districts are: Nandurbar (11.72%), Kolhapur (9.85%), Sangli (9.20%), Satara (8.23%), Ratnagiri (7.91%), Pune (7.74%), Raigad (6.98%), Sindhudurg (5.94%), Aurangabad (5.10%) and Beed (4.64%).Also Read | Covid-19 cases, deaths rise again globallyHowever, the state health department clarified that the situation at Nandurbar is not bad, as on July 11 there were 212 cases which increased the positivity rate.There are currently 106,764 active cases across the state, of which Pune tops with 17,389, followed by Thane with 16,096 active cases. The Covid case tally of the state now stands at 6,181,247, while the death toll has now reached 126,390, with Pune leading with 17,551 followed by Mumbai with 15,654 fatalities.There were 226,163 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 6,067.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-8-602-new-covid-cases-10-dists-show-high-positivity-rate-101626318424330.html
15-07-2021||India||Widespread rain over NW India likely till July 19||Widespread rains will continue over northwest India with an increase in rainfall activity between July 17 and 19, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Widespread rainfall is likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy falls over these regions during July 17 and 18. Also Read | Monsoon malady: Delhi roads flood with just 2 days’ rainScattered rainfall over plains of northwest India till July 16 with heavy rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan on July 14. There is a likelihood of enhanced rainfall activity over these areas from July 17 with widespread rainfall and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Konkan, Goa and Karnataka during the next three days. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Konkan and Goa during the next three days. Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, northwest Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan and Kutch region during the next 24 hours. This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-over-nw-india-likely-till-july-19-101626317164348.html
15-07-2021||India||Elon Musk congratulates ISRO on 3rd test of Vikas Engine for Gaganyaan||SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has congratulated the Indian Space Research Organisation for successfully conducting the third long-duration hot test of the Vikas Engine, as part of the Gaganyaan programme. His one-word tweet also has an Indian flag. The engine was fired for a duration of 240 seconds at the ISRO facility in Tamil Nadu's Mahendragiri. "The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test," ISRO said.Congratulations! 🇮🇳This was the final testing of one of the three stages of the launch vehicle which will be used in the mission to carry humans to Space.Gaganyaan is ISRO's major project of sending humans to space, to a low earth orbit, onboard an Indian vehicle. The first unmanned mission is planned for December 2021 and the second one is scheduled in 2022-23.Four Indian Air Force, including a Group Captain and three Wing Commanders, selected for this mission, have already completed their one-year training court in Russia's Zvyozdny Gorodok city that ended in March this year. Two flight surgeons are also undergoing training in Russia and France, reports said.The much-anticipated space programme of ISRO was formally announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2018. The initial target was to launch human spaceflight before the 75th anniversary of India's independence on August 15, 2022. ISRO's heavy-lift launcher GSLV Mk III has been identified for the mission. On Sunday, Richard Branson became the first billionaire to travel to the edge of space onboard his Virgin Galactic's first fully crewed test flight, leaving Jeff Bezos (Blue Origin) and Elon Musk (SpaceX) behind. Reports said Elon Musk had bought a ticket for Galactic in 2006 when the advertised price of a ticket was $250,000.Elon Musk's SpaceX, according to reports, is planning to partner with local companies to manufacture satellite communications equipment in India. Space X is also planning to launch its high-speed Starlink satellite broadband services in India this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elon-musk-congratulates-isro-on-3rd-test-on-vikas-engine-for-gaganyaan-101626316043311.html
15-07-2021||India||Centre warns states against rising 'R' factor of Covid-19. What is this factor?||The Centre, in its recent communications to states, has been pointing out to an increase in R factor of Covid-19, urging the states to practice caution. R factor refers to the reproduction rate which denotes the number of people getting infected by one infected person. If the value of the R factor is above 1, it means that one infected person can spread the infection to more than one person which, as the health ministry explained, establishes that the infection is spreading.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday wrote to all states and Union territories saying that an increase in the R factor in some states is a matter of concern."You may be aware that any increase in R factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid-19. Therefore, it is important that the authorities concerned shall be made responsible for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour in all crowded places...," the letter said.What is the present R factor?According to reports, Kerala and northeast states have an increased R factor, which is why the decline in cases has become sluggish.According to a PTI report, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai has come up with a study on this R factor and found that Kerala, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura are an increase in this factor.In June end, the R factor was 0.88 and in the middle of May, it was 0.78.What was the R factor during the peak of the second wave?According to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences finding, the R-value was 1.37 between March 9 and April 21. Between April 24 and May 1, it was 1.18, and then from April 29 to May 7, it was 1.10. Since then the value was decreasing.R-value and the spread of the virusLockdown and lockdown-like restrictions keep this value under check. If people do not go out, an infected person can't spread the infection. Hence, the R-value was low in May though 2nd wave was raging at that time. Many of the states were under strict lockdown at that time.What are the R-values in these states?According to this institute, Kerala has an R-value of 1.10. The R-value in Manipur is 1.07, Meghalaya 0.92, Tripura 1.15, Mizoram 0.86m Arunachal Pradesh 1.14, Sikkim 0.88, and Assam 0.86.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-states-against-rising-r-factor-of-covid-19-what-is-this-factor-101626312642548.html
15-07-2021||India||Gujarat: Schools for class 12, colleges to reopen today with 50% attendance||Schools for class 12, colleges and technical institutions in Gujarat will be reopening from Thursday with 50 per cent attendance in line with all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related protocols such as wearing of masks, social distancing, regular sanitisation etc. However, physical attendance is not mandatory and authorities at schools, colleges and technical institutions will have to obtain permission of parents if students are asked to attend in person, an official release said last week.The decision to reopen the aforementioned institutions in Gujarat was taken by chief minister Vijay Rupani on July 9, after he reviewed the overall Covid-19 situation in the state during a meeting of the government’s core committee.“Gujarat to reopen schools for class 12 students and colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate students from July 15. Fifty per cent of students will be allowed to attend campuses. Students can attend physical classes on a voluntary basis. Attendance will not be mandatory,” Rupani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. On July 8, the government lifted the night curfew in 10 out of 18 urban areas in Gujarat and allowed the resumption of coaching classes for students of class 9 to post graduate courses along with competitive exams with 50 per cent attendance.There are more than 682,000 students enrolled in class 12th across 8,333 higher secondary schools in the state, the official release said, adding more than 1.1 million under-graduate and diploma students in over 2,000 colleges and technical institutions.Gujarat has so far reported 824,346 cases and 10,074 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Wednesday, the state reported a slight increase in its daily tally with 41 new cases while no fresh deaths were seen due to the viral disease for a second consecutive day. As many as 71 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the cumulative count of recoveries to 813,583 and the recovery rate has climbed to 98.69 per cent. While the active cases have further declined to 689, of which eight patients are in a critical condition, a state health department official told PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-schools-for-class-12-colleges-to-reopen-today-with-50-attendance-101626311900201.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, inaugurate public projects worth ₹1,500 crore||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Thursday to inaugurate development works worth over ₹1,500 crore there, his office announced a day ago. The projects include, according to news agency ANI -- a 100-bed model maternal and child health (MCH) wing at the Institute of Medical Sciences of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), multi-level parking facilities, highway development projects, and tourism projects as well.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate Rudraksh, the symbol of Indo-Japan friendship in VaranasiPrime Minister Modi, announcing his upcoming visit to Varanasi, had tweeted out a day ago with well-wishes for the people who voted for him in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. "Tomorrow, 15th July, I will be in Kashi to inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs. 1500 crore," he wrote. "These works will further 'Ease of Living' for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal."Tomorrow, 15th July, I will be in Kashi to inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs. 1500 crore. These works will further ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal. https://t.co/jssVnz5bVaPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting Varanasi at around 11am on Thursday, ANI reported, citing a notification from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). He will first inaugurate multiple public projects and works -- including the MCH wing at the BHU hospital, a multi-level parking facility at Godauliya, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development on the Ganga river, and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway. These projects are worth a total of around ₹744 crore, the PMO said.In the past few years, the Centre and UP Government have done extensive work in the health sector. As a part of these efforts, the 100 bed MCH wing in BHU will be inaugurated. The project will make quality healthcare easily accessible to the people of Kashi and surrounding areas. pic.twitter.com/CnUEpRAVMxKey projects that would be inaugurated in Kashi include:Multi-level parking at Godaulia.Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development. Three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway. pic.twitter.com/GbNlZuKXASOur vision for Kashi is to build quality infrastructure for the coming generations. In that spirit, will be laying the foundation stone for CIPET, rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission and mango as well as vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyaon.I am delighted to be inaugurating a convention centre Rudraksh in Varanasi. Constructed with Japanese assistance, this state-of-the-art centre will make Varanasi an attractive destination for conferences thus drawing more tourists and businesspersons to the city. pic.twitter.com/ExoBLO6sp3PM Modi will then proceed on to laying the foundation stones for a bunch of other public projects and works, including the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission, and a mango and vegetable integrated packhouse in Karkhiyanv. These projects are worth around ₹839 crore in total, the PMO said.PM Modi's Varanasi itinerary also includes inaugurating at 12:15pm the International Cooperation and Convention Centre - Rudrakash, which has been constructed with Japanese assistance. Thereafter, the Prime Minister will inspect the MCH wing in BHU at around 2pm. He will also meet with officials and medical professionals to review the Covid-19 situation in the region, the PMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-varanasi-today-inaugurate-public-projects-worth-rs-1-500-crore-101626309000690.html
15-07-2021||India||DA hike: How much will your salary increase? 10 points||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved a 28 per cent Dearness Allowance to the central government employees and Dearness Relief for pensioners. The decision will benefit around 1.14 crore employees and pensioners, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said.DA Hike calculationAt present, the government employees are getting a 17% dearness allowance. For example, if a government employee's basic salary is ₹18,000, the DA is ₹3,060. With 28%, the dearness allowance will be 5,040 in a month. This calculation will be applicable from July 1.Here are 10 things to know about the DA hike:1. The DA and DR rates have been increased by 11 per cent point because three instalments of DA and DR were kept frozen because of the pandemic situation.2. Dearness Allowance is a component of the salary that cushions against inflation and is revised twice a year -- once in January and once in July.3. The increase in the DA and DR will impose an annual burden of ₹34,401 crore on the exchequer, Anurag Thakur said.4. For this financial year, the hike will cost the exchequer ₹22,934.56 crore from July to February.5. The hiked DA will be restored in July, which means government employees are likely to receive a 28% DA of their basic pay in this month's salary.6. The minister also mentioned that the rate of DA and DR will remain 17% for the period of January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021.7. This means that the central government employees will not get any dues as they have been receiving the DA at a 17% rate.8. In March 2020, a decision was taken to increase the DA rate by 4%. It was said that the increased 21% DA will be applicable retrospectively from January 2020. But owing to the pandemic, the implementation of the 21% DA was stalled and central government employees continued to get their 17% DA.9. The Dearness Allowance was not revised in July 2020 and January 2021. The 28% hike takes into account all these revisions that could not be done.10. But the government has made it clear that the 28% hike will take effect on July salary and there will be no arrear for the period of January 2020- June 2021, which means the 4% hike that was announced last year has become nullified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/da-hike-how-much-will-your-salary-increase-10-points-101626308951371.html
15-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: WHO panel advises against Covid-19 vaccination proof for travel||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world.Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Centre extends cut-off date for enrolment of farmers under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima YojanaCentral government extends the cut-off date for enrolment of farmers from July 15 to July 23 for Kharif season 2021 under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, as requested by the Maharashtra government.WHO panel advises against Covid-19 vaccination proof for travelThe World Health Organization's Emergency Committee on Thursday maintained its stance that proof of Covid-19 vaccination should not be required for international travel, amid a growing debate on blocking the entry of travelers if they are unvaccinated.India administered over 35.15 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses todayIndia administered more than 35.15 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses today, taking total vaccine coverage to 39.49 crores: Union Ministry of Health.Maharashtra records 8010 new Covid-19 cases, tally at 61,89,257Total Cases: 61,89,257New Cases: 8010Deaths: 1,26,560 (170 deaths today)People recovered: 59,52,192 (7391 today)Total tested: 4,48,24,211 (2,14,935 today)City: MumbaiTotal Cases: 7,29,791New Cases: 528Deaths: 15,667 (13 deaths today)Magnitude 3.6 earthquake hit ShimlaMagnitude 3.6 earthquake hit Shimla, Himachal Pradesh at 7:47 pm today.WhatsApp banned 2 million Indian accounts during May15-Jun 15 periodWhatsApp banned two million Indian accounts while it received 345 grievance reports between May 15 and June 15, the company said in its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules.Puducherry government extends Covid restrictions till July 31Puducherry government extends Covid restrictions till July 31; allows reopening of tourist spots like boathouse with 50% capacity while adhering to Covid norms.S Jaishankar meets his Kazakh counterpartForeign minister S Jaishankar meets his Kazakh counterpart and deputy PM Mukhtar Tleuberdi in UzbekistanPM Modi to inaugurate projects worth ₹1,100 crore in Gujarat on FridayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate and dedicate to the nation a host of projects worth over ₹1,100 crore, including a newly-built five-star hotel atop the redeveloped Gandhinagar railway station, on Friday, said Gujarat government officials on Thursday.WHO experts warn of 'strong likelihood' of more dangerous Covid variantsThe World Health Organization's emergency committee warned Thursday that new concerning variants of Covid-19 were expected to spread around the world, making it even harder to halt the pandemic.WHO's Tedros to set out follow-up study into Covid-19 originsWHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreysus will share proposals for a phase 2 study into the origins of the coronavirus with member states on Friday, its emergency director Mike Ryan said.PM Modi calls on President Kovind, briefs him on important issuesPrime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan and briefed him on important issues: Rashtrapati BhavanSikkim reports 137 new Covid-19 cases, one more fatalitySikkim reported 137 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours pushing the caseload to 22,929, a health department bulletin said on Thursday.China must co-operate better with Covid origin probe: WHOChina must co-operate better with Covid-19 origin probe: World Health Organization.Exports rise by 48.34 per cent to USD 32.5 billion in JuneExports rise by 48.34 per cent to USD 32.5 billion in June; trade deficit at USD 9.37 billion: Government data.Pakistan says traces of explosives detected in bus blast probePakistan said on Thursday traces of explosives had been detected during an initial investigation into a bus blast that killed 13 people, including nine Chinese workers, and said a terrorist attack could not be ruled out as the cause of the incident.Facebook says it removed millions of hate speech pieces in first 3 months 2021Social media giant Facebook Inc said on Thursday it removed more than 25 million pieces of hate speech content from its platform in the first three months of the year, reports Reuters.2 youth drown in Ganga, bodies recovered 100 km away from RishikeshThe bodies of two youth who drowned while bathing in Ganga river in Rishikesh, were recovered on Thursday, officials said.Schools in Delhi to remain closed: Arvind KejriwalIn view of third wave concerns, schools in Delhi to remain closed, says CM Arvind Kejriwal.5 dead, 3 missing in floods, landslides in northeast TurkeyAt least five people have been killed and three people are missing after heavy rains hit Turkey's northeastern Black Sea coast, triggering floods and landslides, officials and reports said Thursday.Rajnath Singh launches AI-based grievance analysis appWith the launch of an artificial intelligence (AI) based grievance analysis application called CPGRAMS, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the country is moving towards citizen-centric reforms with scientific knowledge and technology.Rupee gains 5 paise to close at 74.54 against US dollarThe rupee pared some of its initial gains to settle 5 paise higher at 74.54 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday amid a firm trend in domestic equities.Sensex surges by 254 points to end at lifetime-high of 53,158.85; Nifty trades at record of 15,924Sensex on Thursday surged by 254 points to end at lifetime-high of 53,158.85; Nifty trades at record of 15,924.Delhi reports 72 new Covid-19 casesDelhi reports 72 new Covid-19 cases, 88 recoveries, and one death in the past 24 hours19 dead, dozens missing in Germany floods; 2 die in BelgiumAt least 19 people have died and dozens of people are missing in Germany after heavy flooding turned streams and streets into raging torrents, sweeping away cars and causing some buildings to collapse.Partial lockdown to continue in 10 districts of Odisha till August 1Partial lockdown to continue in 10 districts of Odisha till August 1. Parks, malls, cinemas, schools continue to remain closed. Shops & commercial establishments will remain open from 6 am to 5 pm. Weekend shutdown to continue in these 10 districts.Zomato IPO oversubscribed 1.3 timesZomato's initial public offering was oversubscribed 1.3 times on the second day of the offering with retail investors continuing to bid for shares of the food delivery platform.PM Modi inaugurates International Cooperation and Convention CentrePM Narendra Modi inaugurates International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Rudrakash that was constructed with Japanese assistance.Over 40.31 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses so far provided to states/UTs: CentreOver 40.31 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states/UTs in the country and more than 1.92 crore balance and unutilised jabs are still available with them and private hospitals, the health ministry said on Thursday.Puducherry records 103 new Covid-19 casesPuducherry logged 103 new cases of coronavirus during the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Thursday, pushing the overall tally to 1,19,405. The death toll rose to 1,773 with a 73-year-old woman succumbing to the infection.Storms leave at least nine dead, dozens missing in GermanyHeavy rains and floods lashing western Germany have killed at least nine people and left around 50 missing, as rising waters led several houses to collapse, police said Thursday.Taliban proposes 3-month ceasefire in exchange for release of prisonersTaliban proposes 3-month ceasefire in exchange for release of prisoners, reports AFP citing Afghan govt sources.Melbourne locked down again as Australia’s Delta outbreak growsMelbourne will enter a snap five-day lockdown from midnight, joining Sydney in imposing stay-at-home restrictions as the delta strain of the coronavirus spreads around Southeast Australia, the nation’s most populated region.Google Cloud adds second cloud region in India in Delhi-NCRGoogle Cloud India on Thursday announced the launch of its new cloud region in Delhi-NCR - its second such setup in India - that will help the company to serve customers across sectors, especially public sector in India and across the Asia-Pacific.Centre proposes Draft Drone Rules 2021, invites public comments till August 5The Ministry of Civil Aviation has released Draft Drone Rules, 2021 for public consultation. The deadline for public comments on the draft is 5th August.Supreme Court questions Centre over alleged misuse of 'British era' sedition lawSupreme Court asked the central government if it is time to do away with Section 124A, saying it is a threat to institutions and individuals.UP conducted maximum tests, vaccinations against Covid-19: PM Modi at VaranasiToday UP is a state that does the maximum number of testings across the country. It is a state that does the maximum number of vaccinations: Prime Minister Narendra Modi in VaranasiKashi faced coronavirus crisis with courage: PMKashi has shown that it doesn't stop or get tired even in difficult times. The past few months have been very difficult for the entire mankind. But entire UP, including Kashi, faced the mutating and dangerous form of Coronavirus with all its might: PM Modi at VaranasiPM gifts development projects worth ₹1,583 crore to VaranasiPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated various development projects on Thursday worth over ₹1,500 crores in Varanasi. Key projects include multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development, and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway.PM Modi in Varanasi, set to inaugurate public projectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on Thursday, where he will inaugurate several public projects, including a 100-bed maternal and child health wing at Benaras Hindu University.Follow live updates here.IMD predicts light to moderate rains over Delhi in next 2 hoursIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate intensity rainfall over parts of Delhi, Kurukshetra, Karna Hastinapur, Kashganj, Atrauli, Aligarh, and other nearby areas in the region during the next two hours.39.13 crore Covid-19 vaccines administered so far: Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:✅39.13 crore vaccine doses administered so far✅Testing capacity substantially ramped up- 43.80 crore tests conducted so far#We4Vaccine#LargestVaccinationDrive#Unite2FightCorona Details: https://t.co/XLxeD9UxGJ pic.twitter.com/HjTuRqSMJ9Staff at Japan hotel hosting Brazilian Olympians test Covid-19 positiveAt least eight staff of a hotel in Japan hosting Brazil's Olympic judo team have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), local officials told news agency AFP on Thursday. Read moreIndia reports 41,806 new Covid-19 cases, 581 more deathsIndia reported 41,806 fresh cases and 581 more fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,987,880 and 411,989 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update on Thursday. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane district records 489 new Covid-19 cases; 9 more deathsThane district's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 538,960 on Thursday after 489 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. As many as nine people succumbed to the viral disease in the said period, taking the death toll to 10,873.As Moscow bakes in record heat, Putin changes tune on climate changeRussian president Vladimir Putin, notorious for his scepticism about global warming, has now said that climate change is a priority and vowed to work along with the United States to battle increasing global temperatures, news agency AFP reported on Thursday. Read moreMehul Choksi, out on bail by Dominican court, returns to AntiguaFugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, who was out on bail by Dominican court, has returned to Antigua. "My client Mehul Choksi has returned to his home in Antigua safely. He faced no issues while entering back in Antigua. He is receiving medical treatment and his family is feeling relieved," Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. Read moreBrazilian Prez Jair Bolsonaro hospitalised, may require surgeryBrazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who has been suffering from hiccups for 10 straight days, was hospitalised on Wednesday with doctors saying that it is an intestinal obstruction which may require surgery. According to news agency AFP, Bolsonaro was first taken to a military hospital in the capital city of Brasilia but was later flown to Sao Paulo where he was admitted to the Vila Nova Star private hospital.PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, inaugurate public projects worth ₹1,500 crorePrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi today where he will inaugurate development projects worth over ₹1,500. "Tomorrow, 15th July, I will be in Kashi to inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs. 1500 crore. These works will further ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal," PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday. Read moreGujarat: Schools for class 12, colleges to reopen today with 50% attendanceSchools for class 12, colleges and technical institutions in Gujarat will be reopening from Thursday with 50 per cent attendance in line with all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related protocols such as wearing of masks, social distancing, regular sanitisation etc. Read moreTelangana cabinet approves state's logistics policyThe Telangana cabinet has approved the state's logistics policy prepared by the industries and commerce department with a view to encourage the logistics sector. A statement by the chief minister's office (CMO) said that as people have not been able to venture out due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the logistics sector played a crucial role in extending commodity service to them. Hong Kong to ease Covid-19 travel curbs from next monthFrom next month, Hong Kong will allow vaccinated residents and workers to return from the United Kingdom, India and Brazil and other countries it labeled as extremely high risk areas, South China Morning Post reported. Those returning will have to provide a vaccination record and a negative Covid-19 test result before boarding a flight to Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-15-2021-101626307850432.html
15-07-2021||India||Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan observes day-long fast against dowry||Days after a series of dowry deaths rocked Kerala and kicked up a heated debate on the menace, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Wednesday observed a fast to create social awareness against the social evil and end atrocities against women.It may be for the first time in the history of the southern state that any Governor was fasting for such a social cause.Scripting a new chapter, Khan began the fast at Raj Bhavan, his official residence here, by 8 am, urging people to say a big no to the decades-old evil practice.The Governor also attended a prayer meeting organised at the Gandhi Bhavan here later in the evening.Also Read| Dowry: The persistence of a social evilKhan ended his fast by garlanding the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Bhavan.Addressing a gathering at the Gandhi Bhavan, Khan, who is also the Chancellor of Universities in Kerala, said he would write to all Vice Chancellors urging them to ensure that every student, before receiving their final degree or certificate of diploma, is made to sign an undertaking that taking or giving dowry is a crime and they shall not indulge in such practice.The Governor also urged all public representatives that when they receive any invitation to attend a marriage, they should make sure that no transaction or demand of dowry is taking place.If they come to know that such things are happening, then they should have the courage to say that they would not attend the marriage, Khan said.He said the girls should also be empowered to fight against the menace of dowry.Also Read| Kerala dowry death: 24-year-old found dead, husband taken into police custody"If they come to know that the boy's side is demanding, seeking dowry, whatever the parents say, she should be bold enough to say no to such a proposal," the Governor said.Later, talking to reporters, Khan said all sections of people including politicians and non-politicians are concerned with the menace of dowry.Responding to a query on recent dowry-related crimes reported in the state, Khan said this was not a partisan issue.Urging not to create any confusion, he said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and opposition party leaders have supported his decision to create social awareness against dowry."One thing is certain that law alone, police alone cannot control and end this menace. So, we need some action on the part of the people. And on the part of the people, we have to create a public awareness.Creating public awareness will only strengthen the government and the police," the Governor said.Khan observed the fast in response to a call by various Gandhian organisations to spread awareness against the practice of giving and taking dowry as part of marriages.Last month, Khan had made an emotional appeal to women to say no to dowry when it was demanded during the time of marriages and expressed willingness to be part of any "organised" voluntary movement to create awareness against the menace.He reacted after visiting the house of Vismaya, an Ayurveda medical student, who was recently found dead in her husband's house under mysterious circumstances after she had complained of dowry harassment in Kollam district.Terming dowry as an "evil", he had said social awareness should be created about its unholy aspects and urged NGOs or volunteers, who selflessly work for public causes, to start a special movement against it.In a video message issued on Monday evening, Khan said dowry is a "grave injustice and ignominy to the dignity of women" whose contributions to Kerala's growth are widely acknowledged.The opposition Congress and BJP extended support to the Governor for adopting the "Gandhian path" to raise awareness against the menace.Also Watch| Why Kerala Guv is on day-long fast after deaths of 2 women: 'End dowry' appeal﻿Lapping up the opportunity to criticise the Left government over the issue, they alleged that the failure of the Pinarayi Vijayan government to ensure safety of women in the state had forced the Governor to observe a fast to open the eyes of authorities."Greetings to the Governor who is observing a fast seeking to ensure the safety of women and girls of Kerala," senior BJP leader and Union Minister V Muraleedharan said in a Facebook post.Hailing Khan for taking up such a cause, he said it may be a "rare episode" in the administrative history of the country.He also said it is for the state government to find out why the Governor, the head of the state, has to fast seeking the safety of women.Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee President K Sudhakaran claimed that the failure of the state government to ensure safety and security of people was one of the reasons why the Governor was sitting on a fast.Terming the Governor's fast a "rare incident", he said Khan has raised a "justified issue" and his agitation is "meaningful"."The circumstance in Kerala now is that even the Governor is staging a Gandhian way of protest.The state government can not backtrack from its responsibility," the Kannur MP added.Meanwhile, several Gandhians took part in a dawn- to-dusk fast at Gandhi Bhavan.The Gandhian organisations said the programme aims at ending atrocities against women and to address the need to make Kerala a safer place for them.Besides Vismaya, a number of other women also had been found dead under mysterious circumstances in the state in recent days and their family had alleged dowry harassment as reason for their premature death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-observes-day-long-fast-against-dowry-101626306669087.html
15-07-2021||India||The past and present of two-child policies in India||A draft bill on population control prepared by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) State Law Commission to promote the two-child policy has invoked strong reactions from several quarters.Some have questioned its timing, since the state goes to polls in eight months; others have supported the proposition by highlighting several other states that already have a two-child norm in place. The policy has also been criticised for being unnecessary, violating women’s rights and for allegedly discriminating against Muslims.Also read: Bihar health minister for mass campaign to control populationFrom politics to law, the UP law commission’s proposal is likely to be judged on various parameters. However, the draft bill has triggered a debate on the necessity and feasibility of a population control law in India.What does the UP law commission’s draft bill on population control say?It contemplates making people with more than two children ineligible for local body and for government jobs. The proposal seeks to disentitle those already in service to promotions and exclude them from the benefits of 77 schemes.The draft bill, for which suggestions have been invited from the public by July 19, also proposes to prohibit people who have more than two children from receiving any kind of subsidy, and suggests incentives such as tax rebates for those with two children or less.Proposed incentives for government employees with one child include increments, promotions and concessions in housing schemes. For non-government employees, the incentives are rebates in taxes on water, housing and home loans. If a single child’s parent opts for a vasectomy, the child will be entitled to free medical facilities until the age of 20. Such children are also proposed to get free education, insurance and preference in government jobs.After the commission receives suggestions from the public, it will finalise the draft bill and submit it to the Yogi Adityanath government with its recommendations. The state government can take action on the recommendations.Do other states in India follow a two-child norm?Yes. Various states framed laws that set the two-child limit as a criterion for certain government jobs and elected posts.In Rajasthan, those having more than two children are not eligible for appointments in government jobs. The Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, also states that if a person has more than two children, he or she will be disqualified from contesting the election as a panch or a member. However, the two-child norm is relaxed in case a child is differently abled.Madhya Pradesh follows the two-child norm since 2001. Under Madhya Pradesh civil services rules, if the third child was born on or after January 26, 2001, a person becomes ineligible for government services. The norm also applies to higher judicial services.In Maharashtra, too, candidates are disqualified from contesting local body elections (from gram panchayats to municipal corporations) for having more than two children. The Maharashtra civil services rules also bar a person with more than two children from holding a post in the state government. Women with more than two children are not allowed to benefit from the public distribution system.Gujarat also amended the local law in 2005 to disqualify anyone with more than two children from contesting elections for bodies of local self-governance — panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations. Under the panchayati raj laws in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, if a person had more than two children before May 30, 1994, they will be disentitled from contesting elections. In Uttarakhand too, the condition of the two-child norm applies to elections of zila panchayat and blocks development committee membership.Enacted in 1992, the Odisha Zilla Parishad Act also prohibits people with more than two children from holding any post in panchayats and urban local bodies.A population policy is already in place in Assam. In 2019, the previous BJP government decided that those with more than two children would not be eligible for government jobs from January 1, 2021. In 2011, the law reforms commission headed by former Supreme Court judge VR Krishna Iyer recommended the two-child norm in respect of certain provisions in Kerala women’s code bill. The commission suggested providing a norm for restricting the number of children in a family to two, and that any movement, campaign or project which would stand against the said norm would attract a penalty. These recommendations, however, were not incorporated as laws.How has the Supreme Court viewed the two-child norm and a policy on population control?Entry 20-A in the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule, inserted through the 42nd constitutional amendment in 1976, permits both Union and state legislatures to enact laws on population control and family planning. The demands for a population control law are based on this entry in the Seventh Schedule.The country does not have a national policy restricting the number of children a couple can have. Therefore, the Supreme Court has not had the occasion to examine such a policy. However, there have been petitions seeking a directive to the Union government for framing a policy on population control by enforcing the two-child norm.In 1981, the Supreme Court upheld a provision that made third pregnancy a ground for termination of services of a flight attendant in Air India. It noted: “When the entire world is faced with the problem of population explosion, it will not only be desirable but absolutely essential for every country to see that the family planning programme is not only whipped up but maintained at sufficient levels so as to meet the danger of overpopulation which, if not controlled, may lead to serious social and economic problems throughout the world.”With regard to the two-child policy in states, it was first tested before the Supreme Court in the 2003 case of Javed v State of Haryana which involved a challenge to Section 175(1) of the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994. The provision disqualified a person with more than two living children from holding specified offices in panchayats. The petitioners argued the prohibition violated the right to equality under Article 14 because it did not disqualify persons with two or less than two children, besides trampling on the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 since it prevented persons from freely choosing the number of children that they want.The Supreme Court, however, upheld the law holding that the classification created by it was “founded on intelligible differentia” and based on the objective of controlling population growth. With respect to the argument on reproductive autonomy under Article 21, the top court said “the lofty ideals of social and economic justice, the advancement of the nation as a whole and the philosophy of distributive justice cannot be given a go-by in the name of undue stress on fundamental rights and individual liberty”. The two-child norm, however, was later revoked in Haryana.In 2018, the Supreme Court held that the birth of a third child would automatically disqualify a person from contesting panchayat polls and from being a member or sarpanch.But, in March 2018, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a plea for directions to the Centre to ensure strict population control measures by making the two-child policy mandatory across the country. The court had asked the petitioners to approach the government.A year later, in March 2019, the Supreme Court dismissed a petition by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, seeking a direction to the Election Commission to insert an additional condition that “political parties shall not set up candidates who have more than two children”. But Upadhyay’s endeavour for a nationwide two-child policy persuaded the top court to examine the issue. In January 2020, the Supreme Court sought a response from the Centre on Upadhyay’s petition for a population control law in India.In its reply, the Centre said it is “unequivocally” against forcing people to have only a certain number of children in a bid to control the population. The Union government, in its affidavit filed in December 2020, maintained that family welfare programme in India gives couples the right to decide the size of their family without compulsion as it rejected the need for a two-child norm or a specific law limiting the size of families in India. It added that India was a signatory to the Programme Of Action (POA) of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1994, which was unequivocally against coercion in family planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-past-and-present-of-two-child-policies-in-india-101626304115798.html
15-07-2021||India||SC strikes down provisions of tribunal law that fixed tenure of members at 4 yrs||New Delhi: Holding that security of tenure, adequate remuneration and conditions of service are necessary to ensure independence of functioning by members of tribunals, the Supreme Court by a 2:1 majority on Wednesday reversed amendments to the law governing tribunals to provide a minimum tenure of five years to tribunal chairpersons and members with a retirement age of 70 and 67 years, respectively.The conditions were prescribed under the Tribunal Reforms (Rationalization and Conditions of Service) Ordinance 2021 promulgated in April this year. By this ordinance, certain provisions of the Finance Act of 2017 were modified. The amendments to the Finance Act and select provisions of the Ordinance were challenged in the top court by Madras Bar Association.It was in this case that Attorney General KK Venugopal argued in February this year that Parliament can override any judgment by a court. He further argued that the tenure of four years was fixed after discussing with experts and courts cannot direct the legislature how to make laws.The majority bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, however, struck down the relevant provisions that reduced tenure of chairperson/members to four years, introduced a minimum entry age of 50 years for tribunal membership, required a panel led by chief justice of India to propose two names for appointment of chairperson or members, and three months’ time for the government to process appointments as it were found to be contrary to the past directions of the top court.The bench also held the legislative exercise to be an “impermissible legislative override” that violated the doctrine of separation of powers, having gone contrary to past judicial decisions.The majority, however, upheld the retrospective effect with regard to the four-year tenure that was made applicable from May 26, 2017. But the majority view clarified that this rule shall not in any manner affect the tenure of any chairperson or member appointed as a consequence of various orders passed by the court between May 26, 2017 and April 4, 2021.The majority view was partly supported by the third judge, justice Hemant Gupta on two counts; prescribing a four-year tenure and recommending a panel of two names for appointment. Justice Gupta said the legislature could fix any tenure of the chairperson and the members other than four years. He also ruled that the provision that requires the selection committee to recommend a panel of two names is contrary to the directions of this court in the Madras Bar Association case decided last year. However, Justice Gupta disagreed with the other two judges on the bench on introducing a minimum entry age of 50 years and fixation of house rent allowance since the legislature hadn’t nullified the judgment of this court on the above aspects.The court also expressed concern over the burgeoning pendency of cases and large number of vacancies that had rendered the tribunals “ineffective”.“It is high time that a serious effort is made by all concerned to ensure that all the vacancies in the tribunals are filled up without delay. Access to justice and confidence of the litigant public in impartial justice being administered by tribunals need to be restored,” said justice Rao in his judgment.He was supported by justice Bhat in his concurring but separate opinion which said, “It is necessary that the Union expedite the process of appointments to tribunals, towards ensuring swifter and efficacious justice delivery.”The Madras Bar Association challenged the newly-inserted provision, Section 184(11), into f the Finance Act 2017 that provides for retrospective fixing of tenure as four years with effect from May 2017 with retirement age fixed at 70 years for Chairperson and 67 years for Members. Under this provision, those appointed between May 2017 and April 2021 will get a maximum tenure of five years. The association also challenged Section 184(1) that prescribed a minimum age of 50 for appointment as chairperson or member. The other provision held to be unconstitutional was Section 184(7) that provided that the selection committee (headed by Chief Justice of India or his nominee) should recommend a panel of two names for appointment to the post of Chairperson or Member.Justice Bhat listed out the current pendency and vacancy position in tribunals and said, “Constitution does not and cannot be read so as to provide two kinds of justice: one through courts, and one through other bodies. The quality and efficacy of these justice delivery mechanisms have to be the same.” A minimum age limit will have a “devastating effect” on bright young advocates with subject expertise to join tribunals. By an earlier decision, the court had allowed lawyers with 10 years’ experience to be eligible to join tribunals.Justice Rao held a similar view as he said that inordinate delay in filling vacancies in tribunals has led to “emasculation” of tribunals that were introduced to provide speedy justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-strikes-down-provisions-of-tribunal-law-that-fixed-tenure-of-members-at-4-yrs-101626297422594.html
15-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand steps up security along border to stop entry of pilgrims||A day after it scrapped the kanwar yatra in view of a possible third wave of Covid-19, the Uttarakhand government on Wednesday stepped up vigilance along the border to ensure that no devotees enter Haridwar for the pilgrimage, slated to begin from July 25.According to officials familiar with the security arrangement, police and intelligence teams will be deployed in at least a dozen border check posts to prevent kanwariyas, if any, from entering the city.Additional deployment of forces and barricading will also be carried out at sub-stretch routes that lead to Haridwar from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, which has decided to allow the yatra — where Shiva devotees travel to fetch water from the Ganga to their village shrines. According to senior superintendent of police, Haridwar, D Senthil Aboodai Krishan, all steps are being taken to convey the message to neighbouring states that the kanwar pilgrimage will not be held in Uttarakhand this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-steps-up-security-along-border-to-stop-entry-of-pilgrims-101626296503004.html
15-07-2021||India||PM to inaugurate 1st station redeveloped through PPP mode||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Gandhinagar capital railway station, the country’s first redeveloped railway station in line with the government’s plan to modernise railway stations through Public Private Partnerships, on July 16, the Prime Minister’s Officer said in a statement on Wednesday.“The Station has been provided with world class amenities, at par with modern airports. Special Care has been taken to make it a Divyang friendly station by providing it with a special ticket booking counter, ramps, lifts, dedicated parking space etc. The complete building is designed and provided with Green Building rating features. The state-of-the-art external façade will have daily theme based lighting with 32 themes. The station will also house a five star hotel,” the PMO said in a statement on Wednesday.Station redevelopment is planned by leveraging real estate potential of separable land and air space in and around the stations, through private participation. These redeveloped hubs will be called “Railopolis.”For the Gandhinagar Capital station, a Joint Venture SPV namely Gandhinagar Railway and Urban Development company was formed with equity contribution of government of Gujarat and IRSDC in the ratio of 74:26 respectively.The station facilities include segregated entry and exit through landscaped area, Divyang friendly special ticket booking counter, ramps, lifts, dedicated parking space, inter-faith prayer hall – a first on Indian Railways, dedicated exclusive art gallery with live LED wall display lounge. It also has state of the art external façade with daily theme-based lighting, vertical green wall -separate baby feeding room centralized AC waiting lounge with variable control.HT in March reported Centre may first lease out 90 railway stations on Public Private Partnership basis through Indian Railways’ nodal agency for station redevelopment Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-inaugurate-1st-station-redeveloped-through-ppp-mode-101626293807934.html
15-07-2021||India||Kerala continues to grapple with heavy Covid case load||Kerala continues to report a high volume of Covid-19 cases and the last week’s tally suggested state’s virus curve is showing no signs of ebbing. On Wednesday, the state reported 15,637 cases, with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.03 per cent, statistics released by the state health ministry stated. The state’s active caseload also went up to 117,708, while it reported 128 more deaths. Kerala’s virus graph is shooting up when the country reported just 38,792 cases with a TPR below three per cent in the last 24 hours. The state continues to contribute to around 35 per cent of the country’s total cases. State health minister Veena George said slow progression was expected, and there is no need to panic. However, she asked people not to lower their guard and follow pandemic protocols strictly. Last one week’s average cases in the state were between 9000 and 10,000, and TPR between 9 to 10 per cent. Experts have warned the government that unless it takes strict mitigation measures at the grassroots level, not just mere lockdown, and doubled the present test rate, the situation will slip out of its hands. What worries experts is that the Covid-19 wave shows no downward trend and the curve appears to ride a long plateau. “The behaviour of the virus in Kerala is turning out to be a nightmare for experts. Its progression rate is slow. We need an in-depth study, and we have to compare its case pattern with other states,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun. Arun further said the state needs to be careful as experts are expecting a possible third wave of the Covid pandemic. He also asked the government to ease restrictions slowly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-continues-to-grapple-with-heavy-covid-case-load-101626291662147.html
15-07-2021||India||Mandya MP raises concern over safety of KRS dam due to illegal mining||Bengaluru: Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh on Wednesday said that her concerns for the safety of Krishnaraja Sagara (KRS) dam, one of the biggest in the country, remains as officials are yet to clarify on the damage done to the structure due to illegal mining activities.Speaking to reporters after a meeting with officials and locals in the district, she said that the threat of the cracks getting bigger looms large over an entire region that are directly in harm’s way. “My concerns remain because I have got no clear answers,” Sumaltha, the lone independent MP from Karnataka said.She said that the “struggle” to protect KRS will become a movement as she appealed for the support of all those with the concern, moral conscience and social responsibility to join her in the fight against the harm being done to the dam.The dam is built on the river Cauvery, one of the most important sources of life in southern Karnataka and its capital, Bengaluru. It is also the main source of irrigation for several districts in the state.Sumalatha said that there were several cracks, voids or cavities in the dam which have been fixed using a method called grouting.She, however, said that the cracks may become dangerous in a few years and there was nothing wrong in getting competent authorities to ascertain the damage on the heritage structure and crackdown on alleged illegal mining in the vicinity.The MP had raised the issue of blasting around the KRS dam and Baby Betta (or Baby mountain) in the Parliament in 2019.Her allegations of illegal mining led to an ugly spat between her and the Janata Dal (Secular) of JD(S) leaders including former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy in which the latter got extremely personal.The issue of KRS and the alleged illegal mining in a district where all the legislators are from the JD(S) had revived their spat.“The first thing is all mining activity becomes illegal since most of those who have licences do not follow the provisions and often violate them,” Yashwant, a farmer and member of the Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha said.He added that even though all senior ministers, mining department and other agencies have stated that there is no harm to the dam due to mining activities there is always going to be a danger to the structure.The 3km-long dam is also the first irrigation dam in India and was built during the rule of the Krishna Raja Wodeyar in 1932 under the leadership of Sir M Vishweshwaraiah. The dam is about 130 feet in height, has 152 sluice gates and is a total length of 2621 meters. The reservoir is about 130 square kms, which when built, was the largest in entire Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandya-mp-raises-concern-over-safety-of-krs-dam-due-to-illegal-mining-101626291180905.html
15-07-2021||India||K’taka govt unveils policy allowing electric bike taxis to operate||Bengaluru: In a bid to generate employment, bring down pollution and reduce dependence on private vehicles, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday unveiled the Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi scheme-2021 in Bengaluru.The unveiling of the policy comes after several attempts were made to resist the granting of licences to initiate two-wheeler taxi in the city.Yediyurappa said that the new policy will lead to self-employment, eco-friendly environment, fuel conservation and strengthening public transport.The chief minister added that the main objective is to reduce travel time for the public.“This scheme will give opportunities for individuals, partnership firms and companies to participate. The vehicles registered under this scheme will be in the transport category for which the government has given several exemptions like permit , tax and is also giving financial benefits for the electric vehicles manufacturers,” a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said, attributing it to Yediyurappa.Despite being the technology and startup capital in the country, archaic laws that govern the transport department rules among other legislations has pit app-based cab aggregators against the Karnataka government several times in the past.Soon after the launch of bike-taxis by cab-aggregators like Ola and Uber in 2016, the transport department cracked down on them, seizing vehicles since there were no provisions in existing laws.However, the change in its position, bike-taxi providers said, would help nurture the ecosystem in a city that had been adjudged to have the worst traffic globally in 2019.“We appreciate the Karnataka government’s decision to let e2W (electric two-wheeler vehicles) register as a commercial bike taxi. This is a long-awaited step in the right direction and will help people utilize their well-earned assets to earn a livelihood,” Aravind Sanka, co-founder, Rapido, a bike-taxi provider, told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.“We are in talks with the state government to consider bikes as a taxi service and hope to see a similar development on this front as well. Rapido already has the infrastructure and demand from users that could be leveraged towards the cause. We are optimistic regarding bike taxi legality becoming a reality soon,” he added.The Covid-19 pandemic has forced more private vehicles on the roads due to the fear of contracting the virus in public transport. Bengaluru’s metro, one of its biggest and most expensive projects, is long-delayed with just 44kms of connectivity since 2007 in a city of nearly 800 sq kms.“We love the new policy. This encourages and pushes EV (electric vehicle??). This also helps people without (a) scooter to rent a Bounce EV and run it as (an) E bike taxi. At Bounce we are in (the) best position to use our existing EV fleet for e bike taxis as well. This will also encourage employment/ part time jobs. People without scooters can use Bounce EV and start earning. We have in fact started training women from lower income groups to ride two wheelers and helping them become e-bike taxi riders using bounce EV,” Vivekananda Hallekere, the co-founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of Bounce said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-unveils-policy-allowing-electric-bike-taxis-to-operate-101626291060901.html
15-07-2021||India||Monthly avg rate of vaccination will be maintained: Deputy CM||Bengaluru: Deputy chief minister and head of Covid task force Dr CN Ashwath Narayana on Wednesday said that the state will ensure the continuous supply of vaccines, at the same rate at which is it being provided by the central government at present. He said this while responding to media regarding the supply of vaccines in Bengaluru. “The state was supplied 6 million doses of vaccines during the month of June, and in the month of July also the minimum supply of 60 (lakh??) doses will be maintained. If the situation permits the central government may also supply more than this. In any case, the monthly average rate of vaccination will be maintained,” he said. He added that there may be variations and a decrease in the rate of vaccination when it is seen on a day-to-day basis. “But, over a period of a month, the average rate will be maintained,” Narayana told reporters. “There are a few challenges while we prepare for the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is taking all measures to strengthen the infrastructure by setting up oxygen storage and oxygen generation facilities, deployment of human resources, increasing ICU capacity, scaling up vaccines manufacturing among other things,” he said. The central government is also working towards lessening the burden of Covid-19 management by reducing and removing import duties, fixing price cap, relaxation in GST among many other things, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monthly-avg-rate-of-vaccination-will-be-maintained-deputy-cm-101626291005859.html
15-07-2021||India||‘Cops with criminal links given marching orders’: Bengaluru police commissioner||Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant, in an interview with Arun Dev, denies media reports on rise in gang-related incidents in the city and speaks about the massive transfer process which is underway in the department after allegation of police-criminal nexus. Excerpts:There are concerns about a rise in gang-related incidents, especially after easing of lockdown. This allegation is far from reality. The media has been reporting that there were three gang-related murders. The murder of (former corporator Rekha) Kadresh was not the result of ​any gang rivalry, but a struggle within the family for power. The rowdy, (Kareem Ali) was killed because he was having an affair and not because of his criminal past. It was only in the case of Madan (a financier for a gang in south Bengaluru), that a gang-related murder has taken place. There has been only one gang-related incident, but the media projected as if there were many.If there was no such problem, Why did the police conduct massive raids across the city against rowdies? Wasn’t that a knee-jerk reaction to the allegations? The media has only projected the raid that happened recently. But our crackdown has been going on for a while. Our DCPs (Deputy commissioner of police) have used the magisterial powers given to them to send 19 rowdies to judicial custody in the last six months. These arrests are the first instance where DCPs used the magisterial powers given to them three years ago. In the south division, there is a massive crackdown on criminals, but it was not reported in the media. We have also been targeting their support systems such as those providing finance or vehicle support etc.There are serious concerns about police-criminal nexus since notorious criminals like Silent Sunil were conveniently out of the city when police decided to conduct a raid. It was only a coincidence that he was not in the city. Yesterday (Tuesday) the CCB (Central Crime Branch) summoned him. They have interrogated him and taken a statement from him as well.There have been reports about several criminals joining politics. No commentsWhat do you have to say about the allegations of corruption within the department, especially policemen staying posted in the same police station for over five years and in some cases aiding criminals.For the first time, we have ordered a general transfer of all ranks from sub-inspectors and below. You will not find any policemen who has served for five years or more in any police station anymore. A massive exercise is underway with more than 3,000 officers getting transferred.In the case of policemen having links with criminals, we have given them marching orders. In Vivek Nagar police station we have already removed four police officers following reports of their links with criminals. Similarly, in Cottonpet police station, four have been giving marching orders and five others will be removed during this general transfer.Talking about the Covid-19 pandemic, did the two lockdowns change the role of the police? During the initial lockdown, like everyone else, even we didn’t know what to expect. So, we had sent policemen above the age of 50 years and above, on leave. But it was during that time violence in DJ Halli took place and around 20% of our police force, including the reserve police, were sent on leave.Even though a lockdown was in effect, crime didn’t stop. We had chain snatchings, house thefts and even cases of transportation of banned drugs. So, a decision was taken that core policing can’t be compromised, so we reassembled force and regrouped.Because there were no major processions and other events that required police protection (during the lockdowns), we were able to focus on core policing duties. It was during the lockdown we had one of the biggest drugs bust (550kg of marijuana). We set our house in order during this time, such as clearing pending cases, disposal of seized vehicles etc.Has the pandemic and lockdowns changed the traffic on the roads and are we seeing any different traffic patterns compared to earlier years?Even though there were opinions that there will be a change in the way Bengaluru operates, especially with the work from home culture, what we have seen is that after the lockdown has been lifted, there are more vehicles on the streets.We see that more people are using private vehicles. Even after public transport has been restarted in full scale, we expect to see more private vehicles on the streets because of the fear of the pandemic.Besides, all pending development works in the city is causing a problem. Most of the roads have some construction work going on and it is further slowing down the traffic in the city.Bengaluru is far ahead of every other city in terms of online fraud. Phishing and other online crimes were big issues, especially during the lockdown. What has the Bengaluru police done in this regard? We have made some important breakthroughs here. We have tied up with RBI (Reserve Bank of India) and all major banks to have a system where we can freeze any transaction involving online fraud. We have simplified this process also. Now, any person who has lost money in some online fraud, like an OTP phishing scam, can call on 112 within two hours and we can freeze that transaction by contacting the bank. We have helped more than 2,500 people in the last six months who have lost their money in online scams.What about the safe city project, the tender for the project was stalled after allegations of discrepancies. Safe city project is very important for us. It has two aspects, first since it comes under the Nirbhaya fund, the primary aim of which is to ensure women’s safety. As part of this, we will create 50 safety islands, where a woman can get help with a press of a button, in case they are in distress.With more than 7,000 cameras that come as part of the project, we will have eyes and ears across the city, which will make sure that we can locate crimes quickly and we are aiming to ensure that a police team responds to the location within 3 minutes.The second aspect is that these new camera networks provide us with facial recognition technology and registration plate recognition capability and much more, which will be a bonus for the department while conducting an investigation.(Regarding the allegations) Meetings have been held at different levels from the chief secretary onwards, clarifying all concerns. All queries raised by the companies participating in tenders have been answered as well. The project will be starting soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-with-criminal-links-given-marching-orders-101626290940852.html
15-07-2021||India||Peace at borders crucial to reviving ties: India to China||India and China agreed on Wednesday to hold an early meeting of military commanders to resolve outstanding issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) even as external affairs minister S Jaishankar bluntly told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that normalisation of bilateral ties depended on restoring peace in border areas.While conveying India’s position to Wang during their first in-person meeting since last September, Jaishankar made it clear that any unilateral change of status quo on the LAC was unacceptable. The two ministers met for an hour on the margins of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe.The discussions “focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector”, Jaishankar tweeted.“Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties,” he said in another tweet.In an indication of some forward movement on the military standoff that began in May last year, Jaishankar tweeted he and Wang had agreed on “convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders”.The external affairs ministry said in a statement that the ministers referred to the agreement reached at the last meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on June 25 to hold another round of talks between military commanders, and “agreed that this should be convened at the earliest”.The statement added, “They also agreed that in this meeting, the two sides should discuss all the remaining issues and seek a mutually acceptable solution.” There was an understanding the two sides would “continue to ensure stability on the ground and neither side will take any unilateral action that could increase tension”.Jaishankar recalled both countries had agreed that prolonging the existing situation on the LAC was not in the interest of either side, and said it was “visibly impacting the relationship in a negative manner”.The meeting was held against the backdrop of reports of fresh tensions on the LAC, including a protest by Chinese troops and civilians against celebrations at Demchok on the Indian side to mark the birthday of the Dalai Lama on July 6.Last month, India again blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to change the status quo on the LAC for the military standoff, and dismissed Beijing’s contention that New Delhi’s policies were to blame for the tensions. China has also called for the border issue to be delinked from other aspects of the bilateral relationship, such as trade and investment.There has been lack of progress in disengagement and de-escalation of frontline troops following a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the fact that the two foreign ministers met not because of a bilateral initiative but on sidelines of a regional gathering would indicate this was “more like a symbolic meeting than anything substantial that would contribute to the lessening of tensions”.He added, “The goodwill generated through this meeting can only be sustained when the military commanders meet, which would reveal the true intentions of the Chinese side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-at-borders-crucial-to-reviving-ties-india-to-china-101626290160777.html
15-07-2021||India||ISRO successfully tests engine for its manned Gaganyaan mission||In a major milestone, the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) completed the final testing of one of the three stages of the launch vehicle that will carry humans to space under the Gaganyaan mission.The space agency test-fired the Vikas engine used in the second stage of the rocket for 240 seconds, the full duration it will operate during an actual mission, at the engine test facility Isro Propulsion Complex (IPRC)-Mahendragiri in Tamil Nadu.“The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test,” the space agency said in a release.Isro’s GSLV Mk III, which successfully carried the Chandrayaan-2 mission to space in its first operational flight, has three stages – the two solid S200 boosters fired at the launch, the core L110 liquid stage, and the upper C-25 cryogenic stage.“The liquid stage of the launch vehicle uses two Vikas engines, which is what was tested by Isro today. The engine was fired for the full duration it will operate during the actual mission. It is a pretty big milestone, signalling that this particular engine is ready for launch,” said an expert on propulsion systems, on condition of anonymity.The expert added, “The first stage of the launch vehicle that uses solid propellant is already qualified. Now, Isro just needs to test the performance of the cryogenic stage before the launch vehicle is ready for the mission.”The launch of Chandrayaan-2 was delayed in 2019 after there was a helium leak in the cryogenic stage of the engine. The S-200 solid booster stage of the launch vehicle also underwent design changes for human rating, with Larsen & Toubro delivering the first sturdier casing last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-successfully-tests-engine-for-its-manned-gaganyaan-mission-101626287580546.html
15-07-2021||India||Priyanka heads to Lucknow for four-day visit with eye on 2022 polls||Congress general secretary and in-charge of the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, faces a host of organisational challenges as she arrives in Lucknow on Friday to interact with workers and prepare for the 2022 assembly elections. “Priyanka ji will arrive here on Friday,” a party leader familiar with developments said, preferring anonymity.The Congress general secretary is likely to hold interactions with different groups of the faction-ridden party at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters but her first challenge will be to strengthen the party’s poor ground infrastructure in India’s most-populous state.The Congress put up a poor show in the block panchayat polls, winning four block seats. Barring three block panchayats in Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra’s assembly constituency and a block panchayat in Amethi MLC Deepak Singh’s area, no other leader was able to ensure victory of any party-supported candidate.“Priyanka ji’s first major task will be to make an assessment about the party organisation’s infrastructure and gear it up for the 2022 polls,” another party functionary said, preferring anonymity.The visit comes months before the state heads to the polls early next year. This is her first visit to Lucknow in 18 months.Her scheduled trips were deferred on several occasions due to Covid-induced restrictions. Priyanka last visited Lucknow in 2020.She will also require to work on bringing old leaders into the party’s mainstream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-heads-to-lucknow-for-four-day-visit-with-eye-on-2022-polls-101626287460483.html
15-07-2021||India||Dominica court relief may delay Choksi extradition, say officials||Indian government officials fear that fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi’s success in persuading a Dominican court to allow him to return to Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, for medical treatment could delay his extradition by years, people familiar with the matter said.“This was a golden opportunity for us. Once he is in Antigua, he may never return to Dominica,” said a senior officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the federal agency that is investigating the ₹13,578 crore bank fraud that Choksi, and his nephew Nirav Modi, are accused of having pulled off before fleeing the country in 2018.Dominica’s high court of justice on Monday accepted Choksi’s request to let him travel to Antigua for medical treatment on the condition that he returns to Dominica once he is fit to travel.Indian officials had hoped to convince the Dominican judge to deport Choksi to India, insisting that he is still an Indian citizen since his request to renounce his citizenship was rejected. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) didn’t comment on the matter.But Indian officials fear the diamantaire could try to “make sure he is never declared fit”. That Choksi was able to spend one-and-a-half months in a hospital in Roseau rather than prison seems to reflect the influence that he was able to wield in Dominica, the officer cited above said.Choksi faces charges of illegal entry in Dominica, the Caribbean nation where he mysteriously turned up on May 24/25 after going missing 200km away in Antigua a day earlier. India rushed a team to Dominica to seek Choksi’s deportation where he is an illegal immigrant in contrast to Antigua, where he enjoys constitutional and legal protection by virtue of being a citizen, although the country’s government is engaged in a legal battle to revoke his citizenship.The high court order, a government official added, serves Dominica’s interests too, particularly given that his arrival sparked a political firestorm with the country’s lead opposition party accusing the governments of Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda and India, of colluding to abduct the businessman to bring him to New Delhi.To be sure, the three governments have repeatedly trashed the allegation.“By agreeing to his bail and signing the consent order for his travel to Antigua on Monday, Dominica has sent a message that – ‘let him (Choksi) be Antigua’s problem, not ours,” this person added.In Antigua, Choksi is fighting two cases relating to extradition and revocation of citizenship. If he is eventually ordered to be extradited, he can still appeal in Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) , the court of final appeal for the UK overseas territories and Crown dependencies.Lionel Hurst, chief of staff for Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne, said in March this year that legal proceedings may go on till 2027. Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said bringing his client (to India) will take years.That’s because the courts will first have to rule on petitions challenging the country’s extradition and the citizenship law before they can start hearing Choksi’s case, he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dominica-court-relief-may-delay-choksi-extradition-say-officials-101626287401217.html
15-07-2021||India||Cabinet decision: OBC sub-categorisation panel’s term extended||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an extension by six months of the term of the Commission constituted to examine the issue of sub-categorisation within Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the central list.The Cabinet, which held its first in-person meeting this year, also approved the continuation of National Ayush Mission (NAM) as a centrally sponsored scheme for another five years till 2026.The proposed extension of tenure of the Commission examining sub-categorisation with the OBCs beyond July 31 this year up to January 31 next year and addition in its terms of reference will help the panel submit a comprehensive report on the issue, after consultation with various stakeholders, said a government statement issued after the Cabinet committee meeting that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.This is the eleventh extension of the term of the Commission constituted under Article 340 of the Constitution. The panel was set up to examine the possibility of creating categories within OBCs for reservation to ensure “equitable distribution” of representation among all OBC communities.Besides this, the Cabinet announced that NAM would continue from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026, with a financial implication of ₹4,607.30 crore to be spent during the period.“The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of National AYUSH Mission as a Centrally-Sponsored Scheme from 01-04-2021 to 31-03-2026 with financial implication of ₹4,607.30 crore ( ₹ 3,000 crore as Central Share and ₹1,607.30 crore as State Share),” a statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-sub-categorisation-panel-s-term-extended-101626287342067.html
15-07-2021||India||India sent most number of requests seeking account info: Twitter report||India has surpassed the United States as the country that sent the most number of legal requests seeking information about accounts from Twitter, the social media company’s latest transparency report covering the period from July to December 2020 said on Wednesday.The number of legal information requests sent from India accounted for 25% of the global volume and 15% of the global accounts specified, up from 21% and 25% respectively in the January-June, 2020 period.Twitter’s global legal policy head Vijaya Gadde, in a Spaces conversation on the platform, said that it does not always cede to a government’s information requests. “Sometimes the requests are incomplete, broad in scope or the accounts have been deleted, in such a situation Twitter can challenge the requests,” she said.The report stated that Twitter produced some or all of the requested information in response to 30% of the information requests globally, which came to 4,367 in all.India also emerged as the country that sent the second highest numbers of takedown requests after Japan. Hindustan Times in June first reported that the number of blocking orders issued under section 69(A) of the IT Act had risen from 3,600 in 2019, to over 9,800 in 2020. In the first five months of 2021 (until May), the number increased to 6,000.Twitter’s latest Transparency Report also added that accounts of 199 verified journalists and news outlets from around the world were subject to 361 legal demands, a 26% increase in such requests since the previous reporting period. “And, 94% of the total global volume of legal demands originated from only five countries (in decreasing order): Japan, India, Russia, Turkey, and South Korea,” it added, without giving per country data.The company has recently been locked in a conflict with the Indian government over compliance with the new social media and intermediary guidelines, for which the deadline ended on May 25. It recently appointed a resident grievance redressal officer and released an India-specific grievance redressal report, prompting one its foremost critics, former union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad to say it was “assuring to see that Twitter was making an effort to comply”.The confrontation between the Union government and Twitter began in January, when protests by farmers escalated in Delhi and its surrounding regions. Twitter refused to take down content relating to the protests. These included accounts of journalists and activists. In second round of blocks order, Twitter restricted access to posts instead of accounts. The actions prompted the government to serve the platform with two non-compliance notices, threatening penal action if it did not accede to them.Speaking about takedown requests in general, Gadde said Twitter challenge such requests if they fall under certain categories identified in its policies, including political speech. “They can be challenged if they are consistent with local values, or even local laws. Understanding the context of these requests and taking a call is challenging task,” she said.Twitter also added a new category called “impressions”, under which it captures how many times a tweet was viewed before it was removed. “In total, impressions on violative Tweets accounted for less than 0.1% of all impressions for all Tweets globally, from July 1 through December 31. During this time period, Twitter removed 3.8 million Tweets that violated the Twitter Rules; 77% of which received fewer than 100 impressions prior to removal, with an additional 17% receiving between 100 and 1,000 impressions. Only 6% of removed Tweets had more than 1,000 impressions,” the report stated.Raman Chima, Asia-Pacific policy director at Access now said India’s rise to number one when it comes to information requests is an alarming trend. “US has always been number 1 on the index, being the country that others have pointed to when it comes to justifying requests,” he said.“Moreover, a vast number of requests sent by US are court orders. India being number one represents an alarming increase in requests being sent, even worse there is no judicial oversight when it comes to such orders. This is also happening at a time when significant concerns are being raised around those who dissent in India by the government. The Indian government must justify and explain how the orders are being sent. It also becomes even more critical for an independent oversight, under the new data protection law to be installed in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sent-most-number-of-requests-seeking-account-info-twitter-report-101626287283039.html
15-07-2021||India||Farmers plan march to House on July 22 without police nod||The farm unions agitating against the three agricultural laws enacted by the Union government last year said on Wednesday that they have decided to carry out a peaceful march to Parliament on July 22, where they will stay put for the entire duration of the monsoon session.This has sparked fears of a showdown between the protesters and law enforcement agencies, as protests in the high-security zone are banned.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 30 farm unions spearheading the protests, has drawn up a detailed plan under which 200 farmers will march to Parliament from the Singhu border, one of the spots on the Delhi border where farmers have been camping since last November.“We have neither sought nor do we intend to seek police permission. Our plan is to peacefully march to Parliament, and we are ready,” said Darshan Pal, a top SKM leader.On January 26, a tractor rally by the farmers to celebrate Republic Day turned violent when protesters fatally clashed with policemen and breached the Red Fort.“On July 26, the protests will be led entirely by women farmers,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, another farm leader who sits on the decision-making committee of Samyukta Kisan Morcha.Pal said the SKM has issued a symbolic “whip” to all political parties to oppose the farm laws in Parliament in the forthcoming monsoon session. A whip is an instruction issued by political parties to lawmakers on what stance to take and how to vote in Parliament.The farm unions have spurned the government’s offer to hold the laws for 18 months to look into specific problems that the farmers might have with any of the provisions. They have said that nothing short of repeal of the laws would be acceptable to them and “mere tinkering here and there will not work”. But the government has refused to entertain any talks of repeal.Despite 11 rounds of talks, there has been no breakthrough in the impasse.“We are ready to talk to the farm unions on any issue they may have except on the question of repealing the farm laws,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said recently while on a tour in Madhya Pradesh. The farmers have said they want unconditional talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-plan-march-to-house-on-july-22-without-police-nod-101626287220619.html
15-07-2021||India||Kharge to lead Congress coordination efforts with other opposition parties||Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge will coordinate with other Opposition leaders to improve floor management during Parliament’s monsoon session starting next week, the Congress party’s parliamentary strategy group decided on Wednesday.Kharge’s assignment as the Congress point person for opposition parties comes at a time the party plans to aggressively raise issues such as petrol price hike, the government’s vaccination strategy, the three farm laws, and job losses, in the session between July 19 and August 13. It also indicates that the Congress is keen to work closely with the Trinamool Congress in Parliament, and could help find a workaround given the icy relations between the Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and the Trinamool leadership.Wednesday’s meeting, chaired by Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi, was attended by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Kharge, Anand Sharma, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore, and other leaders of the party. According to two party leaders, Rahul Gandhi also participated in the discussions for the first time after resigning from the party’s top seat in 2019 following the Congress’s debacle in the Lok Sabha elections.In his intervention, Rahul proposed that the party raise at least six key issues during the session, such as the rise in prices of essential goods, and petrol and diesel, the government’s management of the Covid-19 pandemic, and farmers’ issues, among others. Singh spoke on the economic situation.Rahul also suggested that the party take up the Rafale issue as well in the wake of developments in the case.The BJP, which expects the Congress-led Opposition to mount an offensive against the government, held a high-level meeting at the residence of Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday. This meeting was attended by BJP chief JP Nadda, and Union ministers Amit Shah, Prahlad Joshi, Bhupender Yadav and Dharmendra Pradhan, among others.The Congress’s parliamentary party executive is expected to meet on Sunday.A senior BJP functionary said the government is set to clear all “misconceptions”. “The Opposition politicised the issue of vaccines. First, several opposition leaders called it the BJP vaccine. Later, they accused the Centre of trying to micromanage the distribution; when the Centre allowed the states to make their own procurement they again had complaints and wanted the Centre to provide it free of costs,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharge-to-lead-congress-coordination-efforts-with-other-opposition-parties-101626287100482.html
15-07-2021||India||Goyal picked as Leader of House in RS, Adhir stays as Congress LS leader||Union minister for commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal, will be the new Leader of House in the Rajya Sabha, a recognition, not just for his organisational abilities but also his relationships across the aisle, people familiar with the developments said.Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi announced the appointment on social media; “Congratulations to @PiyushGoyal ji on being appointed the Leader of House in Rajya Sabha. He has been entrusted by PM @NarendraModi ji with key responsibility. Wishing him continued vigour in the service to the nation.”A Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra, Goyal will take over the position following the elevation of Thawar Chand Gehlot as the Governor of Karnataka. There is no word yet on who Goyal’s deputy in the Upper House will be.The Congress, too, decided that Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will continue to be leader of the party in the Lok Sabha, after Rahul Gandhi seemed to have little interest in taking up the leadership position in the Lower House. There was intense speculation that Chowdhury might be removed from the post.The 57-year old, who was earlier the deputy leader in the house, was the front-runner for the post, although the names of his Cabinet colleagues finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and education minister Dharmendra Pradhan were mentioned as possible contenders.In his capacity as the deputy leader of the house, Goyal played a key role in reaching out to assuage the concerns of the opposition during and after the passage of the contentious farm bills that led to disruption of Parliament proceedings earlier.“He (Goyal) is friendly and reaches out, often meeting opposition members for coffee in the central hall,” said an opposition MP in the Upper House.While Chowdhury will continue to be the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha Leader of Party of the Congress Mallikarjun Kharge has been entrusted the task of coordinating with leaders of other parties.Manish Tewari’s name was mentioned as a possible replacement for Chowdhury but people in the party said he is likely to get a major responsibility in poll-bound Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goyal-picked-as-leader-of-house-in-rs-adhir-stays-as-cong-lsleader-101626287040560.html
15-07-2021||India||Guard against laxity: Centre to states on covid norms’ breach||Taking note of the “blatant violation” of Covid-19 norms across the country, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday directed all states and Union territories to ensure strict enforcement of measures and protocols to “guard ourselves against complacency and laxity, which has crept in as positivity has declined”.In an advisory to chief secretaries of all states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla made it clear that all officers concerned should be personally held responsible for any laxity in implementation of Covid-appropriate behavior.“If the norms of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour are not maintained at any establishment/premises/markets etc, such places shall be liable for the reimposition of restrictions, for containing the spread of Covid-19 and the defaulters shall also be liable for action under the relevant laws,” the advisory read.Bhalla said that people were found violating Covid-19 norms in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. The ministry said: “It is emphasized that the second wave of Covid is not yet over...there is no room for complacency ...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guard-against-laxity-centre-to-states-on-covid-norms-breach-101626286861004.html
15-07-2021||India||Congress revival plans focus of Kishor’s meet with Gandhis||Election strategist Prashant Kishor’s meeting with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday was to discuss his revival plan for the Congress, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.They added that the meeting was a continuation of the previous meetings Kishor has had with the Gandhis, starting with one with president Sonia Gandhi last May, and subsequently with some other top leaders of the Congress, on the same theme, and that it may even involve the election strategist joining the party. The Congress has officially refused to comment on the matter. However, at least two senior leaders who have been part of discussions told HT that it is actively being considered.Kishor said the possibility of him joining the party was “all speculation”.According to the Congress leaders cited above, Rahul Gandhi has told Kishor that if he was interested in helping Congress win elections, he should join the party and do so from within the organisation. They added that Kishor’s plan involves a complete overhaul of the 135-year-old party’s organisation including new party posts and a parliamentary board.“Kishor has discussed multiple scenarios and since he has left the space of political consultancy, according to him, he may want to assume a more proactive role in politics,” a third person familiar with the matter said.On Tuesday, Kishor met with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for nearly an hour, setting off wild speculation about everything from a reconciliation in Punjab between warring factions of the party, through a common opposition candidate for the 2022 Presidential election, to a united front in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls but what was actually discussed, the people cited in the first instance said, was his possible role in shaping the national party. HT reported on Wednesday that over the past few months, Kishor has met senior leaders across parties and wants to, according to a fourth person familiar with the matter, “play a larger role” in getting a grouping going.One of the proposals made by Kishor’s team is that Rahul Gandhi should head the new Congress parliamentary board. The creation of such a board, which will consider the party’s stand on key issues, was also one of the key demands of the so-called Group of 23, named after the number of senior leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi last year demanding change.Kishor’s political consultancy group Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) is also likely to play an active role in the party if Kishor joins it, the people said. He also has access to a vast pool of professionals who have worked with across several political campaigns since 2014. After helping the TMC retain Bengal and the DMK win Tamil Nadu, Kishor announced that he was stepping down from day to day operations I-PAC.“On one hand it’s good that they may bring in someone from outside because within the Congress party the politics is too personalised...a trend that began during the Indira Gandhi regime and they are paying for it. I assume that they (Gandhis) will back him...It’s a positive step in one way to get someone from outside who is used to managerial roles... But at the same time, I also think it’s not entirely right to bring about corporate-like managerial style within the party...,” said political scientist Neera Chandhoke.In addition to suggestions on changes in the party, Kishor’s plans are also believed to include details on building a possible united front against the opposition, starting with accepting a common opposition candidate in the 2022 Presidential elections (NCP leader Sharad Pawar’s name was mentioned in this context and it is a fact that Kishor has met him thrice in the past month).The people cited in the first instance also said that Kishor was particularly critical of the Congress’ inability to leverage the legacy of its past leaders such as Jawaharlal Nehru, the institutions they built, and the economic growth of the country under Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh governments.Much of this, they added, first came up during Kishor’s detailed presentation to Sonia Gandhi on structural changes in the party. They claimed the meeting was kept secret from even the top leadership of the party and that since then, Kishor has been in touch with the three Gandhis and also met key leaders including Kamal Nath, Mallikarjun Kharge, and Sidarammaiah.Kishor and the Congress (especially Rahul Gandhi) have had a strained relationship following the debacle in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections in 2017, when a combination of the Congress and the Samajwadi Party flopped, though HT learns that he has remained in constant touch with the top leadership of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-revival-plans-focus-of-kishor-s-meet-with-gandhis-101626286801166.html
15-07-2021||India||Rahul walks out over agenda for House defence panel meeting||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stormed out of a meeting of Parliament’s defence standing committee on Wednesday after his proposal to discuss the issue of national security, vis-a-vis Pakistan, the standoff with China, and the Taliban capturing fresh territories in Afghanistan, was rejected by members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), people aware of the matter said.He left the meeting minutes before it concluded as the panel chairman, BJP leader Jual Oram, denied a discussion on these issues as they were not part of the pre-decided agenda, the people added.The defence committee had met to ”review the working of cantonment boards”. Other Congress MPs on the committee also walked out with Gandhi.Gandhi stressed that rather than discussing the working of the boards, the panel should deliberate on more relevant and important security issues like the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and the terror threats from Pakistan, the people said. Oram also reminded that MPs need to give prior notice to discuss subjects not listed in the agenda, they added.Last December, the Congress leader left a meeting of the defence standing committee, alleging that the panel’s time was being wasted in discussing armed forces’ uniform instead of national security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-walks-out-over-agenda-for-house-defence-panel-meeting-101626286800553.html
15-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine if limits can be placed on HC orders in times of crisis||The Supreme Court is all set to consider what limits can be placed on decision-making powers of high courts to ensure that in times of crisis, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, the personal views of judges do not form part of judicial orders which are hard to be implemented by the executive.The top court was faced with a situation arising out of an Allahabad high court judgment that remarked on May 17 that the Uttar Pradesh’s medical system was “ram bharose” (left to the mercy of God), and directed the state to provide two ambulances with ICU facility in all 97,000 villages, nursing homes in the state to be equipped with ventilator support and BiPAP machines, import vaccines, and upgrading medical colleges, among other directions.Although this order was stayed by the Supreme Court on May 21, the bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari on Wednesday said, “All of us have good personal suggestions during a crisis. But we have to ask ourselves if those suggestions can result in an order passed by a constitutional court. Will not the courts be entering into the executive arena?”The bench said it will consider this aspect on August 12 and asked the court-appointed amicus curiae (friend of court) senior advocate Nidhesh Gupta to present suggestions on that date. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, was also asked to assist.The court did not doubt the good intentions of the high courts in passing orders to serve public welfare. “Howsoever laudable be our intentions, it doesn’t give anybody a right to enter into the executive arena. There are norms within which every constitutional body has to work. The executive has benefit of expert knowledge. If there is anything wrong, the judiciary is there… In a crisis, everybody has to be cautious of what needs to be done and by whom.”Mehta was of the view that the matter could be sent back to the high court, where the issue pertaining to management of Covid-19 in the state is being heard by a bench headed by the acting chief justice. The state filed an affidavit in the top court indicating the steps being taken in the state to increase number of ambulances fitted with basic life support and advanced life support facilities.Gupta submitted that for the present, the state can be asked to provide what it has agreed to provide in its affidavit.In its May 21 order, the top court advised high courts not to pass orders that were incapable of being implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-examine-if-limits-can-be-placed-on-hc-orders-in-time-of-crisis-101626286623267.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid vaccination drive slows down; Centre, states clash on supply||The pace of daily vaccinations across India has again started slowing, and has now dropped to levels last seen before June 21, when the country started the latest phase of its inoculation drive in which the Centre provides shots free of cost to all states.The slowdown comes at a time when the states and the Centre are locked in a war of words over supply of doses.At least six states, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Odisha, have said in recent days that they are facing severe scarcity of doses, and some have said they’ve been forced to close down vaccination centres.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday hit back at the states, and alleged that “misinformed” statements were being put out to “create panic” among people regarding vaccine supply. He added in a series of tweets that states knew “well in advance” the time and volume of doses they were scheduled to get, so any supply shortage was the result of “mismanagement” at the state level.As the new vaccine policy kicked off on June 21, India’s vaccination rate soared to its highest ever. On the first day of the new drive, more than 8.6 million doses were administered – the highest daily vaccinations to date. This remained high the first week or so of the new phase with the average inoculation pace touching a peak of 6.4 million jabs a day for the week ending June 26, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Since then, however, this has been consistently dropping. In the last seven days of June, an average of 4.8 million doses were administered every day across the country, while this dropped to 4.2 million jabs a day in the first week of July.On average, 3.4 million doses were administered every day across India in the past seven days – marking a drop of 46% from the peak vaccination rate. The last time India’s vaccination drive was at this pace was before the June 21 shake-up.To be sure, this trend where there’s a rapid rise in numbers that isn’t sustained over a longer period is not new. At the start of April, when the vaccine eligibility was extended to all residents over the age of 45, a similar jump was witnessed where the daily rate jumped from 1.7 million doses a day in the last week of March to 4.2 million for the week ending April 12 (a rise of 140%). However, by May, this rate had again dropped to under 2 million doses a day.The issue, experts say, is of production and supply. India’s vaccine drive has been hobbled by the inability of Bharat Biotech, whose vaccine was approved in January (along with Serum Institute’s Covishield) to increase production to expected levels. Supplies are anticipated to increase starting August, although it will take some doing for the country to fully vaccinate all adults by the end of December as the government has repeatedly said it wants to.“It is clear that we are still struggling to produce adequate number of doses to meet our target of vaccinating all adults by December this year. As we hear, Bharat Biotech is still producing around 20-25 million doses a month, and Sputnik has not opened up for everyone yet. Zydus’s vaccine candidate is in the pipeline but the company has not begun producing it yet, and there are still regulatory clearances to be granted. All this will obviously have an impact,” said a public health expert, requesting anonymity.Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the estimated supply of vaccines for the states and UTs for July has been increased from earlier figure of 120 million doses to 135 million. Even this translates into 4.35 million doses a day.Till date, 311 million people have received vaccine shots across the country, out of which 235 million have been partially vaccinated and another 76 million are completely vaccinated. This means that 25% of India’s estimated 940 million adults have been partially vaccinated, while another 8% are fully vaccinated. To completely vaccinate all adults, 705 million people still need to be administered their first shots, while another 863 million second doses will be needed. This translates to a requirement of administering 9 million doses every day for the rest of the year to meet the year-end target.“The states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the vaccine doses... If the Centre is already giving this information in advance and yet we see mismanagement and long queues of vaccine takers, then it is very clear what the problem is and who is the reason behind it,” Mandaviya tweeted in Hindi.The Centre told the states on June 19 about how many doses of the vaccine would be made available to them in the month of July for them to plan their vaccination drive accordingly, according to another senior central government official.But several states have voiced concerns in the past few days about shortage of vaccines and patchy supply.On Wednesday, Odisha said it has suspended vaccination in 11 of the 30 districts as it did not have enough Covishield vaccines. On Wednesday morning, Odisha said there were not enough doses to vaccinate people in all 30 districts.Rajasthan also said that inoculation sessions were not conducted in 25 of its 33 districts on Monday due to shortage; while a senior West Bengal health department official said that the state was finding it difficult to distribute doses among its 23 districts.On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the state was not getting supplies proportionate to its population.Similar shortages appeared to beset the drive in Maharashtra, where many centres were shut this week due lack of doses, the state said. In Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday, “We have the capability to administer 3 to 4 lakh doses a day. But there is a shortage of vaccines. We have received a small stock... which will not last beyond Tuesday or one half of Wednesday. We have to shut down vaccination centres...”The supply cycle is set to experience further pressure as the people who became eligible for doses on May 1 (when the drive was thrown open to all adults), become due for their second dose of Covishield (which is currently being administered at a gap of 12-16 weeks) in the final week of July.“Vaccination is the most potent weapon to fight Covid pandemic as has been done in US, UK, Israel and other countries that are returning to normalcy to some extent. Also, there is enough evidence to show that vaccines provide 100% protection against severe Covid-19 disease even though effectiveness of the vaccines is yet to be ascertained,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, AIIMS, Delhi.(With inputs from HT state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-drive-slows-down-centre-states-clash-on-supply-101626286440521.html
15-07-2021||India||Kanwar controversy: In UP, apprehension over yatra go-ahead||Uttar Pradesh said on Wednesday that it was not inclined to cancel the kanwar yatra because it was a matter of faith, but officials and stakeholders across the state said they faced uphill challenges to stop overcrowding at riverbanks and enforce Covid protocols during the fortnight-long pilgrimage.The yatra -- where Shiva devotees fetch water from the Ganga to their village shrines – will begin from July 25 despite Uttarakhand, which hosts the yatra’s destination, Haridwar, scrapping the event over fears of a surge in Covid infections.“We are in touch with the Uttarakhand government and will coordinate for the yatra. We are also getting in touch with kanwar sanghs (associations) to minimise the number of kanwariyas and ensure Covid-19 protocol is followed,” said UP chief secretary RK Tiwari. “This is an issue of faith.”But district and law enforcement officials said getting hundreds of thousands of devotees to follow social distancing, masking and undergo Covid tests – the government has hinted it might make negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for pilgrims – might be difficult. Experts also pointed out that any violations might trigger a fresh surge in infections, holding up the example of the Mahakumbh in April that seeded clusters of cases across north India.A senior police official in east UP said it would be almost impossible to carry out and check RT-PCR reports of each pilgrim as kanwariyas come from different villages. He said restricting any devotee might also trigger confrontation. “It is not possible to keep watch on them on all through the journey when several thousands of them will be walking night and day. We can put up barricading, police pickets and patrolling parties on certain points and identified routes,” he said on condition of anonymity.A senior official in west UP said crowds are likely to gather at places where the Ganga flows through in the state as Uttarakhand has banned the pilgrimage.“There is a fear that pilgrims may get involved in confrontation when they are not allowed to enter Uttarakhand…there are also chances that kanwariyas from other states could turn towards UP after Uttarakhand’s complete ban,” added the official on condition of anonymity. Roughly 36 million devotees had visited Haridwar for the yatra in 2019, the last year it was held.Experts underlined the risks of holding the yatra during a pandemic. “Lakhs of devotees from rural and urban areas participate in the yatra and they mingle with one another. Under such circumstances, it could lead to a third wave,” said Dr Tanuraj Sirohi, former president of Indian Medical Association’s Meerut unit.Even some devotees appeared worried. “Lakhs of devotees participate in the yatra...even 20% of them would form a big crowd and act as super spreaders,” said Jagmohan Shakal, a part of Om Seva Samiti that organises kanwar camps for over two decades.Jaipal Rajput, an office-bearer of the Hindu Seva Manch in Shahjahanpur district, said he had no plans of joining the yatra this year. “We are worried about the third wave of Covid-19. What will I say to people if I take them on the yatra and they fall sick due to Covid-19?” asked Rajput who lost three relatives during this year due to Covid.The state government, however, said it was going to take all precautions to prevent infections during the yatra.The development came a day after Uttarakhand cancelled the yatra, heeding warnings that millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a devastating third wave of Covid cases. It also turned down a request by Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls in 2022.Meerut district magistrate K Balaji said, “We would act as per the directions of the state government.” Meerut divisional commissioner Surendra Singh held a meeting with officials on Tuesday and instructed them to establish kanwar Covid helpdesks equipped with sanitisers, thermal screening and Covid-19 test facility near temples and on the yatra route. He also asked for the availability of life-saving drugs, ambulances and beds in hospitals. “We would follow the directions received from the state government,” said Singh.In Varanasi, a senior official of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development board said that the preparations for the yatra were already made and all Covid-19 protocols will be followed. Thermal scanning of devotees will be done at the entrance of the temple premises, he said, adding that sanitizing and masks will be made mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanwar-controversy-in-up-apprehension-over-yatra-goahead-101626286441059.html
15-07-2021||India||India heads to the Olympics, with a new ‘cheer song’||India has never had an official OIympic song, and not much reason to have one either. Now there are two, and with good reason. India’s largest contingent of athletes for an Olympics head to Tokyo with an unprecedented six athletes ranked No 1 in the world in their fields. They will go to the tune of Hindustani Way, launched on Wednesday as the “official cheer song” for the contingent.Composed by AR Rahman and sung by Ananya Birla, the song features both Hindi and English lyrics. In typical Rahman fashion, it’s heavy on rousing beats. “Ananya came to me and said let’s do a song together. She was very excited. Her voice is great, her spirit is great. That’s how Hindustani Way happened,” Rahman said during the release of the song. The launch was an online event, where Anurag Thakur, the Union minister for youth affairs & sports, released the song.Rahman is no stranger to making stirring music of course, nor is sports-themed music new for the man who wrote the music for the 2002 film Lagaan, whose central plot revolved around a pre-Independence cricket match. “Coming from Lagaan and so many songs I have done before, it takes a lot to cheer something. The way we make it is simple and at the same time resonating,” Rahman said.“I love watching tennis, love cricket, football. Just love all sorts of sports,” Ananya said. “Fact that I was able to write this song with AR sir, it’s a huge milestone for my career.”The video for Hindustani Way begins with an Indian family watching Leander Paes in action at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, where Paes won a bronze to end India’s drought of going 16 years without an Olympic medal. The video follows the same family as it maps some of India’s Olympic medal winners since — Rajyavardhan Rathore in 2004, Abhinav Bindra in 2008, PV Sindhu in 2016 — interspersed with shots of Rahman dancing and Ananya singing.India’s other Olympic song comes from pop star Mohit Chauhan, and is equally beat heavy, with bagpipes-sounding keyboards in the mix. The video shows Chauhan and his band performing in an empty stadium, which is what athletes at the Tokyo Olympics will also face. The video for Chauhan’s song—Tu Thaan Ley—features footage of India’s Tokyo-bound athletes in training. It was released on June 23.Though songs about national contingents are rare, the Olympics usually feature some fine performances. In Tokyo, Covid-19 regulations means that there will be no crowds in attendance for any show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-heads-to-the-olympics-with-a-new-cheer-song-101626285480300.html
15-07-2021||India||SC ‘disturbed’ by Uttar Pradesh’s decision to hold kanwar yatra||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it is a “little disturbed” by the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to allow the kanwar yatra despite widespread fears of a third wave of Covid-19, taking suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the issue, and sought explanations from the Union and the relevant state governments on the proposed religious pilgrimage and “disparate political voices” on avoiding large gatherings.The bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai observed that “the citizens of India are completely perplexed and don’t know what is going on” when different states are adopting different stance on the kanwar yatra.It pointed out that Uttar Pradesh is pressing ahead with the kanwar yatra that attracts millions of people while the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand, “with its hindsight of experience,” has suspended it over apprehensions of a possible third wave of the coronavirus disease. The kanwar yatra sees around 30 million pilgrims walking to Haridwar in Uttarakhand, picking up water of the Ganga, and walking back home, usually to states in north and north-west India. Uttarakhand, which went ahead with the Kumbh Mela despite warnings fro public health experts, saw a sharp increase in Covid-19 infections soon after and its management of the event has also come under question with the unearthing of a fake Covid tests racket.The irony of Uttarakhand saying no to the event, Uttar Pradesh saying yes, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi telling chief ministers of north-eastern states that it is up to the people to stop the third wave of the pandemic by adhering to safety protocols (“We cannot compromise even a bit,” he said) , all on the same day, was not lost on the court.“Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant secretary, Union of India, respond,” said the bench in its order, asking the Centre and governments of UP and Uttarakhand to file their replies by the morning of July 16, when the matter will be heard again.Uttar Pradesh cancelled the yatra last year but is keen on holding it this year, especially with assembly polls in the state scheduled for early 2022.“We are in touch with the Uttarakhand government and will coordinate with it for the Kanwar yatra. We are also getting in touch with the kanwar sanghs (associations) to minimise the number of kanwariyas (pilgrims) and ensure that the Covid-19 protocol is followed,” said UP chief secretary RK Tiwari on Wednesday.The court noted that the yatra, in which Shiva devotees travel hundreds of kilometres to fetch water from the Ganga and carry it back to their villages, will begin from July 25, and hence, it is necessary to hear it urgently.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta was in the court on behalf of the Union government while Uttarakhand was represented by advocate Abhishek Atrey. A response from Uttarakhand has been necessitated since Haridwar is home to the yatra’s destination.The bench also took note of a newspaper report that, in 2019, the last time the yatra was organised, nearly 35 million devotees visited Haridwar while over 20 million people visited pilgrimage spots in Western UP.According to a transcript of his speech shared by the government after the PM’s interaction with the CMs of north-eastern states on Tuesday, Modi expressed concern over the crowds at hill stations and markets where people are not wearing masks or following Covid-19 protocols. Modi was meeting the CMs to take stock of the situation in the N-E states where cases have increased in recent weeks while most other parts of the country have shown a drop in new infections. The seven-day average of new cases was 40,205 on July 13, down from its peak of 391,819 on May 9, when the second wave of the viral pandemic was ravaging India.Later on Tuesday, at a press briefing in New Delhi, Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry, also said that people are violating Covid protocols across the country and “the third wave may be caused because of this behaviour”.Months after the Mahakumbh drew 9.1 million devotees and seeded clusters of infections during the second wave, concerns have grown over the kanwar yatra.Uttarakhand on Tuesday announced scrapping the annual pilgrimage this year, heeding warnings from health experts who cautioned that millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a devastating third wave of Covid-19 infections and trigger clusters of cases across north India.The hill state also turned down a request from Uttar Pradesh, which allowed the pilgrimage — where devotees travel on foot or cycle to fetch water from the Ganga to their village shrines — to begin from July 25.“We don’t want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid. People’s lives are our first priority,” said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami following a meeting with state officials and experts on Tuesday. On July 6, Uttarakhand decided to stop all kanwar devotees from entering the state, but decided to review its decision two days later after UP CM Yogi Adityanath called Dhami. Uttarakhand also goes to polls in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-disturbed-by-up-s-decision-to-hold-yatra-101626285420912.html
15-07-2021||India||Drop cases filed under scrapped IT law: MHA||The Union home ministry on Wednesday asked state governments and police chiefs to immediately withdraw cases registered under the defunct Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, days after the Supreme Court described as “shocking” the existence of cases filed after the law was struck down.In 2015, the top court quashed the portion of the IT Act after holding it unconstitutional, stressing on the right to freedom of speech and expression of Indian citizens. The law was wielded in several instances to arrest people for posts on social media solely at the discretion of police.The NGO People’s Union for Civil Liberties filed a petition informing the court that 1,307 new cases were registered under the Act in the six years since what is known as the Shreya Singhal judgment that struck down 66A. The judges, during a hearing on July 5, said: “What is going on? It is terrible...shocking. It is distressing.”On Wednesday, the Union home ministry sent an advisory to chief secretaries and director generals of police: “It has been brought to our notice through an application in the Supreme Court that FIRs are still being lodged by some police authorities under the struck down provision of Section 66A of the IT Act, 2000. Hon’ble Supreme Court has taken a very serious view of the matter.”The ministry said that all states are “therefore requested to direct all the police stations not to register cases under the repealed Section 66A of the IT Act and sensitise the law enforcement agencies for the compliance of the Supreme Court order”.It directed chief secretaries and police chiefs to withdraw such cases. “If any case has been booked in your state under Section 66A of the IT Act, it should immediately be withdrawn.”Attorney general KK Venugopal, appearing on behalf of the Centre during the July 5 hearing, told the court that Section 66A was present in the IT Act, and the bare acts also contained this provision even after the 2015 judgment of the Supreme Court.“The section is still there in the statute. When a police officer looks at the law book, it is still there. The section has two stars with a footnote that says the section has been struck down by a division bench of the Supreme Court. But the section is full there,” said the AG. “A police officer won’t read the footnote, we are sure,” justice Nariman responded.The court then said it would take action to ensure its rulings are complied with.When it struck the law down, the Supreme Court called Section 66A “open-ended and unconstitutionally vague”. It said nothing short of quashing the law in its entirety could suffice since this provision “arbitrarily, excessively and disproportionately” invaded the right to free speech, right to dissent, right to know, and had a “chilling effect” on constitutional mandates.Section 66A criminalised “grossly offensive” or “menacing character” messages sent in form of text, audio, video, images, or any other electronic record. It provided for the punishment of up to three years in prison.Even though the Section was struck down in March 2015, 332 cases were filed under it the same year. In 2016, 216 cases were registered and 290 in 2017, 318 in 2018, 253 in 2019, and 34 until February 2020, HT reported last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-directs-immediate-withdrawal-of-all-cases-under-section-66a-of-it-act-101626264841922.html
15-07-2021||India||India suggests 3-point Afghanistan road map at SCO Group meeting||India on Wednesday presented a three-point road map for an end state in Afghanistan, including cessation of violence and attacks, and a political dialogue for a settlement which ensures that countries in the region aren’t threatened by terrorism and extremism.External affairs minister S Jaishankar presented the Indian view at a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Contact Group on Afghanistan in the Tajikistan capital. Against the backdrop of a sustained campaign by the Taliban to capture territory and border crossings, he said the world community is against the “seizure of power by violence and force” and wouldn’t “legitimise such actions”.Earlier, Jaishankar took part in a meeting of SCO foreign ministers in Dushanbe, which was dominated by the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan, and called on members of the grouping to act against terrorism and terror financing.“The world, region and the Afghan people all want the same end state: 1. An independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous nation,” Jaishankar said in a string of tweets after the SCO Contact Group meeting as he outlined the three-point road map.“2, ceasing violence and terrorist attacks against civilians and state representatives, settle conflict through political dialogue, and respect interests of all ethnic groups; and 3, ensure that neighbours are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism,” he said.Jaishankar noted the challenge would be to “act seriously and sincerely on these beliefs” because “there are forces at work with a very different agenda”. He added: “The world is against seizure of power by violence and force. It will not legitimise such actions.”He also offered suggestions for the future course of negotiations to find a settlement in Afghanistan, saying there would have to be a compromise between approaches involving countries such as Qatar, Russia and Turkey.“Peace negotiations in earnest is the only answer. An acceptable compromise that reflects Doha process, Moscow format and Istanbul process is essential,” he said.In line with New Delhi’s consistent demand for preserving the gains made by Kabul in the past two decades, Jaishankar said: “The future of Afghanistan cannot be its past. A whole new generation has different expectations. We should not let them down.”Jaishankar participated in the two meetings with his counterparts from the SCO states – China, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. The meetings were also attended by representatives from countries with observer status with SCO, including Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-presents-3-point-roadmap-for-afghanistan-opposes-seizure-of-power-by-force-101626263219515.html
15-07-2021||India||India cases of stroke, headache and epilepsy more than doubled in 30 yrs: Lancet||The rate of non-communicable neurological disorders and neurological injuries (of the total disease burden) has more than doubled -- from 4% to 8.2% -- between 1990 and 2019 in the country, finds the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative in a new scientific paper published in The Lancet Global Health.Stroke (37.9%), headache disorders (17.5%), and epilepsy (11.3%) are the leading contributors to neurological disorders burden in India, with stroke having caused 699,000 deaths in India in 2019, which was 7.4% of the total deaths in the country. Stroke also caused 68% of deaths due to neurological disorders, followed by Alzheimer’s and other dementias (12%), and encephalitis (5%).According to the paper, the total neurological disorders burden due to non-communicable disorders is 82.8%; 11.2% is due to communicable and 6% is injury-related disorders. The paper provides the first comprehensive estimates of disease burden from neurological disorders and their trends in every state of India from 1990 to 2019.These neurological disorders include non- communicable neurological disorders (stroke, headache disorders, epilepsy, cerebral palsy, Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias, brain and central nervous system cancer, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, motor neuron diseases, and other neurological disorders), communicable neurological disorders (encephalitis, meningitis, and tetanus), and injury-related neurological disorders (traumatic brain injuries and spinal cord injuries).Also Read | Lancet sets out ‘flexible’ vaccination strategy for India, says outreach is key“While communicable diseases contributed to the majority of total neurological disorders burden in children younger than 5 years, non-communicable neurological disorders were the highest contributor in all other age groups,” said the paper.It mentioned that among the known risk factors for neurological disorders burden, high blood pressure, air pollution, dietary risks, high fasting plasma glucose, and high body-mass index are the leading contributors.“The analysis in this paper highlights key issues related to trends of neurological disorders in the states of India. Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder in India. While the prevalence of epilepsy has increased over the past three decades, it is gratifying to note that India has made some gains in reducing premature deaths and morbidity of people with epilepsy over this period by reducing treatment gaps,” said Gagandeep Singh, professor, Dayanand Medical College, and the first author of the paper.“There is, however, a need to scale up treatment coverage of epilepsy in governmental schemes such as the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram and Ayushman Bharat. Policies and practices focusing on safe births, preventing head injury and stroke would help in averting a substantial proportion of epilepsies,” he added.“As the burden of an increase in neurological disorders faces our population it is high time that prevention and early management which are key in reduction in neurological burden are galvanised. On the prevention slide simple lifestyle modifications like a healthy diet, healthy oils, no smoking, blood pressure control, diabetes prevention, and management weight control by walking; avoiding refined foods like maida, sugar etc.; staying physically active; managing obstructive sleep apnea; and reducing stress etc. ,” said Dr Manjari Tripathi, professor, department of neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. She is also a co-author of the study paper.“Early treatment can save irreversible damage be it from stroke, epilepsy, status epilepticus etc as time is crucial, with neurons (nerve cells) once lost do not replenish and regain function again,” added Dr Tripathi.The paper is a collaborative effort between the Indian Council of Medical Research, Public Health Foundation of India, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, and a number of other key stakeholders in India, including academic experts and institutions, government agencies and other organisations, under the aegis of the ministry of health and family welfare. At least 300 leading scientists and experts representing about 100 institutions across India are engaged with this collaborative work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-stroke-headache-epilepsy-more-than-doubled-in-last-30-years-in-india-lancet-study-101626243838382.html
15-07-2021||India||LeT commander among 3 killed in J&K encounter||Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander was among three terrorists killed in a gunfight with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Wednesday, police said. The exchange of fire was the latest in a series of gunbattles this month as security forces have intensified counter-insurgency operations and killed at least eight terrorists.Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar identified the LeT commander as Aijaz alias Abu Huraira and added that the two others, Javed Rather and Shahnawaz Gani, were local terrorists. “Congratulations to police and security forces,” said Kumar.The Army said the gunbattle started after midnight when a joint party of police, Rashtriya Rifles, and the Central Reserve Police Force started searches following inputs about the presence of terrorists in Pulwama’s New Colony.“As the troops were laying cordon at 1.20am, terrorists opened fire on the troops and tried to escape. Alert troops immediately returned fire and trapped the fleeing terrorists in a house,” said Army’s public relations officer Lt Col Emron Musavi. He said a call for surrender was given but the terrorists fired indiscriminately.He added that two AK-47s, a pistol, and other “war-like stores” were recovered after eight-hour long operation.Police said clashes between locals and security forces were also reported from the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-militants-including-pak-let-commander-killed-in-gunfight-in-pulwama-101626237418353.html
15-07-2021||India||Why Prashant Kishor met Priyanka, Rahul Gandhi||Election strategist Prashant Kishor met with the Congress’s Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday for nearly an hour, setting off wild speculation about everything from reconciliation in Punjab between warring factions of the party, through a common opposition candidate for the 2022 Presidential election, to a united front in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.The Congress, whose general secretary KC Venugopal was also present during the meeting, declined to comment. In response to a query on whether he was helping put together an opposition alliance, Kishor would only say: “all speculation”. Still, each of the theories -- some put forth by Congress leaders themselves -- was plausible.Prashant Kishor, after all, is Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s adviser (if only informal), and Tuesday’s meetings came five days after he met with the CM. The Congress’s central leadership has been trying to resolve a crisis in the Punjab unit, largely driven by party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ambitions for himself and antipathy towards the chief minister. A dissident group has coalesced around Sidhu, driven by what is seen as the chief minister’s non-delivery of poll promises (in 2017), friendliness towards the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal, and overreliance on bureaucrats at the cost of exclusion of lawmakers. A decision on a resolution is believed to be imminent (Singh met with Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last week), as is a rejig of the party’s Punjab unit.Yet, people familiar with the matter said Tuesday’s meeting was not about that.Some top functionaries of the Congress said on condition of anonymity that the meeting was focused on strategies for the 2024 national polls and how to forge unity between opposition parties. HT learns that in the past few months, Kishor has met senior leaders across parties and wants to, according to one of the people cited above, “play a larger role” in getting a grouping going. Prashant Kishor’s stature as a poll strategist skyrocketed after the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress swept the West Bengal election this May; he also consulted with Tamil Nadu’s MK Stalin, whose DMK won the state elections in May; and he has met with NCP’s Sharad Pawar more than once in recent weeks. The person cited above added that Kishor is of the view that the Congress has to be part of such a grouping -- but there’s no telling whether a united front is even on his mind. After all, speaking to HT last month after meeting Pawar, he said: ”I don’t believe that any third or fourth front can defeat Narendra Modi so I would not be part of any such coalition.”A second Congress leader said Prashant Kishor discussed the Presidential election of 2022, pointing out that the BJP may well end up short of the number of lawmakers needed to elect the country’s first citizen, and that a united opposition could embarrass the government by having its candidate elected.Tuesday’s meeting is the first major one between Rahul Gandhi and Prashant Kishor after the debacle in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, when a Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance advised by Kishor flopped. The strategist has maintained that it’s the one blot in his copybook. He has also maintained that the Bengal and Tamil Nadu campaigns were his last as he is going to step back and leave the poll strategy business to others in his company. Still, it is a fact that he has been up and about since the results were announced, meeting most parties and leaders of consequence. The second leader referred to Kishor as a “sutradhar” , literally, thread-holder, meaning a narrator who holds the plot together.Only, the plot, if there is one at all, isn’t clear yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speculations-rife-as-prashant-kishor-meets-gandhis-101626200757683.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Bangalore Talkies: Gang violence and the new Bengaluru reality||In a story worthy of a Rajinikanth thriller, two women – sisters in law at that – are the main players in a grisly gang murder.On June 24, in the old Bengaluru area of Cottonpete, former councillor Rekha Kadiresh, slated to win the upcoming city council polls, was stabbed to death 17 times on a crowded street in broad daylight.Within a day, using CCTV footage, the Bengaluru police arrested five people, including Lambu Peter, who allegedly perpetrated the deed. They also arrested Mala Rajkannan, the ganglord of the area.The plot gets thicker. Mala is the sister of Rekha’s late husband, Kadiresh, himself a rowdy charge-sheeter who was hacked to death two years ago in front of a temple.Kadiresh was the ward councillor of a small but vibrant area in Cottonpete. When the ward was set aside for female candidates, his wife Rekha took over and became a popular and powerful player, negotiating deals for lucrative contracts with the garbage and construction mafia. She was going to contest and win the upcoming city council elections.The trouble began when she tried to distance herself from her husband’s family, all of whom migrated from Tamil Nadu and set up a powerful nexus of gangs that indulged in power, politics and the police. Mala wanted her own daughter-in-law to run for the seat Rekha was contesting.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Infighting in apartment complexesWhen Rekha paid no heed to Mala’s demands, the latter took out a “contract” to get her killed. A power struggle between two hardened women – Mala and Rekha– is how this is being described by the cops.In press statements, the Cottonpete police have said that Mala is a hard nut to crack, because she has been in and out of jail for several decades – supplying marijuana to prisoners, dealing drugs, collecting bribes and wielding power.This story is a far cry from how Kannada women are portrayed by the two giants of Kannada literature: Kuvempu and Shivarama Karanth. Both offered nuanced takes on women and how they wield power in their works. In his novels, Kanooru Heggadathi (The House of Kanooru) and Malegalila Madumagalu (The bride of the rainy mountains), Kuvempu portrayed women as creatures of circumstance. Many of his heroines are caught as the daughters-in-law of feudal households.They slowly learn to make their way and get their way in their homes and society. With names like Seethe, Subbamma, Nagamma, and Lakshmi, these women inhabit the fertile hills and valleys of Uttara (North) Karnataka, as members of large households led by idealistic men. Their grasp of power is circumscribed and circuitous, not as fierce and clear-cut as women in political power in Karnataka today.Karanth’s leanings in his novels are generally pro-women, and more generally pro-underdog. His novel, Mai Mangala Suliyalli (The Woman of Basrur) speaks of the world of a courtesan and how she approaches sexuality without a shadow of prudishness.The women who inhabit the worlds both Karanth and Kuvempu described bear little resemblance to the rough and tumble politics of today’s Karnataka, and the raw belligerence of women politicians such as Shobha Karandlage.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Have you exited a WhatsApp group lately?It is no secret that the world has trouble with women wielding power. Culturally, Indians are more comfortable with the Rabri Devi model, where the husband is the power behind the throne. In Bengaluru, Ulsoor ward corporator Mamatha Saravana has photos of her husband on election posters while she demurely folds her hands in a namaste. This is true all over Bengaluru, where 50 per cent of the BBMP ward seats are reserved for women. Against this backdrop, what to make of women like Rekha and Mala? Do you have a sneaking admiration for them for being as “bad” as the men? Or do you think of them as bad apples in a sea of demure Bharatiya-naaris?When author Gillian Flynn wrote her blockbuster novel Gone Girl, in which the heroine is a scheming Machiavellian woman, who frames her husband for murder, she said that she was tired of women being portrayed as neat and nice. She wanted to showcase heroines who were evil, fierce, scheming and with a killer instinct. She wanted to portray women as Kali instead of Lakshmi, in other words.India has sanitised our women goddesses into benevolent Lakshmis and Saraswatis. Save for Kerala with its “Bhagavathi” cult and West Bengal, the fierceness and rage has been taken out of our women goddesses. In real life too, girls are raised to be tame of temperament. The only way to counter this is to get more women into power, something that organisations like Shakti are attempting to do. Perhaps, if we have 50 per cent of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) seat occupied by women who actually wield power, then women like Rekha and Mala would not have to scramble for one seat.Shoba Narayan is Bengaluru-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bangalore-talkies-gang-violence-and-the-new-bengaluru-reality-101626352628994.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Mohan Bhagwat’s Muslim outreach and the logic of engagement||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s recent address to the Muslims struck a welcome note, through a reaffirmation of the first principles of the Indian Constitution — faith equality, inclusiveness and accommodation. He also laid out a common ground for Hindu-Muslim unity based on three fundamentals common to Hindus and Muslims of India — motherland, tradition and ancestors.Bhagwat’s speech was an attempt to allay fears on two emerging narratives — that “Islam is in danger in India” and that the “Sangh is against minorities”. If misguided followers take heed from their leader, it will be much easier to allay such apprehensions.Before Bhagwat, RSS joint general secretary, Krishna Gopal, remarked that Indian Muslims, with a population of over 160 million, have nothing to fear, while highlighting that other minority communities, with much smaller numbers, feel secure in India.Also Read | CJI Ramana stands for libertyWhy is there a debate on Muslims being “afraid” in the first place? For Indian Muslims, this question perhaps merits another question — is the idea of minority and majority a mere quantification of numbers?Throughout history, Muslims in India have never been in a majority. But their political power has been incredibly disproportionate to their numerical limitations. For instance, in British colonial Hyderabad, Muslim population was roughly 12%. But Muslims did not consider themselves a minority as long as political power manifested in empowerment through affirmative action in employment, bureaucracy and other instruments of the State.In a Constitutional democracy driven by good governance and individual freedom, minority and majority should not be an estimation of numbers, rather an estimation of empowerment. In sync with this thinking, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the Muslim community at the centenary celebrations of AMU last year, chose the variables of empowerment — female education, economic self-reliance, employment and entrepreneurship.Indian Muslims realise the value of peaceful coexistence and composite culture. They understand that division of national boundaries on the grounds of religion has no sanction in Islam, which is a value system for shaping the soul, and not a tool of political empowerment. Pakistan’s dependence on Islam as a basis for national unity could not come to its rescue and save it from division in 1971. Even in the Arab world, a common language, civilisation and religion among its inhabitants could not create “national unity”.Also Read | Can we use HMIS numbers to estimate unrecorded Covid-19 deaths?The founding fathers of the Constitution were aware that India’s distinctive identity lies in a paradox — while no nation seems to be as truly made, geographically, for unity as India, it also has as much potential for disunity. And in between the poles of unity and disunity lie pitfalls — misinterpreted history, Partition, and foreign rule. The solution in negotiating the pitfalls lie in ideals of unity in diversity, religious tolerance, and composite culture.Bhagwat emphasised the importance of dialogue in promoting national unity. Interestingly, he played down the role of politics in fostering unity, and suggested that politics can be inimical in this. “There are some works that politics can’t do... Politics can’t become a tool to unite people but can become a weapon to distort unity.”The first criticism, questioning the sincerity of his remarks, came from the political class, with Asaduddin Owaisi attributing “Hindutva thinking” as the reason for atrocities against Muslims. A notable reciprocation of Bhagwat’s olive branch of engagement with Muslims came from the Aligarh Muslim University Vice-Chancellor, Tariq Mansoor, who not only urged the Muslims to reciprocate, but also suggested that AMU be a platform for this engagement.Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, 19th-century social reformer and AMU founder, in his quest for a “Muslim” university in colonial India, exemplified the value of working on an agenda of reform in which “political exigencies should not be impeded by emotional idealism”. Whether Muslims choose “emotional idealism” or “exigency of engagement” will have a bearing on their fortunes.Mohammad Nasir is an assistant professor of law at Aligarh Muslim UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/mohan-bhagwat-s-muslim-outreach-and-the-logic-of-engagement-101626351067779.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Finally, a national maritime sherpa||India’s long neglected maritime domain is poised to be rewired with the appointment of a national maritime security coordinator (NMSC) who, it is understood, will be the principal adviser to the government on issues pertaining to the maritime security domain. The NMSC will be part of a vertical that will work under the national security adviser (NSA) and will hopefully enable the much needed macro harmonisation of the many different ministries and departments at the Centre as well as coastal states that currently regulate and manage India’s vast maritime spectrum.This is a welcome, albeit long-delayed, initiative. The need to have such an entity overseeing maritime affairs in a holistic manner was mooted in the aftermath of the 26/11 terror attack on Mumbai in November 2008. The tragic sequence of events at that time pointed to a complete lack of timely coordination between the Centre and the state (in that case, Maharashtra) in effectively responding to a major national security threat.It is a reflection of the glacial pace at which policy correctives are introduced in the national security domain that it has taken 13 years for this proposal to acquire tentative traction. Reports suggest that cabinet approval for this post will soon be accorded.While coastal security did receive considerable attention and infusion of funds, particularly for the Coast Guard (CG), after 26/11, the need to harmonise the military aspect of coastal security is still a work in progress and the state maritime police units are yet to acquire the necessary capabilities. The recent dissonance between the Navy and the CG will also need redress. Also Watch | Indian marine commandos’ military drill in Gulf region onboard INS TarkasThe fine print of the charter of duties and responsibilities that will devolve on the NMSC will provide more detail about what is envisioned but some broad observations merit attention. Post 26/11, a proposal was mooted for instituting a Maritime Security Adviser (MSA) to be tenanted by a senior naval officer. However, this proposal did the rounds of Delhi’s legendary bureaucratic labyrinth and gradually went off the policy radar. It is understood that the word adviser did not elicit much endorsement at the time, for it seemed to be proximate to that of the NSA. The maritime sector did receive attention during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee era under the rubric of Sagarmala in 2003 but remained tentative. Subsequently, a national maritime development plan (NMDP) was unveiled by the United Progressive Alliance government in 2005 but this also did not revitalise the sector as planned. The lackadaisical approach to the potential of the oceans continued.To his credit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accorded the maritime domain special focus in his first term and, in 2015, coined the acronym SAGAR (security and growth for all in the region) during an Indian ocean island tour. However, this statement of intent needed a robust infrastructure to realise this vision but the bench strength of the cabinet in Modi 1.0 and the frequent change in defence ministers (four incumbents in a five-year term) were impediments.However, in recent years, there has been a renewed focus on the maritime sector under the aegis of the Niti Aayog and this policy focus on the potential of India’s blue economy is encouraging. The challenge will be in successfully implementing the blue-print and this is where the proposed NMSC could be a catalyst.On the face of it, the proposal for a principal adviser whose mandate refers to maritime security appears to be an overlap with the current higher defence management. Currently, the chief of naval staff (CNS) has this onerous responsibility. This is now being refined and rearranged with the creation of the post of the chief of defence staff (CDS) and the theatre commanders. A major national security transformation is now on the policy anvil.Also Read | CJI Ramana stands for libertyIt may be presumed that the NMSC will address the larger spectrum of maritime security in its more holistic definition, for a nation’s comprehensive maritime security (CMS) is much wider than that of hard military/naval security. The latter is part of the geo-strategic and geo-political basket and with the focus on Indo-Pacific and emergence of Quad, this will continue to gain traction. The other two facets of CMS include the geo-economic (trade, energy, fishing, sea-bed mining et al) and the geo-physical (the environmental and ecological determinants subsumed as the health of the oceans).India’s dependence on the seas and oceans is vast and while trade, connectivity, energy and fishing strands are reasonably well known, the cyber dimension is often ignored. The global cyber-digital connectivity is enabled by a vast maze of underwater cables, as much as it is by infrastructure on terra-firma and the atmosphere leading into space.Thus, the NMSC will have to review and manage this wide spectrum of maritime challenges and opportunities. The skill of the first coordinator will be critical in revitalising India’s moribund maritime sector.One statistic is telling. India aspires to be a major economy and a leading power but it does not have a single major port that makes it to the top 30 globally by way of total cargo handled and the port efficiency index.Indian maritime professionals have bemoaned the fact that their expertise is not harnessed by the policymakers in Delhi and the most competent punctuate the global maritime ecosystem. One hopes that the national maritime sherpa aka NMSC will be the trigger pulse to make SAGAR a reality and judiciously harness India’s vast oceanic potential. Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar is director of Society for Policy Studies and served as the director of the National Maritime Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/finally-a-national-maritime-sherpa-101626349928117.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Racism and Communalism||If you are interested in sport, then you probably watched the Euro finals a few days ago. As football games go, the match between England and Italy at London’s Wembley stadium was not overly exciting (it had to be settled on the basis of a penalty shoot-out) but it has attracted much more attention because of its aftermath.Three black England players missed the goal in their penalty kicks thereby conceding the match (and the championship) to Italy. Naturally, this led to disappointment and gloom all across England. But there was also a horrifying fall-out.Anyone who follows football will tell you that English fans are among the worst-behaved in the world. Even so, the crowd disgraced itself at Wembley. The fans booed the Italian national anthem, they broke through police barriers to enter the stadium without tickets and violence and robbery followed. (Thousands of them also ritually massacred Neil Diamond’s Sweet Caroline from the stands but, compared to what followed, this was not such a big deal).When it was clear that England had lost the match, there was an explosion of racist abuse directed at the black players who had missed the goal. There is a great deal of racism in all European football but even by those standards, the kind of abuse that the players were subjected to on social media was horrific and frankly, terrifying.The hatred reached such levels that Prime Minister Boris Johnson felt compelled to call it out, as did Prince William who issued a statement condemning the racism .All over England, there was a sense of shock and horror at the explosion of racist hatred.It is not my case that the United Kingdom (UK) is more racist than the rest of Europe. Its Conservative government has many brown and black people on its front bench and there is more equality of opportunity now than ever beforeMy point is that, as horrifying as the hatred was, it was gratifying to see the British establishment, all the way from Downing Street to the Palace, come out unitedly to condemn it. As devastated as the black players were by the hatred, they must have been somewhat reassured by the response from decent, non-racist ordinary Brits who rushed to make amends for the abuse and prejudice on Twitter and other social media.There are few clear parallels between racist hatred in England and communal hatred in India. British racism probably has its roots in the country’s unhappy history as an imperial power and a slave trader. Brits have been brought up --- till relatively recently --- to regard people of colour as being somehow inferior to white people. Even those who don’t believe in racial superiority know that race can always be used as a powerful weapon against black and brown people.In India, on the other hand, while there is no history of Hindus regarding themselves as superior to Muslims, a deep-rooted resentment towards Muslims has always existed within sections of the Hindu community. Equally, there has been a certain amount of prejudice among sections of the Muslim community as well, which is why we have a history of communal violence.In recent years, this hatred has become more and more visible. Hindus are encouraged to resent Muslims because their ancestors rooted for Pakistan. (One of the ironies of Hindus communalism is that people who hate Muslims regard Partition as an event that damaged Hindu pride. In fact, if there had been no Partition, there would have been millions more Muslims in India and Hindu dominance would have been harder to establish than it is today).If the Pakistan argument does not work, then communalists dig even further back in history to blame today’s Muslims for the sins of Aurangzeb or Allauddin Khilji.ALSO READ | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Amarinder and AdityanathThe increase in hatred in India in recent years has partly been politically encouraged but mostly it has become more visible because of the growth of social media. Read WhatsApp forwards or go on Twitter and the reams of abuse and the hate-filled posts directed at Muslims will shock any decent person.We can argue about what came first--the hatred or social media. My view is that some of the hatred was always there but social media provided a perfect outlet and multiplier. As the prejudice spread through smart phones, it magnified in scope and intensity.You just have to look at the hatred directed at Muslim movie stars on Twitter to recognise that our problem vastly exceeds anything they have in the UK. And while the explosions of abuse in the UK are usually triggered by specific events (such as the Euro final), hatred is a regular phenomenon on Indian social media, one that needs no specific event to set it off.My point is not just that social media amplifies hatred. We all know that. Nor am I saying that there are lakhs of hate-filled bigots in today’s India. We know that too.It’s sad. It’s tragic . But there it is.My real concern is that we do not do what the UK has done in the aftermath of the Euro incidents. As disturbing as the hatred was, it was heart warming to see the more decent elements of civil society reach out to reassure those who were targeted by the abusers that the hatred came from a small number of people and that the majority of the country condemned the racists.Nothing like that ever happens in India. The bigots and the haters act as though they have political sanction. Nobody in a position of power and influence condemns them. Nobody reaches out to the targets of the hatred and abuse. When we do talk about the danger of social media, the focus is on avoiding criticism of the government on Twitter.Like most people, I was appalled by the hatred that followed the Euro final. But I was heartened by the response from the very top of the British establishment and from civil society as a whole.Sad to say, it doesn’t happen here. So the hatred grows. The alienation increases. Communities are even more divided. And each day it gets worse.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-racism-and-communalism-after-the-euro-final-101626346584914.html
15-07-2021||Today's||Branson, Bezos and the frontiers of outer space||On July 11, noted British businessman, Richard Branson beat his American rival and Amazon founder, Jeff Bezos, to the edge of space. Aboard his company Virgin Galactic’s VSS Unity, Branson and his crew of five, successfully completed a sub-orbital flight to 86 kilometres above mean sea level and back.Bezos is scheduled to take his own company Blue Origin’s Blue Shepard vehicle into space a mere nine days later (July 20) to mark the anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing. Bezos has repeatedly emphasised the point of departure from Branson’s mission, in that his flight will pass the Karman line, an imaginary line 100 kilometres above the mean sea level that is regarded by many as the boundary where outer space begins.The feud between the billionaires has reignited the decades-old debate on the precise demarcation between the frontiers of air and space.Also Read | Jeff Bezos spaceflight: US approves Blue Origin license ahead of crewed voyageApart from flattering the egos of the concerned billionaires, the question of whether these sub-orbital flights advertised as “space flights” actually fly into space carries important regulatory consequences. The answer to the question determines the applicable legal framework, which are based on fundamentally divergent premises and can lead to potentially different outcomes.The legal regime governing outer space, which has developed as a distinct body within international law, after the launch of Sputnik 1 in 1957, is composed principally of five multilateral treaties negotiated during the Cold War era, including the framework 1967 Outer Space Treaty. During this period, the idea of private participation in space was thought to be inconceivable. The regime is premised on the idea, which is reflected in the treaties, that outer space is free for exploration by all States; not subject to national appropriation; and must be used peacefully.In contrast, by the time of Sputnik-1 launch, there was a well-defined body of rules governing commercial air travel, notably the Chicago and Warsaw Conventions. The legal regime was premised on the basis that air space constitutes an extension of the territory of the State over which it exercises complete and exclusive sovereignty.This distinction has important practical consequences, in so far as vehicle can enter a State’s airspace only with its consent and is subject to its domestic laws. On the other hand, a vehicle, once it enters outer space, is no longer subject to national sovereignty and enjoys the freedom to explore space as accorded by the space treaties.The applicable rules concerning both passenger liability and third party liability are different across the two regimes. Under international aviation law, there are multilateral treaties such as the Montreal and Rome Convention, which provide for liability of carriers for passenger injury or death and liability of operators for damage on the surface caused by the aircraft.In contrast, under the antiquated space treaties, following the “State-oriented” model, the liability is imposed on the launching State for third party damage caused by a space object, whereas there exists no possibility of space tourists to claim compensation for injury or death. It is therefore not surprising that in view of the growing private participation in space, a number of States have enacted legislations which enable them to pass on the financial responsibility to private actors.Despite the fundamentally different premise governing air travel, the drafters of the outer space treaties, including the principal 1967 Outer Space Treaty could not agree on any particular definition of outer space.Accordingly, from a legal perspective, it was not clear where the frontier of space begins or more precisely, where air ends and space begins. For many years, prior to private participation in space activities and the evolution of reusable suborbital flights, this lack of a precise delimitation did not lead to any practical problems. The fact that major space faring states such as the United States found it to be in their security interest to not have a precise delimitation also led to an agnostic position on the issue.However, this is not to suggest that attempts at a precise delimitation have not been made. Various proposals have been discussed at demarcating air and space. In the 1950s, noted Hungarian physicist, Von Karman, on the basis of atmospheric calculations, proposed a boundary that was rounded off to an altitude of 100 km above mean sea level. The 100 km boundary has accordingly become synonymous with the Karman line and the has been incorporated by some countries, such as Australia, in their domestic space legislations. Other proposals have sought to place the boundary at the lower perigee of an orbiting satellite ranging from 160 km to 100 km above mean sea level. More recently, Von Karman’s work has been revisited and it has been suggested that the actual boundary fixed by Karman was closer to approximately 84km above sea level.Fixing any such boundary, however, is not without its own set of opponents. Too high a boundary might impede the peaceful exploration of outer space and too low a boundary may bring its own set of security concerns.Nevertheless, with the advent of commercial space tourism, it may no longer be sustainable to leave the issue of delimitation of air and space undetermined. Given the proposal to begin regular private sub-orbital space flights by 2022, it may be an opportune time to revisit and finally decide the delimitation between air and space. It is important to appreciate that apart from the practical issues of navigation and liability that arise in the context of space flight, a variety of connected regulatory issues ranging from taxation to intellectual property would gain clarity, with the definitive demarcation of air and outer space.Jay Manoj Sanklecha is a Mumbai-based advocate specialising in public international lawThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/branson-bezos-and-the-frontiers-of-outer-space-101626339547067.html
