23-07-2021||News||Covid-19: The economy is recovering but will have to deal with inequality||India’s macro-economic prospects look far better now than they did just a few months ago. Daily new cases of Covid-19 continue to fall, despite a sharp rise in mobility and business resumption indices. International petroleum prices have fallen significantly during the course of this month. An Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) deal to gradually increase production might have significantly reduced the threat of any reversal in this trend. The south-west monsoon has revived itself after a brief but concerning period of dry spell, bringing good news for agricultural production.These are all favourable developments for the economy. But do they mean that the economy is finally shedding the effects of the pandemic’s disruption? While lockdowns per se might not be a threat anymore — unless there is a third wave — the patient (economy) might still have to deal with significant post Covid-19 complications. Ignoring these issues can prove to be costly in the long-term.First the good news... The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) reached 96.4 in the week ending July 18. A NIBRI value of 100 indicates pre-pandemic levels of economic activity. The latest value of NIBRI is the highest since the February 28 value of 98.1, and it underscores the V-shaped recovery in economic activity after the second wave peaked.Also Read | Inflation targeting and the Indian economyNumbers speak for themselves. The lowest value of NIBRI during the second wave was 60.3 on May 23, 2021. This is comparable to the NIBRI value of 61 in the week ending June 7, 2020. While NIBRI has gained 36.1 points in the eight weeks since May 23, 2021, it gained only 9.3 weeks in the eight weeks after June 7, 2020.Also, daily new cases were increasing, not decreasing in 2020. Unless there is a third wave, the economic prospects for the quarter ending September 2021 look good at the moment. A revival in monsoon rainfall after a dry spell is expected to generate tailwinds for the farm sector.… even on the oil frontPetrol, diesel prices have not increased for seven and nine consecutive days respectively as of July 23. This is the longest spell on petroleum prices not rising since May 3, after the freeze on prices coinciding with the state election cycle was removed. While prices are still at record levels, the fact that they have not risen is definitely good news.This period of stability in oil prices has come after OPEC reached a deal to increase oil production by 400,000 barrels per day until the pre-pandemic levels are restored.To be sure, crude oil prices did recover some of their losses on July 21. “Crude slumped on Monday in tandem with broader financial markets on fears that the spread of the coronavirus’ delta variant would inflict a fresh blow on the global economy...Since then, the market has been on the mend as traders anticipate that OPEC+’s scheduled output increases aren’t large enough to avert a shortfall in coming months. Sentiment has been boosted as U.S. government data showed oil inventories at the nation’s key storage hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, falling to the lowest since January 2020”, a Bloomberg story said.The OPEC deal raised hopes that crude oil prices will not increase significantly, even if they do not come down in the near future. It remains to be seen whether crude prices stabilise at the current levels or not. Any significant relief in prices will of course require a reduction in taxes on petrol-diesel.But bigger firms are growing at the cost of smaller ones An analysis published on July 21 in the Business Standard newspaper has pointed towards rising market concentration in key sectors of the economy in the pandemic year. The analysis has looked at Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) for sectors such as steel, cement, telecom, aviation and tyres to show a rise in market share in 2020-21. HHI is the sum of squares of the market share (in whole numbers) of firms in a particular industry. So, HHI will be 10000 in a monopoly and just 100 if 100 firms had a share of one each in a market.A rise in HHI is not the only red flag towards rising market concentration in the Indian economy. A report dated July 15 by Pranjul Bahndari, chief India economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets also pointed towards this fact.“We look closely at the constituent companies of the FTSE index, which by design, belong to the ‘formal sector’. We find that historically, nominal GDP growth has been a good indicator of the formal sector corporate sales. But during demonetization, and also the pandemic period, formal corporate sales overshot nominal GDP growth. We believe this means that some demand, which was previously catered to by the informal sector, began to be catered by the formal sector”, the report says.The Indian economy started losing momentum after the back-to-back (formalisation) shocks of demonetisation and Goods and Services Tax rollout. The reasons for this are not very difficult to understand. The rich tend to save more of their additional incomes than the poor. When income distribution shifts away from the poor to the rich, consumption demand faces headwinds, which lead to a growth slowdown.We will only have the GDP estimates for the quarter ending June 2021 in last week of August. There is a long time to go before arriving at any meaningful estimates of GDP growth in 2021-22. The inequality threat might not matter for GDP growth in the current quarter or even the current year. But, if not arrested with a policy intervention, it will definitely have an adverse impact on India’s long-term growth prospects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid19-the-economy-is-recovering-but-will-have-to-deal-with-inequality-101627028106235.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||PF scam: Nearly 2 years on, PCL yet to get back money from DHFL||Running from court to tribunal for last two years, the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) has not got back even a single penny yet of the balance ₹2,267 crore of the employees’ provident fund (PF) it allegedly illegally invested as fixed deposits (FDs) in the Diwan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL)—a Mumbai-based private company that has declared itself broke since. Barring three of the total 117 FDs deposited in the DHFL between March 2017 and December 2018 have already attained maturity and the last one worth ₹5 crore will also mature next month on August 6 without the corporation getting anything. “There remains the status quo as far as getting the money back from the DFL is concerned,” UPPCL Contributory Provident Fund Trust secretary SK Awasthi confirmed. “The Mumbai high court has referred the case to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and we are urging the tribunal to direct the DHFL to pay the money back to us,” Awasthi said. The Trust invested ₹2631.20 crore from the employees’ GPF and ₹1491.15 from the CPF into the Diwan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFCL) allegedly in exchange of commission flouting the Central government’s investment guidelines. Only a few days after the PF scam surfaced in early November 2019 creating ripples in the state’s political and bureaucratic circles, the UPPCL approached the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for help to get the money back with due interest from the insolvent DHFL and on RBI’s advice it moved the Mumbai high court. The court, according to people aware of the matter, could not take up the case due to the Covid-19 pandemic that followed and when it heard the case a few weeks ago, it referred the same case to the NCLT for adjudication. A statement on the details of investment made by the UPPCL CPF Trust on August 6, 2020, shows that the first four FDs of ₹10 crore each invested in the DHFL matured October 7, 2019, and FDs of different amounts continue to mature every month the last one will mature on August 6. On one hand, the corporation has got no money back from the DHFL, the CBI that took over the case from state’s economic offences wing (EOW) a few weeks after the scam was unearthed, has not been able file the charge sheet in the case on the other. “Taking so much time by the CBI in filing the charge sheet in this high-profile case casts doubts over whether the accused named in the FIR are the real culprits or there is something more to the scam than meets the eye,” former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur hinted. The Allahabad high court on July 13 granted bail to former UPPCL managing director and one of the prime accused in the PF scam after he was put in jail around two years ago on the charges of criminal conspiracy. The court set him free on bail on the ground of accused-applicant’s bad health and lack of credible evidence against him. “The C.B.I. has been investigating the offence for almost two years. The accused-applicant is 70 years old and has been suffering from various ailments including heart ailment. Except for few documents allegedly signed by him, authorising investment in PNB Housing, LIC Housing and DHFL, there is no document on record regarding his involvement in the commission of the offence,” Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh said in his order granting the bail to Mishra. The court further pointed out in the order that the co-accused-Abhinav Gupta in his statement given to the police had stated that around ₹30 crore commission was obtained from DHFL and this commission was divided amongst the accused-applicant, his father, PK Gupta and Sudhanshu Dwivedi, but the CBI, it stressed, had not been able to unearth so far any money trail involving the accused-applicant to have received part of the commission allegedly given by the DHFL or the PNB Housing Company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pf-scam-nearly-2-years-on-pcl-yet-to-get-back-money-from-dhfl-101627064828961.html
23-07-2021||Other||CISCE to declare Class 10, 12 results on Saturday||New Delhi: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) will announce results of classes 10 and 12 at 3pm on Saturday. “The results of the class 10 (ICSE) and class 12 (ISC) for year 2021 will be declared on Saturday, July 24 at 3pm. The results will be made available on the website of the Council and through SMS,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE.Candidates can check their scores on the board’s portal and through SMS, officials said, adding that affiliated schools can also check school-wise scores through “Careers Portal” of the Council.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the council had cancelled its class 10 and 12 examination and results will be declared as per an alternative assessment policy tabulated on the basis of internal tests and previous performances of students. “Recheck of answer scripts is not applicable for 2021 examination as candidates have been awarded imputed marks,” Arathoon said in the notice released Friday.However, if candidates object to the scores, they can write to their schools, stating the objection in detail. Schools will then have to forward the application to the council after reviewing them and adding their comments on the candidate’s contentions. The last date for forwarding such requests is August 1. “This dispute resolution mechanism is only for the correction of calculation errors,” Arathoon added.Delhi only has one school affiliated to the council. Most schools in the Capital are affilitated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) which is also expected to declare its class 10 and 12 results by the end of this month.Like CBSE, the council will follow a moderation policy to ensure standardisation and check for inflation of marks. CISCE has allowed schools to moderate marks as per their best performance over the last six years though CBSE allows schools to choose reference year from the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cisceto-declare-class-10-12-results-on-saturday-101627064710026.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||ICSE, ISC Board results to be announced today||The 2021 results of class 10 (ICSE) and class 12 (ISC) will be declared on Saturday (July 24) at 3 pm, said a press release issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), New Delhi, on Friday.This year the board did not conduct any examination and students’ academic performance was evaluated on the basis of their pre-board exams and internal assessments.“The results of the ICSE and ISC 2021 will be made available on the website of the council. The tabulation registers will be made available for schools through the CAREERS portal,” said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the board, in a press release.Individual candidates can access the results by visiting the council’s website — www.cisce.org www.results.cisce.org. The results of individual candidates can also be received through SMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/icse-isc-board-results-to-be-announced-today-101627064468954.html
23-07-2021||Other||Water recedes as Thane district records just 27mm rainfall||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) that was flooded on Thursday with rivers swelling across Kalyan, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar and Badlapur cities, saw less downpour on Friday, and the water had receded. The seven talukas that fall in the Thane district received only 27mm rainfall on Friday, while on Thursday a total of 147mm rainfall was recorded. “No casualty was reported due to natural calamity in Thane district. The work of repairing the roads and bridges, which were damaged due to the flood, is being undertaken by the concerned department,” said Shivaji Patil, deputy collector, Thane. As per the Thane district records a total of 7,000 residents were rescued from flood-affected areas across the district, from Wednesday night till Thursday afternoon. As per the district records, two men had drowned in flood water near a cemetery located at Chinchawli, Ambernath, on Thursday evening. The rescue operations were initiated, and bodies were recovered after 12 hours of operation. The two were identified as Vinayak Sanjay Parab, 18, and Ishaan Mohidekar, 20. “Three of them from Kalyan had come for a stroll in the premises and two of them went for a swim in the floodwater. The rescue operations were initiated by the local team. They carried out the operation on Thursday evening when the rainfall was less, and the water had receded,” added Patil. Residents of Anupam Nagar in Kalyan (West) pulled all their belongings that were destroyed in the flood water on Friday morning and took up the cleaning work. “Our lives have come to a standstill. All our belongings are destroyed in the floodwater,” said Mahesh Sawant, 35, a resident. On Friday, a 40-feet wide boundary wall of Garden Enclave society, at Siddhanchal​​, Thane (West), collapsed. There were no casualties or injuries reported. The remaining portion of the wall continues to be in a dangerous condition. The Regional Disaster Management Cell has put up temporary barricades within the premises for the safety of residents as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-recedes-as-thane-district-records-just-27mm-rainfall-101627064408974.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Konkan disaster could’ve been averted?||Heavy downpour in Sahyadri ranges and discharge of water from Koyna and Kolkewadi dams flooded shallow rivers of coastal Konkan region leading to floods in Raigad and Ratnagiri districts. Questions are being raised as to why there were no plans in place to shift people from vulnerable areas if there was a warning for heavy rainfall and the possibility of discharge of water from the dams. Local officials said they had begun shifting the people; however, many were not willing to go to temporary shelters, some were even worried about the Covid situation.Though the Konkan region experiences heavy rains every year, the downpour this year was much more. The high tide and discharge of water from dams made the situation worse, the officials said.“Catchment areas of Koyna and Kolkewadi dam received very heavy rainfall, following which, water from both the dams were released. The incessant rainfall and high tide flooded the entire Chiplun city,” said Dr BN Patil district collector, Ratnagiri. Koyna dam is located in the Satara district on the Sahyadri plateau, while Ratnagiri and other districts of Konkan are at the foothills of the Sahyadri mountain ranges. Due to very heavy rains in the Sahyadri ranges, rivers flowing through Konkan are in spate. Besides, water was released from the Koyna dam to maintain its water level. Water was also discharged from the Kolkewadi dam, which is part of the Koyna Project. The water came gushing down through rivers in Ratnagiri district leading to floods. Chiplun town and surrounding areas on the bank of the local river bore the brunt.Illegal constructions on the banks of the river made the situation worse. “We can call it a partially man-made disaster. Once the flood water recedes, a probe will be ordered into the illegal constructions,” Patil said.Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhari said the Savitri river also overflowed owing to heavy rainfall at Mahabaleshwar, which pushed the district into floods. “In the past 48 hours, Mahabaleshwar recorded over 1,100mm rainfall, which is record high and was also not expected. Most of the water from Mahabaleshwar ends up in the Savitri river. Unfortunately, high tide along with heavy rains coincided and the situation became critical,” Chaudhari said.“We are on red alert for the six days and around 1,000 people were also shifted to safer places, while those who were not comfortable shifting due to Covid-19 were requested to go to their relatives. The district administration ensured they leave the place. However, it cannot be denied that some people returned without informing the local administration,” she said.Till Friday, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts have recorded 1,242mm, 1,470mm and 1,236mm rainfall, respectively. All the three districts have also received 138.8%, 172.2% and 159.7% of the average rainfall for this month, respectively, according to the rainfall recording and analysis wing of the state agriculture department data.On Thursday, around 10,000 cusec water was discharged from the Koyna dam. On Friday, 51,000 cusec water was discharged, according to the officials from the relief and rehabilitation department.“Districts from Konkan regions won’t have to worry about discharge from Koyna dam today, as water is being released from eastern gates, which will impact districts from western Maharashtra such as Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur. There won’t be any problem related to floods even in these districts, because the Almatti dam (which is downstream) is releasing over 200,000 cusec of water,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.Pravin Darekar, leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, criticised the state government for failing to anticipate the disaster despite predictions. “It is a fact that the Konkan experiences very heavy rains every year, so why did the state machinery come into action only after a disaster took place? The state government was expected to make war-footing arrangements following the predictions and a red alert sounded for the Konkan region. They remained negligent and people are facing all the brunt,” Darekar said, who visited Taliye village in Raigad, where a landslide claimed the lives of several people.State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that they are coming up with a permanent system to resolve the issue. “A permanent system worth ₹3,700 crore will be set up by the state government in the Konkan region. Of them, ₹2,000 crore has been approved for underground cabling of the electricity network,” Wadettiwar said.Meanwhile, over 1,200 people from Ratnagiri district and 2,681 people from Thane district have also been evacuated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/konkan-disaster-could-ve-been-averted-101627064348948.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Construction of govt college Ludhiana (east) building hits roadblock||The construction of the new building of Government College, Ludhiana (east), opposite Vardhman Mill on Chandigarh Road, has slowed down as the finance department has failed to release pending funds of ₹3.5 crore to the contractor.A visit to the site reveals that the administrative, arts and science blocks are ready, and all doors and windows have been installed. However, the finishing of the building and white washing is pending.Executive engineer of the public works department (PWD), Adesh Gupta, said, “All three blocks are ready and only the finishing of the building is left. The work slowed down as the contractor has not received funds from the higher education department.”The project is worth ₹12 crore and is coming up on five acres of land. Construction started on November 3, 2018, and the contractor will hand over the building only after receiving the remaining amount. In June last year, the work on the construction of the new building of the third government college in the city had come to a halt due to the paucity of funds.Sanjay Talwar, MLA of Ludhiana East, who took the initiative to start the project, said, “I have sent the demand to hire Class- 4 employees and security guard for the college and classes for BA course will start from next month at the new building. The college already has five teachers who are conducting online classes from the premises of SCD Government College. Over ₹40 lakh has been approved for the furniture and I will also provide ₹1 crore from MLA’s quota. The balance funds will be released to the contractor in next 10 days.”The foundation stone of the building was laid on January 28, 2018. On April 11, 2018, a team comprising the director, public instructions (colleges), former deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and other officials inspected a community centre at Jamalpur to start BA part 1 and part 2 classes temporarily from there. Students of these classes were supposed to be later shifted to the new college. For the last three years, students of the Government College, Ludhiana east, had been attending classes on the premises of SCD Government College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/construction-of-govt-college-ludhiana-east-building-hits-roadblock-101627064294268.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra floods: Army, Navy, IAF carry out rescue operations||Following a request received from the Maharashtra government, the Western Naval Command has mobilised seven flood rescue teams and one Seaking 42C helicopter to assist the state administration in flood-affected areas in Konkan. The teams are currently in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts, as Chiplun and Khed in Ratnagiri district are the most affected areas-floodwater from Vasisthi river and the discharge of water from Koyana dam has submerged several areas.Meanwhile, the Indian Air Force (IAF) was also informed of a flood relief operation in Chiplun and Khed town on Thursday. On Friday, a helicopter from Ratnagiri got airborne at 11:35am and rescued two persons before landing back at Ratnagiri. An NDRF team of 10 personnel was flown in by IAF to Ratnagiri. The IAF is also positioning two Mi-17V5s and two Mi-17s for flood relief operations. Another helicopter is at a stand-by in Pune for any emergent requirement, said a defence official.The Indian Army was also mobilised for flood relief. A total of 15 relief and rescue teams comprised troops from Aundh military station and Bombay Engineer Group, Pune, have been deployed overnight in affected areas of Ratnagiri, Kolhapur and Sangli. Lt General JS Nain, GOC-In-C, (General Officer Commanding-in-Chief) Southern Army said that the Indian Army stands with people in these testing times and all assistance will be provided by the Army in the affected areas.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the flood situation in both the districts affected by heavy rain. After the review meeting, the chief minister’s office informed the Indian Navy to join the rescue and relief efforts in these two districts.Despite adverse weather conditions and widespread inundation in affected areas, seven naval rescue teams departed by road from Mumbai for deployment in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts on Thursday evening. Marooned personnel are also being airlifted from Raigad. One Seaking 42C Helo from INS Shikra, Mumbai, departed for rescue at Poladpur in Raigad early Friday morning,” said chief public relations officer (CPRO) Commander Mehul Karnik of the Western Naval Command.The Indian coast guard (ICG) have also mobilized and sent adequate resources for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to the affected districts in Maharashtra, Goa, and Karnataka.Total seven disaster relief teams (DRT) have been working relentlessly in the affected coastal district to rescue people and relocate them to safe locations. Maharashtra Coast Guard has pressed two DRTs -one each at Mahad and Chiplun besides pressing a helicopter into rescue operations. These teams are working in tandem with the local Administration and have rescued 52 people so far and shifted them to safe locations, mentioned in the press release issued by ICG.Goa Coast Guard has pressed two DRTs into service at Ponda besides launching four helicopter sorties to drop 200 food packets for the stranded people towards rescue and relief operations. Karnataka Coast Guard has pressed three DRTs- one each in Unglijoog Island,Kharejoog Island and in Bodojoog village and have rescued and relocated 161 distressed people to safe locations, mentioned in the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-floods-army-navy-iaf-carry-out-rescue-operations-101627064289048.html
23-07-2021||Other||Biker gets hit by container while avoiding potholes, dies||A 24-year-old biker from Bhiwandi was hit by a container while trying to avoid a pothole on the Vadghar Road, near Chinchoti, on Thursday night. He came under the tyre of the container and died on the spot. While the residents have blamed the potholes for the accident, the Bhoiwada police have registered a case against the container driver. The victim Tejas Patik, 24, resident of Vadghar was commuting with his friend along the Chinchoti-Anjurphata Road. He was heading home after running an errand. A police officer from Bhoiwada police station said, “Patil was trying to avoid a pothole around 10pm on Thursday when a container rammed into his bike. His friend Rohit Patil, 23, fell on the other side of the road and suffered minor injuries, while he was crushed under the tyres of the container.” Senior police inspector, S Indalikar, said, “Rohan, who was riding pillion, in his statement, said that Patil was trying to avoid potholes on the road. However, the container from behind could not control the vehicle and rammed into him. We have registered a case against the container driver who is absconding. Further inquiry is on.”Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation officers claimed that the road is under Public Work Department (PWD). A PWD official, requesting anonymity said, “The work of repairing the road is going on. Repair work of half the stretch has been completed.” Govind Sharma, a social activist of Bhiwandi said, “There were several agitations over the condition of roads in Bhiwandi. Toll is still collected, despite its poor condition. Only when someone dies, the repair works are undertaken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/biker-gets-hit-by-container-while-avoiding-potholes-dies-101627064168911.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Sudha Bhardwaj bail plea: No illegality in 2018 sessions court order, State, NIA to Bombay HC||The state government and National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday, argued against the default bail application of Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj. The state and NIA admitted that there could be an irregularity on the part of the judge who signed orders taking cognisance of the charge sheet, however, there was no illegality in the order. The state argued that though judge KD Vadane signed the orders pretending to be a special judge under the NIA Act while he was only an additional session judge, there was no illegality in the order as the Act stipulates that such cases could be heard by any competent court and the sessions court was competent, hence the application of Bharadwaj for default bail should be dismissed. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the default bail application of Bharadwaj had been informed by advocate Yug Choudhry that Bharadwaj and her co-accused had been charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which deals with scheduled offences, and cognisance of such offences could only be a special court. Choudhry had submitted that judge Vadane, who had taken cognisance of the charge sheet and signed the orders as a special judge, was only an additional sessions judge at the time, hence, in light of such a lapse, Bharadwaj was entitled to default bail. While responding to Choudhry’s submissions, on Friday, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state said, “Can it be said that just because cognisance was taken by someone who did not have jurisdiction, a person is entitled to default bail? This cognisance aspect cannot make them (Bharadwaj and her co-accused) entitled to default bail. Let us not make a mountain out of a molehill.” Kumbhakoni argued that the sessions court taking cognisance of the Pune Police’s case could be considered as an irregularity, but not illegality. He added that the petition by Bharadwaj did not mention that there was a failure of justice, or any prejudice was caused because of the lapse. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NIA concurred with Kumbhakoni’s submissions and said that there was no irregularity in the sessions court taking cognisance of the case. “All sessions judges are equal. There is no greater or so, it is merely a question of notification distinguishing them as so,” said Singh adding that as the charge sheet had been filed within the stipulated 90 days the right for default bail ceased to exist, hence the claims of Bharadwaj could not be entertained. Further hearing of the petition will continue on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sudha-bhardwaj-bail-plea-no-illegality-in-2018-sessions-court-order-state-nia-to-bombay-hc-101627064048925.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Five held for murder bid on police post in-charge in Ludhiana, 11 on the run||Five people were arrested on attempt to murder charges after they assaulted the Jalaldiwal police post in-charge who was responding to a distress call on Thursday. Eleven others involved in the assault are on the run. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gursewak Singh was assaulted by the in-laws of a woman, Amandeep Kaur, who had called the police control room seeking help after the accused threw her out of the house and separated her from her son. The accused, including women, dragged the police officer inside their house and attempted to kill him. They also snatched his service weapon.A team of the Raikot police rescued the ASI and admitted him to the hospital. The police have lodged an attempt to murder case against 16 people — Harbans Singh, his son Mandeep Singh, Nirmal Singh, Bant Singh, his son Sukhraj Singh, Lakhveer Singh, Arshpreet Singh, Gurmel Kaur, Sukhwinder Kaur, Harpreet Singh, Jagraj Singh, Pirta Singh, Sandeep Singh, Kuldeep Kaur, Jaswinder Singh and Arshpreet Kaur of Gobingharh.The ASI said when he and constable Harimder Singh reached the spot at 9.45pm, they saw the complainant and her father standing outside the house. When the ASI approached the accused, they started arguing with him and then assaulted him. After he fell, they dragged him into the house. The constable accompanying the officer captured the incident on his phone and called for police reinforcement. “The accused bolted the gate from inside and started thrashing me with intention to kill. Sukhraj snatched my service weapon, while Harbans and his cronies threatened to hang my body outside the house after killing me,”said the ASI.Investigating officer sub-inspector Pyara Singh said the police have arrested Harbans Singh, Jagraj Singh, Harpreet Singh, Arshpreet Kaur and Jaswinder Kaur, while others were on the run. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 382 (theft), 353 (assault on public servant), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death), 186( voluntarily obstruction in the discharge of duty), 294 (obscene acts or words in public), 332 (voluntarily cause hurt to public servant ), 342 wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting) , 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-held-for-murder-bid-on-police-post-in-charge-in-ludhiana-11-on-the-run-101627063990380.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Stray cow mauls 12-year-old girl in Ludhiana||A stray cow brutally mauled a 12-year-old girl, who was riding a bicycle, outside her house near Ayyappa Temple in Jamalpur on Thursday.The victim, Kritika, a Class-8 student, was returning home from the market with her friend, Shraddha, when the cow charged at the girls. While Shraddha had a narrow escape, Kritika was not so lucky and suffered severe injuries on her arms, legs, feet and back. Hearing her screams, people came to her rescue and drove off the charging animal with sticks. The victim’s father, Sushil Singh, who works as a labourer at a steel unit, said, “The attack took place just near the gate of our house. Three-four bovines were grazing in the area and one of them launched a vicious attack on my daughter. Fortunately, the animal did not attack her with its horns and residents came to her rescue in time. Though my daughter survived the attack, she was grievously wounded. The attack was so brutal that it is painful to watch the CCTV footage of the incident.” A video clip of the incident reveals that the cow kept mauling the girl for 30 seconds. Slamming the civic body for failing to rein in the stray cattle, Singh said that a large number of livestock roam the area and after the incident people were scared to let their children play on the streets.Singh who has three daughters can barely afford Kritika’s treatment and has sought monetary aid from the authorities. “I work as a labourer and live in a rented accommodation. Around ₹1,500 was spent on first aid alone and her treatment is to continue. I urge the administration to help us.” Councillor blames slum dwellers On being apprised of the attack, ward number 23 councillor Sandeep Kumari blamed slum dwellers who run illegal dairy units in the area for the menace and sought action against them. She submitted a memorandum to MC Zone B commissioner Swati Tiwana on Friday and asked the civic body to have stray cattle removed from the area. Despite repeated attempts, Tiwana remained unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stray-cow-mauls-12-year-old-girl-in-ludhiana-101627063872367.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||FIR registered against Param Bir Singh in Thane||A day after Marine Drive police booked former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in an extortion case, Kopri police in Thane registered a similar case against him on Friday.Thane Police commissioner Jai Jeet Singh confirmed that the first information report (FIR) has been registered. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Parag Manere and three civilians have also been named in the FIR as co-accused. Manere was the DCP (crime) in Thane when Singh was posted as Thane Police commissioner, and the offence allegedly took place during their tenure. Singh is currently posted as director general of Home Guards while Manere is posted with the economic offences wing (EOW), Mumbai.The other three named in the FIR are builder Sanjay Punamiya, his associate Sunil Jain and Manoj Ghotkar. Officers said the five accused have been booked for kidnapping, extortion and cheating under the Indian Penal Code. The complainant, Sharad Agrawal, deals in real estate and has alleged that the accused extorted money from him and also forced him to turn over some plots of land to them. The complainant’s uncle, Shyamsunder Agrawal, is the complainant in the case registered against Singh in Mumbai on Thursday. According to investigating officers, the offence dates back to 2016 when Shyamsundar was arrested in a case filed against him by Punamiya and Jain. “While Shyamsundar was remanded in police custody, Singh and Manere illegally restrained Sharad and demanded monetary gratification from him in exchange for not opposing his uncle’s bail plea and for not invoking the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against him. After negotiation, the price was set at ₹9 crore. Of this, ₹1 crore was paid in cash while the rest of it was given in the form of land, which the accused forced Sharad to sign over to them,” a senior officer said. He added that the entire negotiation was conducted by Ghotkar, who acted as a middleman in the alleged deal. Punamiya and Jain are also named as accused in the FIR filed by the Marine Drive police against Singh, and both of them were arrested on Thursday. Kopri police will be seeking their custody for investigation in the case registered on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-registered-against-param-bir-singh-in-thane-101627063872844.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cow cess runs in crores, but stray-cattle menace continues in Ludhiana||Despite collecting a whopping ₹3.5 crore annually as cow cess, the municipal corporation has failed to rein in stray cattle. The untethered bovines are singularly responsible for several road mishaps and freak accidents each year. With the MC failing to provide shelter to the animals, hundreds of cattle can be seen dotting roads, streets and chowks across the city. They are also seen roaming in posh areas of the city, including Sarabha Nagar, Model Town Extension,and Rajguru Nagar. Three gaushalas and NGOs have provided shelter to around 1,400 cattle for the MC over the years in exchange for a fixed amount for the care of each animal. Around ₹1.5 crore is spent on the upkeep of cattle annually. However, the shelters have been running out of space and the civic body has been trying to rope in more gaushalas. However, till more space can be found to house the cattle, residents are likely to remain on the receiving end. One of the residents of Model Town Extension, Manjeet Singh, said, “The MC should lift stray cattle from city roads as they block traffic. These animals have attacked locals on occasion and pose a danger to motorists as they dart onto the road out of nowhere.” A resident of Salem Tabri area, Parminder Singh, said, “Bulls should be lifted from roads on priority as they can be seen locking horns with each other. They are a menace, especially in narrow alleys and streets.” In the general house meeting held on July 14 senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra highlighted the need for establishing the city’s own cow shelter. Previously, the MC had decided to come down hard on dairy farmers who abandon cows on the roads, but no action has been taken so far. MC senior veterinary officer, Dr Harbans Dhalla said the civic body is tying to find a solution to the problem. “A shed was recently setup at Burj Powat village in Machhiwara area to shelter 150 stray cattle recently. We are working to rope in managements of more gaushalas to shelter the stray cattle. The MC has been collecting cow cess since 2017 and has around six crore in reserve. We are also mulling on establishing more cow shelters.” Cattle against man Feb 25, 2020: A raging bull had mauled a 45-year-old photographer to death in MacchiwaraSep 28, 2019: Two people were injured after their car rammed into a stray cattle near Jeevan Nagar Chowk in the Focal Point Area.Aug 18, 2019: A 60-year-old fruit vendor was gored to death by a stray bull in Khanna.March 16, 2019 : An elderly lady was grievously injured after a stray bull hit her two-wheeler in Sector 32 .April 16, 2018: A40-year-old man succumbed to his injuries three days after he was hit by a stray bull in Gurugarh village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-cow-cess-running-in-crores-stray-cattle-s-reign-of-terror-continues-in-ludhiana-101627063869428.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||45-year-old pillion rider mowed down by speeding car in Ludhiana||A 45-year-old man was killed and his friend, who was driving, was injured when a speeding car rammed into their bike on a flyover near Nurpur Bet at Humbran Road on Thursday. The victims, Sukhjit Singh, 45, of Dolon Khurd village and Nachattar Singh, 45, of Humayupura village were rushed to the hospital by passersby. While Sukhjit, a hardware store owner, was killed on impact, Nachattar is being treated at the civil hospital. The collision had forced the tyres of both the vehicles to come off. The accused, Harsimar Singh of Jalandhar, fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind. A complain was registered on the complaint of Sukhjit’s brother Gurmeet Singh. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sandeep Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR had ben registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), and 304A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, who is on the run. Haste makes wasteFour people have lost their lives in the district this month due to over speeding July 6: A speeding truck mowed down a cyclist near a mall on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road. The truck driver who tried to escape had been caught by the onlookers and handed over to the police. July 12: A speeding tipper had crushed a 25-year-old man at Rahon road. After the incident, a mob had vandalised the tipper and tried to torch the vehicle. July 12: A Congress councillor allegedly mowed down a 13-year-old boy and injured his mother near the Old Bus Stand. The accused, Baljinder Singh Rimpa of Guru Nanak Pura , a Raikot councillor, left his vehicle and fled after hitting the victims. He was later arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/45yearold-pillion-rider-mowed-down-by-speeding-car-in-ludhiana-101627063811852.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks NIA, state and Fr Stan Swamy’s counsel to justify continuation of bail appeal||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA), state and the counsel for Elgar Parishad accused Fr Stan Swamy, who died due to a heart attack on July 5, to inform it through their submissions on whether the appeals for regular bail and bail on medical grounds filed by the octogenarian priest can be heard as, according to prescribed laws, they stood abated after his demise. The court sought the submissions after NIA objected to hearing of the appeals but the counsel for Fr Swamy maintained that the HC could exercise its parens patriae power for the deceased citizen and supervise the magisterial inquiry that is yet to commence into the death of the priest. The bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was hearing the bail applications of Fr Swamy which had been kept pending to ascertain the veracity of the claims of his counsel that there had been negligence by NIA and Taloja Central Prison towards Swamy’s health despite him complaining about the same before the court intervened. While making submissions, senior counsel Mihir Desai sought four directions from the court — permitting Fr Fraser Mascarenhas to attend the preliminary enquiry conducted under section 176 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) into the custodial death of Swamy; conducting the probe in compliance of the guidelines of the National Human Rights Commission; appointing a magistrate from Mumbai as Fr Swamy’s death took place in Mumbai; and that the report of such investigation by the magistrate be submitted to the HC to ensure it is supervised. However, additional solicitor general Anil Singh said while he could possibly not have any objection to the investigation being conducted in compliance with the procedure under law, he had objection to the report being submitted to HC. Citing section 346 of CrPC, Singh submitted that any appeal by an accused stood abated after the death of the appellant. He argued that as Fr Swamy’s appeal challenged the rejection of his bail application by the special NIA court, it was abated after his death, and hence no proceeding remained for the consideration of HC. Chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai concurred and adopted NIA’s submissions. After hearing the submissions the court asked Desai to clarify on this aspect. Desai argued that while he agreed with Singh’s submissions on the legal issue, he was invoking the supervisory jurisdiction of the HC as it was a Constitutional court. He clarified that what was being sought was not part of the appeal and cited judgments wherein the Supreme Court had held that the HC was parens patriae to applicants which included the children, insane adults and deceased who could not speak or decide for themselves. After hearing Desai, the court directed him to file a written submission with the relevant judgments supporting his argument and also serve a copy to the respondents. The court also asked NIA and state to file their response and posted next hearing on August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-nia-state-and-fr-stan-swamy-s-counsel-to-justify-continuation-of-bail-appeal-101627063808909.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt reduces state board syllabus for Class 1-12 by 25%||For the second consecutive year, Maharashtra state board syllabus for Classes 1 to 12 will be reduced by 25%, state minister for school education Varsha Gaikwad announced on Friday and a government resolution (GR) to the effect was released by evening.“Covid-19 has forced school education to the online platform since 2020. With the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic affecting several parts of the country, the current 2021-22 academic year too has been pushed online. Based on the requests made by teachers as well as parent groups, we have decided to reduce the portion by 25% again this year for the benefit of students,” Gaikwad said in a statement shared with media.A similar decision was taken by the school education minister last year as well, inviting mixed reactions. While parents and students rejoiced with the decision, schools and experts in the field of education had their doubts about reducing syllabus, especially for Class 10 and 12 students.However, many teachers also approved the decision. “Last year itself, the Central government had announced a stipulated time limit for online classes which cannot exceed 3.5 hours including a break in between. With such limited time, it makes sense to reduce the syllabus and stick to only what is required to be taught to better prepare students for the next academic year,” said a teacher from a suburban school. The omitted syllabus remains similar to the last academic year to maintain consistency, said officials from the education department..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-reduces-state-board-syllabus-for-class-1-12-by-25-101627063748839.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||390 victims of Kandivli fake vaccination scam to be vaccinated on Saturday||The 390 residents of Hiranandani Heritage Co-operative Housing Society in Kandivli (West), who were victims of the fake Covid-19 vaccination drive, will be vaccinated on Saturday in a special drive organised by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) at the civic amenity centre at Mahavir Nagar in Kandivli on Saturday.In Mumbai, a vaccination scam broke on June 14 when residents of Hiranandani Society realised something was amiss after certificated generated by CoWIN got two crucial details wrong — the date of the vaccination drive and name of the hospital they tied up with. It turned out that the certificates, like the vaccine doses, were fakes.At Kandivli, around 390 citizens were given fake doses. Later more such victims were identified, taking the total count to around 3,000 in around dozen such incidents across the city.Following this, BMC had, earlier this month, written to both the state and Central governments seeking guidelines on administering Covid-19 vaccines to the victims of fake vaccination scam in the city. In a statement issued on Friday, BMC confirmed that vaccination for the 390 citizens in Kandivli will be conducted on Saturday.“According to police investigation, the list of citizens who are suspected to have been given fake vaccines has been handed over by the police to the municipal administration. The information of these citizens is being verified by the municipal administration on the basis of mobile numbers on the CoWIN website,” BMC said in a statement. Civic officials maintained that other victims of such fake vaccination scam across the city will be vaccinated in a phased manner.The BMC statement further said that those, who were vaccinated at such fake vaccination drives but were given genuine doses of vaccine, will be administered the second dose after the completion of 84 days in case of Covishield and 28 days in case of Covaxin.Meanwhile, 82,062 citizens were vaccinated in the city on Friday. So far, 6,684,815 doses have been administered in the city and 1,506,647 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/390-victims-of-kandivli-fake-vaccination-scam-to-be-vaccinated-on-saturday-101627063690002.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra moves Bombay HC challenging magisterial remand order||Raj Kundra, husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, has moved the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the July 20 order of a metropolitan magistrate court remanding him in police custody in connection with the alleged pornography racket. Police had sought his custody on the grounds of suspicion that Kundra may have used the money earned in the pornography racket for online betting, and hence it needed to interrogate him with regards to the financial transaction between him and two banks. The petition is yet to be numbered. Meanwhile, Kundra’s police custody, which ended on July 23, was extended by the magistrate till July 27 on Friday. Kundra’s petition, filed through Parinam Law Associates, has pointed out that after the alleged incident of creating and publishing pornographic content came to light, a number of people were arrested in connection with the case and later released on bail. The petition states that crime branch officers visited his office on July 19 and conducted a search, following which they called Kundra to their Byculla office to record his statement. The petition further adds that when he complied, the police arrested him. Referring to the arrest, the petition said the mode in which he was arrested violated the procedure laid down under section 41A of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) which mandates that the police must issue a proper notice to the accused before making an arrest. The petition said that an application was made opposing his detention before the magistrate court on the grounds that law was violated. However, when the remand application of the police came up before the magistrate, he did not consider Kundra’s application and granted police remand till July 23. Citing that there are clear orders of the Supreme Court against arresting and detaining persons against whom offences are registered with punishment of less than seven years in light of the Covid-19 situation, the petition said the magistrate failed to take cognisance of the highest court’s order and remanded Kundra in custody. It added that the cumulative punishment for the offences that the accused has been booked for is less than seven years and that the magistrate had erred in allowing his police remand, hence the remand order should be quashed and he should be released. The petition will come up for hearing after it is numbered and its circulation is granted. On July 20, Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale had stated that Kundra and 10 others had been arrested for their alleged involvement in the creation of pornographic films and publishing them through mobile apps. Nagrale had said that Kundra seemed to be the key conspirator and there was sufficient evidence regarding that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-moves-bombay-hc-challenging-magisterial-remand-order-101627063568841.html
23-07-2021||City||Seven killed in road accident in Telangana||Seven people were killed when two cars collided in Nagarkurnool district of Telangana on Friday, police said. The seven died on the spot, they said. One person, who was seriously injured, was taken to a nearby hospital.The accident occurred near Achampet in the district Friday evening. Some bodies lay scattered, while others could be brought out from the cars with great effort and both vehicles suffered heavy damage, police said.Some of the deceased belonged to Hyderabad and further details were being ascertained, police added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-killed-in-road-accident-in-telangana-101627062271281.html
23-07-2021||Noida||2 companies get show cause notice for stopping work on 440kV substation||The state power transmission agency has issued a show cause notice to two companies that jointly took up the construction of a 440 kilovolt (kV) substation, estimated to cost about ₹350 crore, in Noida’s Sector 123 only to drop the contract without intimation, said officials aware of the development.Shekhar Agarwal, Meerut zonal chief engineer (transmission), Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL), said the contract for constructing the 440 kV substation was awarded to Hyosung Power Corporation of South Korea and its Indian counterpart Piscesia Power Transmission Private Limited in November 2014. “The expected date of completion was March 31, 2021. However, since the Indian company stopped the work a few months ago, it could not be completed on time. Taking cognisance of their negligent approach, we have served a show cause notice to both the companies. Since no response has come from the Indian company, we have contacted the South Korean company. The Hyosung officials assured us that the project will be completed by October 2021,” said Agarwal. It may be noted that the 400 kV power station coming up at Sector 123 will ensure uninterrupted electricity supply to 80,000 consumers residing in Sectors 60, 63-68 and 70-79 in Noida. The construction work at the power station was halted on several occasions following guidelines from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Environmental Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority to check pollutionAgarwal further said almost 70% of the work on the substation is complete. “The 400 kV transformer has already been charged. Now, it needs to be connected with three smaller 132 kV substations, being constructed in sectors 63, 67 and 115. The transformers of the smaller substations have not been charged yet. Once completed, these substations will get power from the power grid in Jahangirpur,” he said. Explaining the negligent conduct of Piscesia Power, another official from the state power utility said the company is on the verge of a bankruptcy owing to a feud between its partners. “Since all of their bank accounts are frozen, they will not be able to operate. Now, the onus lies on its Korean partner to complete the project,” said the official asking not to be named. M Devaraj, the chairman of UPPTCL, said he is looking into the matter and the project will be completed within 100 days. When contacted, the spokesperson of Hyosung Power Corporation said they will restart the construction work in a week and will complete it by October. Officials of Piscesia Power did not respond to e-mails sent seeking their comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-companies-get-show-cause-notice-for-stopping-work-on-440kv-substation-101627062010314.html
23-07-2021||Noida||Admin plans ponds with plantation in catchment area of river Hindon||In order to bolster the health of dying river Hindon, the Ghaziabad district administration will plant trees and create ponds along its catchment area. Officials said it will enlist the help of different agencies such as the departments of Irrigation, rural development, UP Avas Vikas and the Ghaziabad Development Authority to carry out the proposed work. The issue of river Hindon pollution was discussed recently in a meeting of the district groundwater management council and it was agreed that the ecological balance of the river catchment area has to be improved. The district magistrate is chalking out a plan in this regard and different works will be assigned to different departments in a decentralised manner, officials in the know of the matter said. “The idea is to tap the catchment area of the river. In such areas, we plan to create water bodies (ponds) and also get the help of the forest department to take up plantation,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, district magistrate. “For the purpose, we have asked different departments to contribute to the plan and agencies such as the GDA can also enlist the help of private developers and utilise the corporate social responsibility funds,” the district magistrate further said. The Hindon, western Uttar Pradesh’s most important river, has a basin area of about 7,000 square kilometres. It originates in the Shivalik range in Saharanpur district and flows down to Muzaffarnagar, before making its way through Shamli, Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar to meet the Yamuna downstream in Delhi.According to environmentalists and numerous studies over the years, the river has become so polluted that it has zero aquatic life in large stretches and is also affecting the human population in nearby villages and cities as the groundwater is also becoming polluted. “The work for the plantation and creation of water bodies will help preserve the boundaries of the river and will help in groundwater recharge. We have already demarcated the floodplains and work for installation of pillars will be initiated now,” said Sanjay Singh, executive engineer, the state irrigation department, which is the custodian of the river. “Simultaneously , we will also focus on tapping drains. We also plan to increase the water flow from one of the escapes upstream, where the river gets fresh water from the Upper Ganga Canal. This will induce a better flow and clean the river as well,” Singh said. But environmentalists are sceptical about how much this plan would work, when earlier such plans, to preserve and rejuvenate the river, have come to naught. “The plan should be implemented with a fixed timeline. Creation of ponds will boost the river system as the river Hindon is currently devoid of any water flow. Plantation will help preserve the natural surroundings and can eventually turn into a habitat for birds and animals,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and member of the district groundwater council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/admin-plans-ponds-with-plantation-in-catchment-area-of-river-hindon-101627062008758.html
23-07-2021||Noida||Unkept Sigma 2 sector overrun by squatters, residents look to G Noida for help||Greater Noida’s Sigma 2 residents have a lot many grouses these days and unkept parks are just one of them. Their other grouses include green belts that have been encroached upon, a community centre that is in a shambles and unoccupied houses that have been taken over by squatters. Repeated complaints to the Greater Noida authority, they say, have gone unheeded for the past one year.Sigma 2 has seven parks and five green belts, of which one has been encroached upon by unauthorised shops, residents said.“Despite residents speaking about these issues to every official of the Greater Noida authority who visited the sector over the past years, nothing has been done to address them,” said Yogender Bhati, president of the Sigma 2 residents’ welfare society (RWA).When Hindustan Times visited the sector, the team found the parks in a poor condition -- their boundary walls broken in places, clothes hung out to dry on trees and bushes and cattle left to graze at will. On a tour of the sector, the HT team found that several houses, which had no functioning toilets or power connection, were occupied. “They are squatters. There are at least 300 houses here that the owners have not rented out, but are currently occupied by squatters,” Bhati said.The community centre in the sector was also found in a state of disrepair— its plastering was peeling off, windows and doors had come unhinged, and the whole establishment had the look of a building left unused for a long time.“Since the boundary walls of the sector are broken at several places, people from outside leave their cattle to graze in our parks,” said Kuldeep Awana, the RWA vice-president. “The community centre is in a shambles and all the green belts, both within and outside the sector, as well as our seven parks are in a pathetic state.”Rajni Nagar, one of the residents, said, “In the absence of functional toilets in most of the houses, squatters defecate in the green belts and open drains. There are human faeces lying all around the sector. At night, we have quite a few inebriated people walking around.”“With drunk men roaming around, we do not feel safe to go out even for an evening walk. We have invested so much on a house in the city and yet feel like we are living in a shady part of the town,” said Nishita Gupta, a resident.Yudhishtir Sharma, who lives in another part of Noida, said in the past 15 years, he has removed squatters at least seven times from his house in Sigma 2. “I have finally put a guard there. However, there are many more like me who are struggling with the problem of squatters,” he said.Will do what we can, says authority Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan said he will look into the issue of encroachment on the green belt and will evict anyone who violated the law. “We will ensure that parks are repaired and maintained. We told the RWA to run the community centre as a club, or as a venue for holding events, on a revenue sharing basis with the authority. This will ensure upkeep of the place as well as generate revenue for its maintenance,” he said.On the boundary wall issue, Bhooshan said government sectors are not supposed to have one. “If it is a security concern, the RWA may employ security guards as is being done in other sectors,” he said.Bhooshan said the issue of squatters was a law-and-order one for which the property owner must approach the police.Yograj Singh, general secretary of the RWA, said they have appealed to the police in this regard. “We made a list of 128 plots that are being illegally occupied and submitted it to the police. We also raised with the police the issue of increasing crime in our sector,” he said.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said, “I have directed officials to inquire into the law-and-order situation in the sector. As far as unauthorised occupancy is concerned, the plot owners need to move the court for civil eviction as that is not a police matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/unkept-sigma-2-sector-overrun-by-squatters-residents-look-to-g-noida-for-help-101627061949382.html
23-07-2021||Noida||Mercury spike likely in Noida, Gzb for 3 days: IMD||Noida Temperatures are likely to rise in Noida and Ghaziabad, which will turn the region dry for the next three days and make outdoors uncomfortable, weather analysts said on Friday.The maximum temperature has soared by two degrees Celsius in the city over the past 24 hours, and the humidity levels hovered between 64% and 84%.Noida has not received rain for the past two days, with the last rainfall of 0.5mm intensity recorded on Wednesday (July 21).“The temperatures are increasing as there has been no rainfall in the region for the past two days. The monsoon trough lines, a high-pressure area that leads to rain, is currently northward of Delhi-NCR. This will lead to no rainfall in the next two days as well. There are chances of light rain on July 26, followed by moderate rain between July 27 and 29,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Meteorology and climate change, Skymet.On Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasted rainfall in Noida by the next week, however, before that the temperatures may rise by two to three degrees Celsius, along with high humidity.“The maximum and minimum temperatures may hover around 37 degrees Celsius and 27 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Saturday,” said an IMD official.The IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Friday at 35.5 degrees Celsius and 26.9 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 33 degrees Celsius and 25.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered average for the National Capital Region (NCR), the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 34.8 degrees Celsius and 26.3 degrees Celsius — the season’s average and a degree below the average, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-spike-likely-in-noida-gzb-for-3-days-imd-101627061948685.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||Mosque admin gives 1,000 sq ft land for Kashi Vishwanath corridor: Report||The Gyanvapi mosque administration in the Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi Masjid case handed over 1,000 square feet of land for the Kashi Vishwanath corridor in exchange for 1,000 square feet of land that the temple authorities have handed over to the mosque administration at a distance from the Gyanvapi mosque and Kashi Vishwanath, Live Hindustan reported. The Anjuman Intazamia Masjid said that they have given the land for the construction of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor which was inaugurated in 2019 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the beautification of the Kashi Vishwanath temple.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation of the project worth over ₹1,000 crore on March 8, 2019. Under the project, at least 24 new buildings will be constructed. The land was exchanged as the need arose for building a control tower for the Kashi Vishwanath corridor.The exchange of land, which comes as both parties are engaged in a legal tussle, is being considered as a significant development. Earlier this year, Varanasi civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi complex. He said it was required to assess the pleas which claim that the mosque was built by Mughal emperors after partially demolishing a Hindu temple. The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) earlier this month challenged the Varanasi court’s decision.Several petitions were filed claiming that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb demolished a portion of the Kashi Vishwanath temple to build the Gyanvapi Masjid in the 17th century. The petitioners demanded that the land on which the mosque stands be restored to Hindu parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mosque-admin-gives-1-000-sq-ft-land-for-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-report-101627061208098.html
23-07-2021||Other||SAD delegation meets Naidu on governance reforms in PU||Chandigarh A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MPs, led by its president Sukhbir Singh Badal, on Friday urged vice-president and Panjab University chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu to ensure the unique character of the Punjabi pride was not tinkered with. The delegation, which comprised former union minister Harsimarat Kaur Badal, Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Naresh Gujaral, also called for withdrawal of all the recommendations made by the high-level committee including disaffiliation of colleges of Punjab by drastically reducing the territorial jurisdiction of the PU. The delegation also informed the chancellor that the high level committee had been hijacked by anti-Punjab forces, which are seeking to change the very character of the university in the name of governance reforms. It said an effort was afoot to wrest all powers from elected representatives of the alumni and render the office of the vice-chancellor, which will be vested with all powers now, an autocratic institution. It added that the committee also sought to eliminate Punjabis from the institution by recommending that the Syndicate have only ex-officio and nominated members instead of elected representatives. “It amounts to humiliating their voice and pushing them out of the national mainstream. Punjabis are deeply disturbed by this conspiracy to submerge their culture into a nameless set of ideas, values and cultural ethos quite alien to this region. This brazen cultural and administrative takeover of PU follows in the series of injustices wreaked on Punjabis including the snatching of the state capital, river waters and Punjabi speaking areas.” Sukhbir said as per the will and vision of the founders of the University, it was created for the people of Punjab to preserve and promote their academic, intellectual and cultural heritage. He said this ideal had been eroded with anti federal measures seeking to eliminate Punjabis from the running of the varsity. He requested Naidu to take immediate remedial action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-delegation-meets-naidu-on-governance-reforms-in-pu-101627059669059.html
23-07-2021||Other||Five held for Jalandhar shopkeeper’s murder||Jalandhar Police have arrested all five accused in the murder of a shopkeeper, Sachin Jain, in the Sodal Road area on Monday. The special operation unit has also recovered a .32 bore pistol and two cartridges used in the crime.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the weapon used in the murder had been made in Madhya Pradesh. The accused are Arshdeep Singh, alias Wadda Preet, of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar; Sahil of Raj Nagar; Darshan Lal of Sant Nagar and Raman Kumar of Madhuban Colony. The fifth accused Deepak, was already under arrest. Bhullar added that Arshdeep Singh and Sahil were arrested from Lamba Pind Chowk, with another team nabbed Darshan and Raman near the Verka Milk Plant. The commissioner also mentioned that Wadda Preet had already been booked in five cases at Jalandhar and Kapurthala and was wanted in one case registered in police division number 2. The accused, Darshan, is also wanted in two separate cases registered in the Bhargo Camp Police Station. Two criminal cases had already been registered against the accsued Raman Kumar in Bhargo Camp and Basti Bawa Khel police station. The commissioner added that Wadda Preet had been remanded in three-day police custody and he was being interrogated to get to the bottom of the crime. He added that the filing of the charge-sheet would also be fast-tracked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-held-for-jalandhar-shopkeeper-s-murder-101627059253578.html
23-07-2021||Other||Nepali labourer gets double jail term for rape, murder of 84-yr-old in Gurdaspur||Amritsar The court of Gurdaspur sessions judge Ramesh Kumari has sentenced a Nepali labourer, Satinder Rout, 30, to 25-year imprisonment and life term in jail, separately, for raping and strangulating an 84-year-old woman to death in March 2019. That day, she was alone in the house. Sohan Singh, the victim’s son, discovered her body about 9am the next day.The convict worked at a farm close to the victim’s residence and had been deployed by the then sarpanch of Kotli Harchanda village. The trial has been completed in two years and four months, in spite of recurrent lockdown and virtual hearings during the Covid-19 pandemic. After completing this 25-year long imprisonment, the convict will undergo imprisonment for life and pay ₹25,000 as fine. If he defaults on paying the fine, he will have to undergo additional simple imprisonment for another eight months. “All substantive sentences shall run separately, one followed by another,” said district attorney Amanpreet Singh Sandhu, public prosecutor in this case. The court declined his request for death sentence, observing that this would be a severe punishment, in spite of gravity of the crime. “There is no research that suggests that the severity of punishment acts as a deterrent, certainty of punishment to the offender certainly acts as deterrent,” the court maintained. The court observed that the old woman was subjected to barbaric treatment, showing extreme depravity by the convict that leads to a sense of revulsion in the mind of a common man. “This case is an example that the dignity, person, and life of a woman is not safe within the four walls of her house. The rapist and murderer is not concerned with the age, colour, creed, caste, race, dress, life-style choices, urban or rural background or even with the deep wrinkles on her face and body,” the court added. The case had grabbed headlines, when it came to light and the police had arrested the Nepali, Rout, on the next day of the heinous crime. During investigation, Rout’s hair and pieces of his jacket were found in the nails of the woman. The samples from the head, hair and private parts of the accused matched those on the victim’s body and clothes in the DNA test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nepali-labourer-gets-double-jail-term-for-rape-murder-of-84-yr-old-in-gurdaspur-101627058829122.html
23-07-2021||Other||Reduction in NPA: Patiala, Amritsar govt college doctors start indefinite protest||Patiala Doctors, including dentists, posted at Government Medical and Dental Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar have started an indefinite protest against the failure of the Punjab government from Friday to restore their non-practice allowance (NPA) to its original form. With the implementation of the Punjab Sixth Pay Commission Report, the NPA has been de-linked from basic pay, which has been a pain point of doctors for over nearly two months now. Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA) general secretary Dr DS Bhullar said, “Ten medical dental teachers from departments will sit in protest every day, with complete shut-down of OPD and elective surgeries. The faculty will suspend administrative duties, routine medico-legal services and classroom teaching of medical students.”The association has categorically requested the state government at all levels (group of ministers and the committee of principal secretaries) that that NPA of the state government doctors must be retorted to the original 25% basic pay, linked to the basic pay as earlier and should be considered as part of the pay for the calculation of dearness and house rent allowance etc. They doctors have also demanded restoration of the academic allowance, at ₹2,500, along with a conveyance allowance of ₹2,000. “The meeting of the Group of Ministers and Committee of Principal Secretaries (finance, health and personnel) of the state government scheduled on July 22 was cancelled. Government doctors are also irked at this,” Dr Bhullar claimed. Indian Medical Association, Patiala, with more than 700 allopathic doctors practising in the city has also extended full support to government doctors for the rectification of the NPA anomalies as demanded by PSMDTA, said Dr Neeraj Goyal, president, Patiala Chapter, IMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reduction-in-npa-patiala-amritsar-govt-college-doctors-start-indefinite-protest-101627058409057.html
23-07-2021||Ranchi||‘Justice for Stan Swamy’: Supporters form human chain||Activists and supporters formed human chain at the arterial Albert Ekka chowk here on Friday in protest against the alleged injustice meted out to Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, who died at Mumbai hospital in judicial custody earlier this month. Despite heavy rains, people stood together with placards, raising their voice in favour of the 84-year-old tribal rights’ activist, who was arrested last year by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with Bhima Koregaon case.“The event was part of the national campaign, called by more than 100 organisations, against institutional murder of Father Stan Swamy, draconian laws like UAPA and growing attacks on the right to dissent. Several organisations are spearheading the campaign in Jharkhand,” said Siraj Dutta, an activist and one of the protest organisers. At the protest, activists also prepared a letter that will be submitted to Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais on Saturday, demanding justice for Father Stan Swamy, repealing UAPA, sedition act and other draconian laws, releasing all political prisoners, restoring the Right to Bail, accountability for filing false cases and compensation to such victims. The activists also demanded that the Jharkhand government immediately withdraw all pathalgadi cases against Stan Swamy and others, and the state government should stop usage of UAPA and sedition act and end police repression, said Siraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/justice-for-stan-swamy-supporters-form-human-chain-101627056008907.html
23-07-2021||Patna||Two brothers killed in road accident||Two brothers were killed in a road accident after their car collided with a speeding tractor at Bihtataal area under Punpun police station in Patna, police said. Their bodies were sent to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for postmortem examination.Police said that the accident took place when the brothers, aged between 23 to 25 years, were coming from Gaurichak area. “A speeding tractor badly hit their car. Both died on the spot,” SHO of Punpun police station Kundan Kumar said.The tractor driver escaped from the spot after the accident.Agitated over the incident, locals blocked and disrupted traffic movement for about two hours and demanded arresting of the tractor driver, besides compensation to the kin of the deceased.On getting information, a police team rushed to the spot and tried to bring the situation under control. The road blockade was lifted after the administration paid adequate compensation to the kin of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-brothers-killed-in-road-accident-101627056008098.html
23-07-2021||Other||Darbhanga parcel blast: judicial custody of accused extended till Aug 6||PATNAAll four accused arrested for the June 17 Darbhanga parcel blast were on Friday sent to judicial custody till August 6, the public prosecutor (PP) in the case said. PP Manoj Kumar Singh said the four accused, Haji Salim Kashim, Kafeel, Imran Malik and Nasir Khan, were produced through video conference before a special court in Patna, which sent them to judicial custody till August 6. Haji Salim, who had earlier complained of prostate problems, was brought to IGIMS hospital for tests. On June 17, a minor blast took place inside a bundle of clothes at Darbhanga railway station. The consignment was booked from Secunderbad railway station. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed the accused have terror links and had planned to detonate a blast on the moving train.Malik and Nasir were arrested from Hyderabad on June 30 while Kafeel and Salim were taken into custody from Kairana in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh on July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-parcel-blast-judicial-custody-of-accused-extended-till-aug-6-101627055890493.html
23-07-2021||Other||Three dead after inhaling toxic gas from septic tank||Three workers died after inhaling toxic gases emanating from a septic tank in Samastipur district on Friday, police said.The incident took place when one of three men went down into an under-construction septic tank at Hasanpur locality under Mohiuddinagar police station, SHO Anand Kashyap said.“One of the workers got down into an under-construction septic tank to remove its shuttering. However, the labourer fell unconscious after inhaling toxic gases emanating from it. Another worker then went into it to pull the former out, but he also lost consciousness. Similarly, the third labourer too met the same fate while trying to rescue the two others,” an eye witness said. The victims were rushed to a local hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead. The bodies have been sent to Sadar hospital for postmortem examination, officials said.Meanwhile, Mohiuddinagar circle officer Pramod Kumar Ranjan said ex-gratia payment as per government rules will be granted next to the kin of deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-dead-after-inhaling-toxic-gas-from-septic-tank-101627055889851.html
23-07-2021||Patna||Bihar’s agri export revenue rose by over 800 times in last 15 yrs||Bihar’s agricultural exports showed an exponential rise over last 15 years and the revenue generated thereof increased by more than 800 times during the same period, the state agricultural department informed during a presentation before chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday.The presentation showcased the initiatives undertaken by the agricultural department to promote exports and facilitate marketing facility to farmers in the state.“In 2006, the value of the state’s agricultural exports stood at ₹3 crore. By 2020, it shot up to ₹2,617 crore,” said agriculture secretary N Sarvana Kumar during the presentation at the CM’s official residence.Agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh was also present during the presentation.Expressing his satisfaction, the CM exhorted officials to leave no stone unturned to further encourage exports of agricultural produce from the state. Kumar also asserted that agricultural growth “must not only lead to an increase in produce but also bring about a rise in the income of the farmers”.Noting that the state’s economy was primarily driven by the farming section, Kumar pointed out that it is with this aspect in mind that his government has come out with three five-year “agriculture road maps” so far.The CM also welcomed youngsters joining agricultural sector on a large scale. “Contract farming is gaining popularity in the state and establishment of new agriculture institutes and colleges are inspiring the young generation to take up the field as their area of expertise,” said Kumar.Chief secretary Tripurari Sharan was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-agri-export-revenue-rose-by-over-800-times-in-last-15-yrs-101627055888725.html
23-07-2021||Other||Purnia’s land acquisition officer in vigilance net||PURNIAVigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) sleuths on Friday arrested the land acquisition officer of Purnia for allegedly demanding and accepting bribe for releasing compensation money to a person whose land was acquired for a national highway, official said.One Nitesh Kumar of Purnia had written to the VIB alleging that land acquisition officer Arbind Kumar Bharti had demanded ₹1.30 lakh before releasing ₹31 lakh to him for the land acquired for construction of NH-107.“We found the allegation to be true during probe and laid a trap. Bharti was arrested when he was accepting the bribe in his office,” Surendra Kumar, deputy superintendent of police (vigilance), who led the team, said. “We are taking the accused to Patna for further legal action,” Kumar said. This is the second arrest for corruption in last two weeks in Purnia. On July 9, labour superintendent Kumar Alok Ranjan and his peon Manoj Kumar were arrested from his office while accepting a bribe of ₹55,000 for the disposal of a file related to cess tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purnias-land-acquisition-officer-in-vigilance-net-101627055889264.html
23-07-2021||Other||At Speaker’s all-party meet, Oppn seeks action on manhandling of MLAs||PATNAAhead of the monsoon session of the state legislature beginning July 26, Bihar assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha held an all-party meeting on Friday during which Opposition members demanded strict action against police and other officials allegedly involved in manhandling Opposition legislators on March 23 at the assembly premises, according to one of the leaders who attended the meeting.On March 23, Opposition members protesting against Bihar Special Armed police bill were allegedly manhandled by police.The monsoon session will begin from July 26 and end on July 30. Earlier this week, the government had suspended two police officials allegedly involved in manhandling the legislators on March 23. The move came days after leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wrote to the Speaker seeking a reply as to who all were responsible for ordering such violent measures against the Opposition members and seeking strict action against the erring officials. Yadav, who did not participate in today’s meeting as he is in New Delhi, also wrote in his letter to the Speaker that Opposition members were scared to attend the monsoon session given the violence against them in the budget session.RJD was represented by Lalit Kumar Yadav at the meeting on Friday. “We told the Speaker that mere suspension of two police officials was not enough. The policemen involved in manhandling legislators should be arrested and dismissed from service. Action should be also taken against those who ordered such violent measures when women MLAs were dragged outside the assembly and manhandled,” said Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma, who attended the meeting. Sharma, however, said it was not right for members to climb on the podium, referring to the unruly scenes in the House on March 23. Speaker Sinha urged the members to show discipline in the House during the forthcoming session. Parliamentary affairs minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav assured the members that government would give replies on public issues raised by members. Among others present at the meeting were deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, both from BJP, Mehboob Alam of CPI-ML(Liberation) and Ramratan Singh of CPI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-speaker-s-all-party-meet-oppn-seeks-action-on-manhandling-of-mlas-101627055888185.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi will reopen schools after monitoring situation in other states, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told reporters on Friday that his government will keep an eye on the states where schools are being reopened to learn about their experiences before deciding on when to reopen schools in the Capital. Kejriwal insisted that the schools should ideally only be opened after vaccination has been done. "The ideal situation would be to open schools after vaccination. We will see for some days the experiences of other states where schools are opening and then decide. Parents are still worried about their child's safety," he told reporters.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo had said last week that the government is concerned about a possible third wave of coronavirus and will not be opening schools before vaccination is completed. Schools in the national Capital were shut in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic after some classes were briefly resumed in February this year. Starting from September-October last year, states partially resumed physical classes which had to be suspended again in March-April this year.Also Read: Is reopening schools in India risky now? What experts, government saidWith many experts insisting that the third wave can be brutal for children, the largest unvaccinated population, the opening of schools has become a contentious issue. The states of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, and Rajasthan for classes 9 to 12 in the July-August period as cases have once again started to fall. All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Dr Randeep Guleria cautioned that schools should only be opened in areas where the positivity rate is low, staff are vaccinated and should be shut down if the positivity rate starts to go up again. He also urged authorities to monitor children so that the ones who show symptoms of coronavirus can be isolated and treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-will-reopen-schools-after-monitoring-situation-in-other-states-says-kejriwal-101627054003804.html
23-07-2021||Bhopal||Chaos at vaccination centres in MP, health department to increase sites||Long queues, stampede-like situations, chaotic atmosphere, scuffles between people and protests are some of the common sights at various vaccination centres in Madhya Pradesh owing to the alleged absence of proper arrangement and enough doses, HT has learnt.Recent incidents of ruckus were reported from at least six districts including Rajgarh, Panna, Hoshangabad, Chhindwara, Vidisha and Khargone.In Rajgarh, people created a ruckus at a vaccination centre of Narsinghgarh Tehsil on Thursday. As many as 4,000 people reached for vaccination but the centre received only 500 vaccines. A few residents of Udaipuria village fought for vaccination. Police force had to be deployed at the centre.Rajgarh collector Neeraj Kumar Singh said, “A large number of people are reaching the vaccination centres. We have no system of prior registration and are doing spot registration. We are making arrangements and also requested the state government to increase doses.”In a similar incident in a village in Khargone, women engaged in a scuffle in order to enter the vaccination centre. A video of the incident went viral on social media. Block medical officer Dr Rakesh Patidar wrote a letter to district administration and police to make arrangements for security.People are allegedly panicking to get vaccination first due to rumours of losing the benefit of government schemes and fear of losing their work.A resident of Bujurg village of Khargone, Shiv Singh said, “We were told that if we don’t take vaccination against Covid-19, we will lose the benefits of all the government schemes. We will not get ration and work.”In Hoshangabad, Barwani, Vidisha and Panna, a long queue could be seen at centres due to the same reason. Even people are reaching the centre at the night to get the token first. A resident of Panna, Munna Ahirwar, 30, said, “We came back to our village due to lockdown. Now, our lives are solely dependent upon the government’s scheme. If we lose it, we will not survive so I am visiting the centre for the past one week but I am not getting the jab. The health workers here said they didn’t have enough vaccines and it will be given on a first come first serve basis.” In most of the districts, the administrations are increasing the number of centres.Panna district collector Sanjay Kumar Mishra said, “Initially, a few people were visiting the centres for vaccination but the sudden increase of numbers is creating chaos at the centre. Now, we have decided to increase the number of centres and token counters to maintain the social distancing.”Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “We are getting regular doses of vaccine. Even, we made a record of vaccination of 10 lakh people on Thursday. We are in touch with the district administration and are trying to provide vaccine doses as per demand.”Recently, MP High Court has asked the central government to provide 15 million doses per month or 4 million doses per week to administer at least the first dose of vaccine before the third wave hits, which is predicted in September.In Madhya Pradesh, over 26.6 million vaccines have been administered till Friday and more than 75 million doses are required to complete the 100% vaccination target till December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/chaos-at-vaccination-centres-in-mp-health-department-to-increase-sites-101627053072795.html
23-07-2021||Other||“Tilak Ajoba” gives an audience to Pune, again||PUNE To mark the twin celebrations of Guru Poornima and the birth anniversary of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak on Friday, a 102-year-old life-sized statue of Tilak was unveiled in its permanent place in the freedom fighter’s own but newly-restored study room housed in Kesari Wadi, Narayan Peth. On Tilak’s 100th death anniversary on August 1, the statue will be on display for all in his very own study room.Reminiscing about his father and sculptor Keshav Lele who sculpted the statue, Yeshwant Keshav Lele said, “This is the only full-size statue sculpted by the then 18-year-old sculptor Keshav Lele, with Tilak himself sitting as a live model in July 1919 when he was at Sardar Bhavan in Mumbai. The statue was made of Plaster of Paris (PoP) in July 1919 at Sardar Bhavan. That is also where he breathed his last a year later.”The statue is unique in that it is not in the usual standing pose but in an extremely realistic pose of Tilak in his daily life, sitting in a reclining armchair reading the Kesari (newspaper started by Tilak). The chair on which the statue is seated is almost as old as the sculpture.Yeshwant Keshav Lele recalled, “My father was a highly accomplished sculptor who specialised in making dioramas of moving statues. He was chosen twice to represent India; once at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley, UK, in 1924 and again at the Sesquicentennial International Exposition at Philadelphia, USA, in 1926.”The Tilak family spent ₹1 crore in restoring their old house using old photographs and other paraphernalia. They employed the services of heritage restoration architect Kiran Kalamdani for the purpose.Reiterating that this is the only life-sized statue in existence sculpted with Tilak sitting as live model, Mukta Tilak recalled, “The statue took six months with Tilak spending an hour daily to sit in one place. He was very fidgety and would not sit still according to the then photographers. It has captured the very essence of Tilak in its features.”The statue is special also in that it is almost all that is left of sculptor Keshav Lele’s body of work as all his unique dioramas were destroyed by anti-social elements in the riots that broke out after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination. Keshav Lele died in 1945 just shy of his 44th birthday. Ironically, he died of lung failure due to saturation of the lungs by PoP dust.Tilak’s statue, affectionately called “Tilak Ajoba” was practically a family member at the Leles’ residence in Dadar, Mumbai. After taking care of “Tilak Ajoba” for 60 years, Keshav Lele’s son, Yeshwant Lele, transported the statue to his daughter Dr Chitra Lele’s home in Pune in 1999 to curb any further damage due to the infamous Mumbai weather. In Pune, it was lovingly restored in 2015 by famous sculptor-restorer, Abhijit Dhondphale.“I have used fibreglass to restore the torso of the statue while the face, hands, and legs are the original in PoP. It took me almost a month-and-a-half to refurbish and bring it back to Tilak’s original skin colour,” informed Dhondphale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tilak-ajoba-gives-an-audience-to-pune-again-101627051987885.html
23-07-2021||Other||Pune district reports 1,111 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths||PUNE Pune district, on Friday, reported 1,111 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths in 24 hours. This takes the progressive count to 1.081 million, of which 1.046 million have recovered.The death toll stands at 18,604 , with 15,809 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment, or in home isolation. Pune also saw 46,755 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 697 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 323,368. With three more deaths, the death toll is now 6,180. Pune city reported 273 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 501,914 and with 10 deaths reported on Friday, the toll stands at 8,857. PCMC reported 141 new Covid-19 cases, with which the progressive count went up to 255,918. With four more deaths reported the toll stands at 3,298.Pune also saw 46,755 vaccinations on Friday, as per the CoWin dashboard. Totally, 5,813,275 vaccines have been administered, including 4,430,615 first doses and 1,382,660 second doses. A total of 369 vaccination sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 218 were government and 151 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-1-111-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-17-deaths-101627050847727.html
23-07-2021||Other||Shortage of vaccines has seniors lining up outside sentres for second shot||PUNE Due to a shortage of vaccines in the city, senior citizens and those aged above 45 years, have now been forced to further extend the gap between the first and second dose, from the current 84 days to over 90 days, and more than 100 days in some cases. From last Sunday to Tuesday this week, the PMC had to shut down centres because of no stock. All those who got their first dose in April are due for the second shot. The current approved gap between two shots of Covishield is between 12 and 16 weeks, which is 84 to 112 days. However, senior citizens who got their first dose before April 30, are now queuing up outside vaccination centres to get the second dose. The second shot of the vaccine is essential to ensure that a person is fully vaccinated and has received maximum possible immunisation against the infection. The gap between the first and second shot has been raised multiple times, initially from one month to the existing three months.Dr Suryakant Deokar , PMC immunisation officer said, “For Saturday we have started over 185 Covishield centres and each of the centres will get 100 doses. Of this, 40% will be reserved for the 18-plus age group who have an online booking for the same, and 20% of doses will be reserved for the 18-plus age group who come for an on-spot booking. For the remaining 40%, 20% will be reserved for second shots and those who have taken their first shot before April 30. The remaining 20% is for second-shot walk-in beneficiaries. As of now, the current criteria for gap between first and second dose is 12 to 16 weeks and we are ensuring that everyone gets the second dose in that time. We will try to increase the slots for the second shot so that the more vulnerable population is fully vaccinated.”On Friday Pune district received a total of 60,000 doses of Covishield, of which Pune rural got 25,800, PMC got 21,000 and PCMC got 13,200. A total of 22,720 doses of Covaxin were also made available, of which Pune rural received 9,820 doses, PMC got 7,900 and PCMC got 5,000 doses of the vaccine. Yogesh Sasane, a BJP corporator, said, “Everyday there is a huge crowd outside vaccination centres and this month even senior citizens are lining up outside. There was no vaccine available for the past few days and when we have it, we have to make sure that everyone gets it. Those lining up for second shot are now forced wait longer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-vaccines-has-seniors-lining-up-outside-sentres-for-second-shot-101627049947594.html
23-07-2021||Dehradun||Ganga waters to be provided to Kanwariyas through tankers||Ensuring Lord Shiva devotees, Kanwariyas, stay put at homes and get sacred Ganga jal, the Haridwar administration has decided to provide Ganga waters through tankers in the neighbouring states, officials said. As this year too Kanwar pilgrimage has been banned in Uttarakhand, this step is being taken to ensure Kanwariyas don’t head to Uttarakhand for fetching Ganga jal as they will be provided with the holy water through tankers in their city, town or village. Kanwar yatra is an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees, known as Kanwariyas, to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand to fetch Ganga waters which they take back to their respective areas to anoint Shiva Lingams in temples. District magistrate of Haridwar, C Ravi Shankar, has made a communique in this regard with respective district magistrates and deputy commissioners of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to send the information on demand and place of distribution in their respective administrative areas so that arrangements can be made for ferrying Ganga Jal to these places for Kanwariyas. “Owing to the Covid epidemic, Kanwar fair has been banned this year. But taking into consideration the religious sentiments of Kanwariyas, arrangements will be made through tankers to ferry sacred Ganga water to the neighbouring states. As soon as we get the requirement and point of distribution, tankers will be sent so that Kanwariyas can then use it to anoint Shiv Lingums on Shivratri (August 6),” said DM C Ravi Shankar. The DM also added that through the online portal epost service of the Indian Postal Department, devotees can also purchase Ganga Jal which will be sent through parcel service to them. Meanwhile, the Youth Congress unit has also dispatched 6,000 litres of Ganga Jal to urban and rural areas of western Uttar Pradesh for Lord Shiva devotees. “Kanwariyas can’t arrive this year too, so we thought to provide sacred Ganga water to Kanwariyas in neighbouring states. Last year also, the Youth Congress provided Ganga jal through water tankers in UP,” said Mahanagar president Akash Bhati, Youth Congress. Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha said that next year the yatra will hopefully resume and Kanwariyas will be able to fetch Ganga jal themselves. “But till then, tanker service is a good alternative,” he said. On July 13, the Uttarakhand government cancelled the Kanwar yatra amid the fear of third wave and Delta plus variant which has been already reported in the hill state. The decision was taken in the meeting chaired by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ganga-waters-to-be-provided-to-kanwariyas-through-tankers-101627049830408.html
23-07-2021||Other||PMC updating software of rain gauges in the city||PUNE The Pune Municipal (PMC) has begun work to update the software of rain gauges to take accurate rainfall readings in different parts of the city. The corporation installed rain gauges in 15 ward offices in 2013 to measure rainfall and give alerts to the disaster management cell about flood-like situations. All these gauges are connected to a computer system, under which all ward officers and the disaster management cell would get SMSes about rainfall. In 2016, the corporation installed a web-based system which connected all ward offices through computers. This system was providing rainfall data to ward offices and the disaster management cell. Ganesh Sonune, head of the disaster management cell, said, “Now, we have taken to upgrading the software of the rain-gauge system. However, we are getting information on rainfalls from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) and India Meteorology Department (IMD). There are a total 23 rain gauge stations in different parts of the city. IITM has a total 20 stations. IMD has three stations to record rainfalls - Lohegaon, Pashan and Shivajinagar.” “We are getting scientific data from these stations. Besides that, the corporation has installed additional rain gauges in all ward offices,” he added. According to the disaster management cell, the system compares data and if rainfall exceeds normal levels in the city, it sends an alert to the respective ward office as well as the disaster management cell. Smart city flood alert sensor stolen Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited’s flood- alert sensor was reported stolen from Prayeja City, off the Katraj-Dehu road bypass, on Friday. The sensor was fitted on a bridge over a nullah. The Smart City Operations Centre (SCOC) has installed 40 flood sensors across the city. The SCOC receives alerts and will send messages within a red (0-1 km) and yellow zones (1-3 km) radius, and notify key city agencies, in case of a flood. Most of the sensors are installed on river bridges, culverts and over nullahs, all linked with the Smart City control centre on Sinhgad road. It also displays information on digital boards installed in main chowks in different parts of the city. Sanjay Kolate, chief executive officer (CEO) Smart City Development Corporation Limited , said, “We have given maintenance and operations to L&T. It is a five-year contract. The company has registered a police complaint.” Atmaram Magar, operating head, Smart city operations Centre (SCOC) said, “A flood sensor consists of a solar panel, battery, charging device, IT device, and back-up device.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-updating-software-of-rain-gauges-in-the-city-101627047547369.html
23-07-2021||Jaipur||Over 1.2L people in Rajasthan signed up for the state's health scheme, says govt||More than 1.2 lakh people in Rajasthan have benefitted from the state government's flagship health scheme Mukhyamantri Chiranjeevi Swasthya Bima Yojna launched almost three months ago, a senior official said on Friday.In the scheme, more than 1.3 crore families have already registered, which is nearly 80 per cent of the state's population.“It is our priority to ensure that all citizens of the state can avail free treatment at a hospital near them. More than 1.2 lakh people have got benefitted through the scheme and 1.3 crore families have registered themselves under the scheme,” said Aruna Rajoria, CEO, State Health Assurance Agency.The insurance scheme is acclaimed as the most affordable health policy by offering cashless annual insurance cover of up to ₹5 lakh for all citizens of Rajasthan for a premium as low as ₹850 per family, while registration under the scheme is free for families included in the National Food Security Act, Socioeconomic Caste Census 2011 beneficiaries, Covid-19 ex-gratia list, contractual workers and small and marginal farmers.The scheme has empanelled more than 450 private and 756 public hospitals to extend the services for the betterment of the people.The state government has also been continuously expanding its ambit of procedures covered under the scheme and included mucormycosis (black fungus) treatment as the number of related cases shot up during the second wave of the pandemic.Initially though, the scheme had faced challenges as many reports of non-compliance by private hospitals were received by the state government. The government has thus established a 24x7 call centre answering every complaint.Nodal officers have also been assigned to every zone to ensure every complaint gets resolved and registered beneficiaries receive their due benefits in empanelled hospitals, the statement said.The state government has made a provision that if any empanelled hospital has taken money from any beneficiary of the scheme in the treatment relating to Covid-19 and mucormycosis (black fungus) in the second wave, it will be returned to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/over-1-2l-people-in-rajasthan-signed-up-for-the-state-s-health-scheme-says-govt-101627042640731.html
23-07-2021||Other||One dead, over 400 evacuated as rains and flood wreak havoc in Goa||Overnight heavy rainfall wreaked havoc in parts of Goa inundating houses, leaving hundreds stranded homes flooded, communication lines snapped and rail and road traffic disrupted. No loss of life has been reported yet, officials said.Two houses collapsed in the wee hours of Friday morning but no one was injured in Valpoi taluka in North Goa as the occupants abandoned their homes no sooner the water began rising at around 3 am.Chief minister Pramod Sawant inspected the areas which were flooded as a result of incessant rains in various parts of Bicholim taluka, one of the affected taluks. He also directed the officials to provide immediate assistance to people in distress. 23 people in Harvalem in Bicholim were rescued and brought to safety.“For the last eight days, Goa has received a lot of rain especially Sattari, Bicholim, Ponda, Dharbandora, Bardez and Pernem. The state received unprecedented rains. The last we received such rainfall was in 1982 but this time it was even more than that. One woman is feared dead after she drowned in the rising waters. We are still inquiring into the circumstances of her death," Chief Minister Sawant said."As per the present report more than 700 houses are damaged. 832 hectares of standing crop is lost causing a loss of 2.55 crore,” he added.A bridge in Paikul Sattari was washed away cutting the village off from the mainstream while at least three incidents of houses collapsing after being inundated by floodwaters were reported from different parts of Goa.In a related incident, the engine and a passenger coach of the Mangaluru Jn-Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Express Spl (which was running o­n the diverted route via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj due to overflow of Vashishti River between Chiplun and Kamathe), suffered a derailment between Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section along the steep slope of the western ghats.“No passenger casualty has been reported (no injury/death). The passengers of the affected coach have been shifted to other coaches. The train is being pulled back to Kulem, and has crossed Sonaulim at this time,” the South Western Railway, which operates the line, said in a statement.Roads connecting Goa and North Karnataka have also been cut off due to landslides halting the flow of traffic.The India Meteorological Department, Goa, on Thursday night, warned of “very intense spells of short duration” over parts of Goa including Sattari, Dharbandora, Ponda, Sanguem, Salcette and Quepem. As predicted, the areas received very heavy rainfall with Valpoi in Sattari receiving 296.2 mm of rainfall, Sanguem 213 mm and Sanquelim 178.2 mm, respectively.Several villages in Valpoi, Bicholim, Pernem and Ponda talukas were cut off after the roads leading to the villages got affected.“Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Our people have faced immense hardship due to continuous and heavy rainfall in Sattari,” health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents the Valpoi constituency, said.The MeT department has warned of more rainfall for the next five days.“Ghat areas and hilly areas in North and South Goa districts are very likely to receive rainfall exceeding 20 cm in 24 hours. Likelihood of very heavy rainfall (115.6-204.4 mm of rainfall in 24 hours) continues over North and South Goa districts for about three more days with scattered and isolated spatial distributions,” the weather department said in its forecast.Goa has been on a ‘red alert’ for Thursday and Friday and has been alternating between red and orange alerts since Jun 12 when the current spell of continuous heavy spells of rain began. Since June 12, Goa has witnessed heavy rains that are likely to continue for another five days at least.The rains have been further strengthened by a well-marked low-pressure area over Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha-West Bengal coasts which has led to an off-shore trough at mean sea level which now runs from Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast.“Winds of speed 45-55kmph gusting to 65kmph are very likely along with intense rainfall spells for a short duration are very likely over North and South Goa districts,” the IMD said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/overnight-heavy-rains-flood-goa-villages-cut-off-houses-collapse-101627045447697.html
23-07-2021||Patna||Bihar govt to facilitate self-help groups for transgender persons||The Bihar government is working to facilitate the formation of self-help groups (SHGs) for transgender persons in the state, officials aware of the matter said.Transgender persons interested in starting a trade can get together to form an SHG---the social welfare department is ready to give seed money to the transgender self help group members, they said. In Bihar, there are about 1 million SHGs for women that have been functioning under Jeevika, a World Bank funded poverty alleviation programme, run here since 2007 by the Bihar Rural Livelihood Promotion Society, an autonomous society under the rural development department of the state government. The programme was started to make rural women self-reliant through various kinds of activities, including farming, goat and poultry rearing to makings masks during the pandemic, and has been able to make nearly 12 million women economically independent. Also Read | Minority affairs ministry to counter vaccine hesitancy among communities“Likewise, the social welfare department has planned self help groups for transgender persons also. This way we will be able to provide them financial support. They may sell vegetables or start beauty salons or any other kind of work. The department will give them the seed money for any kind of business,” Rajkumar, director, social welfare department, said. A self-help group of transgender persons who sell vegetables in the state capital was formed last week on an experimental basis, he added. “The department has given them three months’ time to function this way and after that the department will give them seed money to plan something bigge,” he said. The official said that the seed money will be provided by the social welfare department’s transgender welfare board which has a budgetary provision of ₹50 lakh. Reshma, a former member of the transgender welfare board of the department, said that SHGs for transgender persons has been a long-pending programme and transgender persons have been waiting eagerly for this facility. “An SHG is, in fact, a group of persons living in the same geographical area and of almost similar level of income. They form a group and help one another when there is need of financial support. Every month, the group members deposit some amount of money in the group account and if needed, they get loan from this fund,” Reshma said. A group can have minimum 10 members with someone officiating as secretary and another as treasurer to maintain the account register, she added. There are over 40,000 transgender persons in the state as per Census 2011, while in the state capital, there are 2,200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-to-facilitate-self-help-groups-for-transgender-persons-101627044847739.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: On Jackie’s Farm||A few years ago, I received the following mail in my inbox: “Such a nice piece on Ms Selvaraj and bee farming today. I am working on indigenous seed banks and bee farming and would love to know more about her methods.” Now, receiving mail from readers about a day’s column is not unusual for a city hack. Neither is the fact that someone could be interested in the rarified subject of bee farming. No, what was surprising was the name at the end of the mail. The sender was Jackie Shroff, star of over four decades and 220 films and winner of four Filmfare Awards among other accolades. To understand why it is so unusual to receive an email from an actor on a subject that has nothing to do with his own stardom, one needs to understand a little about how things stack up in the film industry. For the past two decades or so, Bollywood has occupied a huge chunk of public imagination, which many feel is disproportionate to its true worth; and at the very thin edge of its pinnacle, reside its stars — two-dozen-and-a-half or so of men and women, whose every moment is spent under the spotlight of intense adulation, often bordering on worship. Unsurprisingly, as a consequence, most stars (with a few notable exceptions) have a rather exaggerated notion of themselves and their importance, believing that the world turns around their axis. In this scenario, Shroff is not only a star but a legend, in addition to being father to one of the hottest young stars of Bollywood. So, what was he doing writing to a columnist about her report on bee farming, in such an easy, un-starry manner? *************************************** The answer to that is the kind of person Shroff is. As he likes to tell it, he grew up in a Mumbai chawl (it matters not that it was located at Malabar Hill, adjoining the Governor’s Bungalow), the son of humble and loving parents, a young man, roiled in the flavours and piquancies of Mumbai’s gullies and streets. In fact, sightings of Shroff loafing outside the Jehangir Art Gallery or Nepean Sea Road’s Pastry Palace in his characteristic bandanna and open shirt, knotted stylishly at the waist, were a familiar leitmotif of Mumbai’s Swinging Seventies. In many ways you could say Shroff’s life unfolded on Mumbai’s streets. It was at a bus stop at Rampart Row where ad executive Ashok Kurien remembers spotting him and calling him for his first audition that eventually led to his modelling career and then his film break. Photographer Pradeep Chandra, who shot Shroff’s first magazine photo spread, recalls walking with him to his then fiancé Ayesha Shroff’s home at the end of Nepean Sea Road, to borrow something to wear for it. “Jackie hasn’t changed at all,” he says, “We don’t meet often. But when we do, it’s like the old days.” In fact, instances of Shroff’s kindness, decency and humility abound in an industry where few have nice things to say about others, behind their backs. A young relative who did a stint as an AD on one of Shroff’s multi-starrers vouches that from the entire star cast, Shroff stood out for his camaraderie and kindness towards the junior crew. A few years ago, a news report spoke of how faced with a traffic calamity, unmindful of his status, Shroff had jumped out of his car to help others. Leading film critic Rajeev Masand recalls an evening at a glittering soiree at London’s Dorchester, where he observed queues of fans approaching Shroff for selfies. “Encouraged by his kind manner they took further liberties making him speak to their friends and family on FaceTime, but he never got crabby or irritable. I can’t imagine any other movie star obliging a fan in that way,” says Masand. My own observations of Shroff have been similar. Running in to him on Mumbai’s endless carousel of parties and premieres, one got the distinct impression that here was a man of depth and wisdom, one who was a breed apart from his contemporaries. And I’d always make a mental note to someday spend more time getting to know him better. Though of course, given the frantic assembly line rush of our pre-pandemic lives, I also knew that such a day might never come… *************************************** It was the slow pace enforced by the pandemic and curiously once again his response to a column I’d written, that changed all that. Reaching out about a nostalgic piece I’d penned last month, Shroff had texted the simple words: “I miss old Bombay.” “Me too,” I’d responded, and what followed was an invitation for a day’s visit to his farm, on the outskirts of Pune, where he’d spent most of the past year when not shooting or visiting Ayesha and his kids. Nestled between the rolling grasslands of Lonavala and Pune and built in the shape of Shiva’s crescent moon (all curves and undulations to encourage the free flow of wind and energy), a visit to Shroff’s farm is intrinsic to understanding who the man is, away from the arc lights and grease paint. Here, basking in Nature’s glory, surrounded by his beloved fruits, herbs, vegetable and medicinal plants, collected painstakingly over the years, Shroff pursues his nascent passion for the earth and sustainable, healthy living. When he’s not working barefoot on the field alongside local farm hands, to the accompaniment of their favourite radio music, he’s scouring the internet to learn more about the subject. Currently his interests are piqued by Vandana Shiva’s ideas on food sovereignty, biodiversity and bioethics; Japanese farmer Masanobu Fukuoka’s sustainable practices; and the information superhighway conducted by fungi deep within the earth. At Shroff’s farm, practices like permaculture, water harvesting , organic farming and bee keeping are not fashionable catch phrases, but part of the daily routine. And it is here that you are gently afforded a glimpse into Shroff’s soul, not so much through his words, because at the best of times he is a taciturn man, but through his long silences, which he interrupts occasionally to point out a rare bird’s song or a gathering breeze or with periodic reminders to you to breathe deeper, sit straighter and walk taller… Even his living quarters at his farm tell the story of who Shroff really is. Comfortable but certainly not luxurious, his room is filled with the memorabilia of all that sustains his expansive, life-affirming spirit: A handwritten note from Dev Anand about their “spiritual connect”; a cherished photograph of the time his idols Waheeda Rehman and Asha Parekh had visited; and occupying a place of pride, a sepia-tinged framed photograph of the beloved chawl he grew up in at Walkeshwar. “You see,” Shroff says simply, “While growing up, though I hung out with the kids of the drivers and cooks of the neighbourhood during the day, in the evenings, thanks to modelling and films, I would get invited to the drawing rooms of their employers. You learn a lot about life like that…” Prod him a little more about what makes him so different and grounded and humane, and you won’t get more than a shrug. “If everyone thought responsibly about the next generation and planted more trees and was gentler to Mother Earth and her children and practiced sustainable living, the world would be a much better place...” he mumbles. See what I mean about Shroff being a man of depth and wisdom, one who is a breed apart from his contemporaries?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-on-jackie-s-farm-101627044368256.html
23-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra landslides: Opposition hits out at govt over delay in rescue ops||Even as a landslide hit Taliye in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Thursday evening, the search and rescue operation by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and local administration began hours later on Friday. During the early morning hours, local residents started removing debris and pulling out bodies. The delayed search and rescue operation angered locals, who said some lives could have been saved if it had started earlier.At least 36 villagers died as the landslide triggered after heavy rain-hit Taliye.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Girish Mahajan criticised the government over the delay. “The administration and those in the government are citing difficult terrain for the delayed rescue operation. However, if we could reach here from Mumbai hours before the officials, what had stopped them. It has been 20 hours and no earthmoving machinery has reached here,” said Mahajan, who visited the scene.Raigad district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said the rescuers could start operation only by Friday morning due to heavy rain, low visibility, and difficult terrain. “It took hours for rescuers and administration officials to reach the location. While earthmoving machinery could not be taken there, rescuers started removing debris manually.”In Satara district too, local administration faced difficulties in resuming rescue operations at Ambeghar and Mirgaon, where two landslides were reported. As many as 22 persons were feared trapped there, said Satara police superintendent Ajay Kumar Bansal.“The region is still receiving heavy rain as a result of which it has become difficult to expedite rescue and relief operation.”State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said the BJP leaders are trying to draw political mileage even from a tragedy. “Everyone, including the BJP leaders, know that reaching locations, which have reported landslides, is very difficult. Those who are criticising should rather offer assistance in this difficult situation rather than scoring political points.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-landslides-opposition-hits-out-at-govt-over-delay-in-rescue-ops-101627044127595.html
23-07-2021||Other||Erstwhile Panna royal family member arrested for threatening mother-in-law||A member of the erstwhile royal family of Panna in Madhya Pradesh has been arrested for rioting, house trespassing, and threatening her mother-in-law over a two-decade-old property dispute, said police.Police superintendent Dharmraj Meena said Jiteshwari Devi was arrested on the complaint of Rajmata Dilhar Kumari on Thursday. In her complaint, Kumari has accused Devi and three others of barging into her palace without permission, vandalising the property, misbehaving with her, and threatening to kill her by showing pistols on June 19, added Meena. Meena said they have probed the matter and found the accusation to be true. He added four other accused are absconding.Also Read | Clearing encroachments duty of state, not ours: SCThe accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (obscene language), 506 (criminal intimidation), 458 (house-trespass or housebreaking), and the Arms Act.The family has been involved in a property dispute since 2005. Kumari has insisted half of her property belongs to her daughter, Krishna Raja. Her son Raghvendra Singh has been claiming his father, late Maharaja Manvendra Singh, left a will saying the latter’s daughter will get that part of the property. In 2015, they made the will public, but Kumari has called it a forged document.Devi’s lawyer, Brajbhan Yadav, called the arrest politically motivated and said the case was filed against his client to weaken the protest against Ken-Betwa Link Project. “...Devi is opposing the project and (the case has been filed to) tarnish the image of Maharaj Raghvendra Singh and his family.”Kumari is supporting the project for interlinking Ken and Betwa rivers. Devi has been opposing the project, which she says will spoil the diamond mines and Panna Tiger Reserve, said Nadeem Khan, a local activist.Kumari refused to comment on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/erstwhile-panna-royal-family-member-arrested-for-threatening-motherinlaw-101627043647551.html
23-07-2021||Kolkata||Doctor, 2 nurses assaulted by patient’s family in Bengal’s Murshidabad; 5 held||A doctor and two nurses at a block primary health centre in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district were allegedly attacked by family members of a patient they referred to a better hospital on Thursday evening. Police have arrested five persons on the basis of a complaint lodged by the hospital authorities and the patient was shifted to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital (MMCH) the same evening. Late on Thursday, 52-year-old Rina Begum was rushed to the Shaktipur BPHC [block primary health centre] with respiratory problems. After a preliminary check-up, the doctor and nurses referred her to MMCH as the BPHC lacked the facility to handle her case. “The patient had chronic respiratory problems. Her oxygen saturation level had dropped below 80 and she had a high blood pressure. A BPHC is not equipped to treat such a patient...But some of her family members, who were in inebriated state, attacked the hospital staff,” said Prasanta Biswas, chief medical officer of health of Murshidabad district. A nurse who sustained injuries in her abdomen said though the patient was referred to a district medical college, her family demanded that she be treated at the BPHC as her condition was deteriorating. “I was hit in my abdomen. I had recently undergone a Caesarean delivery and there are stitches. The mob also attacked another nurse and doctor and vandalised the furniture,” said nurse Radharani Dey. The patient’s family said it would be difficult to shift her at night as the district medical college was around 35 -40km away. “When we reached the hospital, the patient’s condition was critical. We demanded that she be treated, and we would shift her to the medical college next morning. But the hospital staff pressured us to shift her at night itself. We never got the treatment and now police have arrested five of our relatives,” said Torabuddin Sheikh, a relative of the patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/doctor-2-nurses-assaulted-by-patient-s-family-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-5-held-101627043168341.html
23-07-2021||Patna||Jolt to VIP as UP police refuse to allow installation of Phoolan’s Devi’s statue||In a jolt to Vikasheel Insaaf Party’s (VIP) plan to install bandit queen-cum-MP late Phoolan Devi’s statue at different places in election-bound Uttar Pradesh, the UP police on Friday seized the statues at Varanasi and Mirzapur and did not allow the party to hold its proposed meeting on her death anniversary on July 25, HT has learnt. A letter issued by Varanasi police commissioner A Satish Ganesh to VIP president-cum-animal husbandry minister of Bihar, Mukesh Sahni, cited the order issued by the UP government in 2008 whereby “a top-level permission” is required to establish the statue of any religious, political, or statesman, even on private lands. “You are organizing a programme in violation of the order which is objectionable,” the letter stated. It further said that the programme violates Covid-19 protocols and people have objected to the installation of the statue near Sujabad Shiv temple in Varanasi. People privy to the development in the VIP said that the SDM Varanasi had permitted to hold the programme by following Covid-19 norms and the party had sent detailed information to the UP-chief secretary about the programmes.“This is not right. The situation could have been avoided. But this doesn’t deter us from installing the statues for which we will proceed as per the rules of the state. In UP, the BJP government is in power, and we are friends in Bihar,” said Mukesh Sahni, hinting not to enter into confrontation with the UP government. The minister said that the programmes in UP will be held as per schedule but now there won’t be any public meeting.“Phoolan Devi is still alive in our thoughts for her struggles for the pride and prestige of mothers and sisters. We are celebrating July 25 as her martyrdom day from Bihar to UP and for this, we are going to install 18 idols of Phoolan Devi in UP and some in Bihar,” said Sahni, explaining the context of the exercise.The VIP, led by Bihar’s animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahni, has got 18 such statues of 18-feet height built.With an eye on capturing votes of the Nishad community in the run-up to the UP assembly election in 2022, the VIP decided to install the statue of late MP Phoolan Devi in 18 divisions of Uttar Pradesh.Late Phoolan Devi’s bandit faction mostly comprised members from the Mallah community. The Mallahs (boatmen) caste, popularly known as Nishads, and other sub-castes in the Other Backward Communities (OBC) in UP constitute 14% of the state’s population.Bandit-turned-politician, Phoolan Devi was also popular as a female rights activist who took to a life of crime and banditry after enduring poverty, child marriage, subjugation and abusive marriage. She was convicted on multiple charges but was later released in 1994 as then ruling Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh, led by former chief minister Mulayam Singh, withdrew all charges against her. She contested the Lok Sabha polls on SP ticket and was elected an MP twice from Mirzapur. She was assassinated on July 25, 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jolt-to-vip-as-up-police-refuse-to-allow-installation-of-phoolan-s-devi-s-statue-101627042629519.html
23-07-2021||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari files petition; Calcutta HC to transfer criminal cases to CBI||Alleging that he is subjected to "political vendetta", Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari has filed a petition before the Calcutta High Court seeking transfer of all criminal cases registered against him by the state police to the CBI.Adhikari also prayed for an order of quashing of FIRs registered against him by the state police. The BJP MLA filed the writ petition on Thursday seeking transfer of the criminal cases against him to the CBI for an "impartial investigation". Alleging that he is being subjected to "political vendetta" since he is an opposition party leader and the cases were registered against him with "false claims", Adhikari also sought an order of the high court directing quashing of the FIRs against him.The state police and its Criminal Investigation Department (CID) are probing a number of cases that relate to Adhikari. Amid the nationwide row over alleged snooping activities with Pegasus spyware, the BJP leader stoked a controversy when he said that he got access to call details of Purba Medinipur district SP Amarnath K, prompting the police on Tuesday to file suo motu cases against him.Adhikari, during a party meeting in the district's Tamluk area on Monday, had also publicly advised the local police chief to "refrain from doing anything that might lead to his transfer to Kashmir". The Nandigram MLA narrowly defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in assembly elections held earlier this year.The district police is also probing a case of alleged pilferage of relief material in Purba Medinipur. The state CID is investigating an unnatural death of a police constable, who was part of Adhikari's security team three years ago when he was a minister in the previous TMC government.A case of murder was instituted recently on the basis of a complaint of the constable's widow and the probe was handed over to the CID by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-adhikari-files-petition-calcutta-hc-to-transfer-criminal-cases-to-cbi-101627038195066.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||DDMA seeks Centre’s help for protocols on inter-state travel curbs||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has sought the Centre’s help in chalking out protocols for appropriate restrictions on inter-state travel, citing the spread of the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 in some states and the high positivity rate in the country’s North-East. The issue was taken up at DDMA’s meeting on July 9. The records of the meeting were finalised on July 20 and HT has seen the related documents.Niti Aayog member (health) V K Paul, who attended the meeting, suggested the Delhi government consult the Centre before imposing restrictions on inter-state travel, according to the records. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the chairperson of DDMA, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the vice-chairperson of DDMA, and chief secretary Vijay Dev, the executive head of the DDMA, also attended the meeting.According to the documents, Dev referred to reports of detection of the Delta plus variant in at least 12 states. The states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, and Haryana.Dev also highlighted the high-positivity rate in the eight North-East states. Most states in the region are under a hard lockdown or strict curfew restrictions. Among districts in India currently recording a positivity rate higher than 10%, nine are in Manipur, five each in Meghalaya and Mizoram, three each in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, and Sikkim, two in Tripura and one in Assam.“Delhi, being (the) capital of the country, is visited by people from all across India. In view of this, the guidance of experts is needed on what kind of measures are needed in Delhi to prevent the spread of Delta Plus variant cases. He (Dev) recalled that some restrictive measures were imposed in Delhi such as carrying of negative RT-PCR reports for the people coming from Andhra (Pradesh), Telangana and Maharashtra,” said one of the documents.The positivity rate in Delhi currently is less than 0.10% compared to 36% on April 22.The documents said Baijal suggested that an advisory by the Union health ministry will be appropriate.“...Paul suggested that the advice of the government of India should be taken before imposing any restrictions on the movement of inter-state travel as Delhi being capital of the country,” said the minutes of the meeting.Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Samiran Panda, a scientist at ICMR, Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Sujit Kumar Singh of National Centre for Disease Control and Krishna Vatsa, member of National Disaster Management Authority also attended the meeting.Currently, there are no restrictions on inter-state travel to, from, and through Delhi. For brief periods, conditions such as mandatory negative RT-PCR test reports were imposed for arrivals from some states such as Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Maharashtra. During the nationwide lockdown last year, the Union government imposed a complete ban on inter-state travel for over two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-seeks-centre-s-help-for-protocols-on-inter-state-travel-curbs-101627041847813.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks govt’s response on plea against re-entry of Chinese fashion brand||The Delhi high court on Friday sought the response of the Centre and Amazon on a plea against the re-entry of Chinese fashion brand Shein in India through digital marketplace.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on the plea by one Anantika Singh which had contended that despite being banned last year, there was an advertisement on Amazon on the sale of Shein products as a part of their prime day sale.Petitioner’s counsel, senior advocate Vivek Raj Singh, said Shein was one of the 59 Chinese applications banned by India last year following the India-China stand-off at Galwan valley in Ladakh and if urgent steps are not taken, then data would be compromised and transferred to the Chinese company. Also Read | HC notice to Centre, Delhi govt over uniforms for auto, taxi driversThe court, however, refused to pass any interim order to stay the sale at this stage. “We will see on returnable date,” it said.The plea contended that once the entry of Shein and its products was banned, it cannot be allowed to circumvent the law by using a third party platform.It said that as per Amazon’s privacy policy, it could share the data collected from users with registered sellers and it was thus possible that Shein would once again have access to personal and sensitive data of several millions of Indian citizens.The matter would be now heard on August 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-govt-s-response-on-plea-against-re-entry-of-chinese-fashion-brand-101627041427276.html
23-07-2021||Other||2 weeks after Turkish prisoner escapes, Tripura forms inquiry committee||Two weeks after an undertrial Turkish prisoner escaped from a government-run hospital, the Tripura government constituted an inquiry committee to probe the case. The committee has been asked to submit their inquiry report to the government within three months. Hakan Zanburkan, a Turkish national, was arrested in connection to ATM fraud in 2019. Since his arrest, he was in judicial custody. On July 9, Hakan was brought to Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) Hospital after he complained of a minor physical ailment. But he escaped from the hospital.He is still on the run. Also Read | BJP functionary arrested for allegedly raping minor in Tripura’s Khowai“A two-member inquiry committee was formed to investigate into the case. The Turkish national is also accused of different cases in other states, apart from Tripura. The committee has been asked to find out the true facts in the case including negligence of the security or escort, if any, that led the prisoner to escape. The committee will need to report their findings in three months,” said law minister Ratan Lal Nath. Retired justice of the Tripura high court SC Das has been made chairman and retired judicial officer Dr. BK Kilikdar has been made member of the committee, he said. Apart from Hakan, another Turkish national, identified as Fettah Aldemir, and two Bangladeshi nationals, Md Hannan and Md Rafiqul Islam, were arrested from Belgharia in West Bengal two years ago. Over ₹10 lakh were stolen from different banks including the State Bank of India in four days in November, 2019. The cyber crime department, during investigation that time, said that the men used skimmer devices and cloned cards to loot the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-weeks-after-turkish-prisoner-escapes-tripura-forms-inquiry-committee-101627038907145.html
23-07-2021||Other||4th sero survey shows 61.2% Pulwama population has Covid antibodies||The fourth sero survey in Kashmir’s Pulwama has revealed that the percentage of population with Covid-19 antibodies has almost doubled to 61.2% since the last such survey was conducted.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted the forth national sero survey in June this year in the aftermath of the second wave of Covid-19.“The findings of the sero survey show 61.2% sero positivity among general population while the healthcare providers have 81.1% ,” said Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar and nodal person for the ICMR’s national sero survey for Pulwama.In the previous three rounds in Pulwama district, the sero prevalence among the general population was found to be 2%, 27.3% and 31.5% respectively in May-June , August-September and December 2020 respectively.The ICMR conducted the fourth round of the survey in June 2021 in the same 70 districts in which the first three rounds were held. This survey covered the general population above 6 years of age and health care workers working in district hospitals of these districts. “This fourth round is significant due to widespread infection during the second wave and the vaccination drive this year,” he said.Sero prevalence was also very high in fully vaccinated people at 89.8% against 62.3% among the unvaccinated subjects.In Pulwama, the survey was conducted through the Department of Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar with support from district administration and health experts of the district . “Some 430 blood samples were collected from designated 10 clusters besides 106 samples from healthcare providers,” said Khan.Of the 320,340 Covid cases in the 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir,15,120 were recorded in Pulwama. The district also recorded 194 Covid deaths of the total 4,373 in the Union territory till July 22.A similar study is underway across the ten districts of Kashmir where samples are being taken from children, adults and pregnant women among general population, healthcare providers and police personnel to ascertain sero prevalence.“We are expecting results of the district-wise study in 3-4 weeks which will guide the policymakers in Covid management and protocols,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4th-sero-survey-shows-61-2-pulwama-population-has-covid-antibodies-101627038427084.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||NRIs seeking to set up ventures in UP, says govt||The Yogi Aditynath-led Uttar Pradesh government said on Friday that Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) are looking to set up business ventures in the state. “Attracted by Yogi government’s industrial policies, NRIs seek to set up their ventures in UP,” it said in a statement.“32 NRIs from 18 countries propose to invest Rs1,045 crore in 5 districts,” it added.The statement claimed that impressed by the investor-friendly policies of the Uttar Pradesh government, NRIs are willing to set up their industrial units in IT, agriculture, health, manufacturing and renewable energy sectors the state.“More than 50 Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) have taken the initiative to set up industries in the state in the recent past of which 32 are in touch with the State Government to invest about ₹1,045 crore in Noida-Greater Noida, Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj. These NRIs have shown interest in investing in 15 sectors, including among others, agriculture, health, IT, manufacturing and solar energy. Soon these NRIs will start setting up their enterprise in the state, according to officials,” it said.The government claimed that the launch of the NRI specific section in the UP government’s official website has awakened a keen interest amongst the NRIs and encouraged investment. “UP has become a favourite state for both NRIs as well as foreign investors, thanks to the Yogi Government’s efforts. The interest among NRI investors has increased in the last couple of years, especially after the launch of the website by CM Yogi last year. The NRI section of the website has been screened by over 500 Non-Resident Indians for investing in UP while NRI cards have been issued to 540 of them,” it said.32 NRIs staying in 18 countries including America, UAE, Oman, Singapore, Australia, Germany, Ghana, New Zealand, Russia, England etc. have sent their investment proposal, the government said.Out of this, around 13 of the NRI investors own businesses in the countries of their residences and are expanding to UP; and 19 of them are employed in reputed companies abroad are now moving to UP to set up their enterprises.The government said once these enterprises are operational, they will generate employment for many in the state. “NRIs from the UAE have proposed to build a grand hospital in UP at the estimated cost of ₹400 crore. Similarly, Dr S Singh, a Russia-based NRI, will invest ₹300 crore in a renewable energy project. Non-Resident Indians residing in Kuwait have proposed to invest ₹100 crore in the automotive sector. Furthermore, NRIs residing in Ghana and New Zealand have made investment proposals worth ₹150 crore in the agriculture sector,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nris-seeking-to-set-up-ventures-in-up-says-govt-101627037650614.html
23-07-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: July 23-July 30||Dance sessionsThis workshop, Merawala Dance with Kavvita Kapoor Khalsaa, will heal your body and awaken harmony. This workshop takes you beyond the inhibitions. Join the madness and “dance to your own moves!” To register contact Radhika Parmar on +919824166960 or email kkapoormagic@gmail.com3 session package: ₹2,500 per head 8 session package: ₹5,000 per headWhen: July 27; 6:30 pm to 7:30 pmWhere: onlineEducation fairTo Study abroad in Canada, USA, UK and Australia, AECC Global invites interested students to attend the AECC Global Virtual Education Fair from 11am to 3pm.To attend the VEF2021 pre-registration is a must on https://unisessions.aeccglobal.in/?utm_campaign=101When: July 23: Canada and USA; July 30: UKWhere: OnlineFTII reunionAn online reunion of FTII’s Acting batch (1971-73) in celebration of the Golden Jubilee of their entry into the then Film Institute of India (now Film and Television Institute of India - FTII) will see some famous actors of yesteryears come together to share memories.The event, organised by FTII’s department of Screen Acting, will be held on FTII’s official YouTube and Facebook channels.When: July 24, 4-6pm Where: online Kitchen gardening Kitchen gardening connects you with healthy soil and healthy food- be it in your balcony terrace window grill or backyard. Urban apartments can be homes to many useful edible plants. The organic kitchen gardening workshop deals with the basics of organic kitchen gardening including hands-on planting using a starter kit; potting soil; preparation of organic home-remedies for pest prevention and organic fertilisers/compost making at home; along with instructions and tips for plant care. Rs1,600/- per head, including starter kitWhen: July 25, 1:30 pm to 5pmWhere: Urja Art Studio, WakadWriting circleThis popular creative writing workshop wants to help take your writing to the next level. This Late Night Writing Circle is brought to you by Tall Tales, a story-telling organisation. Learn how to cut through the noise and capture your fleeting thoughts on paper. Prompts and guidance will be provided. To register online email akshay@talltales.in or WhatsApp 9920077055When: July 23; 11pm to 12:30am Where: Online Origami workshop An exciting set of origami workshop sessions for children aged between 7-12 years. Encourage them to try their hands at paper art and introduce them to the wonderful world of origami.To register go to Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Niksorigami or Instagram: @Niksorigami - https://www.instagram.com/Niksorigami/When: July 24; 3.30-5pm and 6-7.30pm Where: onlineSoap makingClasses provide vocational courses in learning how to make melt and pour soap. Soap-making is a unique thing. You will learn to make soaps of different shapes colours by using healthy products. Enjoy the fragrance of the soap made by yourself. To register call +91 8860075340When: July 25; 2pmWhere: OnlineTeens’ worldMake your child stand out in a crowd. Classes include role-play, discussions, hands-on activities and more. Teaching manners is more than just which fork to use. At Personify we teach basic etiquette to specific etiquette rules .To register: connect@personifybytarveen.com or call +91 96998 89993Fees: Rs.1500/- per personWhen: July 24; 4-5pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-july-23-july-30-101627037647134.html
23-07-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Stamping around the world to get to the Olympics||So Wednesday morning at breakfast, we were playing Atlas. The kids play Atlas quite often - usually at meal times - and it’s a great way to train memory and learn about the world in an enjoyable manner. We join in from time to time.It’s a pretty straightforward game: one player starts with the name of a country or city and the next player names another country starting with the last letter of the previous country name. So, if I begin with ‘Denmark’, the next player has to name a place starting with ‘K’. We usually allow names of continents, oceans, rivers and states as well (on days when the game goes long, we debate whether to allow district and village names). As the game progresses it gets pretty intense since one cannot repeat any place name … and conversations do get heated with frequent aspersions cast on made-up place names.And so it was on Wednesday that I came up with Umm Al Quwain and everyone immediately pounced, wondering if there was such a place. Thankfully I had proof handy: stamps from Umm Al Quwain, one of the emirates of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The stamps featured winners of events from the 1972 Winter Olympics.Soon enough there was uproar over Liechtenstein and then Brunei. And sure enough, I had stamps from both these countries (that’s how I had learnt about them in the first place). Three new names in a row piqued the curiosity of the kids and thus it transpired that we spent Wednesday evening reviewing my stamp collection and finding answers to questions like:“Where is Suriname?”“What is a stamp?”“So Andorra is a country? And not Pandora’s cousin?!”“What is a letter?”“So when you were growing up did pigeons carry your messages?”“Are there any triangle stamps? What about circle-shaped stamps?”“Has the Olympics been held in Japan before?”I started collecting stamps when I was around 7-years old. I found the coloured bits of paper on envelopes fascinating and used to cut out the stamps and keep them in a paper envelope. The information on the stamps was enough to drive my imagination and spur me onto long quests of discovery. Before long, I found that Mrs Bhosale - our neighbour - had family in foreign lands and that they wrote her letters frequently. Never a shy kid when it came to matters of my interest, I asked the question and that’s how I acquired my first 50 foreign stamps - from Bhosale aunty’s letters. It wasn’t long before I discovered that many other neighbours had family overseas and their polite offering of “you can have them if you want”, was invariably rewarded with me sitting in their living room cutting out stamps from their envelopes. My collection grew exponentially, as did my understanding of the world and the many wonders in it. Leaders, inventions, world organisations, important historic events, languages, people, farming techniques, science, art, wildlife, sports… stamps introduced me to it all. In fact, I first heard of the Olympics from a series of stamps from San Marino. (It was soon after that my father bought me a book on the Olympics published by the National Book Trust).And so on Wednesday we flipped through the collection and learnt that Japan had hosted the 1964 Summer Olympics (in Tokyo) and the 1972 Winter Olympics (in Sapporo). With a little bit of reading up, we discovered that Japan had also hosted the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano.Of course today (July 23, 2021), is the scheduled opening ceremony of the Summer Olympics in Tokyo, an event that we as a family are looking forward to. We have keen interest in a wide spectrum of sports from equestrian events and swimming to athletics, archery, gymnastics, shooting, basketball, tennis, wrestling, badminton, table tennis, and fencing among others.Swimming is the big draw for us, given that we have two champion (school and club level) swimmers in the family and two budding swimmers. I am the only one who is an embarrassment in the pool, but I make up for that with my certificates and trophies in soccer, table tennis and athletics. None of us are gymnasts, but we love rooting for all participants. India has a large contingent at the Games this year and I’m looking forward to the competitions.It’s a pity we can’t be cavalier and out and about during Olympics, due to the pandemic. Historically, people play more sports and take part in more physical activity during global sporting events. We have factored in work and school commitments and planned all our free time around the Tokyo Olympics for the next three weeks. It also seems likely that we will be snorkelling through our coin collection and exploring further the stamp albums and first-day covers in a bid to unearth more tidbits of intriguing historical information about the world we live in.Am quite sure we will also have our own championship of Atlas to address the competitive spirit in all of us.PS: With regards to Atlas, the trick is to trap your opponents into a cycle of place names starting with ‘A’. Why? Because most place names starting with ‘A’ also end with ‘A’ and unless you know the world Atlas really well, it becomes a pressure point to find yet another place name starting with ‘A’!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-stamping-around-the-world-to-get-to-the-olympics-101627037287953.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi approves process for tenders for around 400 e-buses||The Delhi transport department has approved the process for tenders for around 400 e-buses to be included in the city’s fleet of buses by the year-end, an official said on Friday. “The tender is likely to be floated next week. Delhi has 300 e-buses,” said an official.The government plans to have 1,000 such buses in the city by mid-2022. It is part of a plan of the Aam Aadmi Party government to add 4,000 buses to the city’s fleet by the end of that year. The overall plan includes standard floor and low floor buses -- both air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned.All these buses are supposed to comply with BS-VI emission standards and to be equipped with GPS devices, CCTV cameras, and panic buttons for enhancing the security of women commuters. The government has also set up a control room in Kashmere Gate for real-time tracking of its fleet.The plan to procure e-buses is in line with the government’s electric vehicle (EV) policy notified in August last year. The EV policy says that 25% of all registered vehicles in Delhi by 2023 will be electric. It is part of the government’s long-term action plan against air pollution. The Centre also notified a similar scheme in 2019.“With the proposed 400 new e-buses, Delhi is also likely to become the city with the largest fleet of e-buses. Currently, Pune has 600 e-buses,” said the official. Delhi has around 7,000 total buses in its public bus fleet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-approves-process-for-tenders-for-around-400-ebuses-101627035306907.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Another extortion case registered against Param Bir Singh||A day after the Marine Drive police in Mumbai booked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in an extortion case, the Kopri police station in Thane registered a similar case against the top cop on Friday.Thane police commissioner Jai Jeet Singh confirmed that the FIR also names deputy commissioner of police Parag Manere and three civilians as the co-accused. Manere was DCP (crime) in Thane when Singh was posted as there as the police commissioner, and the offence is alleged to have been committed during the tenure of the two officers.Also Read | Raj Kundra, Ryan Thorpe sent to police custody till July 27Officials said the five accused had been booked for kidnapping, extortion and cheating under the Indian Penal Code. The complainant, Sharad Agrawal, deals in real estate and has alleged in his complaint that the accused extorted Rs2 crore from him and also forced him to turn over some plots of land to them. The complainant’s uncle, Shyamsunder Agrawal, is the complainant in the case registered against Param Bir Singh in Mumbai on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/firagainst-param-bir-singh-in-another-extortion-case-101627034346594.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Tilak Nagar market shut down over Covid-19 protocol violations||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed that the market in West Delhi’s Tilak Nagar be temporarily closed from Friday till at least Tuesday due to alleged violation of Covid-19 regulations.It has also ordered the revenue department to survey the market area for encroachment by permanent shop owners as well as unauthorised street vendors, said an order issued by the DDMA on Thursday night, a copy of which HT has seen.In the last three weeks, at least 20 markets in the city have faced similar crackdowns. They include large parts of Sadar Bazar, Laxmi Nagar market, Lajpat Nagar Central Market, Gaffar Market in Karol Bagh and several local markets in areas such as Madangir, Rohini and Nangloi.Also Read | Bizman, friend found murdered in Delhi; 3 suspects in custody, probe onA lockdown was announced in Delhi from April 19, imposed due to an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, which left the city’s healthcare system overburdened. As cases started to decline, DDMA started a phased relaxation process from May 31 and allowed markets to open from mid-June, subject to strict Covid-19 regulations concerning social distancing, mask compliance, etc.“Amid a possibility of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and considering gross violation of health protocols under Covid-19-appropriate behaviour in the market.... I do hereby order closure / shutting of Tilak Nagar market, comprising of Mall Road, Main Market, Mangal Bazar Road, Old Market and Fruit Market area with effect from July 23 to July 27,” said the order signed by the sub-divisional magistrate concerned.DDMA, in its order, cited inputs from enforcement teams and senior revenue department officers visiting the market who noticed violations of Covid-19 norms on at least four occasions on July 7, 10, 17 and 22.Kapil Gandhi, president of New Market Welfare Association Tilak Nagar, said: “There are encroachment issues in the market. We need better coordination from the authorities instead of such crackdowns.”“In the last few weeks, several markets have faced such temporary suspension orders. It is unfair to put the entire burden of Covid-19 regulations on market welfare bodies. Local agencies and authorities too have responsibilities in this regard. We will meet the chief secretary soon to discuss the issue,” said Brijesh Goyal, president of chamber of trade and industry, a collective of market and trader welfare bodies based in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-tilak-nagar-market-to-be-temporarily-closed-due-to-violation-of-covid-norms-101627032487601.html
23-07-2021||Patna||Fugitive Bihar gangster Munna Mishra arrested from UP hideout||Bihar Police, along with special task force (STF) personnel, on Friday arrested wanted criminal Dilip Mishra alias Munna Mishra with a loaded AK-56 from Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh, about 155 kilometres from Patna. He was absconding for eight years. According to a senior STF official, Mishra’s name resurfaced after the murder of Dilip Singh alias Pandit, a middle school teacher. Singh was gunned down on May 26 at Jamunaha Bazar. During investigation, police found that the gangster had demanded ₹50lakh from the brother of the deceased, Rajendra Singh, who runs a shop dealing in building construction materials. Also Read | Bihar to get 559 MW power from NPGC unit 2, J’khand to benefit tooDIG (Saran) Manu Maharaaj said Mishra carried a reward of ₹50, 000 on his head and was wanted in more than 18 murder cases in Gopalganj districts of Bihar and Gorakhpur, Deoria and Ballia in Uttar Pradesh. He is also an accused in extortion, kidnapping and Arms Act cases. The DIG said the police team reached the spot on Thursday evening after receiving intelligence input about Mishra. The team charged in the early hours of Friday. “Our team surrounded a house at Ballia. The whole area was cordoned off with the help of local police. Mishra attempted to jump from the second floor of the house but was caught. The rifle would be sent to forensic science laboratory to ascertain its manufacturing,” the DIG said, adding that investigations were on to ascertain where Mishra got the weapon and ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fugitive-bihar-gangster-munna-mishra-arrested-from-up-hideout-101627032066595.html
23-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra: At least 36 killed in Taliye landslide, 22 feared trapped in Satara||The death toll in the Taliye landslide incident climbed to 36 as rescuers escalated search and relief operations by Friday afternoon, almost 24 hours after a portion of a hillock came down, burying about 32 houses in soil in this Ratnagiri village. According to district administration, an almost equal number of people is still feared strapped under the debris. Meanwhile, around 22 persons are feared trapped in two landslides in Satara’s Patan tehsil, which received 300mm rainfall in 24 hours. A team of rescuers comprising locals and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) pulled out bodies from the debris manually as heavy rain and difficult terrain make it difficult for earth-moving machinery to reach the spot at Taliye in Mahad tehsil. According to state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, villagers were alerted and moved to safer locations in anticipation of heavy rain, as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert. “We had relocated residents of Taliye few days ago to a safer location considering the risky terrain. However the locals moved back to the same place just before the landslide,” said Wadettiwar. Also Read | Flood in Maharashtra’s Chiplun: Water starts receding, rescue ops continueAccording to Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari, around 10 persons survived with moderate injuries as they quickly tried to escape when the landslide began. “Based on the information from locals and survivors, we can say almost 30-35 people are still feared trapped. We have pressed more rescuers into service to search people trapped under the debris,” said Choudhari. While the landslide occurred on Thursday evening, rescue operations started only by Friday morning due to visibility issues, said Raigad district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare. Earlier in the afternoon, Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray termed the Taliye and other landslide incidents in Maharashtra as unfortunate and asked people to move to safer locations. “The Taliye incident is unfortunate... There are landslides reports in other parts of the state and my appeal to everyone is to stay safe. Those living in risky terrain should move to safer places.” said Thackeray. In Satara, landslides were reported at Ambeghar and Mirgaon villages which witnessed heavy rain in the past 24 hours. Satara superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Bansal said that the two incidents took place sometime during Thursday night. He added that the local rescue teams have reached both spots and the rescue work is underway and some people have been rescued. “At Ambeghar, four houses were buried under soil following a landslide and there are 13 to 14 people are feared trapped, while in Mirgaon, three houses were buried and 8 to 10 people are feared trapped,” said Bansal. He added that due to continuous rain, the roads leading to these places are either blocked or inundated and big earth-moving machinery cannot reach these areas to aid in rescue work. Patan, along with neighbouring Mahabaleshwar, received record rainfall on Thursday. According to India Metereological Department, Mahabaleshwar recorded 600mm rainfall within 24 hours ending Friday morning. This is the highest rainfall reported at the hill station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-least-30-killed-in-landslide-in-maharashra-s-talie-village-101627030146225.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||#CraftTales: SRCC students help revive dying arts in the pandemic||Throughout the pandemic, there have been several talks of how Covid-19 crippled India’s economy, and especially the artisans who have struggled to make ends meet. Many are trying to help those who keep the dying arts alive. Among them is a group of Delhi University students, from Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), who have launched an e-commerce platform for artisans. “During the coronavirus pandemic, we were aware of the hardships faced by artisans, as they were unable to sell their crafts. We wished to do something for them, that’s when we realised the need to set up an online platform,” says Taruni Singhal, a B Com (Hons) final year student, and the project director. She says this initiative was under Project Virasat, as members of Enactus SRCC society tried to revive the Indian handicrafts. “Virasat is an umbrella organisation for craft cluster development. We have been working towards alleviating the problems faced by craftspersons, and are creating opportunities not only for the existing artisans but also for their future generations, so that they can safely carry on with the legacy.” The youngsters identified two dying craft forms – Usta Kala from Bikaner, Rajasthan and the Gaurahari stonework from Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh. “We could barely find any information on these art forms on the internet, and on further research we realised that barely a handful of people practise them now. Earlier, an entire village was practising Gaurahari stonework, but now only 2-3 families are pursuing it. So, we included these art forms under Virasat, and now we have almost 40 artisans as part of this initiative. We also handhold them through the design process, with help of a few design students,” informs Agrim Jain, a B Com (Hons) student and co-director of the project, adding, “Through the website, the artisans have received over a dozen orders in the last few days.” The artisans involved in the project are relieved that the new website will help them revive their craft. “The biggest problem we were facing is that our craft isn’t getting the right platform to excel. Many among the new generation does not want to pick up our art, aur paise kum hone ki wajah se hum isko achche se alag alag sheheron me bechne ke liye le ja bhi nahi paate. Par in college ke bachchon se milke ab aisa lagta hai ki humari kala ko bhi samman milega, dekh videsh mein,” says Mohsin, an Usta Kala artisan from Bikaner. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Twitter and Facebook||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crafttales-srcc-students-help-revive-dying-arts-in-the-pandemic-101627029130318.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra, Ryan Thorpe sent to police custody till July 27||Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, and his IT head Ryan Thorpe, arrested in connection with an alleged pornography racket, were on Friday sent to police custody till July 27, news agency ANI reported. Raj Kundra and Thorpe were produced before a magistrate's court in Mumbai by the police, ANI added. Mumbai Police said in the court that they suspect that the money earned from pornography was used for online betting, the news agency said. They added that transactions between Raj Kundra's Yes Bank and United Bank of Africa accounts need to be investigated because of this.On Tuesday, the Mumbai Police said they have arrested Kundra and 10 people for their alleged involvement in the creation of porn films and publishing them through mobile apps. "He appears to be the key conspirator. We have sufficient evidence regarding this," Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said in a statement.Also read | Raj Kundra paid police ₹25 lakh to evade arrest: ReportThe case was registered with Mumbai Police's Crime Branch in February this year.Maharashtra's anti-corruption bureau (ACB) said on Thursday it has received four emails alleging that Kundra even bribed Mumbai Police officials with ₹25 lakh to evade arrest. ANI cited an ACB official as saying that the emails were sent by Arvind Shrivastava alias Yash Thakur, another accused in the pornography case.Also read | A look at Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra's controversies in the last decade The official added that a similar amount was allegedly demanded from him as well. His allegations, however, were vague in nature and forwarded to the Mumbai Police for further action, the official said, according to ANI.Raj Kundra had a tie-up with a London-based company involved in streaming pornographic content through Hotshots, a mobile app, according to the joint commissioner of police (crime), Milind Bharambe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-ryan-thorpe-sent-to-police-custody-till-july-27-101627028414833.html
23-07-2021||Other||HC releases Manipur journalist booked under NSA over FB post||The Manipur high court on Friday ordered the release of journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem who has been in jail since May under provisions of the stringent National Security Act (NSA) for a Facebook post saying cow dung and urine cannot cure Covid-19. NSA allows for detention without trial for up to two years.Based on a letter petition by Wangkhem’s wife Elangbam Ranjita, a bench of Chief Justice PV Sanjay and Justice Kh Nobin Singh suspended the NSA order issued by the Manipur government on May 17 till the next date of hearing on August 24 and directed the journalist’s release before 5 pm on Friday. Wangkhem’s release comes four days after political activist Erendro Leichombam, who was also arrested under NSA for a similar post on Facebook, was released from an Imphal jail on directions of the Supreme Court. “We find no distinction or difference between the case of the petitioner’s husband and that of Erendro Leichombam. Both of them put up similar Facebook posts, critical of the utility of cow dung and cow urine in treating the coronavirus,” the order read. “As they stand identically situated, we are of the opinion that the continued incarceration of the petitioner’s husband would be as much a violation of Article 21 of the Constitution, as it was in the case of Erendoro Leichombam,” it added. The article deals with the right to life and personal liberty. Following the court’s order, Wangkhem, who was lodged at the central jail in Sajiwa was released at 4:20 pm on a personal release bond of ₹1000, his lawyer Victor Chongtham confirmed. “I have mixed feelings. I am happy for my release but concerned at the way laws like sedition and NSA are being abused by those in power. This was the second time I was arrested under NSA and may not be the last as I am not going to stop raising my voice,” Wangkhem said over phone after his release. “I may approach the court seeking compensation for my illegal detention so that governments think twice before imprisoning others incorrectly. I will continue to fight against abuse of power and draconian laws like sedition and NSA,” he added. The SC is already hearing a petition by Leichombam seeking compensation for his arrest and detention. Wangkhem, a popular TV journalist, has been arrested thrice over the last three years. He was first arrested in November 2018 for uploading a video on social media critical of the government of chief minister N Biren Singh. Wangkhem was booked for sedition and under NSA before his release in April 2019 on the Manipur high court’s directions. He was again arrested in September 2020 on charges of sedition and promoting enmity between different groups on social media. Wangkhem was released in December 2020 following which joined Frontier Manipur and started hosting a talk show.Also Read | Manipur Police orders monitoring of social media postsWangkhem’s release comes four days after political activist Erendro Leichombam, who was also arrested under NSA for a similar post on Facebook, was released from an Imphal jail on directions of the Supreme Court.The journalist’s wife, Elangbam Ranjita moved the high court seeking Wangkhem’s release after the top court quashed Leichombam’s detention under the NSA. Wangkhem and Leichombam’s comments were made with reference to the death of the Manipur head of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, S Tikendra Singh, of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-high-court-orders-journalist-s-release-101627028286067.html
23-07-2021||Patna||Breach in dam over Kosi, threat of flood looms over Bihar’s Supaul, Madhubani||The western security dam over river Kosi breached early Friday morning, causing panic in several panchayats of Supaul and Madhubani districts of Bihar.The breach in Sikarhatta-Majhari dam occurred 48 hours after a village bund was washed away in the strong current of Kosi water.Flood threat looms large over Dagmara, Dighiya, Bela, Majhari, Hariyahi panchayats of Nirmali block in Supaul and Narendrapur, Rauvahi, Mainhi villages of Madhubani districts.Flood control division personnel are at the site and are trying to repair the breach in the villagers’ bund first.Also Read | Bihar education dept launches e-portal for pvt schools’ accreditation“A flood fighting team is plugging the village bund first and later, Sikarhatta bund will be repaired,” Supaul district magistrate Mahendra Kumar said, adding that it was a 25-metre breach. He appealed to the people not to panic as Kosi water falls into the nearby Tilyuga River, ruling out the imminent danger of flood. “At this juncture, the situation is normal but we have alerted over 12 panchayats to watch out for the Tilyuga river overflowing,” he said, adding that “The embankment which breached last night is very old.” Sources within the flood control division said “It is not easy to repair the bund at this juncture due to the high intensity of Kosi current.”Ex-MLA Yaduvansh Yadav raised a serious question over lackadaisical attitude of flood control division. “They wait for a breach so that they can make money in the name of flood-fighting measures” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/breach-in-dam-over-kosi-threat-of-flood-looms-over-bihar-s-supaul-madhubani-101627027806233.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Congress captain||Navjot Singh Sidhu formally took over as the captain of the Punjab Congress in Chandigarh on Friday in the presence of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh with the party trying to put up a united show after months of bickering in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year.Also read: Sidhu bonds with Capt over tea before taking charge as Punjab Congress captainA day after the chief minister softened his stance towards Sidhu by deciding to attend the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee team’s installation ceremony, Capt Amarinder Singh struck a conciliatory note in his address to party workers, saying “It is your responsibility to support the party president.”After taking charge at the state Congress headquarters, Sidhu was in form and said there was no difference between an ordinary worker of the party and its state unit chief. “Every Congress worker in Punjab has become the chief of the party’s state unit from today,” the Amritsar East MLA said.The new working presidents of the Punjab Congress, namely Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, also assumed charge at the event at the party’s state headquarters that was packed with supporters.Capt strikes a nostalgic noteIn his address, Capt Amarinder Singh went down memory lane and recalled their Patiala ties with Sidhu, saying: “I was commissioned in the army, the year Sidhu was born. When my mother asked me to enter politics, his (Sidhu’s) father helped me. I used to go to his house when he was about six years old.”Padding up for a challenging innings in his political career, the cricketer-turned-politician said he will have love for juniors and respect for elders. “Punjab will win, Punjabis will win,” he said. The chief minister took the opportunity to highlight the Punjab pride and the Congress government’s achievements. “The state emerged number one in the fight against Covid and was rated first in primary education besides making the biggest contribution to the country’s food bowl,” he said.Congress revival through Punjab: JakharIn his address, the outgoing state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said: “We were hit by red tapism in our government. Our workers suffered due to that, but still we have time. We can course correct even now.”Looking at All India Congress Committee general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, Jakhar said: “Rawat ji please tell (Congress interim president) Sonia (Gandhi) ji that revival of the Congress goes through Punjab.”On his part, Rawat urged all leaders to work unitedly and ensure the party’s win in the assembly elections. Former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal besides senior leaders Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present.Capt, Sidhu met after four monthsEarlier in the morning, Sidhu and Capt Amarinder Singh met for the first time in four months since tensions between them flared up in April after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed a probe report on the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents.Sidhu had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio.He had switched sides from the BJP to the Congress before the 2017 state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-takes-charge-as-punjab-congress-captain-101627026786090.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||4 killed, 4 injured in landslide in Maharashtra’s Mahad||As heavy rain continues to lash Raigad district, four people are reported to have died in a landslide at Sakhar Sutar Wadi in Mahad taluka early Friday. Five people are still trapped under the rubble while four others are injured. A rescue operation could not be carried out as the Pitalwadi-Umarath Fata bridge connecting these villages as well as the Umarath Fata-Sakhar bridge were washed away.Also Read | Flood in Maharashtra’s Chiplun: Water starts receding, rescue ops continueAmid heavy rainfall, two factories in MIDC area of Mahad caught fire--one on Thursday night, another on Friday morning. “We have called fire tenders from neighbouring locations but access is becoming difficult so local fire tenders are trying to put out the fire,” Nidhi Choudhari, the Raigad district collector, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-killed-4-injured-in-landslide-in-maharashtra-s-mahad-101627026726041.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||Health of UP ex-CM Kalyan Singh critical, on life support, says hospital||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and he is on life support, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said on Friday.He is under close monitoring of senior doctors of critical care medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology departments, the statement said."Former UP chief minister and former governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical. He is on life saving support system (ventilator)," a release issued by the hospital said.Director of the institute Prof R K Dhiman is also keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, it added.The 89-year-old BJP veteran was admitted to the ICU of the hospital in the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/health-of-up-ex-cm-kalyan-singh-critical-on-life-support-says-hospital-101627024050994.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Bizman, friend found murdered in Delhi; 3 suspects in custody, probe on||A 36-year-old businessman and his friend were found murdered at two different places in Wazirpur and Wazirabad in northwest and north Delhi over an alleged financial dispute in the early hours of Friday, police said. Both of them were killed using a sharp weapon.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that the businessman, identified as Surender Gupta, was found murdered at a utensils manufacturing factory in Wazirpur industrial area. The body of his friend, Amit Goel, was found in a Fortuner SUV in Wazirabad area in north Delhi. Three persons, including the factory owner, have been apprehended and are being interrogated, she said.DCP Rangnani said that the north district police first received a call regarding a man’s body in Fortuner. The local police carried out an investigation and learnt that the dead man was last seen with his friend. The police also learnt that they had gone to a factory to settle some financial issue. When they reached the factory, the body of the businessman was found. “We have learnt that Gupta had given ₹20 lakh to the factory owner, who was not returning it. The two murders happened over the financial dispute. We are interrogating the three suspects for further information,” added DCP Rangnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bizman-friend-found-murdered-in-delhi-3-suspects-in-custody-probe-on-101627025045764.html
23-07-2021||Other||Parts of Goa see flood-like situation as heavy rains inundates houses||Several parts of Goa, including Sattari and Bicholim tehsils in north and Dharbandora in south, are reeling under a flood-like situation, where a large number of houses got inundated as the water level of some rivers rose following heavy rains over the past few days, officials said on Friday.However, no loss of human life has been reported so far due to it, they said. “At least 100 houses in Sattari tehsil have been under water since Thursday night as the water level of the Mahadayi river increased due to incessant rains that has been lashing the state since over a week now,” a senior official said. “There were no fatalities, but flood-like situation exists. Those people whose houses have gone completely under water have shifted to safer places on their own,” he said. Almost half of Velus village located near Valpoi town in Sattari, is inundated, while several other villages were cut off as roads and culverts are under water, eyewitnesses said.Valpoi MLA and state minister Vishwajit Rane said on Twitter, “Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei (Mahadayi) has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Necessary directions have been issued to the collectors to have the Disaster Management team stationed at Sattari & Usgao.” “Water has entered their houses causing a lot of damage. It is very important for us to ensure our people’s safety. With the intervention of the Disaster Management Team, they will be shifted to safer locations,” he added.Near Sankhalim town in Bicholim tehsil, Valvanti and Sakhali rivers are overflowing and have crossed the danger level, officials said. People residing in and around Harvalem village in Bicholim have been asked to be on alert as flood-like situation prevails there, they added. Similar situation is seen in and around Mollem village in South Goa's Dharbandora tehsil.Official sources said that Sangod village in Mollem is facing a flood-like situation, where water has entered to the houses and roads are flooded. On Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a warning that a circulation in the Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger low-pressure area that will cause more rainfall in Goa.Till Wednesday, the coastal state had received 1,998.3 mm rainfall during the ongoing monsoon season as against the average of 1,612.7 mm for the corresponding period. The state fisheries department has already issued a warning to local fishermen, asking them not to venture out into the sea due to gusty winds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parts-of-goa-see-flood-like-situation-as-heavy-rains-inundates-houses-101627016851166.html
23-07-2021||Other||Rescue ops resume in Chiplun; Over 1,000 people evacuated from various dists||Multi-agency rescue operation in Chiplun and Khed in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra resumed on Friday morning with the help of rescue teams of navy, Coast Guards and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). More than 1,000 people from over 300 families in Ratnagiri, Raigad, Palghar, and Kolhapur districts have been evacuated to safer place. The death toll in the coastal district over last two days has risen to 10.Following heavy rainfall, the discharge from Alamatti dam in Karnataka and Koyana dam in Satara was increased, leading to the rise in the water level in rivers in western Maharashtra and Konkan. The discharge of the water in Alamatti dam has gone over 200,000 cusecs from 130,000 cusecs on Thursday. Discharge from Koyna dam in Satara coupled with incessant rains flooded rivers in Konkan which is at the foothills of Sahyadri mountain ranges.Also Read | Indian Navy dispatches rescue teams to flood-affected areas in KonkanIn Chiplun in Ratnagiri, hundreds of people are still stranded on the roof and terraces of their homes since Thursday morning owing to the flooding. Four teams of NDRF reached Chiplun while two more teams are on their way for rescue operation. State administration has called in a few more teams of army, Coast Guards and navy for the operations. More than 300 people have been rescued in the past 24 hours.Water level in Chiplun and Kolhapur has started receding, according to the officials in the district collectorate. The incessant rainfall in Sindhudurg district in Konkan, however, has led to flooding in parts of Kankavail and Kudal tehsils. Flooding has forced the district administration to shut the Goa -Mumbai and Pune-Bangalore national highways in some parts where roads are submerged. Konkan Railway has terminated services of its seven long distance trains and has diverted a few.The closure of Pune-Bangalore national highway snapped the connection of a few villages in Kolhapur. “We have started shifting people from villages in Chandgad, Aajara, Gadhinglaj to safer places,” said Kolhapur guardian minister Satej Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rescue-op-resumes-in-chiplun-over-1-000-people-evacuated-from-various-dists-101627023786307.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Indian Navy dispatches rescue teams to flood-affected areas in Konkan||Following a request received from Maharashtra government, the Western Naval Command has mobilised seven flood rescue teams and one Seaking 42C helicopter to assist the state administration in flood-affected areas in Konkan.The teams are currently in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts, as Chiplun and Khed in Ratnagiri district are the most affected areas--- floodwater from Vasisthi river and the discharge of water from Koyana dam has submerged several areas. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the flood situation in both the districts affected by heavy rain. After the review meeting, the chief minister’s office informed the Indian Navy to join the rescue and relief efforts in these two districts. Also Read | Flood in Maharashtra’s Chiplun: Water starts receding, rescue ops continue“Despite adverse weather conditions and widespread inundation in affected areas, seven naval rescue teams departed by road from Mumbai for deployment in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts on Thursday evening. Marooned personnel are also being airlifted from Raigad. One Seaking 42C Helo from INS Shikra, Mumbai, departed for rescue at Poladpur in Raigad early Friday morning,” said chief public relations officer (CPRO) Commander Mehul Karnik of the Western Naval Command.The naval flood rescue teams are fully self-sustained and equipped with Gemini rubber boats, loud hailers, first aid kits, life jackets and life buoys. These rescue teams also include specialist naval divers and diving equipment. Additional flood rescue teams are being maintained on a high degree of readiness at Mumbai, for immediate deployment, should the need arise, Commander Karnik added.The state government has deployed 17 NDRF companies in various districts, including Ratnagiri, Sindudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara for flood rescue and relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-navy-dispatches-rescue-teams-to-flood-affected-areas-in-konkan-101627023185538.html
23-07-2021||Kolkata||Child trafficking racket allegedly run by school principal busted in Bengal||A central school principal and a teacher are among nine people, who have been arrested for allegedly running a child trafficking racket in West Bengal’s Bankura district, police said. The alleged racket was busted on Sunday, they added.“We have rescued three girls and two boys aged between eight months and six years. A sum of ₹1.75 lakhhas also been recovered. The CID (Criminal Investigation Department) will now take over the case,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, police superintendent, Bankura.The alleged racket was busted after some locals allegedly spotted the principal, Kamal Kumar Rajoria, and teacher Sushma Sharma trying to forcibly board three girls in a vehicle on Sunday. The locals saw the girls crying and spoke to Rajoria about it. Rajoria reportedly tried to flee but was intercepted and handed over to policeSarkar said the probe in the case is at an early stage and nothing much can be shared. “But this seems to be a part of an inter-district and inter-state child trafficking racket.”A CID team was expected to arrive in Bankura on Friday to start the probe. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the five children were brought from Asansol and Durgapur areas.“At least three were children of sex workers. One of them was purchased for ₹2.5 lakh rupees by one of the accused. All the statements need to be verified,” said a second officer, who did not want to be named.Police said Rajoria is from Rajasthan and was recently transferred to Bankura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/child-trafficking-racket-allegedly-run-by-school-principal-busted-in-bengal-101627022105423.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's 'dabbawalas', hit by Covid-19, tie up with restaurant chain to survive||After the pandemic shut offices and put Mumbai's renowned lunchbox deliverymen out of work, the 130-year-old "dabbawala" network has tied up with a trendy restaurant chain to take on India's billion-dollar start-ups.For two decades, neither terror attacks nor monsoon deluges could stop Kailash Shinde from delivering hot lunches to Mumbai office workers, until lockdowns put the father-of-two on a forced hiatus for a whole year."It's been very difficult," the 42-year-old said. "I had to sell what I could and work odd jobs to get by."Instantly recognisable in his traditional Gandhi cap and white Indian attire, Shinde is one of 5,000 dabbawalas -- or "lunchbox men" in Hindi -- who have gained global recognition for delivering home-cooked food with clockwork precision.An intricate system of alphanumeric codes helps the largely semi-literate or illiterate workforce collect, sort, and distribute 200,000 meals across Mumbai each day via bicycles, hand carts, and a sprawling local train network.Their work has been studied as a "model of service excellence" at Harvard Business School, and inspired personal visits from Richard Branson, Prince Charles, and executives from global delivery giants FedEx and Amazon, among others.But with extended lockdowns forcing millions of Mumbai's white-collar professionals to work from home, many dabbawalas have been struggling to feed their own families since April last year."Our members have had to work as security guards and labourers, in addition to seeking jobs as deliverymen for restaurants," said Ulhas Muke of the Nutan Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Charity Trust, which represents the workforce.'Mumbai's original deliverymen'But delivery jobs are harder to come by in a space now increasingly dominated by mobile apps, especially for people like 39-year-old Pandurang Jadhav, who can't read or write.Unemployed for the first time since becoming a dabbawala aged 17, Jadhav moved to his ancestral village and spent the last year farming rice.The earnings were meager and he desperately missed Mumbai, where he managed 30 men."I used to love working as a dabbawala," he told AFP, describing it as "the best job".Help arrived this May in the form of a tie-up with some of Mumbai's most popular eateries, allowing Jadhav and 30 others to return to work.Instead of handling home-cooked meals packed in stainless steel tiffin boxes, he is now delivering restaurant staples from nachos to spaghetti carbonara to time-starved professionals as they continue working from home for a second year.The scheme offers restaurateurs an alternative to the prevailing local duopoly of delivery giants Zomato and Swiggy, whose steep discounts and razor-thin margins have slashed their profits."We are trying to find a way out of the tyranny of the aggregators," said Riyaaz Amlani, the owner of Impresario Restaurants, which operates 57 outlets across more than a dozen Indian cities."Of course we want to help the dabbawalas. They are the original deliverymen of Mumbai," he told AFP.A new beginningAmlani plans to expand his partnership with the dabbawalas, but analysts say that alone may not be enough to help the famed deliverymen survive the pandemic."It is paramount for them to be flexible at this point," said Sreedevi R, an assistant professor at Mumbai's SP Jain Institute of Management and Research."The dabbawalas could become delivery agents for last-mile delivery not just for restaurants but also for any e-commerce business," she told AFP.But a lack of literacy means many of them are reluctant to take on work that requires tech-savvy skills.Muke, of the dabbawala representative group, is instead finalising plans to set up a commercial kitchen of their own, delivering inexpensive meals across Mumbai.He has already secured millions of dollars in donations, including a hefty $2 million contribution from banking giant HSBC, with the kitchen due to open in the next few weeks."My grandfather was a dabbawala, and then my uncle and now I am," Muke said."This is the work that I like doing. I want to keep delivering food to people."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-dabbawalas-hit-by-covid-19-tie-up-with-restaurant-chain-to-survive-101627013613038.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai under orange alert, to receive lesser rain than last 4 days||Mumbai received 19.4mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am Friday, with markedly calmer weather than the preceding four days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert storm warning for Mumbai for Friday.“Moderate to heavy rain/thundershowers in city and suburbs with possibility of very heavy rainfall at isolated places” are expected as per the IMD regional centre’s 8am bulletin Friday. There is a possibility of occasional gusty winds reaching 50-60kmph, and gusting to 70kmph in some areas.Data from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s Mumbai Mesonet Observations Network shows scattered showers across the city of less than 20mm in most places, over the last 12 hours.Also Read | Parts of N-W India to receive heavy, widespread rain during next 2-3 days: IMDWith seasonal rainfall of the city now standing at 2,020.8mm, the city has recorded more than 90% of the seasonal long period average (up to September-end), which stands at 2,205mm. In July alone, Mumbai has so far seen 1,059.4mm of rain, as against the monthly normal of 827mm.This is now the fourth successive year in which July rains have crossed the 1,000mm mark. In 2018, the July total was recorded at 1,138.8mm. In 2019, it was 1,464.8mm and in 2020, it was 1,502mm -- marking its wettest July ever. In 2017, however, the city recorded just 869.7mm of rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-under-orange-alert-to-receive-lesser-rain-than-last-4-days-101627020725256.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu bonds with Capt Amarinder Singh over tea before taking charge||Putting up a united show after months of bitter exchanges over social media, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his bête noire Navjot Singh Sidhu interacted warmly and bonded over breakfast at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Friday morning. Capt Amarinder Singh had invited all Punjab Congress MLAs and MPs for tea at Punjab Bhawan at 10am, an hour before the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee new team, led by Sidhu takes charge. Also read: 3 Congress workers headed for Sidhu’s coronation killed in bus accidentThe CM’s invite came on Thursday afternoon soon after Sidhu reached out to a miffed Capt Amarinder Singh through two working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat kept a close watch as Capt Amarinder Singh and Sidhu broke the ice and seemingly buried the hatchet. The masks were off as Sidhu, in his trademark maroon Pathani suit with a coordinated scarf, chatted cordially with Capt Amarinder Singh, attired in his simple, white kurta-churidar set as Rawat looked on but chose to keep his mask on. Sidhu’s usual flamboyance was muted as he greeted the chief minister with folded hands longer than usual till Rawat led them both to the table for breakfast and tea. It may be recalled that Capt Amarinder Singh had said that he will not meet Sidhu “till he publicly apologises for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him”. Sidhu left the venue for a few minutes and returned with outgoing Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar. Though Sidhu had reached Punjab Bhawan in Sector 2, Chandigarh, much before the chief minister arrived, he was in his room doing “ardas (praying)” and joined the CM when he received the message of his arrival. The two were together for more than half an hour before Sidhu left for the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Sector 15 in Chandigarh for the installation ceremony followed by the chief minister and other MLAs, who were all ears and smiles as their leaders interacted warmly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-bonds-with-capt-over-tea-before-taking-charge-as-punjab-congress-captain-101627020485509.html
23-07-2021||Other||Tribal girl, family toil on others’ farmlands to buy smartphone for online classes||A 19-year-old tribal girl in Odisha’s Rayagada district had to work on farmlands along with her widowed mother and older sister to buy a mobile phone so that she could attend virtual classes.After being unable to attend online classes for about a year, Kavita Nisika, a Kondh tribal girl from Hadia village in Rayagada, bought an Android phone last month from the money she and her family saved after working on others’ farmlands. As her village does not have mobile phone connectivity, she shifted to Rayagada town, 40km away, and rented a house along with a couple of her friends to attend her BA first year class online.“I missed an entire year’s class last year as I did not have a mobile phone. We don’t own a house or farmland,” said Nisika over the phone.Also Read | Three die inside newly constructed septic tank in Odisha’s Ganjam“Though my widowed mother and older sister don’t earn enough by working in others’ fields, this year they somehow managed to buy me a phone and arrange money so that I can pay room rent in Rayagada town.”After completing her Class 12 from Bhubaneswar’s Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS), last year, Nisika enrolled for BA in the same institute. Nisika had joined KISS when she was in Class 3 and has stayed in the hostel since then. Though she hoped to rejoin her BA classes, the announcement of a nationwide lockdown put paid to her hopes.Her college then started online classes during lockdown. With no books and no mobile phone, she could not attend online classes and almost dropped out till her teachers called up her uncle in May to ask why she was not attending classes.“My college teacher told my uncle that I would end up having arrears if I don’t appear for the semester exams. For a few days, I borrowed my cousins’ mobile phones, but it was very inconvenient. I could write the exams last month after my friends helped me with notes,” she said.Once she completes her BA, Nisika will be the first graduate from her village.Rayagada district collector Saroj Mishra said the administration will try to help her. “Mobile phone connectivity is a major issue in most of the tribal districts of the state, including Rayagada,” he said.Since July last year, all schools and colleges in Odisha have been conducting online classes for their students through Google Meet, Zoom, Skype, Whatsapp and other digital platforms. But with 20% of the state’s 51,311 villages without mobile phone connectivity, many school and college students like Nisika have been deprived of education since last year. Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash recently admitted that of the 600,000 school students, the state government could hardly reach 220,000 children last year. As per the report by the school and mass education department, the number of children who attend online classes through a smartphone was 31.95%. At least 80% of the parents of these children in Malkangiri, Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Rayagada and Deogarh districts did not have a smartphone before.The state government has now decided to start offline classes for classes 10 and 12 from July 26 due to problems in online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tribal-girl-family-toil-on-others-farmlands-to-buy-smartphone-for-online-classes-101627017605502.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 Congress workers, on way to Navjot Sidhu event, killed in bus accident||Three Congress workers headed for Chandigarh to attend the swearing in ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab unit chief were killed and more than 10 were injured when two buses collided at Lohara Chowk in Moga on the Jalandhar-Barnala road on Friday morning.Also read: Sidhu to take charge as Punjab Congress chief today; Amarinder to attend eventPolice said the accident took place around 7.30am and the injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Moga. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Sukhpreet Brar said: “Three people have died so far. The condition of some the injured is critical due to the impact of the collision.”The victims are supporters of Congress MLA Kulbir Singh Zira and were headed from Zira, 15km from Moga, to the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh for the installation ceremony of the state Congress committee.The Punjab Roadways bus with which their vehicle collided was going towards Jalandhar.Condoling the deaths, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted: “Saddened to learn of the bus accident in Moga district in which three Congress workers have died and many are injured. Have directed the Moga DC to immediately provide full medical treatment to the injured and to send a report to the government.”Saddened to learn of the bus accident in Moga district in which 3 Congress workers have reportedly died & many persons are injured. Have directed DC Moga to immediately provide full medical treatment to all the injured and to send a report to the Government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-congress-workers-headed-for-sidhu-s-coronation-killed-in-bus-mishap-101627016285141.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly elections 2022: BSP to begin poll prep with Brahmin meet today||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will launch its campaign for the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh with a Brahmin conference in Ayodhya on Friday.BSP national general secretary and the party’s Brahmin face Satish Chandra Mishra will launch the conference with visits to Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanuman Garhi temple on Friday morning. The conference will be organised at a resort.The Ayodhya conference signals the BSP’s plan to replay the social engineering formula (Dalit-Brahmin alliance) that brought it to power in the 2007 assembly elections.Ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, the party plans to organise a series of Brahmin conferences across the state.The BSP has decided to project Khushi Dubey, the wife of Amar Dubey (an associate of Bikru case-accused Vikas Dubey), as a symbol of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s alleged atrocities on the Brahmin community. Also Read | Parties scramble for support of Brahmins ahead of 2022 polls in Uttar PradeshEight policemen were killed in an ambush during a raid on Vikas Dubey’s house at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 2-3 night last year. A few days later, Vikas Dubey and Amar Dubey were killed in a police encounter. Khushi Dubey has been lodged in a Barabanki shelter home since July 8 last year. Her family said that she was not involved in the attack on the police personnel, yet the state government put her behind bars. She had married Amar Dubey just a few days before the Bikru incident, they said.BSP’s Satish Chandra Mishra said, “I met Kushi Dubey’s family. I have assured them all assistance in fighting the case for her release in court. Under the BJP government, there has been a spurt in atrocities on Brahmin and Dalit communities.”Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh also demanded the release of Khushi Dubey. BJP MLC Umesh Dewedi also wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, demanding her release from jail. The BSP has put up hoardings and banners in Ayodhya, inviting people to participate in the conference while following Covid protocols. The party has named the conference Prabudh Varg Vichar Goshti (intellectual community meeting).“The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court, on July 11, 2013, imposed a ban on caste-based rallies in Uttar Pradesh. In view of the court order, the name of the conference has been changed to intellectual community conference,” said a BSP leader.Brahmin conferences will also be organised in the BSP stronghold Ambedkar Nagar on July 25, in Prayagraj on July 26, Kaushambi on July 27, Pratapgarh on July 28 and Sultanpur on July 29.Announcing the launch of the Brahmin conferences on July 18, BSP chief Mayawati said, “The Brahmin community supported and tried the BJP for five years… They should support the BSP for their security, dignity and progress in the coming assembly elections.”The BSP chief said despite her party’s defeat in the assembly and Lok Sabha elections, there had been no decline in the BSP vote percentage.“Thenumber of seats of the BSP declined but its vote share is higher than the Samajwadi Party’s,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-elections-2022-bsp-to-begin-poll-prep-with-brahmin-meet-today-101627014424924.html
23-07-2021||Other||Three die inside newly constructed septic tank in Odisha’s Ganjam||Three people, including a construction worker, died of suffocation in Ganjam district of Odisha on Thursday afternoon after entering a newly built septic tank through a manhole to remove the shuttering from inside.Berhampur superintendent of police Pinak Mishra said head mason Sadanand Reddy, who was overseeing the construction of the septic tank for T Sidhesu Reddy of village Bikrampur first entered it through a manhole to remove the shuttering that was given to keep the wet concrete mix compact. The masons cast the top cover of the tank two weeks ago. Also Read | Orissa HC asks guv to dispose of plea to disqualify MLAs for holding office of profitWhen Sadanand did not come out, two of Sidhesu’s neighbours -- Krishna Reddy and P Tareni Reddy -- too went inside. “When none of them came out, Sidhesu sought help of the fire brigade. The three may have died of suffocation,” said SP Mishra.Police said action would be taken if they found negligence on the part of the person engaging the head mason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-die-inside-newly-constructed-septic-tank-in-odisha-s-ganjam-101627013825314.html
23-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Cong reshuffle: Rawat elected 2022 election campaign prez||The Opposition Congress has named Ganesh Godiyal as the head of its Uttarakhand unit and Pritam Singh as the new leader of Opposition in the state assembly. Jeet Ram, Bhuwan Kapri, Tilak Raj Behad and Ranjit Rawat will be working presidents of the state unit.Former chief minister Harish Rawat has been appointed as the head of the 2022 Election Committee, which will also include Rajya Sabha member Pradeep Tamta and Dinesh Agrawal. Aryendra Sharma has been named as the new state unit treasurer. The party has also constituted panels such as the Outreach Committee ahead of the polls in the state next year.Also Read | Manish Sisodia asks public on AAP’s CM face during Uttarakhand visitThe reshuffle in Uttarakhand has been done on the lines of Punjab, where former minister Navjot Singh Sindhu has been named as the new state chief amid infighting in the party. Four working presidents have also been named in Punjab.The names of new office bearers in Uttarakhand were announced on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ganesh-godiyal-is-new-uttarakhand-congress-chief-101627012804675.html
23-07-2021||Other||Pak drone with ‘almost ready to be used’ 5kg IED shot down near Jammu||A Pakistani drone carrying an “almost ready to be used” five-kilogram Improvised Explosive Device (IED) was shot down at Kanachak near Jammu on Friday, police said. The design of the string used in such drones to drop the payload and “threads” recovered from the crater caused by the explosion at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu on June 27 are the same, they added.“We have recovered the same threads and it is now confirmed that a similar drone had dropped the payload at IAF station,” said Mukesh Singh, an additional director general of Jammu and Kashmir police.The June 27 attack, which left two personnel injured, was the first such instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations in India. The National Investigation Agency is investigating the case. Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since June 27.Also Read | JKCC demands probe by SC judge into snooping row“Thursday night, we got specific inputs of terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad dropping some payload via a drone in Akhnoor sector. We acted swiftly upon the input and laid an ambush. Around 1 am, a police team shot down a drone, well packed with five kg IED, which was almost ready to be used,” said Singh. He added only a wire had to be connected to detonate it. “Preliminary analysis of the drone revealed that it was a hexacopter with six wings and a flight controller and GPS.”Singh said there is a difference of a digit between the flight controller serial number of the drone shot down on Friday and that of another brought down a year ago in Kathua’s Hiranagar sector. “It establishes beyond doubt that the terror group has procured many flight controllers with similar series for the purpose of installing them in drones.”On June 20 last year, the Border Security Force shot down a Pakistani hexacopter carrying a cache of arms and ammunition in Hiranagar.Singh said the drone shot down in Kanachak was assembled with parts made in China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. He added these drones can travel up to 20 kilometres with a payload of 10 to 12 kg. The aerial distance between the place where the drone was shot down and the border is about six to seven kilometres.Security forces have fired at several drones since June 27, but this is the first time that police have shot down such a flying object carrying a payload. There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs, and money to fuel terrorism in the region. Over 325 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since 2019.On Wednesday, after four days, suspected drones were spotted again hovering over the Jammu airport near the IAF station. At least four drones were spotted hovering over military installations in Jammu, Samba, and Kathua between 7.10pm and 8.45pm five days earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkpolice-shoot-down-drone-carrying-ied-near-jammu-101627012324719.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Light rain, cloudy sky likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky with light rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 35 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 25.6 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 34 degrees Celsius.Also Read | Mumbai rains: IMD places city under orange alert for todayDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 63. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 83 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the satisfactory category as forecasted. Widespread rainfall has influenced AQI positively through the washout process. Scattered rainfall activity in Delhi is likely in the next two days. Satisfactory AQI is forecasted for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-light-rain-cloudy-sky-likely-today-says-imd-101627011484785.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls further relaxations in curbs, records 7,302 fresh Covid cases||Amid increasing pressure from various quarters to provide further relaxations in Covid-19 curbs in the state, the Maharashtra government is expected to take a decision over opening suburban train services for a few more categories in the next few days.Also, the state government is looking to make a decision on relaxing shop timings, opening of malls and lifting of curbs on restaurants.Amid the state mulling relaxations, it added 7,302 fresh cases. The state’s active case count stood at 94,168 on Thursday, while total cases stood at 6,245,057. Maharashtra saw 120 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 131,038. Mumbai saw 389 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to 732,971. The city reported 10 deaths, pushing the toll to 15,810.Also Read | Mumbai rains: IMD places city under orange alert for todayA senior official said the demand for relaxations has increased from political, social organisations and business circles, forcing the government to chalk out a plan to reopen some activities and allow further relaxation in restrictions imposed for management of Covid-19 pandemic.The relief and rehabilitation department has put the system required for the issuance of universal passes using QR codes to the employees from the categories to be allowed to commute in trains. The process of issuing universal passes to the employees in the sector, which are already allowed to commute in trains, has already started. “Employees from state and central government, ports, cargo services, and electricity supply have already been allowed to commute on the trains. They will be issued QR code-based universal passes to restrict unauthorised commuting,” said an official from Mantralaya. The passes will be made compulsory for travel, the official added.Cities and areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are following the restrictions in level three of categorised curbs specified for the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government is considering extending the relaxations to a few more categories. “Teachers, media employees and few more categories are expected to be added to the list of the people allowed to commute. The decision over allowing women in non-peak hours is also expected, but the final decision will be taken at a higher level,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-further-relaxations-in-curbs-records-7-302-fresh-covid-cases-101627009204368.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati to hold Brahmin outreach event today with an eye on 2022 UP polls||Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party is set to hold the 'Brahmin Sammelan', an outreach programme aimed at the community in Uttar Pradesh, on Friday at Ayodhya with an eye on the assembly polls in the state next year. At a press conference last weekend, BSP chief Mayawati announced the event and hoped that the Brahmins in UP will vote for her party instead of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state elections scheduled to be held in 2022."BSP will hold Brahmin Sammelan on July 23 in Ayodhya ahead of the polls in the state," Mayawati said at the press conference in Lucknow last Sunday. "I am very hopeful that Brahmins will not vote for the BJP in the next assembly polls."Mayawati further stated that the campaign will be launched to assure the Brahmin community that their interests will remain safe under a prospective BSP regime.Also Read | Parties scramble for support of Brahmins ahead of 2022 polls in Uttar PradeshThe series of 'Brahmin Sammelan' programmes will be launched in Ayodhya on Friday after BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Misra offers prayers at the makeshift shrine of Ram Lalla in the temple city, news agency PTI reported earlier in the week, citing party officials familiar with the matter."First of all, we will have 'darshan' of Lord Hanuman at the Hanumangarhi (in Ayodhya)," Misra told PTI, while speaking of the Brahmin outreach event. "It will be followed by 'darshan' of Ram Lalla, and then the campaign will kick-off."The agency notes that Mayawati's Brahmin outreach, led by Misra, was considered one of the key factors behind her win in the 2007 UP assembly elections.Mayawati has claimed, on numerous occasions, that the "upper castes" were repenting voting for the BJP in the last UP assembly elections. She said that now the Bahujan Samaj Party will be urging the Brahmin community to not be "misled" by the BJP.The BJP, on the other hand, has hit back alleging that the outreach event is only an election stunt and that Mayawati is only "remembering" the Brahmins now because of her "opportunistic politics".Uttar Pradesh BJP lawmaker Ravi Kishan said on Monday that the Brahmin community will not fall into her "trap" as it believes in development. "A Brahmin is known for knowledge and not for greed. I urge Mayawati ji and Akhilesh ji not to tempt the Brahmin community," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-to-hold-brahmin-outreach-event-today-with-an-eye-on-2022-up-polls-101627007355689.html
23-07-2021||Jaipur||Schools, educational institutions in Rajasthan to reopen from August 2||The Rajasthan government has announced all schools and other educational institutions in the state will reopen from August 2 amid an improvement in the overall situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The decision was taken in a state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday.“In the Cabinet meeting held today, it has been decided to open all the schools in the state from August 2,” Rajasthan school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said on Twitter after the meeting. Dotasra said it will be made sure that all children are safe from Covid-19.However, the school education minister didn’t mention which classes will be allowed to reopen from next month. A report by Livehindustan, HT’s sister publication, late on Thursday said schools might reopen for students of Classes 1 to 12.The council of ministers sought the opinion of doctors during Thursday’s meeting and it was decided that it would be appropriate to reopen schools, colleges and other educational institutions, following Covid-19 protocols and taking all other precautions, according to an official statement.आज हुई कैबिनेट की बैठक में प्रदेश के सभी विद्यालयों को 02 अगस्त से खोलने का निर्णय लिया गया है।@rajeduofficialThe council of ministers also agreed in principle to make regular recruitment of computer instructors for schools and to reopen schools and other educational institutions in the state for teaching work, the statement said, adding recruitment for the new cadre of computer instructors will be done as per the budget announcement made by chief minister Gehlot.Also Read| Black fungus cases rising among children in RajasthanThursday’s decision of the Congress-led Rajasthan government comes after Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday authorities should open the primary sections of schools as children are much better at handling the viral disease than adults.“So, once India starts considering opening schools, it will be wise to begin with the primary schools. Also, we have to ensure that all support staff members, be it school bus drivers or teachers, are vaccinated,” Bhargava added.Rajasthan has so far recorded 953,462 cases, 8,952 deaths and 944,150 deaths due to Covid-19. On Thursday, the state saw 25 fresh cases and one more death. Authorities have so far administered 29,446,899 vaccine doses to people of which 23,538,030 have received the first dose while the remaining 5,908,869 have received the second dose as well.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/schools-educational-institutions-in-rajasthan-to-reopen-from-august-2-101627007937736.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: IMD places city under orange alert for today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has placed Mumbai under an orange alert for Friday, indicating “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places”. IMD has further issued a yellow alert for July 24 and 25, indicating heavy rain at isolated places.The city continues to be battered by incessant rainfall which has led to waterlogging, traffic snarls at several places. On Thursday, Mumbai saw a significant reduction in its rainfall intensity after IMD’s monitoring station in Santa Cruz recorded just 1.1mm of rainfall in eight hours ending 5.30pm. On Wednesday this was at 50.2mm during the same time period.The total rainfall this month stands at 1,040mm and this is the fourth successive year where rains in July have breached the 1000mm-mark. The normal rainfall target for July stands at 827mm. Since June, the city has received 2,002.5mm of rainfall which is over 90% of the total monsoon rainfall target.Services of the Central Railway were disrupted on Thursday due to heavy downpours in Mumbai and the Konkan region of Maharashtra since Wednesday night. Incidents of track washouts and waterlogging were reported on the railway network. The local train services faced problems during the early hours of Thursday but the situation normalised later and operations were restored. Hindustan Times reported that 35 trains were diverted, 51 were terminated and 48 were cancelled throughout the day.Meanwhile, Modak Sagar and Tansa lakes, which are among the seven lakes that provide water to Mumbai, overflowed in the wee hours of Thursday. The Tulsi lake was the first to overflow on July 16 and two days later, the Vihar lake overflowed. The cumulative water available in all these seven lakes was at 53.86% on Thursday.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-imd-places-city-under-orange-alert-for-today-101627003809385.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu to take charge as Punjab Congress chief today; CM Amarinder to attend ceremony||Navjot Singh Sidhu is set to take charge on Friday as the president of the Congress unit in Punjab, replacing Sunil Jakhar on the post. Chief minister Amarinder Singh will attend the "installation ceremony" along with other party leaders, news agencies reported, signalling a truce within the dissension-riven party.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday appointed Sidhu as the new chief of the party's Punjab unit, despite strong opposition from chief minister Amarinder Singh. She also appointed four working presidents -- Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel, and Kuljit Singh Nagra -- to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections scheduled to be held next year.Also Read | Sidhu shown black flags by farmers protesting against farm laws in PunjabNavjot Singh Sidhu, in a separate letter, requested Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to "come and bless the new [Congress] team". He reiterated his commitment to the people of the state and said that his only aim is to fulfill the Congress high command's "pro-people" 18-point agenda for Punjab."My resolve and commitment on Punjab's issues and fulfilling high command's pro-people 18-point agenda for the welfare of every Punjabi is well-known to you and all," Sidhu wrote in the letter, issued in an apparent bid to make up his differences with the chief minister. "Thus as the eldest of our Punjab Congress family, I request you to please come and bless the new team."Sidhu and Amarinder Singh have been at loggerheads for some time, with the cricketer-turned-politician recently attacking the chief minister over desecration cases in the state. Much of the tension between the two politicians flared earlier this year in April when the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident.Sidhu, who joined the Congress after leaving the BJP before the 2017 assembly polls, attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the issue of alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents. The Amritsar legislator later resigned as the minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio.Although Amarinder Singh earlier demanded an apology from Sidhu over what he called "derogatory" tweets, the 62 Congress legislators who gathered at the cricketer-turned-politician's residence this Wednesday in a show of strength said that there was no need to tender an apology as the party stands "united".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-to-take-charge-as-punjab-congress-chief-today-cm-amarinder-to-attend-ceremony-101626998777217.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra paid police ₹25 lakh to evade arrest: Report||Raj Kundra, businessman and Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband arrested for his alleged involvement in a case relating to the production of pornography, bribed officials of the Mumbai Police with ₹25 lakh to evade arrest, news agency ANI has reported citing the anti-corruption bureau (ACB).According to ANI, Maharashtra ACB officials said they have received four emails from Arvind Shrivastava alias Yash Thakur, another accused in the pornography case, and that a similar amount was allegedly demanded from him as well."ACB Maharashtra has confirmed that they received four emails from Arvind Shrivastava alias Yash Thakur in this regard, but his allegations of seeking a bribe from him and allegations against Raj Kundra bribing to evade arrest were quite vague in nature. The mails were forwarded to the Mumbai Police for further action on April 30, 2021," an ACB official was quoted as saying by ANI.Also read | Mumbai Police recover 70 porn videos made on Raj Kundra's order: ReportsThe bank accounts of Arvind Shrivastava alias Yash Thakur’s family members, which collectively amount to ₹6.5 crore, have also been frozen, according to police. They have said that Thakur’s name came up during Rowa Khan’s questioning. Khan and four others were arrested during a raid by the property cell on February 4, During their raid, the police said they found two women engaged in shooting a porn film and claimed to have rescued a woman.Raj Kundra and his IT head Ryan Thorpe, arrested on July 19, are in police custody till Friday. “Kundra has denied all allegations during interrogation. He has not answered many of our questions,” crime branch joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe said during a press conference on Thursday.Also read | WhatsApp chats reveal Raj Kundra had plan B, lawyer says content not pornBharambe said Raj Kundra had a tie-up with a London-based company involved in streaming pornographic content through a mobile application, Hotshots. The investigation into the purported pornography racket has revealed that Raj Kundra and his associates bought more than 100 porn videos from different producers and directors and uploaded them on Hotshots over the past one-and-a-half years.The app has around 2 million subscribers, the investigation has also revealed. According to the police, data has been deleted from the server and other electronic equipment seized by them from Kundra’s Viaan company’s office. They are now taking the help of forensic experts to retrieve the deleted data.Bharambe said that the police has not yet been able to any find any active role of Shilpa Shetty.Kundra and 11 others have been arrested by the Mumbai Police Crime Branch on Monday night for his alleged involvement in creating pornographic films and publishing them through mobile apps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-paid-police-rs-25-lakh-to-evade-arrest-report-101626998964897.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu reaches out, Capt to attend coronation event on Friday||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will attend the coronation ceremony of of the new Congress team under Navjot Singh Sidhu, his media adviser said, signalling truce in the dissension-riven party. The move came after Sidhu, in an apparent bid to bury the differences with the CM, wrote a letter on Thursday requesting Amarinder to come for the installation ceremony. “I have no personal agenda. My resolve and commitment on Punjab’s issues and fulfilling high command’s pro-people 18-point agenda for the welfare of every Punjabi is well-known to you and all,” Sidhu said. “Thus, as the eldest of our Punjab Congress family, I request you to please come and bless the new team,” wrote Sidhu. Over an hour later, CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted: “Capt Amarinder Singh has invited all Punjab Congress MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee team.” Earlier, Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, two of the four newly appointed working presidents for the state party unit, extended a formal invite to the CM at his farmhouse in Mohali’s Siswan for the installation ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by over 55 legislators. “The 30-minute meeting was very cordial and the CM promptly accepted the invitation. It’s a party function and all are attending,” Nagra said. Sidhu and Capt Amarinder Singh have been at loggerheads for the past few months, with the Amritsar East MLA attacking the CM over the desecration cases. The chief minister also opposed his appointment as the state Congress chief and had said he won’t meet Sidhu until the cricketer-turned-politician apologises for his “derogatory” tweets against him. Pawan Goel and Sukhwinder Singh Danny are the other two working presidents in the new Congress team that will formally take charge at the ceremony at 11am. Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs, will attend as the representative of the party’s high command. It is learnt that AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi called the party’s senior leaders, including Punjab CM, to be present at the event. Four cabinet ministers, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Charanjit Singh Channi, have already backed Sidhu. Other ministers also said that they will attend the event as it is a Congress function. Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra has also decided to attend the function after CM’s announcement. “I am in the party and would attend the Sidhu’s taking over,” he said. Mohindra was the lone member of the state cabinet who had said that Sidhu should publicly apologise to the CM for his remarks against him. MPs to attend the event too Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa said Sidhu had called all the MPs and asked them to be a part of his coronation function. “We all (MPs) are reaching Chandigarh tomorrow for the function,” said Bajwa, who along with other Punjab MPs had sided with Captain last week. “No one has any thing personal against him (Sidhu)”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-reaches-out-capt-to-attend-coronation-event-on-friday-101626984424983.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: RIP—Rest in Paharganj||No breeze, immense stillness. Fallen leaves litter the ground like a worn carpet. All around, hundreds, perhaps thousands of graves. Some extremely well taken care of, others in disrepair—as if they hadn’t been visited for long.This is the Indian Christian Cemetery in Paharganj. It is astonishing that at the heart of this congested, crowded, chaotic central Delhi locality, such a place sleeps in an all-encompassing silence.This evening, a brown cat with unusually huge whiskers is making her way through the tombstones. She finally stops by a grave commemorating “the loving memory of the elder son of Emlen and Vipin Ekka.” One wonders why the gravestone doesn’t bear the departed one’s name, but then you realise he didn’t live enough to have one—he was born on 4.1.99 and passed on 13.1.99. This portion of the graveyard appears to belong to infants. Baby Singh’s grave is inscribed with the words “Still Born”.Dating from 1983, its cement top has cracked open, exposing the red bricks underneath. Babu, a “New Born Baby”, has his well-maintained grave decked with fresh marigold garlands. An unusually large grave, nearby, is home to Abhinav Singh, aged 10.The grave that stands out prominently is of a 69-year-old woman. Rosaline Wilson’s resting place is decked with tiles showing huge dewy red roses. The grave looks like a greeting card. The Hindi inscription at the bottom says—“Maa, we realised what mother meant by being so far from you, now the heart understands what is a mother’s love.” This is followed by a line in English—We miss you, Mom.One of the persons buried in this graveyard was Jyoti Mariyam Hora. According to newspaper reports from 2013, she left Khunti village in Jharkhand for a new life in Delhi on Swarna Jayanti Express, with a friend, hoping to find work as a housekeeper. She died within a week of arriving in our city, stuck by jaundice, aged 10. It is difficult to locate her grave, perhaps it is unnamed.Near the graveyard’s only gate, a board displays the charges for burial— ₹2,000 for “kacha burial”, ₹3,500 for “pukka burial”, and ₹500 for a “cemented cross” to install upon the grave.Next, a marble slab says—“This cemetry is full to its capacity. Only family graves (doubling) are allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-rip-rest-in-paharganj-101626983887492.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||8 die, NDRF deployed as Maharashtra battles flood||At least eight people were killed as heavy rains wreaked havoc in various parts of Maharashtra, including Coastal Konkan, parts of Mumbai metropolitan region and several districts in Vidarbha on Thursday, triggering floods and prompting the deployment of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for rescue operations.According to government officials, four people in Palghar district, three in Ratnagiri, and one in Raigad, died in rain-related incidents. Chiplun and Khed in Ratnagiri district were the worst-affected, as floodwater from Vasisthi river and the discharge of water from Koyana dam submerged several areas. Officials said that rescue operations were delayed due to poor connectivity and bad weather.“We have deployed 17 NDRF companies in various districts, including Ratnagiri, Sindudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara. We have kept one company ready for Vidarbha. The NDRF teams reached Chiplun late because of the landslides on the way. Seven villages in and around Chiplun town are submerged while people are stranded on roofs and terraces of their homes. Indian Navy too has been requested to help in Chiplun and Khed. No casualties have been so far reported,” said an official from the state’s relief and rehabilitation department.On Thursday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a review meeting on the flood situation. He directed the officials to mobilise help from various state and central agencies.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Thackeray on Thursday and assured him of all possible support from the Centre. “Spoke to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray and discussed the situation in parts of Maharashtra in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. Assured all possible support from the Centre to mitigate the situation. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being. @OfficeofUT,” Modi tweeted.The administration has also deployed 15 boats of the Indian Coast Guard and police department to evacuate hundreds of stranded residents. Two NDRF teams were expected to reach Chiplun and Khed by midnight while two helicopters of the Indian Air Force could not take off due to the bad weather. The administration, meanwhile, claimed to having rescued over 125 people on Thursday.According to officials, many rivers including Vashishti, Jagbudi and Bavanadi in Ratnagiri were flowing over the danger mark. Cloudburst in Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday resulted in heavy rainfall of 480 mm in 24 hours, leading to the swelling of Savitri and Kaal rivers in Konkan belt, officials said. Similarly, water levels of Panchaganga in Kolhapur and Krishna in Sangli were near their danger marks. The discharge of water from Almatty dam in Karanataka also resulted in the rise in water level in Sangli.“The Koyana dam in Satara was 62% full in the afternoon. We will have to discharge water if it reaches 80%...,” said Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.“Karjat and Mahad in Raigad districts and Kalyan and Bhiwandi in Thane also witnessed heavy rainfall. We have deployed NDRF companies in Mumbai and other parts for quick rescue ops,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar.Many national and state highways were shut for vehicular traffic while the local train operations on Central and Harbour lines in Mumbai were affected due to flood-like situations.In Raigad, 400 people from Karjat, Mahad and Khalapur tehsils were shifted, officials said.With moderate to heavy rainfall across the state over last few days, the water stock level in reservoirs has increased to 34.28%. The state has received 57.3% of the season’s (June to September) rainfall with 574.7 mm rainfall recorded till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-die-ndrf-deployed-as-maharashtra-battles-flood-101626983395969.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||DSGMC elections to be held on August 22, results 3 days later||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections have been scheduled for August 22.The results will be declared on August 25. The Delhi high court on Thursday gave the go-ahead to hold the polls while taking up a petition, after the Delhi government presented a schedule. The Delhi gurdwara election department is expected to roll out a detailed schedule for the polls which will take place in 46 wards to elect the management body of historic Sikh shrines besides schools, colleges and hospitals attached to the gurdwara body in the national capital. The election department has moved a case before the government for a final clearance from the lieutenant governor. Earlier, the polls were scheduled for April 25, but were postponed indefinitely due to surge in Covid cases in the national capital because the candidates were unable to run a proper campaign. The nomination to contest the polls filed earlier would remain unchanged, except the candidates who died during the intervening period. The elections department will issue a fresh notification to fill the process in those particular ward(s), if any. The elections have two key groups — one led by outgoing DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa and the other belonging to gurdwara body’s former head Manjit Singh GK. The Sarna brothers (Paramjit Singh Sarna and his brother Harinder Singh Sarna) have also fielded their candidates in all 46 wards. This will be the ninth elections of the DSGMC since it came in existence by way an act of Parliament in 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsgmc-elections-to-be-held-on-august-22-results-3-days-later-101626983282152.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Absconding Bhola drug case accused surrenders in Mohali court, sent to judicial custody||Having evaded arrest for more than 7 months, Harmesh Kumar Gaba, an accused in the multi-crore synthetic Bhola drug racket case, recently surrendered in a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, Mohali. The court handed over his custody to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and sent him to judicial custody in a Ludhiana jail, said officials. Gaba, who is facing charges of money laundering, had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, challenging the non-bailable warrants issued by the Mohali court and the ongoing proclaimed offender (PO) proceedings against him. The HC, however, dismissed his petition and asked to surrender in the trial court. Harmesh, brother of Goraya-based businessman Chunni Lal Gabba, the other accused in the Bhola drug case, also moved a bail application in the PMLA court. In 2017, he had availed bail from the high court in the case but it was cancelled by the trial court in December last year. He was absconding since.The trial court has now issued a notice to the ED on his plea. The officials said Harmesh sold two prime properties in Phagwara even as they were attached by the ED. On July 1, Kapurthala police had booked Harmesh, Phagwara tehsildar Praveen Kumar Chibber (now posted in Shahkot), a patwari and others for cheating and criminal conspiracy for selling 14 kanal land attached under the PMLA. On Thursday (July 22), the police arrested Avtar Singh, posted as registry clerk in the Phagwara tehsil office, in property sale case. Praveen Kumar Chibber is still absconding, said Phagwara superintendent of police (SP), Sarabjit Singh Bahia. A senior Kapurthala police official said they will bring harnesh on production warrant in the case. The ED had chargesheeted nine members of the Gaba family, associated with Chunni Lal Gaba’s 11 firms, in connection with the Bhola drug case for alleged violation of the PMLA. Besides Chunni, his three sons — Gurjit, Gurmesh and Mahesh — father Suresh Kumar, brother Harmesh Gaba, 23-year-old grandson Khushwant Gaba, Gurjit’s wife Rekha and Harmesh’s wife Sudesh Rani were booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/absconding-bhola-drug-case-accused-surrenders-in-mohali-court-sent-to-judicial-custody-101626983221703.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police constable indicted for manhandling colleague||A constable of the Chandigarh Police, posted with the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), has been indicted for indiscipline on the charge of manhandling his colleague. Dilsher Singh Chandel, DSP, IRB (Administration), has sent an incident report to the senior superintendent of police (SSP) and recommended constable Mohit Desval’s suspension. As per sources, constable Deepak, in-charge of the store on IRB campus in Sarangpur, had asked Desval to move his belongings to the slot allotted to him. Irked over this, Desval manhandled Deepak, who escalated the matter to DSP Chandel. Taking cognisance of the indiscipline, Desval was indicted and a report was sent to SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, who is also the IRB commandant. Chahal said he had received the report, but was yet to go through it, adding that indiscipline in the force will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-constable-indicted-for-manhandling-colleague-101626983161963.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two more arrested in airmen recruitment exam racket||Two more people were arrested for their involvement in Airman Recruitment Exam racket busted recently.The accused have been identified as Madan Lal of Charkhi Dadri district and Vinod Kumar of Rohtak. The police had arrested four men on July 18.Police said Madan is a former wrestler and had participated in the World Wrestling Championship in 1995. In 2011, he set up a academy in Rohtak where he trained the youth aspiring to join army and police. Police said Madan has admitted that he had given the roll numbers of 10 candidates of his academy to help them in the test conducted at various centres between July 12 to 18.Vinod is a constable in Haryana police and he was posted at Jhajjar. Both the accused have been sent to two-day police remand by a local court.In-charge of CIA-I of Panipat police, Anil Chillar, said the police had earlier arrested four accused — Dharmbir of Asan village of Rohtak, Jitendra Singh alias Jeetu of Gamra village of Hisar, Ricky of Baroda village of Sonipat and Amit Kumar of Harodi village of Charkhi-Dadari district — on July 18.Police said the accused had set up a lab in a private school in Panipat and were allegedly in touch with some of those who appeared in the said exam. The police also recovered 14 bluetooth dots, 11 bluetooths and six mobile phones from their possession.Police officials said the accused admitted that they had helped around 40 candidates in securing jobs in the past couple of years.According to the police, the accused would charge anywhere between ₹ 3 lakh and ₹6 lakh per candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-more-arrested-in-airmen-recruitment-exam-racket-101626983101585.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||NGT forms panel seeking report on Sangrur tubewell spewing coloured water||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed to form a five-member committee to investigate the matter of coloured and chemical-laced water coming out of a tubewell in Sangrur district’s Aloarakh village and file a report in this regard. The orders came after advocate HC Arora moved the tribunal seeking solution to the problem. In the July 20 order, the NGT said, “We direct a five-member joint committee comprising officials of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) regional office; ministry of environment, forest and climate change; Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), a nominee of secretary environment department (Punjab), and the deputy commissioner, Sangrur, to visit the site and interact with the stakeholders, assess the ground situation and recommend the measures required to be taken.” The tribunal said the committee may ascertain the number of tubewells discharging coloured water, depth of such wells, aquifer status in terms of movement and extent of contamination, characteristics of contaminated water with reference to effluent sludge disposed by industries, its effect on crops and agri products. “It may suggest short- and long-term measures considering agronomy and public health, remediation plan, cost of such remediation,” it read. Arora said the first meeting of the committee will be held within two weeks and the matter will come up for further hearing on November 12. On July 8, a video of the tubewell went viral on social media and teams of the PPCB inspected the site and submitted a report to the state government. The owner of the tubewell, Kulwinder Singh, said a private unit had polluted groundwater in the area. He said that the tubewell of his nephew was also throwing polluted water. The PPCB officials had claimed that the factory was dismantled in 2005 and the department had taken up the matter with the NGT, which had imposed a fine of ₹2 crore on factory owners, who did not pay up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-forms-panel-seeking-report-on-sangrur-tubewell-spewing-coloured-water-101626982861660.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress Bhawan decked up for Navjot Sidhu’s coronation as state unit chief||The Congress Bhawan in Sector 15, Chandigarh, was all decked up for Friday’s installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president with at least three state cabinet ministers and two legislators overseeing the preparations. Besides Sidhu, Tanda Urmur MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, Jandiala Guru MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Fathergarh Sahib MLA Kuljeet Singh Nagra and Pawan Goel will take charge as working presidents of the party’s state unit. Jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was in-charge of the preparations for the event, said an estimated 30,000 people will attend the ceremony. “The Congress’ in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat will be attending the ceremony with all Congress MLA and MPs from the state in attendance,” he added. Besides, cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, who have joined the Sidhu camp in the wake of the cricketer-turned-politician’s ongoing tussle with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ahead of the state assembly polls, and MLAs Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Nagra were present to check the preparations. Nagra said, “We are expecting a good crowd as all our party workers are energised and excited. People from across Punjab will come here to attend the ceremony.” Since morning, the Congress Bhawan was abuzz with activity on Thursday and around 20 large hoardings of Sidhu were put up inside and outside the building. The hoardings read ‘Dhanwad. Congress worker khidamatgar, aa gaya Sidhu sardaar’ (The Congress worker Sidhu has come in the service of poeple).Also, a hectic renovation work was going on in the building as most of the toilets were not functional. Chandigarh senior superintending of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal, who was also present at Congress Bhawan to see the arrangements, said, “We are working on a route map and will make sure there is no chaos and inconvenience is not caused to the commuters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-bhawan-decked-up-for-navjot-sidhu-s-coronation-as-state-unit-chief-101626982806047.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Floorwise sanctions never granted in Chandigarh, admn tells HC||The Chandigarh administration has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that floorwise building plans are not being approved in the city’s northern sectors.UT’s assistant estate officer Manish Kumar Lohan told the court that the petitioners’ allegations claiming the contrary were incorrect.“The factual position is that a building plan is approved for the entire building and not for an individual floor... Thereafter, any construction carried out on the site is to be as per the Chandigarh Building Rules (Urban), 2017,” the officer’s affidavit said, adding that a co-owner can submit a building plan without the consent of the other owner, but it has to be of the entire building and not an individual floor. The UT also submitted that fragmentation of a plot was not permitted, although there is no prohibition on occupation of the site by more than one family. Besides, the estate officer also makes periodic checks to ensure no alterations have been made without approval.The administration has said that as of advertisements regarding sale of apartments, any aggrieved person can approach it and appropriate steps will be taken. No sale of defined portion/floor of a building is permissible nor any such sale has been recognised by the administration, it has underlined.The response came on a bunch of pleas seeking a ban on construction of multi-storey apartments in the city’s northern sectors. The matter is pending since 2016. The high court had sought a fresh response recently in view of Supreme Court’s direction to it to decide the matter in four months. The apex court order had come in May on the plea of a party opposed to allowing construction of these apartments.The PIL seeks prohibitory orders on conversion of residential plots into apartments. It alleges in the recent years floors are being sold as apartments, which will destroy the city and put additional burden on infrastructure. Residents are divided over the issue. A section says by allowing apartments, those who wish to get property in northern sectors will get a chance to own them. On the other hand, many owners in northern sectors have been opposing the move, insisting that it could change the city’s character.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/floorwise-sanctions-never-granted-in-chandigarh-admn-tells-hc-101626982683296.html
23-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: SIT to probe attempt-to-murder case against former SAD councilor, others||Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the attempt-to-murder case registered against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s former councilor Tanvir Dhaliwal and five others.Dhaliwal claimed that the police have lodged an FIR without investigation.He, along with former cabinet minister and adviser to former chief minister (CM) Parkash Singh Badal, Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali, SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon and former MLA Harish Rai Dhandha met the police commissioner seeking a probe.The SIT comprises joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja and inspector Sukhdeb Singh, who is the SHO of Sadar police station.Dhaliwal alleged that the man had reported the matter to the police at 10pm on Tuesday and by 10.45pm, the Sadar police lodged an FIR without any investigation. He also claimed that he was at home at the time of the incident.He further added that the complainant in the case, Prem Singh of Omaxe Flats, has a monetary dispute with Mintu Grewal, who is one of the accused, due to which the former lodged a fake case.The Sadar police had on Tuesday had booked Dhanvir Dhaliwal, Mintu Grewal, Ravi Sekhon, Amit Kumar, Simran Singh and an unidentified person in an attempt-to-murder case.The complainant alleged that the accused had chased him and opened fire at him. He escaped unhurt after the bullet missed the target, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sit-to-probe-attempt-to-murder-case-against-former-sad-councilor-others-101626982681919.html
23-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana to get 60 sanitary pad vending machines by first week of August||To promote menstrual hygiene, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has started installing sanitary pad vending machines in different parts of the city, including markets, government offices and public places.A total of 60 such machines are to be installed under the Smart City Mission and 15 have already come up in different parts of the city, including four MC zonal offices, Sarabha Nagar main market, Civil Hospital, bus stand, railway station and Arya College. The rest are likely to be installed by the first week of August. As per the plan, government schools, colleges and hostels in Punjab Agricultural University are among the few places that will have these machines.The machines, which will be set up in women’s washrooms, can dispense three pads in a go, at a cost of ₹10. An incinerator to dispose of used sanitary napkins will also be set up close to the vending machines. In 2019 too, the civic body had got sanitary napkin vending machines at around a dozen public toilets in different parts of the city under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, but the project failed due to lack of maintenance.Plastic reverse vending machines at 10 pointsAiming to reduce plastic waste generation in the city, the civic body has also awarded a contract for installing 10 plastic reverse vending machines to crush plastic material, including bottles. The machines will be installed at public places and markets with heavy footfall.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Under this project, worth around ₹90 lakh, sanitary pad and plastic reverse vending machines are being installed in different parts of the city. It is expected that the installation process will be completed by the first week of August, following which the machines will be made functional. The contractor will look after the maintenance for five years.”Sabharwal said the MC is also contemplating some incentive for public using the reverse plastic vending machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-to-get-60-sanitary-pad-vending-machines-by-first-week-of-august-101626982622026.html
23-07-2021||Other||For 2nd time this week, Ludhiana’s daily count settles at 4||For the second time this week, Ludhiana recorded four Covid-19 cases in 24 hours even as the death count continued to remain zero. The district had previously recorded four cases on June 19. On the subsequent two days, it had seen 10 and 5 cases respectively.In more good news, the number of active cases also fell below 100, to settle at 84, for the first time this year. So far, the district has recorded 87,249 Covid cases, of which 2,093 patients died.Even as the pandemic’s figures are receding steadily, health experts have been cautioning residents against letting their guard down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-2nd-time-this-week-ludhiana-s-daily-count-settles-at-4-101626982442556.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Serial killer held with 1kg heroin from Patti||A serial killer wanted in at least five murder cases registered in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra was arrested in Patti on Thursday.Police have recovered 1kg of heroin from the possession of Gurpartap Singh, alias Gora, of Patti city. Police said Gurpartap had been looting trucks on highways after killing drivers. He was wanted in five murder cases registered against him at Agra, Kapurthala and Jalandhar and Maharashtra.The accused was arrested from his home following a tip-off. “A team led-by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Charan Singh conducted a raid and the accused was arrested from his home,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale while addressing a press conference.He said: “When the accused was questioned, he disclosed that he, along with his brother-in-law (sister’s husband), had killed five drivers and looted their trucks. The accused confessed that three murders were committed on January 19, March 22 and March 24 this year in Agra, Kapurthala and Jalandhar and two truck drivers were done to death in Maharashtra last year.”Besides five murders, the accused committed 15 robberies, said the SSP, adding most of the trucks he robbed were laden with iron roads. Three of his associates were helping him in selling the looted trucks and their material, the SSP said. A fresh case under Sections 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at the Patti city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/serial-killer-held-with-1kg-heroin-from-patti-101626982381794.html
23-07-2021||Other||Self-styled godman found murdered in Ludhiana’s Gopalpur village||Unidentified assailants hacked a self-styled godman to death with a sharp-edged weapon in his one room house-cum-dera in Gopalpur village of Dehlon on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The victim has been identified as Jung Singh, 57, of Gopalpur village. As per information, Jung Singh used to stay in Tibba village and had shifted to Gopalpur in January this year. He was dependent on the village residents for food. On Thursday morning around 8, when some villagers went to his house to serve him breakfast, they found him lying in a pool of blood with injury marks on his head.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said police found ₹22,000 cash and a mobile phone in his pockets, which rules out the possibility of robbery being the motive. Cops suspect some old rivalry may have been the reason behind the brutal killing.The ADCP added that according to preliminary investigation, the victim was murdered in his sleep as there were no signs of struggle.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons, on the complaint of Varinder Singh of Shimlapuri, who is the victim’s nephew. Jung Singh’s wife is said to have left him two months after marriage. Police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/selfstyled-godman-found-murdered-in-ludhiana-s-gopalpur-village-101626982325049.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||CH01CF vehicle number series: Register for e-auction from July 23||The Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) will from July 23 start registrations for participation in the e-auction for the new series “CH01CF” . It will continue till 5pm on July 30. The e-auction/bidding will be held from 10am on July 31 to 5pm on August 2.Also, leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series- “CH01CE”, “CH01CD”, “CH01CC”, “CH01CB”, “CH01CA”, CH01BZ”, “CH01-BY”, “CH01-BX”, “CH01-BW”, “CH01-BV”, “CH01-BU”, “CH01-BT” and “CH01-BS” will also be auctioned.The owner of the vehicle can register on the National Transport website https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and obtain the Unique Acknowledgement Number (UAN). The link for the same is available on the UT transport department’s website www.chdtransport.gov.in. Only those who have purchased the vehicle using a Chandigarh address will be allowed to participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ch01cf-vehicle-number-series-register-for-e-auction-from-july-23-101626982323931.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Former Ambala Cantt naib tehsildar arrested for taking ₹1 lakh bribe||More than a month after he was booked for allegedly taking ₹1 lakh as bribe and asking for ₹5 lakh more from a former Congress councillor, police on Thursday arrested Bodhraj Singh, a former naib tehsildar of Ambala Cantonment. DSP (Cantonment) Ram Kumar, who was also the investigating officer in the case, said that Bodhraj will be presented in a court on Friday.“No recovery of the amount has been made yet and investigation is underway,” he added. The accused, a resident of Kaithal’s Cheeka, who was working at the mini-secretariat in cantonment, had retired from his post on June 30. His anticipatory bail was rejected by a trial court on June 17.In another plea before the Punjab and Haryana high court filed on June 25, a bench comprising Justice HS Madaan had sought a response from the state government by July 12 on his anticipatory bail. On July 19, his bail was rejected by an HC bench of Justice Avneesh Jhingan. As per the case, the accused had allegedly asked for ₹2 lakh for property mutation papers from two-time former municipal councillor Onkar Nathi on April 5. In his complaint, Nathi had said that he gave ₹1 lakh to Bodhraj and when the papers were prepared, he asked for ₹5 lakh more in May.On June 5, Nathi had met Haryana home minister Anil Vij with his complaint after which an FIR was registered under extortion charges and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-ambala-cantt-naib-tehsildar-arrested-for-taking-1-lakh-bribe-101626982203467.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||I-T case: Defer passing of final order against Capt’s son, HC tells Ludhiana court||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday requested a Ludhiana trial court to not to pass a final order in an income tax (I-T) case against Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh.The bench of justice HS Sidhu recused from hearing the plea of the income tax department and ordered that matter be placed before the chief justice to list it before some other bench. The bench also requested the trial court to defer the passing of the final order, pending the listing of this case before a high court bench in view of his recusal.Earlier, the court was told by I-T department’s counsel that if the matter is not taken up today and the trial court proceeds to pass the final order, the present petition would become infructuous.The I-T department had moved the high court in 2019 against the November 2018 order of the court of additional sessions judge, Ludhiana, quashing the summoning order passed against Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh in this case. A trial court had earlier issued summons to both of them to appear personally for the hearing.Both are facing allegations of making false statements and wilful omission in providing required information to the I-T department, which had filed a criminal complaint against them before the Ludhiana court in 2016.According to the department, both were beneficiaries of foreign assets maintained and controlled through various business entities and also of foreign bank accounts maintained with a bank in Geneva. The I-T department claimed that the chief minister’s son is a direct beneficiary of assets maintained and controlled through foreign business entities. However, Raninder had denied any association with these entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-case-defer-passing-of-final-order-against-capt-s-son-hc-tells-ludhiana-court-101626982201712.html
23-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana civil hospital’s first win! Zero patients in Covid ward||For the first time since the pandemic outbreak in March last year, no Covid patient was admitted to the civil hospital on Thursday. Earlier on January 21, when the first wave was tapering off, the hospital had reported that it had just one Covid patient left but the cases had subsequently gone up. By May, when the second wave was on a rampage in the city, the civil hospital, which can accommodate 250 patients, was bursting at the seams as patients from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana were also coming here for treatment.“The civil hospital now has just four black fungus patients and one patient suffering from post-Covid complications,” said nodal officer for Covid, Dr Hitinder Kaur.She, however, added that the hospital is now preparing for the anticipated third wave.“The drop in cases in the second wave was due to the lockdown. As markets are opening, people are out and about again. Many are still not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. This could be a potential trigger for the third wave. However, as a large chunk of the population has been vaccinated, we can hope to mitigate the third wave to an extent,” said Dr Kaur.At Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), out of the 150 earmarked beds for Level- II patients, only five are currently occupied, while out of the 180 beds earmarked for Level- III patients, nine are occupied.Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) meanwhile has no patients as of now, while SPS hospital and Mohan Dia Oswal Hospital have two patients each in the Level- II facilities.Vaccine shortage yet again, no sessions todayLudhiana: As residents rush to get themselves inoculated ahead of the anticipated third wave of Covid-19 that is expected to hit the country later this year, Ludhiana is reporting a vaccine shortage. In the past 10 days, Ludhiana saw a dip in daily vaccination count on five occasions. On July 13, just 3,778 people were inoculated, on July 14, 7,753 got the jab, on July 15, 2,467 received the first dose while on July 16 and 21, only 22,973 and 27,821 people could be vaccinated respectively. The vaccination drive in the district had kicked off on January 16 and so far, 14,17,359 residents have been inoculated.Meanwhile, residents are losing patience. Ruchi Sharma, a city resident who was enquiring about vaccine availability at the civil surgeon’s office on Thursday, said, “I came to know that the centre was out of vaccine only I reached here. I will wait for a couple of days. If the situation doesn’t change, I will go to a private hospital.” Deepa Prasher, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “Mega vaccination camps are a good initiative, but at the same time, officials should ensure that there is enough stock available at other centres too,” said Prasher.District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said no public sessions for Covaxin and Covishield will be held on Friday. He, however, said the department has received some stock for the inoculation of international travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-civil-hospital-s-first-win-zero-patients-in-covid-ward-101626982142855.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Discomfort of former chief justice on CCTV installation misplaced: Punjab and Haryana HC||Reacting to the plea by former Karnataka chief justice NK Sodhi against installation of CCTV cameras opposite to his house in Sector 4 here, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said that his discomfort on Chandigarh administration’s move is “misplaced”. The high court bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash, which dealt with his plea on July 20, disposed it of after taking note of UT’s response that former chief justice’s apprehension has been taken care of while installing CCTV cameras. The former chief justice lives in House Number 36, opposite to official residence of the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana high court, RS Jha. “Security agencies have balanced the privacy of residents of area with the threat perception of the protected person by permanently adjusting the cameras in such a way so that privacy of not only the house of petitioner, but also of other houses in vicinity is maintained,” a report submitted by UT administration to the high court said.The report had come in the wake of former Karnataka chief justice approaching the high court seeking directions for removing the CCTV cameras installed near the front boundary of official residence of chief justice Jha. The CCTV cameras installed are high resolution and infrared capable, which can capture detailed images up to 150 metres and thus, can easily invade the privacy, which is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution to the petitioner, he had told the court. Earlier, he had taken up the matter with the high court in May on administrative side and upon response sought on the same from Chandigarh DGP, the high court administration had said that after site inspection, examining the footage and working of the CCTVs installed, it was found that none of the cameras cover the houses on opposite side of the street and only cover the area up to the road berm.“We are, thus, satisfied that the discomfort shown by the petitioner on installation of cameras is misplaced,” recorded the high court bench while disposing of the matter on July 20. As of his demand of framing of rules on this issue, the court opined that no such direction is required to be given and left it to the discretion of the administration to take a decision as and when the situation warrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/discomfort-of-former-chief-justice-on-cctv-installation-misplaced-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101626982141707.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula cholera death: Probe panel rules out medical negligence||Probing into the death of a nine-year-old boy due to cholera, a special inquiry committee has ruled out medical negligence in the case.However, the civil surgeon has issued an advisory that all mild cholera patients approaching the Civil Hospital’s emergency wing must be admitted before being referred to the OPD.On July 14, Arpit had died of cholera after drinking contaminated water at Abheypur village. Alleging negligence by doctors, his father, Anil Kumar, had complained that they discharged his son though he hadn’t fully recovered and asked them to visit the OPD.Two days later, Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta had directed the civil surgeon to mark an inquiry and file a report.“The committee submitted its report on July 20. In the report, the doctors concerned have denied discharging the patient and said it was the father who insisted on it. Therefore, they advised them to visit the OPD. There, the family was asked to give the child ORS and report to the hospital if his condition worsened,” Dr Mukta Kumar, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said.Stating that no one was at fault, but it was a learning experience, Dr Kumar said an advisory had been issued making short stay mandatory for all mild cases reaching emergency. Earlier, such cases were only kept under observation. Now, they need to be discharged by a doctor.Dr Mankirat Kaur, spokesperson for the civil surgeon, said all patients, irrespective of the severity of illness, will be seen by specialists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-cholera-death-probe-panel-rules-out-medical-negligence-101626982082130.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Overcharging of Covid patients: 3 pvt hospitals in Panchkula to refund another ₹21 lakh||Three private hospitals in Panchkula, which have already reimbursed ₹35.43 lakh after being found guilty of overcharging Covid patients, have agreed to refund an additional ₹21.46 lakh after conducting a self-audit on the deputy commissioner’s directions of bills issued in April .The issue came to light when Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta visited one of the hospitals and a patient complained of overcharging. After that, more complaints started pouring in. Following that, a district-level monitoring committee found them guilty.The hospitals are Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital (including Ojas Hospital as it is owned by the same company) and Wings Hospital .DC Vinay Partap Singh said: “They have paid partly and will refund the rest of the amount soon. Now, we have directed them to do a self-audit for May and submit a report within three weeks.”BB Singhal, member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council and Covid bill monitoring committee, said the hospitals have proposed to refund an amount of around ₹21.46 lakh after identifying excess charges in 33 bills.‘’Of these 33 Covid bills, six were from Alchemist, 10 from Ojas and 17 from Paras Hospital,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overcharging-of-covid-patients-3-pvt-hospitals-in-panchkula-to-refund-another-21-lakh-101626982023114.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||HIV+ blood transfusion: NHRC tells Punjab govt to give ₹4 lakh relief to two families||Ten months after the state government refused to compensate four minor thalassaemia patients for transfusion of HIV-infected blood at the Bathinda district hospital, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the Punjab chief secretary to release a grant of ₹4 lakh to two affected families.The commission passed the order on July 20 while hearing a complaint filed by a Jalandhar-based activist Kulwant Singh Nagra.In a series of reports last year, HT had highlighted that five persons, including four thalassaemia patients aged between 7 and 13, being treated at Bhai Shaheed Bhai Mani Civil Hospital, Bathinda, were found HIV positive.Two investigations by separate panels of medical experts had found three persons, including a sacked doctor, guilty of issuing blood of an HIV+ person without checking it, to two patients including, a seven-year-old thalaessemic patient, since May last year.The internal inquiry found that the ex-blood bank officials were negligent on two counts. First, they did not check the blood before issuing it and they did not alert the patient and the hospital administration about the goof-up.However, the state health department refused to compensate the affected minor children even as serious medical and administrative lapses at the government blood bank came to the fore.Meanwhile, the NHRC observed that “the state has failed and thus as a consequence, is liable for any omission or commission on the part of its employees, which in the instant case also falls within the domain of criminal act too as HIV-infected blood was knowingly allowed to be transfused to otherwise healthy patients, including a seven-year-old girl that time.”On April 1, the commission had issued a notice to the Punjab government on granting compensation but it did not receive any reply from the chief secretary even after a deadline of six weeks.“The commission observes that the reply to the show-cause notice from the CS is still awaited despite considerable lapse of time. In the circumstances, the NHRC presumes that the state has no objection to the recommendation of (granting compensation). The commission directs the CS to submit a compliance report along with proof of payment within four weeks, failing which the commission will call for the personal appearance of the authority concerned,” the order states.Vice-president of the Thalassaemia Welfare Society Mahinder Makkar said they would approach the NHRC to award compensation to the rest of the three patients who were wrongfully infused infected the blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hiv-blood-transfusion-nhrc-tells-punjab-govt-to-give-rs-4-lakh-relief-to-two-families-101626982021715.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh saw 13.8% spike in power demand this summer||The city has recorded a 13.8% jump in electricity demand this summer, compared to last year. As per the ministry of power reply submitted in the Lok Sabha on Thursday regarding power demand in the country, demand of 352 million units was recorded in Chandigarh from April to June 2020. This year, it has shot up to 400 million units for the same period.Last year, for most of the summer months, there was a lockdown amid the pandemic outbreak. Even when restrictions were eased, commercial and industrial activity remained very low. “This year, even though the second Covid wave resulted in lockdown, it not as strict or comprehensive as last year. This pushed the demand up,” said a UT engineering department officialThis year, peak power demand also increased. “The demand for electricity increases in summer, but it has reached its peak in July. Demand reached 426 MW on July 8, which is the maximum this summer,” said the official.Notably, 2019 had seen the city breaking its all-previous records of power consumption, with peak demand touching 431 MW. In 2018, it was 404 MWWhile engineering department officials maintain that the city had adequate power supply, erratic supply was reported from several areas this time. The worst-affected areas were southern sectors, rehabilitation colonies and villages.Many in the electricity department blamed the ongoing process of handing over the department to private hands for the power supply problems.“With all attention on privatisation, the UT administration either postponed or denied permission to buy necessary equipment to improve the quality of electricity supply network in the city for around two years. This has impacted the department’s ability to supply disruption free power,” said an engineering department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-saw-13-8-spike-in-power-demand-this-summer-101626981964361.html
23-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Cops find 2 plaints of sexual assault against minors ‘fishy’||Investigation into a month-old sexual assault case, in which the victim is a one-year-old girl, has come to a halt as her mother has refused to give consent for the toddler’s medical examination.Police suspect the woman had concocted the story of sexual assault to implicate her husband, as she had recently filed a divorce case in the court.Basti Jodhewal station house officer (SHO), inspector Mohammad Jamil said the matter seems to be fishy as the mother is not allowing medical examination of the toddler. Besides, the child appears to be fine and active. “As the complainant has recently filed for divorce, she may be trying to implicate her husband. The matter will be clear once the toddler is medically examined,” said the SHO, adding that if the complainant does not cooperate, the police can initiate proceedings to cancel the FIR.In her complaint, the woman had stated that she had noticed some swelling in the toddler’s nether regions. One night she woke up to her daughter’s cries and was shocked to find her husband sexually assaulting the child. Police had booked the father under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Narangwal village caseIn another incident, where a 31-year-old man had been booked for raping his six-year-old niece in Narangwal village, the police commissioner has marked a probe. The victim’s mother, who is the complainant in the case, said the incident had taken place about a year ago but she had not lodged a case then due to pressure from her husband.According to the police, relations between the family members are strained and there is an ongoing litigation against them at various police stations.A case under Section 376AB (rape on a woman under twelve years of age) of the IPC, Section 4 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was lodged against the accused.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the kin of the accused, along with the villagers, had approached police for re-investigation citing old rivalry between families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sexual-assault-on-minors-probe-in-2-cases-comes-to-halt-over-fishy-plaints-101626981963228.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC cracks down on three illegal colonies, razes 16 buildings||Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday took action against three unauthorised colonies and demolished 16 commercial and industrial structures in different parts of the city. As per the information, Zone-A team demolished one illegal commercial building on Rahon Road, while four industrial structures were razed in Gehlewal village and Guru Vihar area on Rahon Road. A team from Zone-C razed three illegal colonies and five commercial buildings in Jaspal Bangar and nearby area, while Zone-D team demolished four under-construction shops in Block E of BRS Nagar, one shop in New Kailash Nagar and one booth near Orient Cinema. MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said the action has been taken on the directions of municipal chief Pardeep Sabharwal as the structures were being built in violation of building bylaws and owners of a few properties had not even got the building plans approved from the MC. “The MC teams have also removed sewer lines installed in the colonies which were being established illegally. The drive against the unauthorised constructions will continue in the coming days,” he added. The civic body has launched a drive against illegal constructions after facing flak from councillors during the general House meeting of MC held on July 14. Seven illegal colonies and 11 unauthorised commercial and industrial structures were also demolished in different parts of the city on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-cracks-down-on-three-illegal-colonies-razes-16-buildings-101626981961837.html
23-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana govt schools to get high speed internet for online classes||The state education department has directed all high and senior secondary schools of the district to have high-speed internet and Wi-Fi connection facility on campus.A letter in this regard was issued by the state education secretary Krishan Kumar on Thursday. It stated that schools can utilize the amalgamated funds to install high-speed internet facilities on campus.There are 505 government high and senior secondary schools in the district.Kumar said, “To have better connectivity while sharing academic content with students or conducting classes online, we have allowed school heads to get optical fibre Wi-Fi broadband connections. It is the need of the hour as, amid the pandemic, the internet has become an essential part of students’ learning process.”As per the department, the schools get ₹395 per month as an internet grant, and if the cost of the optical fibre Wi-Fi broadband connections is more then, they can utilize the amalgamated funds. This move by the department will help teachers to continue with the online classes without any glitches.Pradeep Sharma, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Lalton Kalan, said, “As all the teachers are taking online classes and require high-speed internet, Wi-Fi connections are a must to ensure classes without any connectivity issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-govt-schools-to-get-high-speed-internet-for-online-classes-101626981903690.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two drug smugglers escape after encounter with police||A Punjab Police constable was injured in an encounter with drug smugglers near Cheema Kalan turn on the outskirts of Patti city on Wednesday night. The smugglers, identified as Denial, alias Sanju, of Tankan Wali Basti in Ferozepur, and Philips, alias Philli, of Makhu town in Ferozepur, managed to escape after the encounter. Police have recovered a Hyundai Creta (PB-05-AN-4444) they were travelling in and recovered 1kg of heroin from it.A police team led by Patti Sadar station house officer (SHO) Jaswinder Singh had installed a barricading at the Cheema turn following a tip-off. Around 9pm, a black Hyundai Creta was signalled to stop. Instead of making a halt, the accused reversed the vehicle. When police tried to chase them, one of the accused opened fire in which constable Gursahib Singh was injured. “Later, the police team found the Hyundai Creta parked along the road near Chuslewar godowns. The bullet-ridden vehicle was searched and 1kg of heroin was recovered,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran, Dhruman H Nimbale.He said the accused have been identified and a hunt has been launched to nab them. “We have also recovered a mobile phone from the vehicle and it is being examined by experts,” said the SSP. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant), 333 (grievous hurt to deter public servant), 353 (assault to deter public servant), 186 (obstructs any public servant) of the IPC, 25-27-54-59 of the Arms Act, and 21-29-61-85 of the NDPS Act has been registered at Patti Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-drug-smugglers-escape-after-encounter-with-police-101626981901892.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal disposal of effluents: ₹2.46-cr environmental compensation imposed on violating units in Ludhiana||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has imposed an environmental compensation of ₹2.46 crore on electroplating and acid pickling units in Ludhiana for illegal disposal of effluents. Principal secretary, department of science, technology and environment Anurag Verma said the working of common effluent treatment plant (CETP) for electroplating units as well as re-processors of spent acid, which are lifting effluent/spent acid to treat on their premises, was also looked into, besides the surprise inspections. Show-cause notices were issued and action was taken against the violating units. Verma said during inspection, irregularities, including operation of unit without clearance, were found at M/s Rajchem Global Technologies Pvt Ltd at Dheri village and an environmental compensation of over ₹1.14 crore was imposed on it. A reprocessing unit at Kohara, M/s J.B.R Technologies Pvt Ltd, was found lifting spent HCl along with spent sulphuric acid though this facility was granted permission for processing of spent sulphuric acid only. The unit was told to pay ₹26.25 lakh, he said. Similarly, a CETP for electroplating units operated by M/s JBR Technologies at Focal Point was found violating the provisions of the Water Act, 1974, and Hazardous and other wastes Rules, 2016. A penalty of over 1.05 crore was slapped on it, Verma said. Last month, an internal investigation by the PPCB had found glaring anomalies in the working of 15 of the 24 units dealing with electroplating, surface finishing and pickling of raw material in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-disposal-of-effluents-rs-2-46-cr-environmental-compensation-imposed-on-violating-units-in-ludhiana-101626981781975.html
23-07-2021||Other||Sukhbir condemns IT raids on media houses||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday condemned income tax raids on media outlets, saying they were being persecuted for exposing the central government’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic.Sukhbir also questioned the Union government’s surveillance on politicians, journalists and activists through the Israeli company’s Pegasus spyware. “It is condemnable that the NDA government has targeted the Dainik Bhaskar and the Bharat Samachar group. The Union government should not try to muzzle the freedom of the press. The SAD stands resolutely in solidarity with the media in this hour of crisis,” he said, adding that the Centre needed to respond positively to criticism on sensitive issues like Covid mismanagement as they reflected the sentiments of the citizens of the country. The former Punjab deputy CM alleged that the government was following a vindictive approach towards farmers. “Farmers have rightly questioned the logic behind bringing in the three agricultural laws which help only the corporations and will result in the corporatisation of agriculture in the country. Instead of listening to the farmers and resolving their grievances the centre is adopting an intransigent attitude towards them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sukhbir-condemns-it-raids-on-media-houses-101626981721897.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two more Covid deaths, 69 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Thursday reported two more Covid fatalities taking the death toll to 16,250.The state also reported 69 fresh cases pushing the infection count to 5,98,590, according to a medical bulletin. With this, the state recorded the positivity rate of 0.19%. Jalandhar reported 13 cases, followed by 10 in Bathinda and six each in Ferozepur and Gurdaspur. The number of active cases stood at 811, the bulletin said. With 123 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,81,539, the bulletin said. A total of 1,17,92,233 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-more-covid-deaths-69-new-cases-in-punjab-101626981541651.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hansi school director among six booked for assaulting Class 10 boy||Three sports coaches, school director and two former students of Asian Public School at Umra village in Hansi, 37km from Hisar, were booked for allegedly assaulting a Class 10 student over a theft complaint filed by a Class 11 student. Those booked are wrestling coach Vikram Malik, boxing coach Naveen Sharma, school director Sanjay Malik, another coach Shashikant and two former students Sachin Kumar and Vinay. They have been booked under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. In his police complaint, the 15-year-old student, who hails from a Bhiwani village, said he took admission in Class 10 at Asian Public School on April 21 as he wanted to pursue boxing. “A month ago, a Class 11 boy accused me of theft and planted a bottle of perfume in my bag. He started blackmailing me and sought money, threatening to take up the matter with school authorities if I didn’t conform to his demands. On July 9, coach Vikram called me to the warden’s room and started beating me up. At 11pm, I was called again to the warden’s room where Vikram, Naveen and Sanjay beat me up. I was also tortured in a water pool and made to gasp for breath by Vikram and two others,” the complainant said. He said his phone was taken away and I narrated the incident to my parents on July 16 when they visited the school. “When we asked the school authorities to provide my ward’s school leaving certificate on July 16, they told us that they are yet to enrol him,” the boy’s mother said. Mahender Singh, investigation officer at Hansi Sadar police station, said, “The student is undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Bhiwani. We have started investigation. No arrest has been made so far,” he said. Dr Mahesh Sheoran, an orthopaedic surgeon at Bansi Lal Government Hospital, said the boy was undergoing treatment for the last three days. “There are injury marks on his body. He was brutally assaulted and there is swelling in his internal body parts too,” the doctor said. A spokesman of Asian Public School said all the allegations made by the boy were false and baseless. “The school authorities had told his parents to take him back as he was involved in theft. He had also admitted to his mistake,” the spokesman claimed. Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) chairman Jyoti Bainda could not be reached for a comment despite repeated phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hansi-school-director-among-six-booked-for-assaulting-class-10-boy-101626981481592.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||State has to redress the issue to lift blockade by farmers: HC to Punjab||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that to lift blockade by farmers protesting against three farm laws outside the premises of a logistics firm in Ludhiana, it is for the state to redress the issue.The observations came from the bench of justice Lisa Gill, while dealing with a plea from M/S Adani Logistics Ltd, which had approached high court in March and was told during an hearing on July 20 that blockade has not been lifted.“It is undoubtedly for the state to redress the issue which has arisen in order to provide free ingress and egress to the petitioner to its premises in order to enable it to continue its business,” the bench observed further recording that state’s law officer is unable to bring to court’s notice any further efforts which may have been taken recently for solving to the problem.The bench fixed the case for hearing on July 30 and sought affidavit of the Punjab director general of police. It also asked the state’s counsel to apprise it of measures which have been taken to resolve the issue, especially keeping in view the previous orders passed in this case and in another matter on June 18.The firm had approached high court in March with a grievance that farmers have been sitting on a dharna in front of the main gate of its inland container depot in Ludhiana rendering it non-operational since January 1. Despite a number of complaints filed with the police, no action has been taken to remove the blockade, it had submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-has-to-redress-the-issue-to-lift-blockade-by-farmers-hc-to-punjab-101626981422387.html
23-07-2021||Other||BJP’s anti-farmer mindset showing: Capt||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday condemned the alleged attack on a journalist at the farmers’ protest site at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar. He has also sought the immediate resignation of Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi for dubbing the farmers as ‘hooligans’. Slamming the BJP leader for using derogatory language for farmers, who have been peacefully agitating against the Centre’s farm laws for eight months, the CM said it reflected the party’s anti-farmer mindset. He lambasted the NDA government for its efforts to suppress every single voice that dared to speak against them, as in the latest instance of Income Tax (IT) raids on the Dainik Bhaskar media group. “While the assault on the journalist covering the farmers’ parliament was deplorable and action should be taken against the guilty person, the union minister’s reaction was totally uncalled for and provocative,” Lekhi said, adding the minister had no right to defame farmers. The Delhi Police should file a case and investigate the case to identify the accused, and the law should take its own course, he added. “The BJP leadership is once again resorting to such shameful tactics out of sheer frustration,” the CM said, alleging that the BJP-led central government had shown, time and again, that it was not interested in the welfare of farmers, who were the country’s ‘annadaatas’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjps-anti-farmer-mindset-showing-capt-101626981361668.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-minister pitches for Sidhu’s elevation as CM||A day before Navjot Singh Sidhu’s coronation as the state Congress chief, senior party leader and former minister Gurchet Singh Bhullar on Thursday pitched for the cricketer-turned-politician’s elevation as the state chief minister.Bhullar was addressing a rally organised by his son and Congress MLA from Khemkaran constituency Sukhpal Singh Bhullar at their native Mehmoodpura village in Tarn Taran district where Sidhu was the chief guest. Amritsar (South) MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria was also present.The statement was ostensibly hailed by Sidhu who was sitting on the stage with folded hands. After this, Sidhu asked Bhullar to speak on his behalf that they all are (audience) his turban’s layers and he will not let it fall, come what may. He, however, didn’t address the rally. Earlier, Sidhu, along with Amritsar (West) MLA Raj Kumar Verka and Bolaria visited Jandiala MLA and one of the working president of the state Congress Sukhwinder Singh Danny’s residence in Amritsar and held a closed-door meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exminister-pitches-for-sidhu-s-elevation-as-cm-101626981241703.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Construction firm promoters booked for fraud on Olympian’s plaint||Three Panchkula-based men have been booked for allegedly embezzling ₹24.69 lakh while constructing an academy of Olympian Karnam Malleswari in Yamunanagar. The accused are promoters of Pyramid Builders, the firm that was assigned the construction work.According to the FIR lodged by Malleswari on Tuesday, the firm was allotted tender of constructing a weightlifting academy at Chahdo village in March 2019 that was to be completed within 10 months.The 2000 Sydney Olympics bronze medallist told the police that in his final report, deputy director of Sports Authority of India Northern Regional Centre, Sonepat, pointed out that the actual cost of construction done so far was around ₹2.03 crore, while the firm had taken ₹2.28 crore through false measurements. The firm’s three men — Anuj Aggarwal, Nikul Aggarwal and Nitin Aggarwal — were booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC at Jagadhari Sadar police station. Further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/construction-firm-promoters-booked-for-fraud-on-olympian-s-plaint-101626981121601.html
23-07-2021||Other||Changes in Punjab Cong unit signal government incompetence: SAD||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday said the Congress high command had already accepted that its government had failed Punjabis miserably and was now trying to wash away its non-performance by bringing about changes in the Punjab unit. “This is another form of fraud with the people in the same manner in which chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had deceived Punjabis by swearing false oaths on the holy Gutka Sahib,” party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said. Addressing a press conference, Cheema added, “Congress legislators had told the party high command that they would not be able to enter villages because of state government’s non-performance. The high command admitted this failure by handing over an eighteen point to-do list to the chief minister. It simultaneously appointed Sidhu as the Pradesh Congress President to shift the blame for the party’s non-performance on Capt Amarinder.” Asserting that such cheap political moves could not fool Punjabis, Cheema said Navjot Sidhu was part and parcel of the non-performing Congress government. “Sidhu was a minister in the government for half of its term. He should first admit his failure to do anything for the welfare of the people.” He added that Sidhu should simultaneously tell Punjabis when they would get a ₹85,000 crore farm loan waiver as promised by his government and party and why the promised 25 lakh jobs were not given, as these were part of party’s promises before coming to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/changes-in-punjab-cong-unit-signal-government-incompetence-sad-101626981003539.html
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana gives nod for new Karnal-Y’nagar rail line||Haryana government has given approval for a new shorter rail line between Karnal and Yamunanagar for fast rail connectivity. The existing rail route from Karnal to Yamunanagar (via Ambala Cantonment) is 121km, while by road the distance between the two cities is 67 km. With a route length of 64.6 km, the proposed new railway line will provide the shortest link between these two cities and reduce the travel time for passengers as well as for freight traffic.The state government approved the Detailed Project Report (DPR) on July 20 after incorporating all the suggestions made by ministry of railways to the draft report submitted in September 2019, a government spokesperson said. Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (HRIDC), which is a joint venture between the ministry of railways and Haryana government, has finalised this DPR at an estimated cost of ₹884 crore. The project will be implemented in four years. The state government in a release said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had been pursuing this project with the ministry of railways. The rail line will take off from the existing Karnal railway station on Delhi-Ambala railway line and will connect at the existing Jagadhri-workshop railway station on Ambala-Saharanpur railway line. The new rail line project will also directly connect southern and western parts of Haryana with Haridwar. The Karnal-Yamunanagar rail line will provide feeder route connectivity for Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor at Kalanaur, enabling development of logistics parks in Karnal-Yamunanagar region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-gives-nod-for-new-karnal-y-nagar-rail-line-101626981001820.html
23-07-2021||Other||Pargat opposes industrial park near Mattewara forests in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Congress MLA from Jalandhar Cantonment, Pargat Singh, has joined the NGOs and social activists in opposing the proposed industrial park near Mattewara forests. The opposition is based on possible damage to the nearby forest area, pollution in Sutlej River and loss of livelihood of villagers. Pargat visited the proposed site near the banks of river Sutlej in village Sekhowal and Garhi Fazal on Thursday, along with members of NGOs. He assured activists of taking up the issue with the government so that it drops the project. An umbrella organisation, Public for Action, had approached Pargat for help. Pargat added,” The site proposed for establishing the industrial park is near forest area and is near the banks of Sutlej. I will take up the matter at government level for dropping the project by convincing officials. The industrial park can be established at any other site or industrial area in the state.”Kuldeep Khaira, Amandeep Bains, Jaskirat Singh, Kapil Arora, all associated with NGOs claimed that a petition has also been filed in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the project.Khaira said, “The government is moving forward with the project and the panchayat land in villages has been acquired forcibly. About 70 families involved in farming at the panchayat land have been left unemployed only in village Sekhowal as the land has been acquired. We have also opposed the amendment in the master plan to convert the ‘no manufacturing zone’ to industrial area for the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pargat-opposes-industrial-park-near-mattewara-forests-in-ludhiana-101626980702186.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||CBI can probe postings as part of Deshmukh case: HC||The Bombay high court on Thursday said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) can inquire into the transfer and postings of police personnel and the reinstatement of controversial officer Sachin Vaze into the force in its probe against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, dismissing a plea by the state government for dropping two paragraphs in the agency’s FIR in the case.A division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar held that keeping in view the observation made in the April 5 order, directing CBI to carry out a preliminary enquiry against Deshmukh, CBI can legitimately investigate alleged corruption, transfers and posting of police officers and reinstatement of Vaze. The court, however, held that its order cannot be “an unfettered authority to CBI” and the investigation has to be carried on under the law of the land.“Conversely, the order of the division bench cannot be construed as giving an unfettered authority to CBI to inquire into transfers and postings of the police officers generally, which do not reflect upon the alleged acts and conduct expressly attributed to the former home minister and his confederates. We part with this judgment with an assurance that officers of CBI are and must be fully allowed to take their responsibilities. And the duty of police constituted under either state enactment or special Act, is to serve none but the law,” said the bench. In March, former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in a letter to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray levelled allegations of corruption against Deshmukh.Senior counsel Rafique Dada, appearing for the state government, sought the court to stay its judgment for two weeks. The government petition alleged that CBI included the two paragraphs to try and destabilise the present state government at the behest of the political party which was not in power in Maharashtra.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, however, opposed it and said a stay would amount to interference with the investigation. The high court bench refused to stay its judgment.The CBI on April 21 this year registered an FIR against Deshmukh on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. However, he has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-can-probe-postings-as-part-of-deshmukh-case-hc-101626980527362.html
23-07-2021||Other||GNDU environment science prof is new PPCB chairman||Patiala Noted environmental scientist Adarsh Pal Vig has been appointed the new chairman of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). PPCB is the regulator of all policies related to the pollution and environment in Punjab.Vig, a professor in the department of botanical and environmental sciences at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, has research experience of 28 years in solid waste management and related fields. He has replaced SS Marwaha, who is also a noted academician. Former bureaucrat KS Pannu was the considered for the front-runner for this post, but a pending vigilance probe scuttled his chances.Vig said, “I have been associated with research for long. Now, I have been tasked with implementing this research for a better future of the state. I will strive hard for providing a transparent system to the industry for economic growth, as well as preserving Punjab’s environment. Active guidance of all stakeholders will be solicited.”Vig has also been a member of the State level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Punjab that grants clearance to major development projects in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gndu-environment-science-prof-is-new-ppcb-chairman-101626980461536.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra set to take a decision on relaxing curbs for trains, shops||Amid increasing pressure from various quarters to provide further relaxations in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs enforced in the state, the Maharashtra government is expected to take a decision over opening suburban train services for a few more categories in the next few days. Also, the state government is looking to make a decision on relaxing shop timings, opening of malls and lifting of curbs on restaurants.Amid the state mulling relaxations, it added 7,302 fresh infections. The state’s active case count stood at 94,168 on Thursday, while total cases stood at 6,245,057. Maharashtra saw 120 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 131,038. Mumbai saw 389 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to 732,971. The city reported 10 deaths, pushing the toll to 15,810.A senior official said the demand for relaxations has increased from political, social organisations and business circles, forcing the government to chalk out a plan to reopen some activities and allow further relaxation in restrictions imposed for management of Covid-19 pandemic. The relief and rehabilitation department has put the system required for the issuance of universal passes using QR codes to the employees from the categories to be allowed to commute in trains. The process of issuing universal passes to the employees in the sector, which are already allowed to commute in trains, has already started. “Employees from state and central government, ports, cargo services, and electricity supply have already been allowed to commute on the trains. They will be issued QR code-based universal passes to restrict unauthorised commuting,” said an official from Mantralaya. The passes will be made compulsory for travel, the official added.Cities and areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are following the restrictions in level three of categorised curbs specified for the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government is considering extending the relaxations to a few more categories. “Teachers, media employees and few more categories are expected to be added to the list of the people allowed to commute. The decision over allowing women in non-peak hours are also expected to be added, but the final decision over it will be taken at higher level. “We have tremendous pressure from political, social organisations to allow more people to travel on trains. At the same time the central government has issued us advisories with strict instruction to minimise the crowding at the public places in the wake of the potential third wave. It has become very difficult to strike a balance between restrictions and relaxations,” another officer from Mantralaya said. Another senior official added the demand to restart local trains is high. “But it was not possible to allow because they are the biggest spreaders. However, we are looking at methodology to allow more people. The fundamental decision will be to allow how many people. Will it be on the total seats. In that case, only 750,000 will be allowed, but three to four million people travel by trains so it is difficult to track and monitor. The chief minister and health minister will take a call on it soon,” the official said requesting anonymity.The people from the categories being added to travel in local trains, however, are expected to be allowed only after the MMR enters level-2. The decision of change in the level for Mumbai and other cities will be taken by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The notification related to the inclusion of few more categories will be issued by the public health department of the state government. A senior official said that henceforth all decision related to curbs will be taken and issued by the health department and not the relief and rehabilitation department.According to the guidelines chalked out, the universal travel pass will be issued to people from the specified categories by the relief and rehabilitation department and will be valid with identity card. The pass holders will be allowed to travel in the areas falling under level 1 to 3. The authenticity of the pass will be verified through QR code with the help of code reader on smart phone. Unauthorised travel on local trains will attract a fine of ₹500. Another senior official from the state secretariat said that shops and restaurants are also likely to be given more relaxation and an announcement on it is expected in the next few days. Currently, shops in Mumbai operate till 4pm, while home delivery is allowed. “There has been constant demand from the shops and establishments owners, especially in Mumbai, to allow more hours of operation. The rate of infection in Mumbai has gone down considerably. Though there is an imminent threat of the third wave [of Covid infections], ICMR has said one-third of the population has developed antibodies. The CM would take a call on shops and restaurants soon,” the official said.State health minister Rajesh Tope has already acknowledged the growing demand of allowing fully vaccinated people to use local trains. Speaking to a TV channel on Wednesday, Tope said, “There should be some relaxation and I hope that the CM and the Covid Task Force will take appropriate decision soon.” Last week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said during a review meeting that he would recommend the state government to allow malls to open with “fully vaccinated staff” for customers who have taken both their vaccine shots.BJP attacked the MVA government, asking if it will keep the all activities shut fearing Covid-19. Taking a dig at the government, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil on Thursday said that the government must permit those who have completed both the doses of the vaccine to resume normal activities. He was talking to media persons in Pune. Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena demanded that the Uddhav Thackeray government should allow fully vaccinated people to use local trains in Mumbai. “After completing both the doses, people can resume their normal activities with full precautions like wearing a mask, following strict hygiene protocols, maintaining physical distance and avoiding going to crowded places as far as possible,” Patil said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-to-take-a-decision-on-relaxing-curbs-for-trains-shops-101626980340914.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Rain hammers Maharashtra, floods Konkan and MMR||Heavy rain wreaked havoc throughout the state, causing several rivers to overflow and consequently inundate several areas in coastal Konkan, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), western Maharashtra and Vidarbha on Thursday. With hundreds of people feared trapped in various flood-hit areas, authorities have deployed 17 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams in Chiplun, Khed in Ratnagiri; Kolhapur; Sangli and Satara. At least eight people have been killed in rain-related incidents (landslide, wall collapse) in Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri, officials said. Chiplun and Khed were the worst hit as water from the Vashishti River and Koyna dam submerged several areas. The incessant downpour and poor mobile phone connectivity hampered rescue efforts. The state deployed 15 boats of the Indian Coast Guard and the police to evacuate residents stranded in their houses in Chiplun and Khed. Two rescue teams deployed from Pune could only reach late in the evening because of a landslide on the way. Two more teams of NDRF were expected to reach Chiplun and Khed by midnight. Over 700 people have been evacuated in the past two days, including 400 from Raigad and 250 from Ratnagiri. “We have deployed 17 NDRF teams in various districts, including Ratnagiri, Sindudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara, and have kept one ready for districts in Vidarbha. The NDRF teams reached Chiplun late because of landslides. Seven villages in and around Chiplun town have been submerged, while people are stranded on the roofs and terraces of their homes. The Indian Navy, too, has been requested for rescue operations in Chiplun and Khed,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department of the state.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a review meeting to take stock of the downpour. He directed the state administration to mobilise help from state and central agencies towards rescue operations and minimise losses.According to information available, many rivers including Vashishti, Jagbudi, Bavanadi in Ratnagiri had crossed their danger level, which led to floods in parts of the district. A cloudburst in Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday resulted in heavy rainfall of 480mm in 24 hours, leading to a swelling in the water levels of Savitri, Kaal and other rivers in the Konkan belt, which are at the foothills of the Sahyadri mountain range. Similarly, the water level of Panchaganga in Kolhapur and Krishna in Sangli are nearing their danger level. The discharge of water from Almatty dam in Karanataka resulted in the rise in water level in Sangli. “The Koyna dam in Satara was full at 62% in the afternoon. We will have to discharge water from the dam if it reaches 80% by taking due precautions of shifting of people,” said Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.“Karjat and Mahad in Raigad districts and Kalyan and Bhiwandi in Thane district, too, witnessed heavy rainfall. We have deployed NDRF companies in Mumbai and other parts of the state for quick rescue operations,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar.Many national and state highways, including Goa-Mumbai, were shut in areas where roads and bridges were submerged. “Many rivers including Panchganga, Dudhganga, Warana, Hiranykeshi have already reached their warning level and are expected to cross their danger mark on Friday as per the prediction by the IMD. We have directed the district administrations to take all measures to ensure safety of the people,” said Satej Patil, minister of state for home and guardian minister of Kolhapur. Three people in Palghar district, three in Ratnagiri and two in Raigad have reportedley died in rain related incidents. District roads in Kolhapur have been closed as the rainwater has submerged stretches. In several rural areas of Kolhapur, the bridges have gone underwater, due to which, the traffic movement has been shut. The road near Jadhavwadi Nile in Shahuwadi tehsil and the Kolhapur- Ratnagiri road were closed as water came on to the road, the official said. As the bund at Khochi Dudhgaon got submerged, the traffic towards Sangli district from that route was diverted. In Raigad, 400 people from more than 100 families in Karjat, Mahad and Khalapur tehsils have been shifted to safer places. Kundalika and Savitri rivers in the districts have crossed the danger mark of water level, officials said.In MMR, governed by nine municipal corporations including Mumbai and Thane, the incessant rain over the past couple of days has resulted in waterlogging and disruption in local train operations. Of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai, two — Modak Sagar (started overflowing early morning on Thursday) and Tansa — are almost full. Two other lakes, Tulsi and Vehar, had started overflowing last week. The rainfall in the last two days in the catchment areas of the lakes has resulted in the rise in the stock that will last for 64 days. This has resulted in scrapping potential water cuts for the city.The heavy rainfall in MMR has disrupted local train operations on the Central and Harbour lines. Train services on the Konkan railway, too, have witnessed disruption owing to the waterlogging on the tracks in Ratnagiri. “Eight trains have been regulated due to disruption on the route,” Konkan Railway has stated. Water level of the Vashishti river between Chiplun and Kamathe stations in Ratnagiri has gone above the danger level early g on Thursday.With moderate to heavy rainfall across the state over last few days, the water stock level in reservoirs has increased to 34.28%. State has received 57.3% of the season’s — from June to September — rainfall with 574.7mm rainfall, against the season’s average of 1,004.2 mm. The state has received more than 88mm rainfall in the past 60 hours, according to the state government’s website.A landslide has been reported at Talai village of Mahad Taluka in Raigad district. However, Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhary said officers who have gone to the spot are not reachable and hence the number of houses damaged or if there are any casualties could not be confirmed at the time of going to press.Two helicopters of the Indian Air Force have reached Ratnagiri airport and will start rescue operations from Friday morning. Six teams of the Coast Guard and a few from the Indian army will join rescue operations from Friday morning. The state has requested the Centre for at least seven more teams, expected to be deployed from other states.Forty people have died in rain related incidents since July 16 in 7 districts of Konkan. Highest, 30, are from Mumbai suburban, including the deaths reported due to the landslides on Sunday.Prime minister Narendra Modi spoke to Thackeray and assured central help. 30 lakh cusecs of water was released from Almatti river on Friday evening. With rise in water level in Koyana dam, the state is planning to release 10,000 cusecs of water on Friday. The district administration has been directed to take due precautions for the shifting of people from the villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rain-hammers-maharashtra-floods-konkan-and-mmr-101626980222616.html
23-07-2021||Other||Centre snatching state’s rights on electricity, claims AAP||New Delhi Slamming the Narendra Modi-led Central government for its insensitivity towards farmers, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann and MLA from Delhi and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh said the government now planed to deny states of electricity. In a press conference, the AAP leaders claimed that if the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2021, was passed, electricity will no longer be the right of the states. Mann claimed, “The Centre is now snatching electricity rights from states, just like it did with GST, agriculture, health, and education. Punjab contributes 40% to the grain pool, and electricity for tube-wells is free for the farmers. However, with this bill, the electricity subsidy that the farmers were getting from the Punjab government will end.”Mann added that it was the same bill on which discussions had taken place during 11 rounds of meetings between the farmers and BJP ministers Piyush Goyal and Narendra Singh Tomar. He claimed, “During these meetings, farmers were promised that this bill will not be introduced. During an all-party meeting on the issues, we were told this promise was conditional on talks with the farmers reaching a positive conclusion. They now say that because that dialogue never reached any conclusion, the bill will be introduced.” Mann added, “With the passage of this Electricity Amendment bill, farmers will start getting bills, which will put more burden on them. It is under a well-thought-out conspiracy of the Modi government to make farming ultra-expensive. The aim is to get farmers to surrender their land to capitalists.”Lashing out at PM Modi, Bhagwant Mann said that more than 600 farmers have been killed during the farm stir, but the PM has not uttered a single word. “Farmers are now protesting at Jantar Mantar, they are near to the PM now. The government should talk to them and accept their demands so that they can happily go back home,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-snatching-state-s-rights-on-electricity-claims-aap-101626980163589.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||JSA works: Maharashtra govt widens scope of inquiry||Widening the scope of the inquiry into alleged irregularities in previous Fadnavis government’s flagship water conservation project, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has ordered a probe into all 63.3 million works completed under the Jalyukta Shivar Abhiyan (JSA) between December 2014 and March 2020. The collectors of the respective districts have been directed by the government to probe all JSA works and take action, if necessary. The water conservation project was touted as a solution to the water shortage in rural areas. A four-member state-appointed committee, headed by retired IAS officer Bijay Kumar, submitted its report on May 5, after which the state government decided to initiate action in all 63.3 million works completed by spending ₹9,634 crore. The committee was mandated to investigate 1,799 works in which either Comptroller and Auditor General had passed strictures for the irregularities and lapses or the state had received complaints. “The committee, after its probe by scrutiny of documents, meeting with the officials and visiting the sites, found 931 cases fit for an open inquiry by the anti-corruption bureau, while in 396 cases, the committee has recommended a departmental inquiry. The committee has also recommended that as it could not investigate other works beyond the cases submitted to it, because of Covid-19 related constraints, the committee has chalked out a criterion for scrutiny of the remaining 63.1 million works. The district collectors have been directed to conduct the scrutiny and register the cases as per the criterion fixed,” an order issued by the soil and water conservation department has stated. “While allocating the works, the administration did not follow the set norms of the bidding, hampering the competitiveness and transparency. The remarks on the audit of the works by third party were found to be forged to mislead the government and get the bills passed. The percentage of completion of the works in the registers were found inflated. Funds collected through CSR and public donations were deposited in private bank accounts. The audit of the funds thus collected was not done in the due process laid down by the government. The techniques for the widening and deepening of the bunds and nullah were faulty and not as per the set norms. These irregularities have led to the financial losses to the exchequer and need to be investigated under an open inquiry,” the report has stated. The report has also stated that the administrative lapses, such as absence of nod of the gram sabha, release of funds without the nod by the tehsil and district level committee, failure to conduct the third party audit of the works, may be scrutinised in departmental inquiry as the lapses have not led to the financial losses to the exchequer. The committee has in detail jotted down the parameters that are fit for the open and departmental inquiries. Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in legislative Assembly and former chief minister, said, “The complaints are in just 950 works of the total 65.5 million works that had undertaken by our government. During my tenure as the CM, we had ordered a probe into 650 works as we believe that there should not be any irregularity in such an ambitious project. The powers related to the allotment and implementation of the project were given to the district collectors and few other departments including agriculture, water resources, rural development were involved in their execution. The funds were released by the collectors of the respective districts,” he said. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “We had been repeatedly saying that the JSA had failed in achieving the goals of making villages drought-free. The scheme was designed keeping the interest of the contractors close to the BJP in mind. Ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised the scheme and said that 16000 villages in Maharashtra had become drought-free because of its effective implementation. A few days after, the government had declared many of the villages as drought affected. According to a 2018 survey, the ground water level in many of the villages in which JSA was implemented saw depletion in groundwater level.” The four-member committee was constituted on December 1 after the state cabinet decided to probe into the allegations of irregularities in the project. The project was implemented in 22,589 villages with 6.41 lakh works were undertaken between December 2014 and March 2020. The state government spent ₹9,634 crore on the project and 98% of works were completed, in which Comptroller and Auditor General of India found holes after inspecting 1,128 works allotted and concluded that it failed to achieve its aim. The project has been scrapped by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jsaworks-maharashtra-govt-widens-scope-of-inquiry-101626980162054.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects Anil Deshmukh’s plea seeking to quash CBI FIR||In a setback for former home minister Anil Deshmukh, the Bombay high court (HC) dismissed his petition which challenged the first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21 after completing the HC-ordered preliminary enquiry. Deshmukh and unknown others were charged for bribery, corruption and criminal conspiracy in the FIR. Deshmukh had subsequently sought to quash the FIR and urged for a stay on the investigation by CBI, but the court has rejected the plea. Senior advocate Amit Desai, for Deshmukh, sought a stay on the investigation on the grounds tha the question of law was not decided and wanted to challenge the same before the Supreme Court. After CBI opposed the same, the court held that there was no justifiable reason to stay the operation of the judgement and rejected the request. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, that had been hearing Deshmukh’s petition, had reserved its judgement on July 12. During arguments, Desai along with advocates Kamlesh Ghumre and Sonali Jadhav had argued that CBI had not followed proper procedure and its probe had gone beyond the mandate of the April 5 order of the HC bench, hence the FIR was illegal and should be quashed. On April 5, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni had directed CBI to conduct a preliminary enquiry based on a complaint by lawyer Dr Jaishri Patil. Patil’s complaint referred to the March 20 letter of former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wherein he had alleged that Deshmukh had asked his officers to indulge in extorting money from bars and restaurants. Singh had further alleged that Deshmukh had asked arrested assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month, including ₹40 crore to ₹50 crore from 1,750 bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The court had directed for the preliminary enquiry to be completed within 15 days after which, based on the findings, the CBI director could take appropriate action. Upon completion of the enquiry, the central agency registered an FIR against Deshmukh and unknown others, which Deshmukh challenged in the HC on May 3. During arguments, Desai submitted that the entire procedure of registering the FIR after concluding preliminary enquiry was a case of overreach by CBI. He said though CBI was to take the consent of the state as per Delhi Special Police Establishment Act for registering FIR, it had failed to do so and had also failed to take consent of the state before initiating investigation based on the FIR. Desai had argued that state consent was required as Deshmukh was a public servant when the allegations were levelled against him. It was further submitted on behalf of Deshmukh that Singh’s letter could have been merely a whisper that may have been heard in the corridors of the police commissioner’s office and lacked any material evidence. Hence the intention behind naming Deshmukh in the FIR was to besmirch his position while at the same time while safeguarding certain people. Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, for CBI, while opposing the petition had informed the court that whoever was accused of corruption needed to be investigated and as the PE was ordered by the HC, there was no need for prior approval or consent of the state for registering the FIR or initiating investigations based on it. Lekhi submitted that there was substantial material against Deshmukh, but it was not final evidence of dishonest performance and that several other persons were involved in the corruption. After hearing submissions by both sides, the court had sought to know from CBI as to why even after two months since the FIR was registered it had not disclosed the names of unknown persons and sought progress report of the investigation in sealed cover. “Corruption is the root cause because of which systems are paralysed. No one should be left out,” the court had observed. The court had also held that no police officer could escape his responsibility when there was a cognisable offence. On Thursday while dismissing the petition, the court directed that the sealed envelope containing the progress report of the investigation be returned to CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-seeking-to-quash-cbi-fir-101626980100915.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FYJC CET portal remains shut for third day||Nearly 24 hours after the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) shut down the common entrance test (CET) registrations website for first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants due to technical glitches, the website remained inaccessible on Thursday as well. State board officials, without giving any clear answers, told HT that students will be informed about the reopening of the website in advance. “Not only will we inform students in advance, we will also extend the deadline for all interested students to complete the registration process,” said Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE. The portal, http://cet.mh-ssc.ac.in/, which was supposed to open for online applications from 11.30am on July 20, remained inaccessible due to technical issues till Wednesday night, post which the board shut it down.Originally, registration for the optional CET exam for FYJC admission was scheduled to take place between July 20 and 26. However, since the portal has been inaccessible for the past three days, officials have assured students that new deadline will be announced once the website is up and running. “I have been checking the CET website as well as the state board official website for updates, but there have been none. The process that should’ve started on Tuesday has been left hanging due to technical glitch, which the board has not managed to fix yet. There seems to be no end to such delay,” said Anjum Chehal, an aspirant.Results for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) were announced online on July 16, but the results website crashed within minutes of the results being announced. With no board exams conducted this year due to rising Covid-19 cases, the state decided to conduct an entrance exam based on the state board syllabus and made it optional for FYJC aspirants. As per a government resolution (GR) made public by the state school education department, priority in admission to FYJC will be given to students based on their CET scores and then seats will be allotted to remaining students on the basis of merit as per marks scored through the Class 10 assessment method depending on the vacancy of seats in junior colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fyjc-cet-portal-remains-shut-for-third-day-101626980042310.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||KEM Hospital becomes the first in western region to start centre for rare diseases||The King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel has become the first hospital in the western region to start a centre for excellence of rare diseases. The Government of India (GOI) will partially sponsor treatment while the rest will be done via crowdfunding. Welcoming the move, medical experts said rare diseases are treated as “orphan disease” owing to a small number of patients per disease.The common denominator of rare diseases is the infrequency of their occurrence in the population. World Health Organization (WHO) defines rare disease as often debilitating lifelong disease or disorder with a prevalence of one or less per 1,000 people. There are around 7,000- 8,000 rare diseases. As per the Foundation for Research on Rare Diseases and Disorder, there are over 7 million people living with rare diseases in Maharashtra. However, patients living with rare diseases have to suffer due to unavailability and cost of medical treatment. “At present, there were six such centres in India dedicated to the treatment of rare diseases. We are the seventh one and the first in the western region to have the facility,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital. “There is no specific out-patient department (OPD) for such patients as they are identified from different medical departments during diagnosis.”At the centre, profiles of patients will be directly synced with the centralised portal where citizens can donate money for their treatment. “They (donors) can choose according to enlisted names of hospitals, diseases or through profiles of patients,” said Dr Deshmukh.The Central government, in its National Policy for Rare Diseases, stated that less than 5% patients have therapies available to treat them. About 95% of rare diseases have no approved treatment and less than one in 10 patients receives disease-specific treatment. “We have also formed a local committee which comprises of doctors from different departments like hepatologists, cardiologists to look into such cases,” he added. The hospital, with the help of non-government organisations (NGOs) and social workers, will also help raise funds for patients for treatment.Though doctors have welcomed the initiative, they claim the Central government is not paying much heed to the needs of the patients. They also said that for such diseases for which drugs are available, they are prohibitively expensive, placing immense strain on resources.Dr Aabha Nagral, liver specialist with Jaslok Hospital and trustee at Children’s Liver Foundation, said, “There are three categories — in some cases like Wilson Diseases, the treatment is readily available. In the second type of diseases such as Lysosomal storage disorders, the treatment cost goes over ₹1 crore. Lastly, there are diseases where treatment is not available except for limited trials or research.”“Due to less profit, pharma companies are not producing these life-saving drugs. These are the most neglected diseases like orphan diseases,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-becomes-the-first-in-western-region-to-start-centre-for-rare-diseases-101626980040846.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Cop rescues 10-year-old boy who fell on tracks in Vasai||A Government Railway Police (GRP) constable, Adinath Thanabir, saved Maleshi Yelgi, 10, who had fallen down through the gap between a local train and the platform at Vasai Road railhead on Tuesday evening. Yelgi, who lives in a slum in Bhayandar with his mother Mariamma, sells flowers for a living. He has allegedly boarded the train for a joy ride from Bhayandar railhead. As the train was entering Vasai station, the boy stepped out before the train came to halt and fell through the gap on the tracks, said senior inspector Sachin Ingawale of Vasai Road Railway police.A commuter pulled the alarm chain, making the train halt. Thanabir, who was on duty at the platform, jumped on the tracks through the gap between two coaches and pulled the boy out. The boy is admitted at Ravi Hospital in Vasai and is being treated, said the officer.“I have written a letter to Quaiser Khalid, commissioner of police, Railways, on Thursday, recommending rewarding Thanabir for the act. He will decide in this regard,” said Ingawale. The rescue process was caught on CCTV cameras installed at the station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cop-rescues-10-year-old-boy-who-fell-on-tracks-in-vasai-101626979980907.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||‘Raj Kundra’s app has 2 million subscribers’||Actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra and his associates, over the past one-and-a-half years, purchased over 100 porn videos from different producers/ directors and uploaded it on their app, Hotshots, which had around 2 million subscribers, the investigation into the purported pornography racket has revealed. The police have also found that a lot of data has been deleted from the server and other electronic equipment seized by them from Kundra’s Viaan company’s office in Andheri (West), on Tuesday. Police officers said they are now taking help of forensic experts to retrieve the deleted data. Kundra and his IT head Ryan Thorpe, who were arrested on July 19, are in the police custody till July 23. “Kundra has denied all allegations during interrogation. He has not answered many of our questions,” said joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe (crime branch). Police are also conducting financial audit to find out actual profits made by them through the videos. The crime branch can question other employees of the company owned by Kundra if their roles come up during investigation, said a crime branch officer. Police said they have also frozen bank accounts of another wanted accused in a related case, Arvind Shrivastava alias Yash Thakur’s family members, which collectively amount to ₹6.5 crore. Thakur’s name came up during Rowa Khan’s questioning. Khan and four others were arrested during a raid by the property cell in Madh area in Malvani on February 4, where the police found two women engaged in shooting a porn film. Police claimed to have rescued a woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-s-app-has-2-million-subscribers-101626979920821.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Another FIR against Param Bir Singh in ₹15-crore extortion allegation||Another first information report (FIR) has been registered against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The case was filed by Marine Drive police based on the complaint of a Bhayandar-based builder who alleged that Singh and his subordinated has made an extortion demand of ₹15 crore at the behest of a businessman. The businessman, a former business partner of the complainant builder, has been arrested in the case along with his associate on Thursday.Marine Drive police on Thursday registered an FIR against businessman Sanjay Punamiya, his associate Sunil Jain, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (crime branch) Akbar Pathan, assistant commissioner of police Shrikant Shinde, inspectors Asha Kokare, Nandkumar Gopale, Sanjay Patil and others along with Singh.Singh did not respond to calls and messages.Punamiya and Jain were arrested in the case from their residences in south Mumbai and were produced in court which remanded them in police custody up to July 29.The complainant, Shyamsunder Agrawal, 57, claimed that he had done several real estate projects in Borivli, Bhayandar and Gorai between 2016 and 2011in partnership with Punamiya, but due to complications, conflicts and profit-sharing disputes, the two ended their partnership in 2011. He alleged that Punamiya has been registering false cases against Agrawal since then and has filed 18 cases against him in Mumbai and Thane. In 2016, Agrawal was arrested and while he was in jail, Punamiya and Jain allegedly demanded ₹20 crore from Agrawal’s nephew by claiming that Singh is Punamiya’s friend and if the money was not paid, they would add sections of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against Agrawal using Singh’s clout. This meeting was held at Singh’s Kopari, Thane residence and a DCP-rank officer, who is believed to be close to Singh, was also allegedly present in the meeting. He further said that the accused collected ₹9 crore from Agrawal and his nephew, according to the remand application.There was also a settlement deed signed between Agrawal, Punamiya and Singh, police sources said. According to the police case, this year another FIR was registered against Agrawal at Juhu police station on the complaint of Punamiya who alleged Agrawal was threatening him for extortion at the behest of gangster Chhota Shakeel.As per police’s remand application, Agrawal’s nephew Shubham was threatened by Punamiya, Jain and other accused at Punamiya’s Fort office demanding ₹15.5 crore and share in some properties in Gorai and Mira-Bhayandar. They allegedly threatened to put Agrawal behind bars for five years if the demands were not fulfilled. The accused also forcefully took Shubham’s signature and threatened the complainant with narcotics case.Shubham, meanwhile, recorded the conversation that took place in this meeting on his phone and presented it before the police as evidence. Based on the audio clip and some monetary transaction records, the police registered the case, sources said.Agrawal, in his complaint, claimed that he had paid ₹15 crore to Punamiya through cheque and ₹50 lakh in cash. He also allegedly paid hefty amounts to crime branch police officers to help him in the criminal case. He further added that Punamiya continued to harass him for the remaining ₹11 crore from the previous settlement in which Singh was also involved. Following this, he approached the police.Singh and other accused have been booked under sections 387 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt in order to commit extortion), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life, etc), 389 (putting a person in fear of accusation of offence in order to commit extortion), 403 (dishonest misappropriation of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 423 (dishonest or fraudulent execution of deed of transfer con­taining false statement of consideration), 464 ( making a false document), 465 (forgery) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.Singh is already facing multiple enquiries after he was shunted out from the post of Mumbai Police chief in March this year for improper handling of the Antilia bomb scare case.Maharashtra criminal investigation department is probing multiple allegations against Singh while the anti-corruption bureau has initiated an open inquiry against him pertaining to corruption allegations made against him by police inspector Anup Dange.Singh, who is the director general of Home Guards, was earlier booked in an Atrocities Act case in April this year on the complaint of a serving inspector from Akola police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/another-fir-against-param-bir-singh-in-15-crore-extortion-allegation-101626979860932.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai couple with post-Covid complications dies by suicide||A couple — a 34-year-old-man and his 30-year-old wife — died by suicide in Worli by drinking some poisonous substance, leaving behind a note stating that they were taking the step as they were suffering from post-Covid complications and were having trouble living a normal life.The couple was found dead by a neighbour on Wednesday evening and police was informed accordingly.Police officers said the man worked with a private firm in Navi Mumbai and the woman worked for a nationalised bank.“They had suffered from Covid-19 in April this year. As per the suicide note, they were suffering from post-Covid complications till now,” said Anil Koli, senior inspector, Worli police station.The suicide note stated that they were having trouble breathing and had fatigue which made it impossible for them to live a normal life. They were also visiting a doctor and taking medications.“Her mother, who stays in Kerala, was trying to reach her but she did not answer the calls. So, the mother asked her colleague, who lives in the building, to visit the couple’s flat. The friend broke open the door and found the man lying in the kitchen and the woman lying near the bathroom,” said Koli.“A postmortem has been carried out at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central. However, the report is expected on Friday, that will tell us what exactly they drank,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 3) Paramjit Singh Dahiya.According to the police, the couple had married last year and was living in the flat on rent. The couple’s relatives from Kerala reached Mumbai on Thursday and took the bodies for last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-couple-with-post-covid-complications-dies-by-suicide-101626979802309.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Is separate question paper for other boards possible for FYJC CET, Bombay HC asks state||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday has asked the Maharashtra government through the school education department to inform whether it will be able to provide multiple question papers for the common entrance test (CET) for students seeking admission to Class 11 or first-year junior colleges from various boards. The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice RI Chagla asked the question, while hearing the petition filed by Ananya Patki, an ICSE student of IES Orion School, Dadar, wherein it was argued that as the CET question paper would be based only on the state board syllabus, students from other boards would be at a disadvantage. In view of this, the petition urged that the education department be directed to have separate question papers based on CBSE and ICSE board syllabus. The court also asked that in the event of separate question paper is not provided, whether the state would withdraw the priority set to be given to students who appear for CET. The court was informed by advocate Yogesh Patki, father of the petitioner, that the petition sought to quash the May 28 notification of the state government which stated that admissions to Class 11 would take place based on a CET on the state board syllabus. The May 28 notification had announced that as Class 10 board exams could not be conducted in view of the pandemic, students would be evaluated through an internal assessment formula for the academic year 2020-21. The notification further stated that admissions to Class 11 would be conducted physically through optional CET based on the Class 10 syllabus of the state board and those unwilling to appear for it will be admitted on the basis of an aggregate of their Class 10 marks. Patki alleged that the CET was discriminatory as the first preference for admission to Class 11 would be given to students who appeared for CET, and as the exam is based on SSC board syllabus, the interest of his daughter and that of students from other boards would be prejudiced. He further said that as his daughter was not in a position to give the exam physically, she would be at a disadvantage at the time of admission. In view of this, he sought a stay on the implementation of May 28 notification pending hearing. Government pleader Purnima Kantharia informed the court that CET was proposed to be held on August 21 and registration for the same started from July 21 and would be accepted till July 26. After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from the state whether separate question papers for students from CBSE and ICSE board could be provided. If that was not possible whether the government was willing to let go of the priority criteria stated in the notification. “In view of the statement made by the government pleader and in view of the fact that the matter is proposed to be heard on the suggestion given by this court on July 28, 2021, no interim reliefs are warranted at this stage,” the bench stated. The HC then asked the state government to file additional affidavit in reply and to place the data on record showing the number of application received by it for the CET exam during the next hearing. The court also allowed the petitioner to implead CBSE and asked ICSE to file an affidavit within one week and posted next hearing on July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-separate-question-paper-for-other-boards-possible-for-fyjc-cet-bombay-hc-asks-state-101626979740859.html
23-07-2021||Other||At 745 ft, Ghaggar water level 5ft below danger mark||Sangrur With the water level in the Ghaggar river recorded at 745 feet on Thursday, just five feet below the danger mark of 750, Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir visited the Moonak area and inspected the strengthening of the banks of the river on Thursday. On Wednesday, the water level was at 742 feet. Ramvir said that sufficient funds were available with the district administration and arrangements were in place to deal with any situation in a smooth manner. He cautioned villagers and residents around the river not to pay heed to any unverified information. He added that repair process of the banks was in full swing. Moonak SDM Aakash Bansal said the water level was not rising for now, but the administration was prepared for any eventuality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-745-ft-ghaggar-water-level-5ft-below-danger-mark-101626979501476.html
23-07-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh to promote Prayagraj as global centre for religious tourism||: Uttar Pradesh government plans to promote Prayagraj as a global religious and tourist centre after modelling it on the principles used to develop ancient Vedic city, said officials.As part of the plan, number of infrastructural and developmental projects would be completed before the 2025 Mahakumbh, officials said.The Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) plans to unveil an ‘integrated infrastructure development plan’ and an ‘integrated tourism master plan’ for the district. It also intends to take up riverfront development, including development of ghats at Sangam area along river Ganga and Yamuna also, an official said.To develop 769.60 square kilometer area under PDA, the authorities have begun the process of appointing a consultant to prepare the vision plan and PDA officials have already floated a request for proposal (RFP) for this. PDA superintending engineer, Rohit Khanna said the consultant would present a blueprint of the master plan, identifying projects for augmenting the socio-economic base of the city and generate employment for the local population through tourism, pilgrimage and other activities.Some important projects include development of 12 Madhav Circuit, upgradation of Sangam area including river cleaning and dredging, developing riverfront and Ghat development on Sangam area, ropeway connecting Quila Ghat, Triveni Pushp and Saccha Baba Ghat, land development along ring road (besides Yamuna), restoration of water bodies of mythological and religious importance etc.“Development of integrated tourism master plan is aimed at developing Prayagraj as ‘Teertharaj- a global tourist destination,” informed a PDA official associated with the project. “The plan is to develop Prayagraj as international tourism hub while retaining and embellishing the regional cultural heritage and customs including iconic Kumbh and Magh melas. The mega plan would be prepared in such a way that it would visualise prospects of developing a religious tourism circuit by integrating with Varanasi, Ayodhya, Kaushambi, Gorakhpur, Shringverpuram etc,” the official said.PDA also wants to prepare a blueprint of the regional transport infrastructure augmentation. “The consultant would suggest the projects that need to be developed for augmenting transportation, road, rail and air linkages for improvement in accessibility perspective,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-to-promote-prayagraj-as-global-centre-for-religious-tourism-101626979320809.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi links beds with test positivity rate as part of graded Covid action plan||With Delhi preparing for another wave of Covid-19 infections, the state government has decided to link the number of reserved beds with the test positivity rate, as part of the state’s graded-response action plan to thwart any further outbreaks in the Capital.The colour-coded plan, drafted by an expert committee formed by the Delhi government and approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), is similar to a mechanism to fight air pollution during pre-winter months.It classifies outbreak severity into four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it.“Now, the government has linked the escalation of beds to the graded response plan as well, meaning the hospitals will know how many beds they have to increase if the positivity rate is 0.5% or 5% and so on,” said a Delhi government official who asked not to be named.The official added, “What this means is that the government will not have to go to the state cabinet every time and issue separate orders to increase Covid-19 beds. For the time being, hospitals can use the beds for the treatment of non-Covid-19 patients, since the city’s caseload is very low.”As the fourth wave of infections rapidly expanded its footprint in April, the Delhi government issued four orders within two weeks — on April 12, April 14, April 18, and April 19 — asking government and private hospitals to increase the number of beds reserved to treat patients with the viral infection.At its peak on May 16, Delhi had 27,633 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. Of these, 60.8% beds were occupied. At the peak of hospitalisations on May 3, there were over 20,000 Covid-19 patients admitted to Delhi hospitals. Just a week before on April 27, Delhi had completely run out of ICU beds — barring 11 meant for women in late stages of pregnancy — when the city had over 4,700 ICU beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients.During the height of the fourth wave, Delhi added 25,294 new infections in a week in the seven days ending April 23. The positivity rate peaked a day earlier, hitting 36.2%.With Covid-19 cases on the decline – Delhi reported only 49 new cases on Thursday – the number of beds earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection in the city has dropped by 10,000 from the peak in May second week. The number of oxygen and ICU beds in the city has also halved, shows data on the government’s Delhi Corona app.Hospitals and makeshift facilities across the city still have over 17,000 beds earmarked for Covid-19, of which only 2.3% were occupied as on Thursday afternoon.Private hospitals, however, are yet to receive any intimation about de-escalating beds. “After the last order by the Delhi government (issued on April 12) reserving a huge proportion (exact proportion different for several different categories of hospitals) of beds for Covid-19, and a reduction in proportion for the hospitals completely reserved a couple of days later, no further orders have been received by private hospitals,” said Dr GS Grewal, president, Delhi Medical Association.Hospitals, however, have been using the beds to treat non-Covid-19 patients, as HT reported on June 24.Central hospitals such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) also have escalation plans in place for any subsequent waves of the infection. “Keeping in mind the possibility of a third wave, we have not touched the trauma centre beds; it continues to be a dedicated Covid-19 centre. The centre has 250 beds reserved for the illness, but only 45 are occupied. If Covid-19 cases start increasing, the number of beds can be increased to 300,” said a senior administrator from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-links-beds-with-test-positivity-rate-as-part-of-graded-covid-action-plan-101626979260838.html
23-07-2021||Other||Snag: Sarnath Express train engine leaves bogies behind||: Several bogies of Durg-bound Sarnath Express from Chhapra got detached with only 3 bogies running along with the engine on Thursday.Railway officials said this happened due to a technical snag that occurred in the coupling near Kareemuddinpur railway station in Ghazipur district. No casualty had been reported, the official said. The railway official said the train left Chibadagaon station in Ballia around 9.10 am and as it neared Kareemuddinpur railway station, a snag apparently in the coupling led to large number of bogies getting detached. Varanasi division’s public relation officer Ashok Kumar said that the detachment happened around 9.25 am.The engine driver, however, quickly stopped the train soon after, and the coaches that had got detached stopped on their own as the train hadn’t caught speed when the incident happened, officials said.The engine driver informed the station master of Kareemuddinpur about the incident following which a team comprising engineers and technicians was rushed to the spot and rectified the problem after which the train resumed its onward journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/snag-sarnath-express-train-engine-leaves-bogies-behind-101626979140830.html
23-07-2021||Other||Delhi sports varsity to start admissions to school section from April next year, says V-C Karnam Malleswari||New Delhi: The Delhi Sports University is expected to start admitting students from Class 6 onwards beginning April next year, vice-chancellor Karnam Malleswari told HT. The former Indian weightlifter, who is the first Indian woman to win an Olympic medal, said that the university will admit students on the basis of their interests and various physical assessments.“We plan to start admitting students for our school section from April next year. Right now, we are in the process of formalising the curriculum and setting up the entire university. We will be offering interested candidates an opportunity to join the school wing of our university and then graduate from the same institute,” said Malleswari.University officials also said that they are currently approaching various stakeholders, including former sportspersons and others working in the field of sports, to develop a “robust” curriculum. “We have to ensure that the curriculum focuses on both the educational and the training aspects of the students. This is why we are holding consultations with all stakeholders to decide on what is the best way to go forward,” she said, adding that 70% of the curriculum will focus on sports and the remaining on academics.For now, the university has appointed administrative officials and is operating from the Thyagaraj Sports Complex. Earlier this month, HT had reported that due to a delay in construction of the varsity campus in Mundka, the Sports University would begin its operations from a government school building and sports complex in Civil Lines.Speaking about her own experiences, Malleswari said, “When we had started training, there was very little infrastructural support or knowledge. We often trained barefoot and in the fields. The idea of the university is to identify those with a passion for sports and provide them the guidance and infrastructure needed to win medals for the country.”Apart from inviting applications from interested candidates, the university will also send its teams to various parts of the country to scout for talent. “Work is going on to establish protocols and assessment criteria for these teams that will cover even villages to look for promising candidates,” she said.In 2019, the Delhi cabinet passed an order to set up the university in Mundka. Officials said the university will offer field-specific degrees that will be at par with those offered in other courses at the graduate, post-graduate and doctoral levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-sports-varsity-to-start-admissions-to-school-section-from-april-next-year-says-v-c-karnam-malleswari-101626978960788.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||DDA extends deadline to submit comments on Delhi’s 2041 Master Plan by a month||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has extended the deadline to submit comments on the Master Plan of Delhi-2041 by a month -- till August 23 -- following requests from civil society members.“The Delhi Development Act mandates a period of 45 days from date of notification for people to submit their suggestions and objections. Now we have extended it by 30 days,” said a senior DDA official.Resident welfare groups, traders and civil society members in the city have been demanding extension of the deadline to submit their comments since the draft MPD-2041 was put in the public domain in June.RWAs and civil society members welcomed the move but added that the DDA should also put baseline data and achievements of the MPD-2021 in the public domain.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA front, said, “We have submitted our suggestions and objections, but we welcome the decision to extend the deadline. We want DDA to put in public domain details of what all provisions of MPD-2021 were actually implemented. People have a right to know if these plans really work or not. These details will only help us in framing our comments.”Members of the Main Bhi Dilli campaign, a collective that aims to make planning in Delhi “more representative and inclusive”, had earlier flagged the 45-day discussion window as “too short”, especially due to limitations as a result of the pandemic. The collective demanded extending the public consultation period by six months.Shalaka, the coordinator of the campaign, said, “While we welcome DDA’s decision on our repeated requests for extension of the timeframe, we reiterate that DDA must reach out to citizens and do on-ground consultations with marginalised communities -- people living in informal settlement, people with disabilities, women, transgenders, homeless, etc. This should be a rigorous process for the next 30 days. DDA must also launch a helpline number at every zonal office to address the queries.”Vishal Ohri, general secretary of GK-II market association, said, “It is a good thing that DDA has extended the date. Irrespective of the objections and suggestions it receives, the DDA should start meeting traders’ bodies and RWAs concerned to improve the ambiguities in the MPD-41, if they are really interested in improving it and making it practical. Otherwise, it is all an eye wash.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-extends-deadline-to-submit-comments-on-delhi-s-2041-master-plan-by-a-month-101626978901386.html
23-07-2021||Other||HC notice to Centre, Delhi govt over uniforms for auto, taxi drivers||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday sought responses from the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea challenging mandatory uniforms for auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers in the Capital.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh also issued a notice to the Delhi Police on the petition which said that challans upto ₹20,000 were being imposed on auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers in the national capital for not wearing uniforms even though the law itself was vague and ambiguous on the colour or type of their uniforms.The petition moved by Chalak Shakti, a drivers’ union, an auto-rickshaw driver and a taxi driver alleged that labelling drivers by way of uniform violated fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution.The plea said the uniforms restricted their individuality and self-expression as well as amounted to an additional expense which forces a driver to cut corners on keeping himself hygienic and thus posed a health risk to passengers.It was further argued that there is complete ambiguity on the colour of uniform to be worn by auto-rickshaw drivers on duty as Rule 7 of Delhi Motor Vehicles Rules, 1993, prescribes khaki but the permit conditions by state authorities mentions grey.“There is complete disharmony between the NCT and the Transport Department. Auto drivers are being heavily challaned,” advocate Paras Jain, appearing for the union and the drivers, told the court which listed the next date for hearing on August 20.The petition filed through advocate Mohini Dubey has stated that there are dozens of prominent shades of both khaki and grey and since no particular shade had been stipulated, the enforcement authorities were left with a wide berth on who they wanted to prosecute.The petition also stated that the uniform itself has not been defined so as to mean pant-shirt, safari suit or kurta-pajama and that even specifications of fabrics, trims and accessories are also absent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcnotice-to-centre-delhi-govt-over-uniforms-for-auto-taxi-drivers-101626978900814.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Retired judge takes oath as chief of Delhi power regulatory body||Delhi power minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday administered the oath of office to Justice Shabihul Husnain, retired judge of the Allahabad high court, as the new chairman of the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC).“The Delhi government’s people oriented policies in the power sector have been truly remarkable and I look forward to giving my best to keep up the good work,” said Husnain, after taking charge.DERC is a quasi-judicial autonomous body responsible for fixing electricity tariffs in the national capital.The appointment of Husnain as the DERC chairman was approved last week by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal after his name was suggested by the selection committee constituted under the Electricity Act 2003.After taking oath, Husnain made a courtesy call to CM Arvind Kejriwal who wished him luck.Husnain succeeds justice (retired) SS Chuahan who completed his tenure on July 4. Now the three-member commission has two people - the chairman and member AK Ambasht.A senior government official said the annual revised power tariffs are likely to be issued soon. “With the appointment of the new DERC chief, we can expect the tariff order anytime now. The new chairperson will review it once. The tariff order is, otherwise, ready and there is unlikely to be any hike in electricity charges this time again,” said the official on condition of anonymity.Delhi government officials said the name of justice Husnain was strongly recommended to the Delhi government by the acting chief justice of Allahabad high court Munishwar Nath, saying that he will be a great asset to the institution. Husnain served for about 12 years as a judge on the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-judge-takes-oath-as-chief-of-delhi-power-regulatory-body-101626978840769.html
23-07-2021||Other||DSGMC elections on Aug 22, results by Aug 31||New Delhi: The Directorate of Gurdwara Elections on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) will be held on August 22 and the result will be announced by August 31.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh was informed by advocate Satyakam, appearing for the Directorate, that the entire process of the DSGMC elections will be over by August 31, adding that the counting will begin on August 25.“We are duty bound to conduct the elections. We would have done it but for the pandemic,” Satyakam said.He further told the court that the Lieutenant Governor (LG), who heads the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, has already granted special permission for conducting the elections and a notification will be published soon.The submissions came on a plea by Shiromani Akali Dal seeking directions for immediate resumption of election process that was stalled and postponed.In its plea filed through advocate Abinash K Mishra, the Delhi unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal said that there was no reason to keep the election process in an “adjourned sine die mode” since the Covid-19 pandemic had subsided.Considering the stand of the officials, the court said that no further orders or directions were required.Earlier this year, the Directorate had notified the date of DSGMC elections as April 25. However, two days before the date of the elections, polling was postponed on account of the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dsgmcelections-on-aug-22-results-by-aug-31-101626978841307.html
23-07-2021||Other||Afghan president Ghani speaks to Danish Siddiqui’s father, expresses condolences||Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani on Thursday spoke to Danish Siddiqui’s father and gave his condolences on the photojournalist’s death in Afghanistan last week.Ghani said that Siddiqui’s death was a “great loss” for the journalism fraternity.Siddiqui, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for his documentation of the Rohingya refugee crisis, was killed on July 16 during clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban in the Spin Boldak region of the country. On Sunday, the 38-year-old photojournalist was buried in a graveyard in Jamia Millia Islamia, reserved for the varsity staff and their family.Siddiqui’s father Akhtar, an eminent educationist, taught at the University’s Faculty of Education till a few years ago. Siddiqui himself had studied mass communication in Jamia’s AJK Mass Communication Research Centre from 2005 to 2007.A statement from the Afghan presidential palace said, “This afternoon, H.E President @ashrafghani called Professor Sediqi, father of @Reuters journalist late Danish Siddiqui & conveyed his condolences over the death of his son to his family, friends & colleagues. The President termed his death as a great loss for the journalism fraternity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/afghan-president-ghani-speaks-to-danish-siddiqui-s-father-expresses-condolences-101626978780727.html
23-07-2021||Other||Covid screening: Focus on hotspots in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Apart from the airport, railway and bus stations, the health department in the state capital has intensified Covid sampling in areas that have had high caseload during the first and second corona waves. “To focus people coming from other states, we are screening passengers arriving in trains, buses and flights, apart from highways, the first point of entry in the state and city. The focus is also on different areas in the city that have reported high number of cases,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow. Aliganj reported a maximum 26518 Covid cases, Chinhat 19281, Alambagh 18213, Old City 11823, NK Road 7663, Silver Jubilee (Chowk) 11823, Qaiserbagh 5385 Aishbagh 3394 and Sarojininagar7549. In all, these areas contributed to over 41% of the total over 2.38 lakh cases reported in Lucknow till now. The average collection of Covid samples in Lucknow is over 17,000. The number of daily cases in Lucknow has now come to its lowest level.On Thursday there were three new cases. A day before on Wednesday there were only four new cases. There have been no fresh deaths since the past two weeks. “Since threat from a probable third wave looms, focused sampling is an important task at present. Such a practice, if continued for long, will make sure that if any new variant enters the state it will be traced quickly and won’t spread much,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The city has been divided into 24 sectors. Each sector will have 70 rapid response teams to screen the population and do a sampling of suspected ones. Those coming from high case positivity rate states would be identified and would be traced for symptoms, said health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-screening-at-airport-rly-and-bus-stations-in-lko-101626978720852.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||IMD predicts light rain over the weekend, heavy rains from Monday in Delhi||Light to moderate rainfall, instead of the heavy rainfall predicted earlier, is likely to continue in parts of the National Capital Region on Friday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, adding that intense showers will once again hit the city on Monday.“On Thursday also some parts of Delhi received light rains and this will continue through the weekend as well,” said a senior Met official.The official said that light to moderate rains, accompanied with thunderstorm and gusty winds blowing at a speed of 30-40kmph, will continue through Friday in isolated pockets.On Thursday, the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 34 degrees Celsius (°C), a notch below what is considered normal for this time of the year, and a minimum temperature of 25.6°C, which is on par with the normal temperature.Despite a slow start, as on July 22, Delhi has covered its rainfall deficit and recorded a surplus rainfall of nearly 27%. Most of this was due to the heavy rains between July 18 and July 20. From June 1 to July 22, Delhi usually receives 192mm rainfall, but the city has already recorded 248mm rain this time.Early in June, the IMD predicted the onset of southwest monsoon in northwest India, including in Delhi, by June 15, which would have been the earliest monsoon ever. After a string of wrong predictions, monsoon finally reached Delhi on July 13 this year, after a delay of 16 days from its normal date.Met officials said that despite the delayed arrival, July is likely to record “normal to above normal” rains.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, too sided with the IMD prediction. “The trough has shifted north and now the possibility of heavy rain is from July 26. Between July 26 and July 29, the city will receive good rains,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imdpredicts-light-rain-over-the-weekend-heavy-rains-from-monday-101626978660760.html
23-07-2021||Lucknow||Azad Samaj Party exploring pre-poll alliance in Uttar Pradesh||The Azad Samaj Party (ASP) led by Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad will contest the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh in alliance with like-minded political parties.The Congress, the nine-party alliance of the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha and Samajwadi Party leaders had parleys with the Bhim Army chief over the pre-poll alliance in the assembly election.Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Chandrashekhar said the ASP had not finalized the alliance and talks were on with various political parties. The decision over alliance and the number of seats the ASP would contest would be decided soon, he said.To mobilize the party cadre for the assembly elections, the ASP launched a bicycle yatra on July 1 in 403 assembly segments in the state. The 21-day yatra concluded at Lucknow on Wednesday (July 21). The party organized the cycle yatra before elections to grab the legacy of Dalit icon and BSP founder Kanshi Ram. “To mobilize the Dalit community, Kanshi Ram had travelled on bicycle across UP,” Chandrashekhar said.The ASP will the raise the issue of increasing atrocities over the Dalit community in UP, appointment on vacant posts according to the reservation formula and implementation of SC/ST/OBC reservation policy in appointments for government jobs.The ASP would also raise the issue of rise in the prices of essential commodities, misuse of government machinery and use of money and muscle power by the BJP in the recently concluded zila panchayat chairperson and block pramukh elections, he said.To win the support of the Muslim community, Azad had met Shia cleric Syed Saif Abbas on Wednesday.The ASP had contested the Bihar assembly election held in October last year in alliance with Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) led by Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav. ASP and JAP joined Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA) of the smaller political parties. The ASP failed to open its account despite a month -long campaign by Chandrashekhar Azad.In the zila panchayat ward election s held in UP in May the Bhim Army made its presence felt, winning wards in Bijnore, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azad-samaj-party-exploring-pre-poll-alliance-in-up-101626978540735.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Uptick in use of ration card scheme in Delhi, days after roll-out||At least 400 ration card holders registered in other states availed food grains from fair price shops in Delhi on Thursday, up from only two such transactions on Tuesday, a day after the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ (ONORC) scheme was notified in the national capital by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government.Government records seen by HT said that in the three days since the scheme was notified in Delhi, around 430 ration card holders registered in other states have availed food grains here. Of these, around 400 availed rations on Thursday, 28 on Wednesday and only two on Tuesday.Of the 430 such ration card holders, 224 are from Bihar, 190 from Uttar Pradesh, and the remaining from Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Odisha, showed government records said.The state government on Monday issued orders for the complete roll-out of the central programme from this month, following a June 29 Supreme Court order that asked Delhi, West Bengal, Assam and Chhattisgarh to implement the scheme in its entirety by July 31Senior officials said the numbers are expected to increase in the coming days as awareness of the scheme spreads and more ration are distributed in the city’s 2,000 fair price shops.Delhi has 1.78 million ration card households, which translates to around 7.2 million beneficiaries. According to government estimates, migrants with ration cards registered in other states will add another 200,000 households, translating to around another million beneficiaries.Currently, ration beneficiaries are entitled to a monthly supply of food grains and sugar under the National Food Security Act, 2013, which covers the general public distribution system (PDS), and additional 5kg of foodgrains per month under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) — is a special arrangement in light of the Covid-19 pandemic that has affected household incomes across India.In June, when a pilot of the scheme was initiated engaging 42 fair price shops in the city, 373 ration card holders from other states availed its benefits. Of the total such card holders, 212 were from Uttar Pradesh, 150 from Bihar, and the remaining were from Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Jharkhand, showed government records.Senior government officials said that the numbers roughly reflect the demographic composition of Delhi’s migrant population.Delhi has the second highest population of inter-state migrants in India, according to 2011 census data on migration released in July 2019 -- trailing only Maharashtra, which is a much larger and more populous state. The data said that more than 6.3 million people in the city – roughly 40% of its population recorded in the 2011 Census – were migrants from other states. It also said that roughly three-fourth of the total migrants were from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and a large number of them had arrived in the city between 2001 and 2011.“The Delhi government has started the ration distribution in line with new practices through e-PoS from all fair price shops in Delhi to each PDS beneficiary… The distribution under ONORC scheme is now also being implemented through all e-PoS enabled fair price shops in Delhi and this facility will be available to all migrant beneficiaries under national portability scheme,” said Delhi’s food minister Imran Hussain.Shailendra Kumar, president of the Delhi Public Distribution System Welfare Association, said, “There were some glitches initially. The process has picked up now. People are getting ration without hassles.”Monday’s order, issued by the state food supplies and consumer affairs department, stated that the distribution of ration under the National Food Security Act, 2013, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, and any other scheme implemented through fair price shops in the Capital will henceforth be done only through electronic point of sale (e-PoS) machines – which are Aadhaar-based biometric devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uptick-in-use-of-ration-card-scheme-in-delhi-days-after-rollout-101626978480801.html
23-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get 50 battery swapping stations soon||The Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), which operates Delhi’s CNG distribution, is planning to launch 50 battery swapping and charging points at its CNG stations across the Capital, a move, that senior officials of the Delhi government said, is likely to boost the electric autorickshaws, for which the Delhi government has decided to reserve 4,000 permits.“IGL is looking to diversify beyond the CNG and PNG distribution. It will soon foray into providing electric charging points. To start with, the company is planning to start with 50 battery swapping facilities at its CNG stations. It will support the fleet of 4,000 e-autos, which will be granted permits by the Delhi government. It is likely to be commissioned by the end of this year,” said a senior official.Currently, Delhi has at least 85 charging points for electric vehicles. On July 14, the Delhi government floated a tender to select vendors for setting up charging stations for electric vehicles (EV) in spaces such as shopping malls, theatres, multiplexes, departmental stores, hospitals and residential areas.This is separate from the tenders floated and work orders issued by the government to empanel vendors who will be setting up 500 EV charging points across 100 locations--most of them in bus depots and outside metro stations in the city.Records seen by HT show that since August last year, when the EV policy was announced, Delhi registered over 13,963 EVs. Of these, 8,012 (57.3%) vehicles got the incentives offered by the Delhi government. Of the 8,012 EVs, 4,782 (59.6%) new e-rickshaws were given subsidies under the EV policy --- the highest among all vehicle categories. This was followed by electric two-wheelers, 1,340 of which received the benefits. Only 610 e-cars were registered from August last year till July 20.On August 7, the AAP government notified the Delhi EV Policy 2020 that was unveiled by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in December 2019 with an aim to reduce air pollution and kickstart the economy by spurring the demand for electric vehicles. It envisages that 25% of all new vehicle registrations should be battery electric vehicles (BEVs) by 2024. The policy offers subsidies, and road tax and registration free waivers, for electric vehicles bought in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-to-get-50-battery-swapping-stations-soon-101626978420794.html
23-07-2021||Mumbai||Citizens furious as parts of Mumbai receive muddy water||The residents from several areas in the city like Worli, Dadar, Mahim, Kandivli, Mumbai Central have complained of getting muddy drinking water supply for the past three days. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, said that the water supply was affected after the heavy rainfall inundated the Bhandup water filtration plant on Sunday, and the advisory to boil drinking water has been issued. The BMC has said the problem would be resolved in a day.On Sunday, following heavy rainfall, rainwater entered the Bhandup complex, forcing BMC to shut down the water purification system and electric supply, as a precautionary measure. Excess stormwater (rainwater) from the Bhandup complex drains into Vihar lake. Since the lake also overflowed on Sunday morning, it did not accept stormwater accumulated inside the complex. This led to waterlogging and inundated the complex building.Following this, several parts of the city did not receive the regular municipal drinking water supply on Sunday morning. Water supply to parts of the eastern suburbs was also affected.Dhanpal Jain, a resident of Worli said, “The colour of the water is yellow. Even after boiling, the water is not drinkable. Citizens are prone to water-borne diseases like cholera, typhoid, jaundice, skin infections and gastric diseases. For people like us, it is relatively easy to buy mineral water from outside and consume it. However, many are consuming the same water by boiling it, as they cannot afford mineral water.”Another Worli resident, Praneshan MS said, “We are getting yellowish, muddy water since Wednesday. It cannot be boiled or used even for washing clothes or bathing.”Mahim resident Irfan Machiwala said, “We have been getting muddy water since Monday. I also complained to the local ward’s water department officials. But their response is standard that the problem is due to the Bhandup plant’s waterlogging. It has been five days to the incident now, but the civic body is still not able to find a solution for the same.”Ajay Rathore, chief of BMC’s hydraulics department said, “The problem is due to the waterlogging at Bhandup’s plant. We are assuming that something went during maintenance work and the situation was very difficult at that time. However, only some parts of the city are affected. By tomorrow, the situation will get normal everywhere.”The BMC supplies around 3,850 million litres of drinking water to the city against the demand of over 4,000 million litres daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/citizens-furious-as-parts-of-mumbai-receive-muddy-water-101626977940757.html
23-07-2021||Pune||Dead fish, by the hundreds, found floating on Pune’s Jambhulwadi lake||PUNE Dead fish by the hundreds were found on the surface of the Jambhulwadi lake on Thursday morning, with crowds of people rushing to collect them. The reason behind the dead fish floating to the surface of the lake is still not known, but according to fishermen in the area, who regularly fish on the lake, it is because of mud waves inside the lake. A total of 10 tonnes of dead fish were found and taken away by people.Jambhulwadi lake, which is close to Katraj chowk, is surrounded by many residential housing societies and a bypass road passes over the lake. On Thursday at 6 am, hundreds of fish started floating to the surface and people out on their morning walks were shocked to at the sight. “It was dawn and suddenly hundreds of fish were coming out of the water and they were lying all at the side of the lake. As the time passed, many people from nearby areas got to know about it and started coming to the lake to collect the fish,” said Manohar Pardeshi, a fisherman, whose family has been given a contract to fish on the Jambhulwadi lake by the state fisheries department. “When we came to know about the incident all our workers and family members rushed to the spot and started collecting the dead fish. It might because of the mud waves inside the lake. It was around 10 tonne fish which came out from the lake,” added Pardeshi. People, including children, women and senior citizens were rushing in to collect the fish for free. Mahesh Kamble, a resident of the area said, “I managed to collect around 10 big fish lying at the side of the lake. I don’t know whether the fish are good to be eat, but I will distribute it amongst our family and friends.”An official from the department of fisheries who rushed to the spot, speaking on the condition of anonymity said, “We are checking the reason for this incident. There are many possibilities, but we cannot say anything right now,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dead-fish-by-the-hundreds-found-floating-on-jambhulwadi-lake-101626973080768.html
23-07-2021||Pune||Panchganga at warning level: Roads towards Konkan shut in Kolhapur district||PUNE Several roads in Maharashtra’s Kolhapur, including a few state highways, were closed for traffic as some of the stretches went under water as a result of incessant rains in the district over the past two days, officials said on Thursday.In the 24-hour period that ended at 8 am on Thursday, Kolhapur district witnessed 93 mm of rainfall, pushing the water level of the Panchganga river above 39 feet, a warning level, the district disaster management cell said.“By 3 pm, the water level of the river measured at the Rajaram weir near Kolhapur, was above the warning mark at 39 feet. To evacuate people, two teams of NDRF have been deployed in the district,” said Kolhapur guardian minister Satej Patil.Officials said as many as 81 bunds in the district have gone under water following the rains.There are three district roads that have seen closures as the rainwater submerged stretches. In several rural areas, the bridges have gone under water and traffic movement has been shut. A few state highways going through the district have also been affected.The road near Jadhavwadi Nile in Shahuwadi tehsil, Kolhapur- Ratnagiri road, is closed for vehicular movement as water came onto the road, the official said. As the bund at Khochi Dudhgaon got submerged, the traffic going towards Sangli district from that route was diverted.Vehicular traffic was diverted through alternative routes, he added. The catchment areas of several dams in the region witnessed heavy rainfall in the last 48 hours, which led to rise in the water level of these reservoirs.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had earlier said that it has deployed nine rescue teams in Maharashtra and two of them have been sent to Kolhapur district. One of which will undertake rescue or preventive evacuation in the flood-prone Shirol tehsil, while the other one will conduct rescue work in Kolhapur city, it has said.In August 2019, unprecedented rains wreaked havoc in western Maharashtra, especially in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, leaving at least 60 people dead and causing serious losses to property.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/panchganga-at-warning-level-roads-towards-konkan-shut-in-kolhapur-district-101626973080262.html
23-07-2021||Pune||Red alert for Pune district: 801 mm of rain in 33 hours at Mulshi dam||PUNE On Thursday, as a red alert was issued for Pune district, many parts of district received heavy showers with catchment areas of Mulshi dam in Lonavla recording 801 mm rainfall in 33 hours. The heavy rains triggered landslides and cave-in incidents in parts of the district, disrupting rail and road traffic. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued orange alert for the Pune district for Friday. According to Mulshi (Tata) dam in-charge Basavraj Munnoli, the catchment area of the reservoir received 486mm rainfall in 24 hours, ending at 7am on Thursday. Between 7am to 4 pm, the region received 315mm rainfall. A total of 53.50 mm of rainfall was reported in the district, as per the authorities, with landslides reported in Maval (Khandala ghat section), Bhor and Khed tehsil, while a part of road caved in at Malavli near Lonavla. As per the district administration, Mulshi tehsil received an average of 134.83 mm of rainfall, Bhor reported 91.50 mm rainfall, Maval reported 206.57 mm rainfall, Velhe reported 107 mm rainfall, Junnar reported 59 mm rainfall, Khed reported 42 mm and Ambegaon reported 46 mm of rainfall till Thursday afternoon. Pune city and its surrounding areas witnessed good rainfall late on Wednesday night, continuing on Thursday. Shivajinagar reported rainfall of 5.2mm, Lohegaon reported 6.2mm and Pashan reported 11.4mm of rainfall till Thursday evening. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, IMD Pune, said that there are strong westerly winds that will result in good rainfall over Maharashtra, including Pune. “There is an offshore trough line over the South Gujarat coast to Karnataka State. Till July 23 evening, there is a low-pressure area likely to form over the Bay of Bengal. Over Maharashtra, there is a strong westerly wind. Till July 23, good rains will continue over the state,” said Kashyapi. Speaking about Pune city, Kashyapi added that heavy rainfall is expected to reduce after July 23. “The rainfall alert is likely to reduce after July 23. Till then moderate rainfall is likely in the area. For Pune district, till July 23, monsoon is vigorous. From July 24, cloudy weather is expected with moderate rainfall. From July 25, rainfall is likely to reduce,” said Kashyapi. He added that Konkan and Goa will experience widespread rainfall till July 25. “In Central Maharashtra, rainfall is likely to be widespread till July 23. In some places after that rainfall will marginally reduce. For Thursday, the ghat areas have a red alert. For July 23, there is an orange alert. For Marathwada, widespread rainfall is expected till July 23. After that rainfall is likely to reduce. And in Vidarbha, till July 23, widespread rainfall is expected,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/red-alert-for-pune-district-801-mm-of-rain-in-33-hours-at-mulshi-dam-101626972900332.html
23-07-2021||World||Pak foreign min, ISI head rush to China under blast shadow||woPakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and ISI chief Faiz Hameed reached China on Friday, days after the deaths of nine Chinese nationals in a bomb blast on a bus in Pakistan’s restive Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.Meetings are likely taking place or expected to take place in the southwestern city of Chengdu, the capital city of Sichuan province.Last week, the Chinese foreign ministry had said Beijing will dispatch a task force to Pakistan to jointly investigate the bomb explosion that killed its nine nationals.China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had urged the Pakistani government to ensure the safety of Chinese personnel and the security of projects.Nine Chinese and three Pakistani nationals were killed and 39 others injured last week when there was a blast on a bus in Upper Kohistan district in northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.The deadly explosion reportedly took place on a shuttle vehicle of the ongoing Dasu hydropower project, which a Chinese company is contracted to build, as the vehicle headed to the construction site.Islamabad, without giving any evidence, has blamed hostile forces behind the blast, which according to them, was carried out allegedly to create misunderstandings between the two countries, a Geo News report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-foreign-min-isi-head-rush-to-china-under-blast-shadow-101627064837178.html
23-07-2021||World||EU okays Moderna Covid jab||Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine could become the second shot okayed for adolescent use in the European Union after regulators on Friday recommended approving it for 12 to 17-year-olds.Use of the vaccine, Spikevax, will be the same in adolescents as in people over 18, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) said, adding the shot produced a comparable antibody response to that seen in 18 to 25-year-olds.Vaccinating children has been considered important for reaching herd immunity and in light of the highly contagious Delta variant. Moderna in May said its vaccine was found to be safe and effective in teenagers.The EMA said the two-dose vaccine is given four weeks apart, and its human medicines committee’s recommendation was based on a study of 3,732 participants.WHO asks govts to come together for virus probeThe World Health Organization (WHO) called on Friday for all countries to work together to investigate the origin of the coronavirus that caused Covid-19, a day after China rejected plans for more checks on labs and markets in its territory.The WHO has proposed a follow-up to earlier investigations in China. But Zeng Yixin, vice minister of China’s national health commission, said Beijing won’t accept the latest proposal as it stood.Asked about China’s rejection, WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said, “This is not about politics, it’s not about a blame game... Countries have the responsibility to work together and to work with the WHO.”In the UK, Public Health England issued a warning of an increased risk of catching the Delta variant even if someone has had Covid-19 before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-okays-moderna-covid-jab-101627064605488.html
23-07-2021||World||Nasa InSight lander reveals deep interior of Mars for first time||The seismometer of Nasa’s Insight lander has revealed details about the deep interior of Mars for the first time. Before InSight’s touchdown on the Martian surface in 2018, Nasa’s study of the Red Planet through the rovers and orbiters was primarily concentrated on its surface. But three research papers based on InSight’s seismometer data have provided much-awaited details on the depth and composition of Mars’ crust, mantle, and core.In the study, the scientists confirmed that Mars’ core, which has a radius of 1,830 kilometres, is molten. They will continue using InSight data to determine whether its inner core is solid like the Earth’s. The crust was thinner than expected and scientists believe that it may have two or even three sub-layers. The crust could be as deep as 20 kilometres with two sub-layers and 23 kilometres if there are three. “This study is a once-in-a-lifetime chance,” Simon Stähler, lead author of the core paper, stated. “It took scientists hundreds of years to measure Earth’s core; after the Apollo missions, it took them 40 years to measure the Moon’s core. InSight took just two years to measure Mars’ core.”InSight’s seismometer has recorded over 700 marsquakes and many of them between 3.0-4.0 magnitude, supporting the idea that the location is seismically active. While Mars has no tectonic plates unlike Earth, it does have volcanically active regions that can shake the surface.“We’d still love to see the big one,” said JPL’s Mark Panning, co-lead author of the paper on the crust. “We have to do lots of careful processing to pull the things we want from this data. Having a bigger event would make all of this easier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-insight-lander-reveals-deep-interior-of-mars-for-first-time-101627063070180.html
23-07-2021||World||US to receive additional 200 million Covid-19 vaccine doses from Pfizer-BioNTech||The US will get an additional 200 million doses of the Covid-19 shots by vaccine makers Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE, the companies said in a statement released on Friday. The doses will be delivered starting from October this year through April 2022, the statement further said.With this, the total number of doses supplied to the US would reach 500 million, under the existing supply agreement between Pfizer-BioNTech and the US government. This would be enough to fully immunise 250 million people with the vaccine’s two-dose regimen.Of the 200 million new doses, the companies expect to deliver 110 million doses by December 31, 2021 and the other 90 million doses no later than April 30, 2022.Also read | Should you be worried about 'breakthrough' Covid cases? Here's what experts say“As a long-term partner to the US government in the fight against this pandemic, we are proud of the impact of vaccination efforts across the country. Vaccines have been and will remain critical to protecting lives against this devastating disease,” Pfizer chief executive officer Albert Bourla said. “These additional doses will help the US government ensure broad vaccine access into next year,” he added.Further, the US government can also acquire an updated version of the vaccine to be used for inoculation against potential Covid-19 variants and also newer formulations of the dose.“It has been our consistent goal to supply as many doses of our Covid-19 vaccine as possible to people around the world to help bring an end to this pandemic,” said Ugur Sahin, CEO of BioNTech. “We are honored to support the US and more than 100 countries in their continuing vaccination programs,” he added.Earlier on June 10, 2021, the companies said that they would provide 500 million doses of the vaccine to the US government to battle flare-ups of Covid-19 in low and lower middle income countries of the world. They also announced that 200 million doses would be supplied this year while the remaining 300 million doses in the first half of 2022.The additional procurement of vaccines by the US could be used for vaccination of children under 12 years of age, who are not yet eligible to receive a shot, and also for an additional booster shot if data proves them necessary, news agency Bloomberg reported citing a White House official familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-receive-additional-200-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-from-pfizerbiontech-101627059452323.html
23-07-2021||World||Blinken to visit India on July 28, hold talks with PM, foreign minister||Secretary of state Antony Blinken will visit India for the first time as America’s top diplomat on July 28. Blinken is scheduled to meet his counterpart S Jaishankar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the US state department said in an announcement of the visit on Friday.He will also meet national security adviser Ajit Doval, the Indian ministry of external affairs (MEA) said in a separate announcement of the visit. The MEA said, “Secretary Blinken’s visit is an opportunity to continue the high-level bilateral dialogue and bolster the India-US global strategic partnership. Both sides will review the robust and multifaceted India-US bilateral relations, and potential for consolidating them further.”Blinken last visited India as deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration in December 2015.The state department said Blinken will hold discussions on “a wide range of issues including continued cooperation on Covid-19 response efforts, Indo-Pacific engagement, shared regional security interests, shared democratic values, and addressing the climate crisis”.Afghanistan is likely to be a key topic of discussion as US withdrawal of troops, which will be wrapped soon, could be followed by the Taliban’s return to power. India has watched with concern as the Taliban have rapidly expanded areas under their control, raising fears of the return of their brutal and regressive policies and practices. Jaishankar had underscored New Delhi’s worries during his visit to Washington DC in May.Blinken will be the second member of President Joe Biden’s cabinet to visit India, following defence secretary Lloyd Austin in March, which was a part of the first foreign trips undertaken by senior Biden admin officials. Blinken had then gone to South Korea and Japan, who are treaty allies of the United States.Blinken’s India visit comes after and ahead of high-level interactions between the two sides after Biden took over as president in January.Prime Minister Modi and President Biden spoke on phone and met virtually at the first summit of the Quad leaders, which Biden hosted in March and the Climate Summit that the American leader hosted in April.The two leaders are expected to meet later in the year at an in-person summit of the leaders of the Quad (Quadrilateral Security Dialogue) involving Australia, Japan, India and the US, which is likely after October, when Japan is scheduled to hold general elections, according to people familiar with preparatory discussions. There was a possibility earlier of holding the meeting at the time of the UN general assembly when leaders were likely to be in the US.The US side is understood to be very keen to hold the summit as a stand-alone in Washington DC, and there is a possibility of Biden hosting the leaders at the presidential retreat outside Washington DC at Camp David in Maryland.A bilateral India-US summit on the sidelines of the Quad summit is also under discussions.Dates are under discussion for the next 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries. It will be hosted by the US this year; the last one was held in New Delhi last October, with then secretaries of state and defence Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper travelling to India.Blinken will then leave India for Kuwait on July 28 only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-to-visit-india-on-july-28-hold-talks-with-pm-foreign-min-101627052768446.html
23-07-2021||World||EU regulator approves Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12 to 17||The European Medicines Agency (EMA) on Friday approved Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12 to 17 years. The EU drug regulator said that the effects of the Spikevax vaccine were investigated in a study involving 3,732 children aged 12 to 17 years, which produced a comparable antibody response as seen in young adults aged 18 to 25 years.None of 2,163 children administered with the Spikevax vaccine got infected with Covid-19 compared with four of 1,073 children administered placebo. The EMA said that the results allowed the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) to conclude that the efficacy of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine in 12- to 17-year-olds is similar to that in adults.The most common side effects of the Spikevax vaccine in children were similar to those in adults, including pain and swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea, vomiting and fever. The EMA said in a statement that these side effects were usually mild to moderate and improved within a few days from the vaccination.Also Read | India has been offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna vaccine through Covax: WHODue to the limited number of participants, the trial could not have detected rare side effects or estimated the risk of known side effects such as inflammation of the heart muscle, the EMA added. The agency stressed that the overall safety profile determined in adults, however, was confirmed in the adolescent study, suggesting that the benefits of Spikevax in adolescents outweigh the risks.The vaccine will be administered as two injections in the muscles of the upper arm, four weeks apart.The approval for vaccine use in children comes at a time when low- and lower-middle-income countries are struggling to vaccinate even their frontline workers and high-risk groups. The World Health Organization (WHO) has repeatedly urged the world to donate Covid-19 vaccines to poorer nations instead of vaccinating their children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ema-approves-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine-for-children-aged-12-to-17-101627047074856.html
23-07-2021||World||‘Will focus on vaccines for all by end of 2022’: UNGA president-elect Abdulla Shahid||President-elect of the UN General Assembly Abdulla Shahid, who is also the Maldives’ foreign minister, said on Friday he will endeavour to bring together Covid-19 vaccine producers and countries to ensure people around the world are vaccinated by the end of 2022. Shahid also emphasised that the UN has a “very clear role” in the situation in Afghanistan and the world community has to unite to assist the peace process in the troubled country. He made the remarks while participating in an interactive session after delivering the annual Sapru House Lecture on the theme “Covid pandemic and need for reformed multilateralism”. Currently on a three-day visit to India to outline the priorities for his tenure as president of the UN General Assembly, Shahid has already come out with a five-point plan that includes reforming the UN and post-pandemic recovery. Talking about his plans to bring together Covid-19 vaccine producers, distributors and countries, he said, “I think this is not a time to [do] finger-pointing, I think this is a time to share, take stock and chart a future course of action. We need to get everyone vaccinated in the world by the end of 2022, at the latest, if we are serious about confronting this pandemic.” Responding to a question on the situation in Afghanistan amid the drawdown of US and NATO forces and an intense campaign by the Taliban to capture territory, Shahid said, “The maintenance of international peace and security is mandated to the Security Council and therefore the UN has a very clear role in what is happening in Afghanistan. Describing the Afghan people as resilient and their leadership as strong, he added, “Their government is a democratic government elected by the people... I think we all, the international community, need to come together and assist the Afghan people in whatever way they so desire so that they could have the way forward that is being charted out by their government and people.” Shahid also spoke of his plans to push forward the process for the UN to adopt a comprehensive convention on terrorism, saying, “Terrorism is a scourge, it has no religion, it has no borders, it has no soul, it is pure evil.” He added that unethical and inhuman beliefs are what result in the promotion of terrorism. “What we require now is for the political leadership of the world to come together. The best message we could send to terrorists now is to come up with the comprehensive convention on terrorism.” Backing India’s long-standing bid for permanent membership of the UN Security Council, he said the Maldives was among 10 countries that had sought reforms of this key body as far back as the 1970s. “To say that it is taking a long time is an understatement because perhaps when this letter was signed by the Maldives and submitted, I was only 10 years old,” he said. Contemporary political realities aren’t reflected in the membership of the Security Council and the entire membership of the UN now agrees on the need for institutional reforms, including the inclusion of new permanent members in the council, he said. In his speech, Shahid said the world now has a clearer picture of how quickly the production of vaccines can be scaled up and their effectiveness. “But it is not something to celebrate. We now know that the world’s economy shrank by 4.3% in 2020, wiping out trillions of dollars,” he said. “We know that countries have fallen further into debt. For the first time in 20 years, global poverty is likely to increase significantly, 114 million people lost their jobs in 2020, while many have had their working hours or pays cut, or fallen into economic inactivity – meaning they had to withdraw from the labour force,” he added. Shahid said this is why he chose hope as the central theme of his presidency of the UN General Assembly. “My immediate priority will be recovering from Covid-19. The impacts have been immense, and yet still, this pandemic seems to be far from over,” he said. “New variants are emerging. And we are still unclear about the longer-term health consequences. The United Nations can, and must do more to address this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-focus-on-vaccines-for-all-by-end-of-2022-unga-president-elect-abdulla-shahid-101627047369828.html
23-07-2021||World||New Zealand, Australia travel bubble faced minor snags. Then came the Delta variant||New Zealand has suspended the trans-Tasman travel bubble for at least eight weeks starting Saturday amid worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Australia. Announcing the decision, New Zealand’s Covid-19 response minister Chris Hipkins said it was the right thing to do given the high transmissibility of the Delta variant and multiple community clusters identified in Australia.A travel bubble between New Zealand and Australia was launched last year aimed at boosting international tourism as the two countries had been largely successful in preventing any major outbreak. The travellers on approved flights were exempted from the mandatory 14 days quarantine. Apart from minor snags, the travel bubble was working smoothly until the highly contagious Delta variant, first detected in India, entered Australia.On Thursday, Australia reported 152 new Covid-19 cases and the bulk of them came from New South Wales capital Sydney. Some breakthrough cases have also been reported in Australia as concern around the Delta variant’s immune escape ability grows.The rising number of Covid-19 cases in the largest Australian city has become a “national emergency”, New South Wales leaders said. The fresh outbreak has prompted leaders to call for ramping up the vaccination drive, which has been hampered due to problems with supplies of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and scepticism around the safety of AstraZeneca shots."We have an obligation on behalf of the nation to contain the virus," said New South Wales premier Gladys Berejiklian. "There is no doubt that the numbers are not going in the right direction."Amid the worrying surge, Australians will no longer be able to enter New Zealand quarantine-free. For the next seven days, New Zealanders from all Australian states and territories, except New South Wales, will be able to return on green flights with a Covid negative report in the pre-departure test. Those who have been to New South Wales will have to go into managed isolation and quarantine for 14 days.“The decision to suspend travel follows updated public health advice from officials on the growing number of cases and locations of interest across Australia in recent days and weeks,” the New Zealand government said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-australia-travel-bubble-faced-minor-snags-then-came-the-delta-variant-101627046173462.html
23-07-2021||World||Deaths of Chinese nationals: Pak foreign min, ISI chief in China for talks||Top Pakistani officials including foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and ISI chief Faiz Hameed reached China on Friday. It comes days after the deaths of nine Chinese nationals in a bomb blast on a bus in Pakistan’s restive Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.While the Chinese foreign ministry announced the expected arrival of Qureshi on Friday morning, it did not formally confirm Hameed’s visit.The news of Hameed’s arrival in China for “strategic talks” was published in Pakistani media on Friday.The meetings are likely taking place or expected to take place in the southwestern city of Chengdu, the capital city of Sichuan province.Last week, the Chinese foreign ministry had said Beijing will dispatch a task force to Pakistan to jointly investigate the blast that killed its nine nationals. Foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had urged the Pakistani government to ensure the safety of Chinese personnel and the security of projects.Nine Chinese and three Pakistani nationals were killed, and 39 others injured last week when there was an explosion on a bus in the Upper Kohistan district of Pakistan’s northwest Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.A Chinese state media report said the “…blast took place on a shuttle vehicle of the Dasu Hydropower Project, which a Chinese company is contracted to build, as it headed to the construction site in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.”“The visit of high-ranking Pakistani officials holds significance after a tragic incident in Upper Kohistan. Nine Chinese nationals working on Dasu Hydropower Project were killed when a bus transporting them to the construction site met (with) an accident,” Pakistan’s Geo News said in a report on Friday.Islamabad has blamed hostile forces behind the Dasu incident, which according to them, was carried out to create misunderstandings between the two countries, the Geo News report added.THE AFGHAN FACTORThe high-level visit from Pakistan also comes in the backdrop of the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan.In June, Chinese state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi had told Qureshi and Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar during a trilateral meeting that foreign military forces should withdraw in a responsible and orderly manner. “Countries in the region should play a more constructive role in stabilising the situation in Afghanistan,” Wang said at the meeting.Earlier on Friday, the Chinese foreign ministry announced that at the invitation of Wang, Qureshi, besides the foreign ministers of Malta, Finland and Mongolia will visit China from July 22 to 28.In Islamabad, Pakistan foreign office said that during Qureshi’s visit both sides will discuss further deepening of bilateral relations, focus on cooperation as part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project, defence and security cooperation, Covid-19 vaccines, counter-terrorism, and regional and international issues of mutual interest.“This year, Pakistan and China are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. More than 100 celebratory events have been planned of which over 60 events have already been held so far. These celebrations have immensely contributed to injecting a fresh vigour and warmth in the traditional friendship,” the Pakistan foreign office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-of-chinese-nationals-pak-foreign-min-isi-chief-in-china-for-talks-101627046587900.html
23-07-2021||World||Activewear brand Lorna Jane claimed its clothes could prevent Covid spread, fined $3.7 mn||An athleisure clothing chain was fined $3.7 million for falsely claiming that its garment could prevent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the peak of the pandemic in Australia. Lorna Jane Pty Ltd, which manufactures and retails women’s activewear, had promoted that its product ‘LJ Shield Activewear’ used a “groundbreaking technology” to eliminate the virus “on contact with the fabric.”In its marketing campaign, the Australian company said that a substance, promoted as ‘Lorna Jane Shield’, would eliminate all viruses including Covid-19 when sprayed on its activewear. It claimed that the substance permanently adheres to the garments, making “transferal of pathogens” to the garments impossible.In December 2020, the Australian competition regulator instituted proceedings against Lorna Jane for alleged false and misleading claims and against the company’s co-founder Lorna Jane Clarkson for allegedly being knowingly concerned in the conduct. A federal court, in its ruling, ordered Lorna Jane to pay $3.7 million for making false and misleading representations to consumers, which a judge called “exploitative, predatory and potentially dangerous.”The judge observed that the conduct of the company in this particular case emanated from a ‘high managerial level within the company’ and ‘was directed by Ms Clarkson’. The company admitted that Lorna Jane Clarkson was involved in crafting the words and designing the graphic used in the marketing campaign and also made false statements in an Instagram video regarding activewear.“This was dreadful conduct as it involved making serious claims regarding public health when there was no basis for them,” Rod Sims, chair of the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission, said in a statement.“This type of conduct is particularly harmful where, as here, consumers cannot easily check or monitor the claims made,” he added.Lorna Jane accepted the court's ruling and said the company was itself misled by a supplier."A trusted supplier sold us a product that did not perform as promised," said CEO Bill Clarkson in a statement. "They led us to believe the technology behind LJ Shield was being sold elsewhere in Australia, the USA, China, and Taiwan and that it was both anti-bacterial and anti-viral. We believed we were passing on a benefit to our customers."Lorna Jane has 108 stores in Australia as well as a number of international stores, including in the USA and New Zealand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/activewear-brand-lorna-jane-claimed-its-clothes-could-prevent-covid-spread-fined-3-7-mn-101627042046059.html
23-07-2021||World||Kaseya ransomware attack: IT firm obtains decryptor tool from ‘trusted third party’ nearly 20 days after hack||Kaseya Corporation, a US-based IT firm that was recently the victim of a massive ransomware attack, said that it had acquired a third party tool to unlock the networks that were affected by the hack. The company also said that it is helping its customers affected by the ransomware to restore their affected operations.“We can confirm that Kaseya obtained the tool from a third party and have teams actively helping customers affected by the ransomware to restore their environments,” news agency AFP reported citing a statement released by Kaseya Corporation earlier on Thursday. "Kaseya is working with Emsisoft to support our customer engagement efforts, and Emsisoft has confirmed the key is effective at unlocking victims," it further said.Also read | REvil ransomware attack: Experts cast doubts as IT firm Kaseya says 800 to 1,500 customers compromisedHowever, the “third party” from which the tool was obtained to decrypt the hacked data was not mentioned by the company. According to Kevin Collier, a reporter with NBC News, Kaseya got the decryption tool from a “trusted third party” as was confirmed by a company spokesperson. In a tweet regarding the news, Collier further suggested that there were three ways in which Kaseya could have obtained the key - The US government obtained it via diplomatic channels with Russia or Russia asked REvil, the ransomware group behind the attack, to turn over the decryptor or Kaseya had paid the ransom and obtained the key. Emsisoft, a company offering cybersecurity solutions, is also involved along with Kaseya in restoring services for their customers, Collier further said.Earlier on July 2, Kaseya had shut down its servers after a ransomware attack by the notorious REvil gang, based in Russia, affected several of its customers, including a few high-profile customers like Coop, a Swedish supermarket chain. Ransomware attacks are those in which the data of the victim is encrypted by the hacker and a ransom is demanded for restoring the data.Following the attack, hackers demanded $70 million in Bitcoin from Kaseya as ransom. The company then released a statement on July 6, saying that the attack had only limited impact. “The attack had limited impact, with only approximately 50 of the more than 35,000 Kaseya customers being breached,” the statement said. Despite this, several cybersecurity companies and experts had expressed their doubts about the limited impact, suggesting it could take more time to gauge the complete impact of the attack. Meanwhile, Coop had said that it had closed several of its stores because of crippled cash registers due to the attack earlier. It also said that alternate payment methods were being used in stores that remained open.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kaseya-ransomware-attack-it-firm-obtains-decryptor-tool-from-trusted-third-party-nearly-20-days-after-hack-101627040396436.html
23-07-2021||World||Chinese prez visits Tibet for the first time||Chinese President Xi Jinping visited the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) this week, the first time as the country’s head, beginning his three-day tour at a strategic border city near the Sino-India boundary in Arunachal Pradesh, on Wednesday.“Xi, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, visited the TAR from Wednesday to Friday for the 70th anniversary of Tibet’s peaceful liberation, the first time in the history of the party and the country,” Xinhua news agency reported. Xi stressed fully implementing the guidelines of the Communist Party of China (CPC) for governing Tibet in a new era and writing a “…new chapter of lasting stability and high-quality development for the plateau region”.The border visit comes in the backdrop of Beijing tightening controls over the remote Himalayan region’s traditional Buddhist culture and sinicising Buddhism with “Chinese socialist characteristics”; the twin approach along with an accelerated drive for economic development.The Sino-India border in Tibet is of obvious strategic significance to both countries especially in the backdrop of the ongoing military standoff in eastern Ladakh area, which on the Chinese side is in the disputed Aksai Chin region.“Xi stressed efforts to strengthen developing border areas, emphasised the four major issues of stability, development, ecology and border-area consolidation, and called for new achievements in protecting the ecology of Qinghai-Tibet plateau and advancing its sustainable development,” Xinhua said.This week’s visit to Tibet was a first for Xi as president and CPC general secretary; As China’s then vice-president, Xi led a delegation to Lhasa on July 18, 2011 to commemorate the 60th anniversary of “the peaceful liberation of Tibet’’.Photos released by Xinhua showed Xi was accompanied by Zhang Youxia, a vice chairperson of China’s Central Military Commission and a senior general in the People’s Liberation Army.It was the first time a Chinese president visited Tibet since 1990 when then leader Jiang Zemin took a tour.Xi’s predecessor, former president Hu Jintao, who was Tibet’s CPC chief during the late 1980s, never visited the region during his 10-year presidential tenure.TAKES STOCK OF KEY PROJECTSDuring his visit, Xi inspected a number of key infrastructure projects including the Sichuan-Tibet railway project and the Lhasa-Nyingchi route, an important rail line under the project, inaugurated last month.On Thursday, Xi took a train to Tibetan capital Lhasa on the Lhasa-Nyingchi route.“…Xi went to Nyingchi railway station, learning about the overall design of the Sichuan-Tibet railway and the operation of the Lhasa-Nyingchi railway section, and then took a train to the regional capital Lhasa. He inspected the construction along the railway during the ride,” Xinhua reported.The route is of strategic significance as it terminates close to the disputed border with India.In Lhasa, Xi visited a monastery and the Potala Palace Square, and “inspected ethnic religion” and Tibetan cultural heritage protection, Xinhua reported.The palace is the traditional home of Tibetan Buddhism’s spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, who is in exile in India and has been branded a separatist by Beijing.It was the second time Xi visited a Tibetan area in China in seven weeks.In June, Xi went on a tour to northwest China’s Qinghai province, where he visited the capital city of Xining and the Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture between June 7 and 9.It’s an important visit for Xi before the Beidaihe Conclave, an annual meeting of China’s top leaders and experts at a seaside resort near Beijing, which is usually held in August, according to India-based Tibet expert, Claude Arpi.“He visited Tibetan areas twice in less than two months (and both time, one can hear him saying Tashi Delek),” Arpi said, citing official videos showing Xi speaking the Tibetan phrase to greet locals.HYDROPOWER PROJECT ON YARLUNG ZANGBOArpi said Xi went to Nyingchi to show the importance of the new Lhasa-Nyingchi railway and probably the planned mega-hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo (Brahmaputra in India) besides sending the message that he cares for the remote border areas of China.“He will be able to report that everything is fine in Tibet (to balance the western propaganda on Xinjiang),” Arpi added.The Washington-based International Campaign for Tibet said that the visit may have been linked to the “…70th anniversary of the controversial 17 Point Agreement, which China falsely claims marks its ‘peaceful liberation of Tibet’, but which the Dalai Lama has renounced as an agreement made under duress”.Xi’s visit to Nyingchi comes a month after China inaugurated its first electric train service in Tibet between capital Lhasa and Nyingchi city, a week before the ruling CPC celebrated its 100th birthday on July 1.The inauguration of the new line marks a critical stage in Beijing’s long-term vision to build infrastructure in TAR and connect the remote border areas and Lhasa to interior China.The terminus of the railway line is likely to be close to the Bayi town area, near the border with India.“China has listed the development of border areas in the next five-year plan, and reducing the gap between western and eastern areas is also an important goal to be achieved marching towards the second centenary goal,” Lou Chunhao from the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, told Global Times newspaper on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-prez-visits-tibet-for-the-first-time-101627038307216.html
23-07-2021||World||China's Covid-19 vaccine Sinopharm less effective in protecting the elderly||A new study suggests that a Sinopharm vaccine offers poor protection from Covid-19 among the elderly, raising questions for dozens of countries that have given the Chinese company’s shots to their most vulnerable populations.A survey of blood samples taken from 450 people in Hungary at least two weeks after their second Sinopharm dose found that 90% under 50 years old developed protective antibodies. But the percentage declined with age, and 50% of those over 80 had none.The study by two Hungarian researchers was posted online this week but not yet reviewed by other scientists. Three outside experts said they had no problems with the methodology of the study of the vaccine developed by Sinopharm’s Beijing Institute of Biological Products.“This is very, very worrying that these people, who are high-risk, have a poor antibody response,” said Jin Dong-yan, a Hong Kong University virologist who was not affiliated with the study.Antibody levels are not a direct measure of how protected a person is from Covid-19, but there is growing evidence that they are a good proxy. One expert cautioned that the choice of test kits could have limited the accuracy of the measurements.Still, the study’s findings have value and are the first public, scientific attempt to analyze the effect of the Sinopharm vaccine in the elderly, said Wang Chenguang, a former professor at Peking Union Medical College and an immunology expert.China’s National Health Commission declined to comment on the study, saying it would only respond to studies by governments or major research institutions.This is not the first time questions have been raised about the efficacy of the vaccine, which was given a greenlight by the World Health Organization in May and is being used in more than 50 countries, many of which seized upon it when other vaccines were tough to come by.A spokesperson for the WHO said Wednesday that its experts “are aware of the study and continue to look at all available evidence.” The agency's advisers raised questions months ago about whether it provided protection in people 60 and over, but when it was OK'd a WHO expert said that there was no reason to think it would work differently in the elderly.The vaccine is one of two similar shots developed by Sinopharm. The state-owned Chinese company’s research showed that almost all the participants in final-stage clinical trials were under 60 — and its own researchers said there was insufficient evidence to say whether the vaccines work in the elderly. Overall, the Beijing Institute vaccine was found to be 78% effective.In Hungary, concern about the shots led many to seek out private antibody tests. Eventually the capital city of Budapest offered free testing to elderly residents as part a bid to ratchet up pressure on the government to conduct its own wider survey and provide booster shots to those who need them.After initially rebuffing calls for a government response to efficacy concerns — including from the antibody study’s authors Balazs Sarkadi and Tamas Ferenci — Prime Minster Viktor Orban finally acquiesced last week in the face of growing public anger. He announced that the government would provide its citizens with an optional third shot.His office said, though, that all vaccines authorized by Hungary are effective.The United Arab Emirates and Bahrain both announced in May that they, too, would offer a third dose of Sinopharm amid concerns about an insufficient antibody response. Bahrain recommended that people over 50 and some other vulnerable people receive Pfizer-BioNTech’s vaccine as their booster regardless of whether they got Sinopharm initially.CNBG, the Sinopharm subsidiary that oversees the Beijing Institute, has said a third dose is not part of the company’s clinical guidance.It’s not clear how many doses of the Beijing Institute Sinopharm vaccine have been exported. Overall, China exported 500 million vaccines doses in the first half of the year, and the company is one of country’s two major Covid vaccine makers, along with privately owned Sinovac.The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization recently ordered 550 million doses from the two companies for the U.N.-backed COVAX program.Both Sinopharm vaccines are also in wide use in China, including in the elderly. The country’s National Health Commission said in April that the shots provide some protection, even though it acknowledged that early stages of clinical trials of Sinopharm’s vaccines and two others found fewer antibodies in people 60 and over.In Budapest, Beata Englohner became concerned for her 76-year-old mother after hearing that people who had been vaccinated with Sinopharm were shown to have no antibodies.Englohner started a Facebook group to press the government to address the issue. She is cautiously optimistic now that Hungary will offer a third dose.“We’re very glad that we achieved our aim and that we were heard,” she said. “Though we’re a bit afraid that we’ll receive what we already got before.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-covid-19-vaccine-sinopharm-less-effective-in-protecting-the-elderly-101627030960133.html
23-07-2021||World||Taliban offers peace deal, in exchange asks for Afghan President to be removed||The Taliban say they don't want to monopolise power, but they insist there won't be peace in Afghanistan until there is a new negotiated government in Kabul and President Ashraf Ghani is removed.In an interview with The Associated Press, Taliban spokesman, Suhail Shaheen, who is also a member of the group's negotiating team, laid out the insurgents' stance on what should come next in a country on the precipice.The Taliban have swiftly captured territory in recent weeks, seized strategic border crossings and are threatening a number of provincial capitals, as the last US and NATO soldiers leave Afghanistan.This week, the top US military officer, Gen. Mark Milley, told a Pentagon press conference that the Taliban have “strategic momentum,” and he did not rule out a complete Taliban takeover. But he said it is not inevitable. “I don't think the end game is yet written,” he said.Memories of the Taliban's last time in power some 20 years ago, when they enforced a harsh brand of Islam that denied girls an education and barred women from work, have stoked fears of their return among many.Afghans who can afford it are applying by the thousands for visas to leave Afghanistan, fearing a violent descent into chaos. The U.S.-NATO withdrawal is more than 95 per cent complete and due to be finished by Aug. 31.Shaheen said the Taliban will lay down their weapons when a negotiated government acceptable to all sides in the conflict is installed in Kabul and Ghani's government is gone.“I want to make it clear that we do not believe in the monopoly of power because any governments who (sought) to monopolise power in Afghanistan in the past, were not successful governments,” said Shaheen, apparently including the Taliban's own five-year rule in that assessment. “So we do not want to repeat that same formula.”But he was also uncompromising on the continued rule of Ghani, calling him a war monger and accusing him of using his Tuesday speech on the Islamic holy day of Eid-al-Adha to promise an offensive against the Taliban.Shaheen dismissed Ghani's right to govern, resurrecting allegations of widespread fraud that surrounded Ghani's 2019 election win. After that vote, both Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah declared themselves president. After a compromise deal, Abdullah is now No 2 in the government and heads the reconciliation council.Ghani has often said he will remain in office until new elections can determine the next government. His critics — including ones outside the Taliban — accuse him of seeking only to keep power, causing splits among government supporters.Last weekend, Abdullah headed a high-level delegation to the Qatari capital Doha for talks with Taliban leaders. It ended with promises of more talks, as well as greater attention to the protection of civilians and infrastructure.Shaheen called the talks a good beginning. But he said the government's repeated demands for a ceasefire while Ghani stayed in power were tantamount to demanding a Taliban surrender.“They don't want reconciliation, but they want surrendering,” he said.Before any ceasefire, there must be an agreement on a new government “acceptable to us and to other Afghans,” he said. Then “there will be no war.”Shaheen said under this new government, women will be allowed to work, go to school, and participate in politics, but will have to wear the hijab, or headscarf. He said women won't be required to have a male relative with them to leave their home, and that Taliban commanders in newly occupied districts have orders that universities, schools and markets operate as before, including with the participation of women and girls.However, there have been repeated reports from captured districts of Taliban imposing harsh restrictions on women, even setting fire to schools. One gruesome video that emerged appeared to show Taliban killing captured commandos in northern Afghanistan.Shaheen said some Taliban commanders had ignored the leadership's orders against repressive and drastic behavior and that several have been put before a Taliban military tribunal and punished, though he did provide specifics. He contended the video was fake, a splicing of separate footage.Shaheen said there are no plans to make a military push on Kabul and that the Taliban have so far “restrained” themselves from taking provincial capitals. But he warned they could, given the weapons and equipment they have acquired in newly captured districts. He contended that the majority of the Taliban's battlefield successes came through negotiations, not fighting.“Those districts which have fallen to us and the military forces who have joined us ... were through mediation of the people, through talks,” he said.“They (did not fall) through fighting ... it would have been very hard for us to take 194 districts in just eight weeks.”The Taliban control about half of Afghanistan's 419 district centers, and while they have yet to capture any of the 34 provincial capitals, they are pressuring about half of them, Milley said. In recent days, the US has carried out airstrikes in support of beleaguered Afghan government troops in the southern city of Kandahar, around which the Taliban have been amassing, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said Thursday.The rapid fall of districts and the seemingly disheartened response by Afghan government forces have prompted U.S.-allied warlords to resurrect militias with a violent history. For many Afghans weary of more than four decades of war, that raises fears of a repeat of the brutal civil war in the early 1990s in which those same warlords battled for power.“You know, no one no one wants a civil war, including me,” said Shaheen.Shaheen also repeated Taliban promises aimed at reassuring Afghans who fear the group.Washington has promised to relocate thousands of U.S. military interpreters. Shaheen said they had nothing to fear from the Taliban and denied threatening them. But, he added, if some want to take asylum in the West because Afghanistan's economy is so poor, “that is up to them.”He also denied that the Taliban have threatened journalists and Afghanistan's nascent civil society, which has been targeted by dozens of killings over the past year.The Islamic State group has taken responsibility for some, but the Afghan government has blamed the Taliban for most of the killings while the Taliban in turn accuse the Afghan government of carrying out the killings to defame them. Rarely has the government made arrests into the killings or revealed the findings of its investigations.Shaheen said journalists, including those working for Western media outlets, have nothing to fear from a government that includes the Taliban.“We have not issued letters to journalists (threatening them), especially to those who are working for foreign media outlets. They can continue their work even in the future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-offers-peace-deal-in-exchange-asks-for-afghan-president-to-be-removed-101627025296218.html
23-07-2021||World||Covid: South Korea to extend social distancing rules in Seoul for 2 more weeks||South Korea, which is currently battling its worst of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, said on Friday it will extend the ongoing social distancing rules imposed in its capital Seoul for two more weeks till August 8. The government, on July 12 imposed the highest level of social distancing restrictions (Level 4) in Seoul and neighbouring areas as the viral disease was spreading at a rapid pace.According to rules, a gathering of three or more people is banned after 6pm, churches and nightclubs are shut, rallies are banned and only 49 people are allowed to attend marriages and funerals. Restaurants and cafes can remain open only till 10pm and sporting events are allowed without any spectators, a report by Xinhua News Agency said on Friday. Companies have been recommended to allow their employees to work from home while students are only allowed to attend online classes, the report added.The above rules were set to end on Sunday, but interior and safety minister Jeon Hae-cheol said on Friday they will be in force for two more weeks. Jeon Hae-cheol added it is inevitable that social gatherings and travel are restricted to suppress a widespread domestic outbreak linked to a variety of sources in daily lives, according to the Associated Press.The government on Friday has also warned South Korea’s main labour federation to cancel a planned rally amid apprehensions that it might become a super spreader event. Over 800 members of the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions (KCTU) are expected to hold a rally in Wonju, a rural city about 100 kilometres east of Seoul, calling for a hike in wages and better welfare, Reuters reported.“The government will respond sternly according to the law and principle if a banned rally is carried out in violation of anti-epidemic rules,” minister Jeon Hae-cheol said.South Korea on Friday reported 1,630 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed the overall tally to 185,733 of which 2,066 people have succumbed to the viral disease. This is the seventeenth consecutive day that daily infections were above the 1,000-mark. Nearly 70 per cent of the recent cases have been seen in the Seoul area.A major problem which the country is facing to combat the pandemic is a sluggish rate of vaccination. A little over 13 per cent of the total 52 million has been fully vaccinated till now and just over 30 per cent have been administered the first dose.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-south-korea-to-extend-social-distancing-rules-in-seoul-for-2-more-weeks-101627023418948.html
23-07-2021||World||US bombs Taliban camps to help Afghan forces amid troop rollout: Pentagon||The US carried out airstrikes across Afghanistan in the last several days as part of an effort to support the local administration in pushing back the Taliban, news agencies reported on Friday citing officials familiar with the matter in the Pentagon. As many as five Taliban insurgents have died in the strikes, local reports added.With the Taliban increasing their advances in Afghanistan in the wake of the drawdown of American and Nato military forces, the United States has once again come to the aid of the Afghan security forces fighting the insurgents, the Pentagon said. “Without speaking to specifics, I can say that in the last several days, we have acted through airstrikes to support the ANDSF (Afghan National Defense and Security Forces) but I won't get into tactical details of those strikes,” Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told reporters on Thursday at a news conference in Washington.The Pentagon categorically refused to divulge too many details about the airstrikes. The local media in Afghanistan, however, stated that at least five Taliban members were killed in the airstrikes carried out by the US over the past few days. An unnamed American defence official, cited by CNN, said that the US military has so far carried out approximately six or seven strikes in the past 30 days, mostly using drones to launch the strikes.The US airstrikes targeted “captured military equipment that the Taliban [were] able to seize from the ANDSF," the official was quoted as saying.The development comes in the backdrop of the Taliban sweeping across Afghanistan in recent days, pushing back the country's military forces and taking over significant swaths of territory as the US nears the ends of its troop withdrawal.The Taliban are putting pressure on 17 of Afghanistan's 34 provincial capital, said General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on Wednesday. Although he admitted that there is a possibility of a "complete Taliban takeover" of the country, General Milley asserted that "the end game is yet to be written".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-bombs-taliban-camps-to-help-afghan-forces-amid-troop-rollout-pentagon-101627016726501.html
23-07-2021||World||Chinese President makes surprise visit to Tibetan city near India border||Chinese President Xi Jinping has made an unannounced visit to the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), official media said on Friday morning, adding that the visit started in Nyingchi close to the Sino-India border in Arunachal Pradesh two days earlier.After landing in Nyingchi on Wednesday, Xi visited Lhasa on Thursday, returning to the Tibetan capital after more than a decade, reports said.In video footage shared on Chinese social media, Communist Party of China (CPC) general secretary Xi was seen greeting residents in Nyingchi with the Tibetan expression for good luck “Tashi Delek”.Xi then called on them to have faith in a better future.A brief report released by the official news agency, Xinhua, said Xi arrived at the Nyingchi Mainling airport on Wednesday and was warmly welcomed by local people and officials of various ethnic groups.“He then visited the Nyang river bridge to inspect the ecological preservation in the basin of the Yarlung Zangbo river and its tributary Nyang river,” the Xinhua report said.Xi had led a similar delegation to Lhasa on July 18, 2011, as China’s then vice-president, to commemorate the 60th anniversary of “the peaceful liberation of Tibet’’, the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported.In his speech a decade ago, he vowed to fight against “separatist activities” linked to the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader whose influence China has spent years trying to remove.Xi’s visit to Nyingchi comes a month after China inaugurated its first electric train service in Tibet between capital Lhasa and Nyingchi city, a week before the ruling CPC celebrated its 100th birthday on July 1.The inauguration of the new line marks a critical stage in Beijing’s long-term vision to build infrastructure in TAR and connect the remote border areas and Lhasa to interior China.The terminus of the railway line is likely to be close to the Bayi town area, near the border with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-president-makes-surprise-visit-to-tibetan-city-near-india-border-101627013285114.html
23-07-2021||World||Over 100 civilians killed in Afghanistan's Kandahar, govt blames Taliban||More than 100 people were reportedly killed by unidentified gunmen in Spin Boldak district of Afghanistan's Kandahar province, which is under the control of the Taliban, TOLO News reported has citing sources. Tolo News reported that the Afghan ministry of interior blamed the Taliban for the killings of the civilians in Spin Boldak and said they were murdered without any reason.“The brutal terrorists on the order of their Punjabi bosses (Pakistan) ambushed the homes of the innocent Afghans in certain areas of Spin Boldak, looted the homes and martyred 100 innocent people. This unveils the real face of the cruel enemy,” Mirwais Stanekzai, a spokesperson for the ministry of interior, was quoted as saying by Tolo News.“They (Taliban) conduct these acts on the orders of their masters, they want to give the colour of an ethnic war to their proxy war,” Stanekzai added.Also read | As Taliban advances, Afghan military overhauls war strategy to limit lossesAfghan security agencies have said that the bodies of several civilians are still lying on the ground in Spin Boldak. “They (Taliban) even resorted to the looting of the homes of civilians and government offices including the destruction of public infrastructure,” Rohullah Ahmadzai, a spokesperson for the ministry of defence, said, according to TOLO News. “They also assassinated the civilians,” Ahmadzai added.However, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid rejected the allegations.Also read | Taliban tightens grip over Afghanistan; levies high taxes, recruits forcefulThe Taliban seized Spin Boldak last week. Scores of Taliban members were seen rampaging through the town, looting homes and seizing vehicles of government officials, who had fled the area, in video footage released by France 24.Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said on Thursday that the US military launched several airstrikes this week in support of Afghan government forces fighting Taliban insurgents, including in Kandahar. “In the last several days we have acted, through airstrikes, to support the ANDSF,” Kirby said using an acronym for the Afghan national defense and security forces. “But I won't get into technical details of those strikes," Kirby added.He was replying to a question by a reporter about news reports of a Navy FA-18 airstrike in the Kandahar area.Another defence official said following Kirby's comments that on Wednesday and Thursday, the US conducted more than four airstrikes in support of Afghan forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-100-civilians-killed-in-afghanistan-s-kandahar-govt-blames-taliban-101627012218166.html
23-07-2021||World||Indian American Shrina Kurani enters Congressional race from California||Indian American Democrat Shrina Kurani has said she will challenge 15-term Republican Ken Calvert in California’s 42nd Congressional District for the mid-term elections in November 2022. “I’m running for Congress to make things work better in Washington so we can develop a sustainable future and build an Inland Empire where people feel safe, healthy, and have opportunities to succeed in fulfilling jobs," Shrina Kurani, born to Indian immigrant parents in Riverside, said on Thursday.Indian American Kurani described herself as "an engineer, entrepreneur, and a fact-based problem solver and not a politician" on her website. "Opportunities are out of reach for far too many people while career Washington politicians like Ken Calvert are focused on helping themselves, their political parties, and their corporate donors," she said. Also read | When Indian-Americans shape Washington policy and politics"Ken Calvert has been in Washington for nearly 30 years and he's voted against our interest time and time again. It's time for a new approach," she added.Calvert, representing California’s 42nd Congressional District, was first elected in 1992.Also read | Joe Biden set to name Indian-American Rahul Gupta as ‘drug czar’Kurani graduated from La Sierra High School when she was 16 and has a degree in mechanical engineering from the University of California, Riverside. A media release said she has worked to start companies aimed at reducing waste and creating sustainable solutions for food and water. She has also served as an advisor to start-up businesses developing ways to make healthcare and education more affordable, accessible, equitable, and effective, it added.There are four Indian Americans in the House of Representatives including Dr Ami Bera, Ro Khanna, Raja Krishnamoorthi and Pramila Jayapal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-shrina-kurani-announces-bid-for-congress-from-california-101627007812240.html
23-07-2021||World||Gunshots heard in Washington DC, 2 injured||At least two people were injured in a shooting in a busy area in Washington, DC, on Thursday as the sound of gunshots forced others to flee the market, according to local reports. Police are responding on 14th Street and Riggs Street NW, Fox Baltimore reported."Just hear what sounded like gunshots on 14th street in NW DC. People fleeing the popular Le Diplomate restaurant which seemed a few block," tweeted CNN anchor Jim Acosta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunshots-heard-in-washington-dc-2-injured-101627005771338.html
23-07-2021||World||US no more 'only big kid' in geopolitics, CIA may now deploy 'China specialists': Director||The United States has to come to terms with the fact that it is no longer the "only big kid" on the geopolitical block, said Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns has said. Highlighting the rise of China, Burns said in a wide-ranging interview on Thursday with NPR that the US intelligence service may now have to forward-deploy its "China specialists" to compete effectively with Beijing.Also Read | US deputy secretary of state to visit China this Sunday, discuss bilateral ties"...I am exploring right now, to forward-deploy China specialists - whether it is operations officers, analysts, technologists as well - to make us more effective in that competition, in that rivalry in the field as well," CIA director William Burns was quoted as saying in the NPR interview.China is the biggest geopolitical challenge to the US in the 21st century, Burns said, adding that the technology sector is the biggest area of competition between the two countries.On the issue of troop rollout in Afghanistan, the CIA director said that the US still retains "significant capabilities" in and around Afghanistan to gather information on terror groups. Expressing concern over the Taliban advances following the US military drawdown, Burns noted that the Taliban are probably in the "strongest military position that they have been in since 2001".WATCH: ‘China hiring contract hackers for cyber attack’: US govt on Microsoft caseSpeaking of geopolitical forces, the CIA director also commented on Russia's overarching influence in world affairs. In his interview, Burns indicated that the intelligence service suspects Russia could be behind the "Havana syndrome", which is affecting the health of US diplomats in Cuba. However, he added that there are no definitive conclusions and various possibilities.Havana Syndrome is a series of unexplained medical symptoms first experienced by State Department personnel stationed in Cuba beginning in late 2016, The Wall Street Journal reported. Since then, diplomats and other officials stationed around the world have experienced similar symptoms. Notably, similar accusations against Russia had emerged from American media outlets in the past, with Moscow repeatedly denying them.Burns said that Russia "could be, but I honestly cannot - I do not want to suggest until we can draw some more definitive conclusions who it might be. But there are a number of possibilities."(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-no-more-only-big-kid-in-geopolitics-cia-may-now-deploy-china-specialists-director-101627003824373.html
23-07-2021||World||China's Xi Jinping makes surprise visit to Tibet||Chinese president Xi Jinping has made an unannounced visit to Tibet, according to the International Campaign for Tibet (ICT). Video clips shared on Chinese social media on Thursday show Xi addressing people in the city of Nyingtri (Chinese: Linzhi), stepping out of a shop in the Barkhor area in Lhasa, and giving remarks to the public while facing the "Monument to the Peaceful Liberation of Tibet" in front of the Potala Palace, the traditional winter residence of the Dalai Lama.Chinese President Xi Jinping makes an unannounced visit to Tibet. Sources told RFA that movements of Lhasa residents were restricted, and factories were shut down, during his unannounced visit. pic.twitter.com/D2EIWmd3iwChina's president Xi Jinping visited UTsang, Tibet for the first time since he became president in 2013. It is high time for him to understand the true aspiration of Tibetan people and resume the dialogue to resolve the Sino-Tibetan conflict.A recent official notice announcing the closure of the Potala on July 22 indicated a visit by a high-level dignitary, but the fact that Xi was visiting caught many observers off guard. According to sources, the visit may have been linked to the 70th anniversary of the controversial 17 Point Agreement, which China falsely claims marks its "peaceful liberation of Tibet," but which Dalai Lama has renounced as an agreement made under duress.A source told the ICT that Xi first landed at Mainling airport in Nyingtri, in southeast Tibet, on July 20. Xi addressed a public gathering in Nyingtri, stating that 10 years ago when he came as the head of the Chinese government's delegation to mark the 60th anniversary of the 17 Point Agreement, he had gone to Lhasa first. But this time, he said, he came to meet the people in Nyingtri first, telling them that not a single ethnic group should be left behind in the efforts to fully build a modern socialist China.Xi was also seen addressing a gathering in front of the Potala Palace in Lhasa, where he stated that "as long as we follow the Communist Party and as long as we stick to the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, we will surely realise the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation as planned."A source told ICT that Xi may also visit one of the monasteries in Lhasa, possibly Drepung Monastery, during this trip.Three separate sources told ICT that their acquaintances in Lhasa reported unusual activities and monitoring of their movement in the past several days, indicating the visit of an important leader. "People reported receiving calls from security officials checking on their activities for no apparent reason. Roads in several sections of Lhasa were blocked, and the Lhasa City authorities announced the banning of drones and kites in Lhasa from July 21 to August 17," the ITC release said.While heavy security is expected for a visit by Xi anywhere, it is unusual that even Chinese state media did not report about his visit to Nyingtri and Lhasa, even though two days have already passed since his arrival.Xi last visited the Tibet Autonomous Region--which spans about half of Tibet--in 2011 when he was China's vice president. At the same, he visited Lhasa, Nyingtri, and Shigatse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-xi-jinping-makes-surprise-visit-to-tibet-101627002070406.html
23-07-2021||World||US sanctions Cuban security minister, special forces unit over protest crackdown||The United States on Thursday imposed sanctions on a Cuban security minister and an interior ministry special forces unit for alleged human rights abuses in a crackdown on anti-government protests earlier this month.The move marked the first concrete steps by President Joe Biden's administration to apply pressure on Cuba's Communist government as it faces calls from U.S. lawmakers and the Cuban-American community to show greater support for the biggest protests to hit the island in decades.The speed with which the administration has crafted new sanctions further signals Biden is highly unlikely to soften the U.S. approach to Cuba any time soon after his predecessor, Donald Trump, rolled back a historic Obama-era détente with Havana."This is just the beginning," Biden said in a statement, expressing condemnation for "mass detentions and sham trials.""The United States will continue to sanction individuals responsible for oppression of the Cuban people," he said.Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez, in a message on Twitter, rejected the sanctions as "unfounded and slanderous" and urged the United States to apply such measures to its own record of "daily repression and policy brutality."The Treasury Department said the sanctions had been placed on an entire Interior Ministry security unit and on General Alvaro Lopez Miera, minister of the Revolutionary Armed Forces, describing him as leader of an entity "whose members have engaged in serious human rights abuse."Thousands of Cubans staged protests a week ago to demonstrate against an economic crisis that has brought shortages of basic goods and power outages. They were also protesting the government's handling of the coronavirus pandemic and curbs on civil liberties. Hundreds of activists were detained.Biden had promised during the 2020 campaign to reverse some of Trump's Cuba policies, but Thursday's announcement suggests little appetite for a return to rapprochement.At the same time, the administration is still seeking ways to ease the humanitarian plight of the Cuban people.The White House said on Tuesday that Biden would form a working group to examine remittances to Cuba in the wake of the protests. The aim is to determine how Cuban-Americans can send money to families on the island while keeping the funds out of the hands of the Cuban government.Trump had imposed tight restrictions on remittances, which are believed to have previously amounted to several billions of dollars annually.The White House, in a statement, cautioned that the remittances issue was complex and "requires a measured and thoughtful approach in coordination with experts."Biden reiterated on Thursday that his administration is looking for ways to help ordinary Cubans regain internet access after Havana restricted access to social media and messaging platforms including Facebook and WhatsApp."We will work closely with our partners throughout the region, including the Organization of American States, to pressure the regime," Biden said.The Cuban government has blamed the protests mostly on what it calls U.S.-financed "counter-revolutionaries" exploiting economic hardship caused by U.S. sanctions.GLOBAL MAGNITSKY SANCTIONSThe sanctions were imposed under the Global Magnitsky Act, used to punish human rights violators with U.S. asset freezes and bans on travel to the United States.But U.S. officials have acknowledged that Cuban officials rarely have U.S. financial dealings and seldom travel to the United States, limiting the practical impact of such measures.The unrest appears to have injected a new sense of urgency into Biden's broad Cuba policy review, which began shortly after he took office in January. Until now, Cuba had not been treated as a top agenda item while the administration dealt with the economic recovery and coronavirus pandemic at home and challenges such as China, Russia and Iran abroad.Cuba, a State Department official told Reuters, is now a “top priority.”Analysts say conciliatory moves are unlikely in the near term. Complicating matters was Biden's poorer-than-expected showing with voters in south Florida’s anti-communist Cuban-American community, which backed Trump’s tough policies toward Havana and Caracas and helped him win the battleground state.Many analysts say Biden may have to tread carefully on Cuba policy ahead of the 2022 congressional elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sanctions-cuban-security-minister-special-forces-unit-over-protest-crackdown-101626986998985.html
23-07-2021||World||US CDC advisers mull Covid-19 boosters for immune-compromised people||Advisers to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday will consider evidence suggesting that a booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines could increase protection among people with compromised immune systems.Data presented ahead of the meeting noted that such people have a reduced antibody response following the recommended primary vaccination series compared with healthy individuals."Emerging data suggest that an additional COVID-19 vaccine dose in immunocompromised people enhances antibody response and increases the proportion who respond," slides released ahead of the meeting showed.The committee is not scheduled to vote on a recommendation for whether to administer additional doses. That could be decided at a later meeting.In small studies, short-term side effects from a third dose of mRNA vaccines - such as those made by BioNTech/Pfizer Inc or Moderna Inc - were about the same as those experienced with the first two doses, the CDC said in its presentation.An estimated 2.7% of U.S. adults live with weakened immune systems, according to the CDC presentation, based on data from 2013. The group includes people living with HIV/AIDS, cancer and people with organ transplants or autoimmune diseases who take drugs to dampen their immune response.Those individuals are at increased risk of severe disease and death from COVID-19.Last week, Israel began administering third doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine to immunocompromised people, including those who have had heart, lung, kidney or liver transplants and cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.Some experts believe the CDC is nearing a similar recommendation in the United States.The CDC has urged people with weakened immune systems to take precautions even if fully vaccinated against COVID-19.The virus not only poses an extra health risk to these people but because it takes longer for them to clear the virus, scientists believe infections could result in new variants as the pathogen continues to replicate unchecked, which some studies have shown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-advisers-mull-covid-19-boosters-for-immune-compromised-people-101626985526510.html
23-07-2021||World||FBI ignored tips on Brett Kavanaugh sexual misconduct, Senate Democrats charge||Seven Democratic senators on Thursday said that newly released materials show the FBI failed to fully investigate sexual misconduct allegations against U.S. Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh when he was nominated to the court in 2018.The senators, including Sheldon Whitehouse and Chris Coons, said a letter they received from the FBI last month shows the agency gathered over 4,500 tips relating to Kavanaugh without any apparent further action by investigators.According to that June 30 letter, written by FBI Assistant Director Jill Tyson, the most "relevant" of the 4,500 tips were referred to lawyers in President Donald Trump's White House whose handling of them remains unclear.The agency was conducting a background check, not a criminal investigation, so "the authorities, policies, and procedures used to investigate criminal matters did not apply," Tyson's letter said."If the FBI was not authorized to or did not follow up on any of the tips that it received from the tip line, it is difficult to understand the point of having a tip line at all," the Democratic lawmakers said in a letter to FBI Director Chris Wray sent on Wednesday night, which they released to the public on Thursday.Kavanaugh was the second of three jurists Republican Trump appointed to lifetime spots on the top court during his term, cementing a 6-3 conservative majority.His nomination blew up into a personal and political drama when university professor Christine Blasey Ford accused Kavanaugh of sexually assaulting her in Washington in 1982. Two other women accused him in the media of sexual misconduct in the 1980s.Kavanaugh fought back against the accusations, denying them in angry and tearful testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee that was viewed live on television by around 20 million people.Trump, ceding to a request from Senate Republican leaders, ordered the FBI to conduct a background investigation of Kavanaugh.The FBI completed its probe after speaking with 10 people, according to the Senate Judiciary Committee. Potentially key witnesses, including Ford and Kavanaugh, were never interviewed as part of the investigation, and Democratic lawmakers have long said the probe was a sham.Democrats have also alleged that the Justice Department, which the FBI is part of, was politicized under Trump and sought to advance the former president's interests.A FBI spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday. Beth Wilkinson, a lawyer who represented Kavanaugh during his confirmation battle, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Ford's lawyers, Debra Katz and Lisa Banks, said in a statement that the new revelations show the FBI investigation was of limited value."Because the FBI and Trump's White House Counsel hid the ball on this, we do not know how many of those 4,500 tips were consequential, how many of those tips supported Dr. Ford's testimony, or how many showed that Kavanaugh perjured himself during his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee," the lawyers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-ignored-tips-on-brett-kavanaugh-sexual-misconduct-senate-democrats-charge-101626983071758.html
23-07-2021||World||As Taliban advances, Afghan military overhauls war strategy to limit losses||Reeling from a surge in battlefield losses, Afghanistan's military is overhauling its war strategy against the Taliban to concentrate forces around the most critical areas like Kabul and other cities, border crossings and vital infrastructure, Afghan and U.S. officials say.The politically perilous strategy will inevitably cede territory to Taliban insurgents. But officials say it appears to be a militarily necessity as over-stretched Afghan troops try to prevent the loss of provincial capitals, which could deeply fracture the country.The consolidation of forces, which has been publicly acknowledged but not reported in such detail before, coincides with the U.S. military withdrawal ahead of a formal end to the military mission on Aug. 31, on orders from President Joe Biden.Taliban insurgents are gaining control of more and more territory, which the Pentagon estimated on Wednesday now extends to over half of half Afghanistan's district centers. The Taliban are also putting pressure on the outskirts of half of the provincial capitals, trying to isolate them.U.S. intelligence assessments have warned that the Afghan government could fall in as little as six months, U.S. officials told Reuters.One Afghan official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the "reorientation" of troops would help Kabul hold strategic territory and defend infrastructure, including a dam built with India's assistance, and major highways.But consolidating troops also means leaving other areas unguarded, a hard sell to Afghan communities or ethnic groups who will feel they are being abandoned to the Taliban."How do you communicate this to a public that has been jittery - and understandably so - over the past few weeks in which the Taliban have been taking over districts?" the Afghan official asked."Because a major part of this reorientation would entail, at least in the short term, the Taliban filling in the vacuum that we're leaving behind."U.S. Army General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the strategy would involve "giving up district centers" to protect larger population centers, like the capital Kabul. He said the Taliban appeared to have "strategic momentum.""There's a possibility of a complete Taliban takeover or a possibility of any number of other scenarios," Milley told a news conference on Wednesday, adding: "I don't think the endgame is yet written."U.S. Marine General Kenneth McKenzie, commander of U.S. Central Command, which oversees U.S. forces in Afghanistan and support to Afghan troops, said after being briefed on the plan this month the Afghans knew they had to pick their battles."You can't defend everything. If you defend everywhere, you defend nowhere. So I think the Afghans realize they need to consolidate," McKenzie said, without offering details.He noted years-old U.S. concerns about how Afghan forces were manning checkpoints, including in remote or hostile areas that are particularly vulnerable or serve little strategic value."So, I think now they're now in the process of recognizing you got to pull back, you got to consolidate, you got to defend those areas that are absolutely critical," McKenzie said.The Afghan ministry of defense did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The Taliban's swift territorial gains are rattling Afghans just as the United States withdraws from a war that succeeded in punishing al Qaeda following its Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington but failed to deliver anything close to peace for Afghanistan.Biden has promised to provide financial assistance to Afghan forces and to redouble diplomatic efforts to revive stalled peace talks.But the Taliban have not responded to calls from 15 diplomatic missions and the NATO representative in Afghanistan on Monday to halt their military offensives. The insurgents and the Afghan government also failed to agree on a ceasefire at talks in Doha for this week's Eid holidays.In the past, the Taliban have called short ceasefires for Eid, saying they wanted to let Afghans spend them in peace.U.S. military officials believe the Taliban are seeking to end the war with a battlefield victory, instead of at the negotiating table.'NOT SUSTAINABLE'For years, the U.S. military has been trying to get Afghan troops off of far-flung checkpoints - static positions that can easily be over-run by Taliban forces."Maintaining this spread out, every district is sacred mindset is simply only going to lead to more losses," said Jason Campbell, a former Pentagon official now at RAND Corporation."It's just not sustainable."The troop reorganization will require, in some cases, building new fortifications and creating new combinations of forces, the Afghan official said.But it will also demand that Afghans shift their thinking about how much they can do to respond to Taliban attacks and skirmishes, as their Air Force gets stretched and U.S. support wanes.Equally tricky for Kabul is explaining battlefield strategy in a way that doesn't offend any of Afghanistan's ethnic groups, which include Pashtuns, Tajiks, Hazaras and Uzbeks. Not all areas will receive the same level of protection.More than a quarter-million Afghans have been forced from their homes this year, according to the United Nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-taliban-advances-afghan-military-overhauls-war-strategy-to-limit-losses-101626982453303.html
23-07-2021||World||In a first, Chimpanzees spotted killing gorillas in the wild||Lethal attacks by Chimpanzees on gorillas in the wild have been observed for the first time, a team of researchers has said. The chimpanzees formed coalitions and attacked the gorillas at Loango National Park in Gabon in two encounters that lasted 52 and 79 minutes, according to the study, making it the first documented lethal coalitionary attacks by chimpanzees on another hominid species."At first, we only noticed screams of chimpanzees and thought we were observing a typical encounter between individuals of neighboring chimpanzee communities. But then, we heard chest beats, a display characteristic for gorillas, and realized that the chimpanzees had encountered a group of five gorillas," Lara M. Southern, the lead author of the study, said in a press release.Two silverbacks and adult females defended the attack and were able to escape but two gorilla infants were separated and killed by the chimpanzees. While intraspecies violence is a relatively common phenomenon in mammals, interspecies violence has mainly been investigated in the context of predation, according to the study.The authors suggested several explanations for the interspecies violence observed for the first time between chimpanzees and gorillas. Tobias Deschner, one of the co-authors, said that the increased competition among chimpanzees, gorillas and forest elephants over sharing of food resources could be the reason behind the lethal interaction. They said a scarcity of fruit in tropical forests in Gabon may have led to increased food competition."We are only at the beginning to understand the effects of competition on interactions between the two great ape species in Loango," says Simone Pika, another co-author. "Our study shows that there is still a lot to explore and discover about our closest living relatives, and that Loango National Park with its unique mosaic habitat is a unique place to do so."The study conducted by the researchers from Osnabrück University and the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, has been published in the journal Nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-first-chimpanzees-spotted-killing-gorillas-in-the-wild-101626980495004.html
23-07-2021||World||Taliban takeover not a foregone conclusion: Milley||The top US military leader on Wednesday expressed doubts if a Taliban victory is imminent in Afghanistan, contrary to a reported intelligence assessment.“There are a range of possible outcomes in Afghanistan,” General Mark Milley, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said at a Pentagon news conference with secretary of defence Lloyd Austin. “A negative outcome, a Taliban automatic military takeover, is not a foregone conclusion,” he said.“The Afghan security forces have the capacity to sufficiently fight and defend their country, and we will continue to support them where necessary in accordance with the guidance from the president and the secretary of defence,” Milley said.Asked why the Taliban with 75,000 military personnel appear to be winning against the Afghan military of 300,000 with 20 years of US training and support, Milley said “warfare is not just about numbers” but also about “will and leadership” to fight and prevail.Milley said roughly 212 district centres are under Taliban control. “That’s half of the 419 in all. And the Taliban haven’t captured yet any of the 34 provincial capitals. Although the Taliban are putting pressure on the outskirts of probably about half of them - 17 of them, in fact - and what they’re trying to do is isolate the major population centres,” Milley said.US launches airstrikes to support Afghan forcesThe US military launched airstrikes this week in support of Afghan forces fighting Taliban, including in the strategically important province of Kandahar, officials said on Thursday.The US has a variety of combat aircraft based in West Asia within range of Afghanistan. Asked by a reporter about news reports of a Navy FA-18 airstrike in the Kandahar area, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said, “In the last several days, we have acted, through airstrikes, to support the ANDSF,” using an acronym for the Afghan national defence and security forces. “But I won’t get into technical details of those strikes,” Kirby said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-takeover-not-a-foregone-conclusion-milley-101626979624538.html
23-07-2021||World||China floods: Deaths up to 33, economic loss at $189 million||Tens of thousands of people have been evacuated from the flood-hit areas of the central Chinese province of Henan with the death toll from the record rainfall rising to 33, officials said on Thursday.More cities in the province have been flooded and farmlands destroyed as the severe weather spread northwards closer to Hebei, a northern province near national capital, Beijing.Xinhua news agency reported direct economic losses of 1.22 billion yuan ($189 million) until Thursday.Torrential rain has affected about 3 million people in Henan province, severely impacting the capital city, Zhengzhou. The province has seen widespread damage to crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-floods-deaths-up-to-33-economic-loss-at-189-million-101626979433444.html
23-07-2021||World||Pegasus fallout: Israeli panel set to review NSO||Israel has set up a commission to review allegations that NSO Group’s controversial Pegasus phone surveillance software was misused, the head of the parliament’s foreign affairs and defence committee said on Thursday.“The defence establishment appointed a review commission made up of a number of groups,” lawmaker Ram Ben Barak told Army Radio. “When they finish their review, we’ll demand to see the results and assess whether we need to make corrections,” the former deputy head of Mossad spy agency added.Pegasus has been implicated in possible mass surveillance of journalists, human rights defenders and 14 heads of state.Their phone numbers were among some 50,000 potential surveillance targets on a list leaked to rights group Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories.NSO has said the leak is “not a list of targets or potential targets of Pegasus”. NSO chief executive Shalev Hulio told Army Radio on Thursday that he would “be very pleased if there were an investigation, so that we’d be able to clear our name”. He also alleged there was an effort “to smear all the Israeli cyber industry”.NSO has said it exports to 45 countries, with approval from the Israeli government. Hulio said the company could not disclose the details of its contracts due to “issues of confidentiality”, but said he would offer full transparency to any government seeking more details.Macron holds emergency meeting on cybersecurityFrench President Emmanuel Macron held an emergency cybersecurity meeting on Thursday to weigh possible government action after reports that his cellphone and those of government ministers may have been targeted by spyware.Morocco files libel suit against Amnesty, NGOMorocco has filed defamation claims against Amnesty International and a French NGO who claim its intelligence services used the Pegasus mobile phone spyware against dozens of French journalists, lawyers for the government said. Paris prosecutors opened their own inquiry this week into the claims by Amnesty and the non-profit Forbidden Stories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pegasus-fallout-israeli-panel-set-to-review-nso-101626979238397.html
23-07-2021||World||Amazon, Airbnb, UPS among major firms to face brief outage; Akamai says issues fixed||Prominent websites, including those of Amazon, Airbnb, Home Depot and United Parcel Service, faced a brief outage following a service disruption from Akamai Technologies, which handles web content delivery for many such platforms.According to DownDetector.com, a website which monitors internet outages, several users reported problems in accessing the websites of Amazon, Delta Airlines, Amazon Web Service (AWS), FedEx, UPS, Airbnb, Home Depot, US Bank and YouTube. Some gaming websites run by Microsoft and HBO’s streaming services were also affected, according to news reports.Immediately after the complaints, Akamai said that they were investigating the issue and would provide an update soon. “Akamai is experiencing a service disruption. We are actively investigating the issue and will provide an update in 30 minutes,” the company said in a tweet.Also read | Global outage hit websites of DraftKings, Airbnb, FedEx, Delta and BarclaysHowever, in a few minutes, the company also followed up with an update saying that a fix had been applied and services were resuming normally. It also said the issue would be continuously monitored to fully mitigate the impact.“We have implemented a fix for this issue, and based on current observations, the service is resuming normal operations. We will continue to monitor to ensure that the impact has been fully mitigated,” it said in a subsequent tweet.Akamai Summarizes Service Disruption (RESOLVED)At 15:46 UTC today, a software configuration update triggered a bug in the DNS system, the system that directs browsers to websites. This caused a disruption impacting availability of some customer websites. (1/3)Akamai is known for providing protection against the distributed denial of service attacks, also known as DDoS, in which a website becomes overwhelmed with junk traffic. In this case, Akamai’s Edge DNS, a product that offers cloud-based domain hosting and security services for data centres, both on-premise networks and large-scale centres, news agency Bloomberg reported.In India, companies like Zomato and Paytm were also affected due to the service disruption in Akamai. “Our app is down, due to a widespread Akamai outage. Our teams are working to ensure all orders placed are delivered asap,” Zomato said in a tweet. The company followed up with another tweet “Phew! We are back!” in a few minutes following the restoration of Akamai’s services.Digital payments platform Paytm also said that their services were affected due to the outage. “Update: Some Paytm services are affected due to global outage at Akamai. We are actively working towards a resolution,” it tweeted. Paytm’s services were also restored in a few minutes, the company confirmed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-airbnb-ups-among-major-firms-to-face-brief-outage-akamai-fixes-issues-101626978256740.html
23-07-2021||World||Afghan president Ashraf Ghani calls up slain journalist Danish Siddiqui’s father, expresses condolences||Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani on Thursday called up the father of slain Indian journalist Danish Siddiqui, who was killed last week during clashes between Afghan special forces and the Taliban while covering a story in Spin Bodlak. The president expressed his condolences to the family, friends and the colleagues of Siddiqui during the call, said Aziz Amin, special secretary to Ghani.Taking to Twitter, Amin said that president Ghani called the father of Siddiqui on Thursday afternoon and expressed his condolences. He also said that the president termed Siddiqui’s death as a “great loss for the journalism fraternity.”This afternoon, H.E President @ashrafghani called Professor Sediqi, father of @Reuters journalist late Danish Sediqi & conveyed his condolences over the death of his son to his family, friends & colleagues. Th Pres termed his death as a great loss for th journalism fraternity. pic.twitter.com/bAkVGLyfFiDanish Siddiqui was an Indian photojournalist and had won many global accolades including the Pulitzer Prize in 2018. On July 16, he was killed in the Kandahar province in Afghanistan while on duty, covering the conflict in that region for news agency Reuters.Also read | Indian journalist killed in line of duty by TalibanGhani had then expressed his shock over Siddiqui’s killing. “I am deeply saddened with the shocking reports that Reuters Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed while covering the Taliban atrocities in Kandahar,” news agency ANI quoted Ghani as saying on July 16. “While I extend my heartfelt condolences to Sidiqqui's family and also to our media family, I reiterate my government's unwavering commitment to freedom of speech and protection of free media and journalists,” he further said.However, the Taliban had said that it was not aware of how Siddiqui was killed and also said that they were “sorry” for his death.Afghanistan’s ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay, too, had expressed his condolences to Siddiqui. “Deeply disturbed by the sad news of the killing of a friend, Danish Siddiqui in Kandahar last night. The Indian Journalist & winner of Pulitzer Prize was embedded with Afghan security forces. I met him 2 weeks ago before his departure to Kabul. Condolences to his family & Reuters,” Mamundzay said in a tweet.Siddiqui was laid to rest in the graveyard at Jamia Millia Islamia university in Delhi following his family’s request.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-president-ashraf-ghani-calls-up-slain-journalist-danish-siddiqui-s-father-expresses-condolences-101626977396615.html
23-07-2021||India||Police raid residences of 4 criminals, aides in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: The Central Crime Branch police conducted raids and searches at the residences of notorious criminals and their associates in Bengaluru, on Friday. “CCB raids on active and notorious rowdies — Wilson Garden Naga, Cycle Ravi, Silent Sunil, J B Narayan — and their associates are now underway. The residences, 45 in total, of these four rowdy sheeters and their associates, are being searched,” said Sandeep Patil Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). He added that these criminals were involved in several cases of murder, extortion, land-grabbing, and illegal settlement of property disputes among others. During the raid at the residence of Naga, CCB sleuths found ₹2 lakh in cash and a dagger. They also seized weapons, cash, and property documents among other things during the raids at other places. According to a senior CCB officer, the raids are part of the police’s crackdown on rowdies in the city. Police on July 10 had raided around 2,146 homes associated with rowdies, and 1,548 people were taken into detention. During this raid, 561 rowdies were booked under various sections, which was the highest in the history of any raids in the city. Out of the 561 cases, 48 people were booked under the Arms Act for possession of weapons, 84 were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act after illegal drugs were seized and two persons have been booked for planning to execute dacoity. Around 406 were booked under other preventive sections. However, the rowdies raided on Friday were not in the city during the July 10 raid. Police in the city had intensified the crackdown after the city reported one more murder on July 19 after a rowdy sheeter identified as Joseph Babli was hacked to death inside a bank in Koramangala. Two days later, two persons – Pradeep and Ravi – were arrested for the crime. They are said to be close associates of another rowdy sheeter Shiva, who belonged to a rival gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-raid-residences-of-4-criminals-aides-in-bengaluru-101627064948945.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt gears up, rescue ops on as heavy rain batters K’taka||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday took stock of the incessant downpour in the state and directed all district-in-charge and MLAs to return, and oversee relief and rescue operations in their respective constituencies.“I direct all district in-charge ministers and MLAs to be present in their respective districts and constituencies to oversee rescue and relief efforts being carried out by district administrations,” the 75-year-old tweeted. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, the chief minister said he is in constant touch with the administrations in various districts. “I have spoken to all the deputy commissioners (DCs) of the districts where heavy rains have been reported. The DCs have told me that they are releasing water (from the reservoirs) and no damage has been done so far,” he said. Yediyurappa added that deputy chief minister Govind Karjol, who is in north Karnataka, has been directed to keep a watch on the flood-affected areas till July 25. “We are ready to face any situation with all help extended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said. Heavy downpour has been reported across the state and the regions in the coastal and north Karnataka are the worst affected. Following a rise in the water level in Krishna river, the chief minister said he spoke to the deputy commissioner of Belagavi district and directed officials to shift people and domestic animals from the banks of the river to safer areas. Officials on Friday said the shutters of Renuka Sagar Dam in Belagavi district may be opened any time as the water level stood at 2,069 feet against its capacity of 2,079 feet due to the heavy downpour. The inflow of water into the dam was over 33,000 cusecs and the outflow could go up to around 20,000 cusecs, officials said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra opened the gates of Koyna Dam to release around 20,000 cusecs of water into Koyna river, a tributary of Krishna river which flows in northern Karnataka. Parts of the Belagavi-Kolhapur national highway remained shut due to the heavy downpour.Rajashree, a resident of Belagavi district, said the van in which she was travelling along with 10 others were stranded in Nippani after the vehicle got partially submerged in the water. “We were returning home after visiting a relative when the road got flooded. Since it was 11.30 pm, we couldn’t ascertain the depth of the water. The vehicle began moving slowly but soon stopped after water entered it,” she said. It was not until police arrived that the stranded group was rescued. Several buses and vehicles were diverted from Yamagarani checkpost after parts of the national highway got flooded near Nippani. Superintendent of police Lakshman Nimbaragi requested officers in Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Haveri and Dharwad not to allow vehicular movement towards Maharashtra via Belagavi.The incessant downpour in the past two days also resulted in property destruction in some parts of the state. While two schools in Joida and Mungod taluk in Uttara Kannada district collapsed, another three in Dharwad taluk partially came down.Six bridges were also submerged along Krishna river. While Pandora, Kaneri and Kali rivers are overflowing, at least 120 villages in four districts are totally inundated. The water level in Gangavali river that flows within the western part of the state is also on the rise, creating flood-like situation in the low-lying areas of Ankola taluk.A transport link between Yellapur and Ankola was also damaged. Railway services were also impacted due to the heavy rains. Konkan Railway that connects the state to Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka cancelled several trains. All services towards the north were either suspended or rescheduled, according to a Konkan Railway communique.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-gears-up-rescue-ops-on-as-heavy-rain-batters-ktaka-101627064829552.html
23-07-2021||India||BSY reviews pending development projects||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday reviewed development works in the capital city. Talking to reporters he said that until the central leadership gives further orders, he will continue with his responsibilities. Yediyurappa, who also holds the portfolio of Bengaluru Development, conducted rounds and inspected the white-topping, Tender Sure, Smart City and other projects executed by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). He was accompanied by his cabinet colleague R Ashok and other legislators. The CM travelled in a bus on Friday morning, inspected Race Course Road near his official residence and other projects in the city. He drove through Raja Ram Mohan Roy Road, developed under the Smart City project, and inspected the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) work at Minsk Square. Speaking to reporters after inspecting developmental works that are under progress in the city, he said: “I have inspected Smart City, TenderSure and other works which are under progress along with cabinet colleagues, legislators and officials...it is our government’s priority to create world-class facilities in Bengaluru and we will work towards achieving this goal.” He said, 36 works have been taken up under the Smart City project, of which many road works have already been completed, and in the current year, the remaining road work will also be completed. Listing out roads that have been developed under the TenderSure model in the city, he further said, 69 roads of 147 km length is white-topped in order to improve the quality of the city’s main roads. “in coming days we want all the roads in the city to be developed, we will ensure sufficient funds for it, aimed at all round development of the city.” During the inspection, the chief minister also visited the new commercial street, which nearly eight months after it was taken up for redevelopment, was given a new look. The redevelopment of the 458m-long road in one of the busiest areas in Bengaluru was done at a cost of ₹5 crore under the Bengaluru Smart City Limited. The new design has been executed using cobblestones with radiant colours, said BBMP officials in their briefing to the CM. In a review meeting held on June 11, Yediyurappa had pulled up the city civic body officials. “Though I have instructed the BBMP to complete the 27 smart city projects by May 31 before the monsoon sets in, the works are incomplete, as evident from piles of mud and craters on both sides of the roads,” he told the officials during the review. During this meeting, the chief minister had asked BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta by when the pending works would be completed. Bengaluru police too had raised the issue of the delay in the development works with the chief minister during this review meeting, claiming it was slowing down the traffic. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant had told HT that the pending development works in the city is causing a problem. “Most of the roads have some construction work going on and it is further slowing down the traffic in the city. The government assured that this issue will be taken up with civic authorities,” Pant said on Friday. While most of the works still remain incomplete, the BBMP officials told the chief minister that considerable improvement has been made. Instructions were provided to finish the work within the revised deadline, said the chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-reviews-pending-development-projects-101627064769992.html
23-07-2021||India||Siddaramaiah seeks SC leader as next CM||Bengaluru: A day after chief minister BS Yediyurappa hinted at a possible exit, former chief minister and senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Friday challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to name a leader from the Scheduled Caste as its next chief minister. “Based on whatever directions are given by the party leadership on (July) 26, I will begin my work. There will be a special event on our government completing two years in power. After attending this event, whatever directions are given by the party leadership, I will abide by it,” Yediyurappa said on Thursday. Reacting to this development, Siddaramaiah on Friday said: “Nalin Kumar Kateel (state BJP president) had challenged to appoint a Dalit as the CM candidate. From our party four SC leaders had been the chief ministers in the past like- Shinde (Sushilkumar Shinde) in Maharashtra, Jagannath Pahadia in Rajasthan and Damodaram Sanjeevaiah in Andhra Pradesh,” Siddaramaiah said. He told reporters in Mangaluru that since there is an opportunity, BJP should appoint an SC chief minister. “Yediyurappa will be removed now, there is an opportunity for them (BJP), let them do it. Anyways the (chief minister’s) seat will get vacant after Yediyurappa’s exit, let them do so if they have love towards SCs. They (BJP) don’t respect social justice, but question others,” he added. Responding to a question on Lingayat seers demanding for Yediyurappa’s continuation as the chief minister, Siddaramaiah said that it was not right on the part of pontiffs to interfere in the internal affairs of any party. “Pontiffs, from whichever community they may be, should not meddle in politics. The mandate and the opinion of the people are most important in a democracy,” he said. Siddaramaiah also said that the Congress party will not allow the defectors to return to the party. The statement comes after six, who had joined the BJP after quitting the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019, on Thursday went into the chief minister’s cabin after the cabinet meeting with some paper, leading to speculations of them resigning. “I have already clarified on it in the Legislature party meeting, and I’m committed to keeping my word,” Siddaramaiah said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar in Mangaluru reiterated his stand that those who want to come back to the Congress may submit applications. “Let us discuss it after they apply. There are many who wish to come to the party fold. I do not wish to name them,” he said. However, one of the turncoat MLAs and current health minister Dr K Sudhakar dismissed the rumours of resignation. that H “Why should we resign? We have come to BJP accepting Yediyurappa’s leadership and party’s principles and ideology, and we will abide by the party high command’s decision,” he said. “After the cabinet meeting my colleagues and I, as usual, met the Chief Minister at his chamber and came out. I inquired with the Chief Minister about the ongoing developments (about his exit), to which he said- he will abide by the direction the high command will give him on July 25 and let’s build the party together,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-seeks-sc-leader-as-next-cm-101627064768957.html
23-07-2021||India||‘No delay in initiating purchase pacts with domestic Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers’: Centre||There has been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with domestic Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers and advance payments have been made for the supply orders, minister of state of health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar told Parliament on Friday.The minister’s written reply came in response to an unstarred question raised by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress’s Mala Roy on whether the government has taken note of a significant delay in entering into advance purchase agreements with vaccine manufacturers, thereby affecting the pace of the vaccine rollout.Pawar also said that a total of 1.35 billion (135 crore) Covid-19 vaccine doses are expected to be available in the country between August and December.On being asked whether the government aims to inoculate the entire adult population by the end of the year, the minister said it is an ongoing process guided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) based on scientific evidence.She said ₹9,725.19 crore has been spent so far on the vaccination programme, in the form of procurement of vaccines and the operational costs.The Congress responded on Twitter by saying that it exposed the government’s lies. “Modi Govt’s lies exposed in reply to Shri Rahul Gandhi’s question in Parliament on #Vaccination: Govt says - 1. No fixed Timeline can be indicated for completion of vaccine drive ! 2. Only 9,725 Crore spent on #COVID19 Vaccination drive against budget of 35,000 crore,’’ tweeted Congress leader Randeep Surjewala.While replying to another question, which was posed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Dayanidhi Maran, the minister of state claimed, “ The government is not facing any issues in procurement and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines.”She also said in her reply that the government has “taken many steps to augment the domestic manufacturing capacity of Covid-19 vaccine”.Dr Pawar said that the government is providing support to Bharat Biotech and three Public Sector Enterprises (PSES) under Mission Covid Suraksha, the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission. Financial assistance is being given to one of the domestic vaccine manufacturers for ‘at-risk manufacturing’, paying manufacturers in advance against supply orders placed and streamlining regulatory norms for approval of vaccines.Dr Pawar’s previous statement that there were no records of oxygen-related deaths during the second wave caused a furore with the Opposition moving a breach of privilege notice against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-delay-in-initiating-purchase-pacts-with-domestic-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers-centre-101627063689428.html
23-07-2021||India||Odisha prosecutor with a record for getting corrupt convicted sacked for bribery||Bhubaneswar: Odisha’s anti-corruption department has sacked a special public prosecutor who was allegedly caught red-handed accepting a bribe of ₹1 lakh earlier this month, a senior government official said on Friday.Odisha’s director of vigilance YK Jethwa said the government has terminated the services of Ashutosh Mishra, special public prosecutor of a vigilance court in Kalahandi.Jethwa said he was caught accepting a ₹1 lakh bribe from an assistant sub inspector of police who was chargesheeted in a corruption case.Vigilance officials searched Ashutosh Mishra’s house in Bhawanipatna town of Kalahandi after his arrest and was found to own assets worth Rs. 85 lakh. He was later also charged with possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, the department said after his arrest on July 3. This is the first case in Odisha vigilance in which a prosecutor was arrested for demanding money.Mishra had served as a prosecutor in Kalahandi for nearly 11 years. Officials said Mishra had among the highest rate of convictions as a special public prosecutor over the past decade and had received many appreciation letters in this context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-prosecutor-with-a-record-for-getting-corrupt-convicted-sacked-for-bribery-101627063570581.html
23-07-2021||India||Blaze of hope for India as Tokyo flame is lit||The Tokyo night sky lit up as the outer rim of Japan’s National Stadium exploded in a shower of blue and white sparks, and the most unusual Olympic Games in decades were declared open.Inside the stadium, which can seat up to 68,000 people but where the stands were empty, spotlights picked out isolated athletes — one running on a treadmill, one on a cycling machine — to signify the tribulations the roughly 11,000 athletes at Tokyo 2020 have had to endure to get to this moment. Lockdowns, quarantines, the cancellation of entire sporting seasons — training through it all, often alone at home, in the hope of making it to a Covid-era Olympics, which, for long, were under threat of not happening at all. In keeping with the times, the ceremony itself was quicker and quieter than usual — instead of the usual torrent of celebrity performances and high-wire acts, it involved relatively low-key dance routines and fewer songs. When there was a pause in the music, the stadium was first engulfed in eerie silence, before noise from the hundreds of protesters gathered outside, demonstrating against the Games, seeped in.Then it was time for the athlete’s parade, where everyone who walked out was unified by a common accessory — the face mask. Boxer Mary Kom and India hockey captain Manpreet Singh carried the Indian flag, followed by a small group of 16 athletes from the 207-strong contingent, the largest ever. This is the first time each nation nominated not one but two flag-bearers (each contingent was encouraged to name one man and one woman). The ceremony ended with Japan’s tennis star Naomi Osaka lighting the flower-shaped Olympic cauldron, jogging up the steps of a temporary Mount Fuji erected in the stadium.Many from the Indian contingent were not just missing from the opening ceremony because of Covid-19 protocols, but also because the first full day of competition on Saturday is packed with action.Action, and anticipation. There has never been an Olympics where India has the opportunity to win not one, but a handful of medals on the first day. Consider the Indians in action in the medal events on Saturday: Elavenil Valarivan and Apurvi Chandela in 10m Air Rifle, where they have rotated the world No. 1 tag amongst themselves over the last two years. Valarivan, making her Olympic debut, is the number one seed in Tokyo in her event. That event will be closely followed by men’s 10m Air Pistol where India’s two shooters — Abhishek Verma and Saurabh Chaudhary — are seeded 1 and 2. “On paper looks so, so good,” Abhinav Bindra, India’s only Olympic gold medallist (10m Air Rifle), told HT earlier this month. “A gold medal match between India A vs India B would be wonderful,” he said. In fact, India won more medals in the 2019 shooting World Cup cycle than powerhouses such as Russia and China, an unprecedented feat (the 2020 cycle was sunk by the pandemic). But wait, there is no time to breathe: at around the same time as the men’s pistol, Mirabai Chanu will be competing in the 49kg weightlifting event, where she holds the world record for the clean & jerk, and is ranked No 2 in the world. The medal events for India conclude with Deepika Kumari, the No. 1 ranked woman archer in the world, pairing with first-time Olympian Pravin Jadhav in mixed team archery. At no other time in India’s weary history at the Olympics have there been more Indians ranked within the global top 3 in their sports going into the Games. This day could go one of two ways for India. Medals are won on the day, of course, which means that despite the trail of superb performances these athletes bring to the Olympic stage, there is a possibility that there will be no medals. If that happens, it may lower the morale of the entire contingent. But if performances go according to plan, it may also set an unprecedented tone for India’s Olympic campaign: one of great self-belief and determination, a state of mind that could open the gates for what could possibly be India’s best haul ever at the Games. In this, the eerily quiet atmosphere of Tokyo 2020 may even help Indian athletes, many of whom are on this stage for the first time (of the 15-strong shooting team, 11 are Olympic debutants). “You feel the aura and the atmosphere that exists in an Olympic arena and in an Olympic competition. In that sensory overload you are going to cognitively decline and that’s going to affect your performance,” Bindra had said earlier. “But here, you’re pretty much locked into your room and are going to compete. So it’s much closer to a normal tournament that you’re used to, so it should play up to our advantage,” he said. In Rio, India had to wait till almost the end of the Games — the 12th day — for the first medal, which came from an athlete flying under the radar till then, Sakshi Malik. This time, things could unfold very differently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blaze-of-hope-for-india-as-tokyo-flame-is-lit-101627063089324.html
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus issue continues to rock House||The Rajya Sabha suspended Trinamool Congress member Santanu Sen for the rest of the ongoing monsoon session for “unruly and unbecoming behaviour” a day after he snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw who was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to target politicians, activists and journalists. But Sen refused to leave the chamber, adding to the ongoing disruptions, and forced repeated adjournments. The House can’t function if a suspended MP remains present as the member is barred from participating in proceedings. In last year’s monsoon session, eight Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended under the same rule for the unruly protests against the three contentious bills on agriculture reforms. As the opposition-led protests over allegations of snooping, farm laws and fuel price hike continued, little business could be transacted in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. But amidst this chaos , the Lower House gave an extension to the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. The panel’s report is now expected to be tabled in the first week of the 2021 winter session. PP Chaudhary of the BJP was also appointed as its chairperson last evening. The seat fell vacant after the appointment of the previous chairperson, Meenakshi Lekhi, as a minister this month. According to PRS Legislative Research, “Private Member’s Business was scheduled in the Lok Sabha and more than 200 Private Members’ Bills were listed for introduction on Friday”. These included bills on population control and a bill to regulate Indian intelligence agencies. But the Lok Sabha was adjourned earlier in the day. Union minister V Muraleedharan moved a motion for Sen’s suspension, saying the TMC lawmaker’s behaviour had brought “disrepute” to the house. Naidu allowed the motion, which was subsequently passed in the House. Sen refused to leave the House even as he was asked to exit multiple times by Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. TMC’s chief whip, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, objected to the motion, saying it was not on the list of business of the House. Roy said TMC was given no time to prepare.“We have had no opportunity to react to the government’s motion to suspend Shantanu Sen,” he said. Naidu countered Ray’s objections. He said the motion was approved as it was a question of the “dignity of the House”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-issue-continues-to-rock-house-101627063088783.html
23-07-2021||India||At least 50 dead in rain-related incidents in western India||At least 50 people were reported dead and thousands displaced because of heavy rains in coastal Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa in the past 24 hours even as India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for the entire western coast predicting heavy rains over the weekend.The entire western coastal region from Maharashtra to Kerala has received very heavy rainfall in the past 24 hours, leaving 47 people dead in Maharashtra (36 in a landslide in Raigard district). Eleven people on board a bus had a narrow escape as they were rescued just before the vehicle got washed away into a river in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra early on Friday, police said.At 9 pm on Thursday, the IMD warned that “very intense spells of short duration” would occur over parts of the western coast. As predicted, the areas received very heavy rainfall with some areas receiving up to 600 mm of rainfall in four to five hours. Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district recorded the highest ever rainfall in its history with 600mm in 24 hours.Many regions in Goa and North Karnataka received up to 300 mm with Valpoi in Sattari receiving 296.2 mm and Belagavi in Karnataka receiving 278 mm of rainfall, respectively. The IMD has predicted heavy rainfall in the next five days.Even though Maharashtra bore the maximum brunt of the rainfall, three persons died in northern Karnataka and one in Goa as villages in the coastal region got submerged in rainwater and authorities had to open gates of the dam to release excess water.Dr Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada are facing the brunt of floods due to incessant rains over the past few days.The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and many others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka are in spate, said the KSDMA officer.Details shared by him showed that 131 villages in 18 Taluks are badly hit, affecting 16,213 people. While three people lost their lives, two are missing, he added. Sixty-five bridges, 10 schools and a primary health centre were damaged, while 291.03 km of roads were washed away.So far, 8,733 people have been evacuated to safety and about 4,964 people are staying across 80 relief camps. Landslides were reported in eight places, including Virajpet in Kodagu district and Arabail Ghat in Uttara Kannada district, the officer said.Karnataka chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, who reviewed the flood situation with top officials on Friday, directed all district in-charge ministers and MLAs to oversee relief work in their areas. He said the government would extend all necessary support to relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorms.In Goa, the overnight heavy rainfall inundated houses, leaving hundreds of stranded homes flooded, communication lines snapped and rail and road traffic disrupted. Chief Minister Dr Pramod Sawant inspected the areas flooded due to incessant rains in various parts of Bicholim taluka, another of the affected taluks and directed the officials to provide immediate assistance to people in distress. 23 people in Harvalem in Bicholim were rescued and brought to safety.A bridge in Paikul Sattari washed away cutting the village off from the mainstream while at least three incidents of houses collapsing after being inundated by floodwaters were reported from different parts of Goa.In a related incident, the engine and a passenger coach of the Mangaluru Jn-Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Express Spl (which was running o­n the diverted route via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj due to overflow of Vashishti River between Chiplun and Kamathe), suffered a derailment between Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section along the steep slope of the Western Ghats.“No passenger casualty has been reported (no injury/death). The passengers of the affected coach have been shifted to other coaches. The train is being pulled back to Kulem, and has crossed Sonaulim at this time,” the South Western Railway, which operates the railway line said, in a statement.Roads connected Goa, North Karnataka and parts of Maharashtra have also been cut off due to landslides halting the flow of traffic. Several villages in Valpoi, Bicholim, Pernem and Ponda talukas were cut off after the roads leading to the villages got affected.Traffic on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway remained suspended on Friday after part of the stretch witnessed inundation near Shiroli under Kolhapur district and Yamgarni village in Belgaum district. This prompted local police to block the vehicular traffic from crossing the stretch.According to Kolhapur Superintendent of Police Shailesh Balkawade, water has started coming on the highway near Shiroli village. “As a part of precaution, the road has been closed for vehicular traffic,” said Balkawade. “Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Our people have faced immense hardship due to continuous and heavy rainfall in Sattari,” health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents the Valpoi constituency, said.However, the release of excess water in dams in Maharashtra and Karnataka brought some relief in flooding areas even though it caused a scare among people downstream. Both Maharashtra and Karnataka governments warned people living downstream of rivers to be cautious of the sudden flow of water from the dams. About 2.5 lakh cusec of water was released from Almatti dam in Karnataka on Friday afternoon.In northern India, rains continued in parts of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. Three children drowned in swollen rivers in Haldwani and Rudrapur areas of Kumaon in two separate incidents, police said. Although no casualty was reported from Himachal, rains caused landslides leading to blockade of traffic on several roads, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-50-dead-in-rain-related-incidents-in-western-india-101627062971689.html
23-07-2021||India||Over 60 killed as west India hit by heavy rain||At least 61 people were killed and more than 120 others were missing on Friday after heavy rain pummelled the Konkan and Western Maharashtra region for two days, triggering landslides and flooding several villages where rescue operations were mounted.The hardest hit were villages in Raigad, where a portion of a hillock flattened most of the Taliye village late on Thursday. At least 32 houses were buried and, as on Friday evening, 36 bodies were pulled out from the debris.“Around 80-85 people are missing. Many are still trapped under debris. NDRF (national disaster response force), local agencies and others are carrying out rescue operations,” said Maharashtra’s urban development and PWD minister Eknath Shinde.Another landslide in a different Raigad village, Kevanale, killed 11 people district officials said.In Satara district, seven people were killed in multiple landslides and 30 more were still missing. In Ratnagiri’s Posare village, three persons were killed after a portion of hillock gave away while 14 persons were still reported missing.“Unexpected very heavy rainfall triggered landslides in many places and flooded rivers,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told journalists in the afternoon.Four people were killed when a house collapsed in a slum in state capital Mumbai on Friday.Parts the state received up to 59.4cm of rainfall over 24 hours, forcing authorities to evacuate people from vulnerable areas as they released water from dams that were threatening to overflow, Reuters reported. Some of the people who were rescued on Friday were stranded on rooftops and even on the top of buses.“There are reports of landslides in other parts of the state and my appeal to everyone is to stay safe. Those living in risky terrain should move to safer places,” said Thackeray.The meteorological department has issued red alerts for several regions in the state, indicating that heavy rainfall will continue for the next few days.State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said villagers at Taliye were alerted and moved to safer locations earlier in the week in anticipation of heavy rain following the India Meteorological Department’s red alert. “But the locals moved back to the same place before the landslide,” said Wadettiwar.Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari confirmed around 32 houses were buried under soil, and 10 people survived with moderate injuries. “Based on the information from locals and survivors, we can say almost 30-35 people are still feared trapped. We have pressed more rescuers into service to search people trapped under the debris,” said Choudhari.Raigad district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said while the landslide occurred on Thursday, rescue operations could begin only the following day due to lack of visibility.In Satara, landslides were reported at Ambeghar, Mirgaon, Dhokawale, Devrukhwadi – Kondhawale, Renganwadi, and Hombardi.“We have recovered six bodies so far, while 30 persons are still missing. The search operation is underway on war-footing though heavy rains in many parts are creating hurdles” said Satara district collector Shekhar Singh.“At Ambeghar, four houses were buried under soil following a landslide and there are 16 people feared trapped, while in Mirgaon, three houses were affected and 12 people are feared trapped. Separately, four persons have been reported missing at Dhokawale,” said Singh.Satara superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Bansal said the continuous rains have also flooded the roads, cutting several of these villages off and making rescue work difficult.Patan, along with neighbouring Mahabaleshwar, received record rainfall on Thursday. According to IMD, Mahabaleshwar recorded 60 cm rainfall within 24 hours ending Friday morning, a record for the hill station.Several states and regions along the West coast have been hit hard. Road connectivity in Goa and north Karnataka have been cut off and traffic on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway was suspended on Friday after part of the stretch was inundated near Shiroli under Kolhapur district. This prompted local police to block the vehicular traffic from crossing the stretch.In Goa, the overnight heavy rainfall inundated houses, left hundreds stranded, snapped communication lines and disrupted rail and road traffic.In Karnataka, parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada were inundated. The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka were in spate due to heavy rains, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-60-killed-as-west-india-hit-by-heavy-rain-101627062308736.html
23-07-2021||India||Kerala CM Vijayan tightens Covid-19 restrictions; State, central government offices to function with reduced attendance||The Kerala government on Friday announced additional Covid-19 related restrictions in the state as the test positivity rate (TPR) continued to increase in the past few days. The new restrictions came as the state already had announced weekend restrictions to control the transmission of the virus.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday asked central and state government offices to function with reduced attendance. “In the context of the Covid spread, Central and State Government Offices, Public Offices, Public Sector Undertakings, Companies, Commissions, and Corporation offices in Category A and B local bodies can function with up to 50 per cent of staff and up to 25 per cent in Category C areas. Only essential services will operate in Category D. The remaining 50 per cent staff A and B places and 75 per cent in C, and officers from all sectors should be involved in Covid prevention activities,” news agency ANI quoted Vijayan as saying. Vijayan also directed the district collectors to take responsibility for the allocation of work.Also read | Kerala imposes complete lockdown on July 24, 25; mass Covid-19 testing planned at districts with high positivity rate﻿“Since only essential services operate in the D category, the vast majority of employees will be part of the preventive measures. Areas with a high prevalence of the disease are considered clusters. At the same time, a micro-containment system will be introduced,” he said.Stressing on the need for vaccination against Covid-19, Vijayan also said his government could inoculate 60% of the people if adequate supply is maintained by the Union government. “To avoid the possibility of the Covid third wave, we are speeding up vaccination. If we get an adequate number of vaccines from the Centre, at the pace of vaccination carried out in the state, 60% of Kerala's population can be vaccinated,” he addedOn Friday, 17,518 people tested positive for the disease in Kerala while 132 more succumbed to their illness. So far, 3,235,533 cases have been reported and the death toll stood at 15,871, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The average test positivity rate stood at 12.1% for the past three days. Also, the positivity rate was found to be above 10% in 11 districts, among which, Malappuram had the highest at 17%.Meanwhile, a campaign to immunise pregnant women in the state against Covid-19 is underway, CM Vijayan said, and so far about 40,000 women have been inoculated. “So far, 17,709,529 people have been vaccinated. Of these, 12,464,589 received a single dose of vaccine and 5,244,940 have received both doses,” he further said.Experts warned about Kerala’s lockdown model and also the relaxation given by the state government for three days on July 18, 19 and 20 on the occasion of Bakrid. The Supreme Court too had said the relaxations were “totally uncalled for” warning the government against an increase in the number of cases. Following this, the state government on Wednesday had announced two days of complete lockdown over the weekend on July 24 and 25. Also, the health department was directed to conduct mass testing across the disease on Friday.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-tightens-covid-19-restrictions-state-central-government-offices-to-function-with-reduced-attendance-101627061790030.html
23-07-2021||India||Second wave not over: Health min says 9 states have more than 10k active cases||The health ministry on Friday asked citizens to strictly adhere to Covid-19 preventative measures as the second wave of Covid-19 is still not over and there are at least nine states which have more than 10,000 active Covid-19 cases.Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry while hosting an orientation-cum-interaction session for officers and field reporters with UNICEF stressed on the need of exercising caution as the nation recovers from the second wave of Covid-19.Agarwal while addressing the event underlined that the fight against the pandemic is a long-drawn battle and said that there is no scope for complacency in the fight against Covid-19. He said that the virus will strike back as soon as people become complacent. Agarwal also asked members of the media to play a positive role and encourage people to get vaccinated. He said that the media can play a huge role in helping people overcome vaccine hesitancy by busting myths and fake news.Agarwal said that the nation has been able to record higher recoveries and lower the total number of active cases with a focus on containment and clinical management. He also emphasized that mental health during the pandemic should be addressed and asked mediapersons to address it by engaging with subject experts from state and at national level. He also said that community-led positive initiatives and role models are necessary for vaccinating large numbers of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-wave-not-over-health-min-says-9-states-have-more-than-10k-active-cases-101627059704866.html
23-07-2021||India||A $1.2 million deal, 20 lakh subscribers: Mumbai Police's new revelations about Raj Kundra's business||The Mumbai Police on Friday made some new revelations about the functioning of the porn racket which was allegedly being run by Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband businessman Raj Kundra. Seeking an extension of his police custody, which was granted by the district court on Friday, Mumbai Police revealed some of the findings of its investigation.Here are the latest findings of the police investigation:> The Hotshots app, the paid porn-streaming app which is at the centre of the alleged racket, had 20 lakh subscribers.> Earlier, the Mumbai Police revealed that from WhatsApp chats they have come to know that Kundra was planning to take Hotshots down last year before it was blacklisted by Google Play Store and Apple for its objectionable content. Now Police have revealed that Kundra had plans to sell 119 adult films to an individual for a sum of $1.2 million. This was an international deal. Police are yet to find out whether the deal was materialised.Mumbai Police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app case> A South Africa-based sports betting firm transferred money into Kundra's bank account which has raised the suspicion whether the money earned from Hotshots was also being channelised to online sports betting.> Mumbai Police informed the court on Friday that it wants to probe the transactions between Raj Kundra's Yes Bank account and the United Bank of Africa.> Between August 2019 and November 2020, Hotshots earned a net profit of GBP 4,000 to 10,000 per month.> After Mumbai Police began the investigation, the employees were asked to remove all data related to the Hotshots app.> Actor Shilpa Shetty was also a director at Raj Kundra's firm for some time. Hence, a team of the investigating officers on Friday went to her residence and recorded her statement. Earlier, Mumbai police told that Shilpa Shetty prima facie had no link with Kundra's porn racket. During Friday's visit, Police seized a laptop from the residence, reports said. Raj Kundra on Friday moved the high court against the order of police remand till July 27. In his plea, it was said that Hotshots' content was not pornographic as it did not deal with explicit sexual action. The content was vulgar like many online streaming platforms, his lawyer said. In the plea, his lawyer termed his arrest as illegal as he was not served a notice and was arrested on the pretext of interrogation. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-1-2-million-deal-20-lakh-subscribers-mumbai-police-s-new-revelations-about-raj-kundra-s-business-101627059878304.html
23-07-2021||India||'Can't be speculated': What health ministry said about Delta and Covid 3rd wave in Lok Sabha||The Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2, which was first found in India in October 2020 and has now become one of the reasons for the present global resurgence of Covid cases, was discussed in Parliament on Friday as minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha that it can't be speculated whether Delta can drive another wave in India.Delta was one of the major reasons for the second wave of the pandemic which swept the country in April-May, but whether the variant alone can bring another wave can't be speculated, the minister said. The surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible populations, including a host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions like vaccination, the minister said in her written reply."Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to be more transmissible than other variants of concern. However, it cannot be speculated that this variant by itself can give rise to third wave of COVID-19 in the country since the surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible population including host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions including vaccination," the minister said.'Two reasons may drive third wave'In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said the third wave may occur either because of mutations in the virus or due to the available pool of a susceptible population. "There is however no scientific evidence either from India or globally, to show that children get disproportionately infected with Co-19 including the Delta variant. Children, if infected, generally remain asymptomatic or exhibit mild symptoms and do not get a severe disease," Mandaviya stated, giving details of the preparedness of the Centre to fight a possible third wave.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-be-speculated-what-health-ministry-said-about-delta-and-covid-3rd-wave-in-lok-sabha-101627056911189.html
23-07-2021||India||Bharat Biotech cancels Covaxin deals with 2 Brazil firms after graft row, says will work with govt regulator||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Friday announced that it has terminated the memorandum of understanding regarding its anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin with Brazil's Precisa Medicamentos, but the company will continue to work with the government healthcare authority Anvisa to get all the required approvals for the use of Covaxin in Brazil. The decision comes after the Brazil government suspended the deal to procure 20 million doses of Covaxin facing graft allegations.Both the Bolsonaro government in Brazil and India's Bharat Biotech faced a massive controversy over the Covaxin deal as whistleblowers from Brazil's health ministry alleged that though Pfizer was offering its vaccines at a lower price, the government was dealing with Bharat Biotech.The Bolsonaro government denied any wrongdoing as the government said it had not paid anything to Bharat Biotech, which the vaccine maker confirmed and said that it did not send any vaccine to Brazil.For selling Covaxin in Brazil, Bharat Biotech entered into an agreement with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C. The agreement was signed on November 20, 2020, before it was granted emergency authorisation in the country. Bharat Biotech earlier said that it got 'emergency use approval' on June 4, but later it was clarified that on June 4, Anvisa authorised exceptional import of Covaxin vaccine by the ministry of health for distribution and use under controller conditions."The Company has terminated the said MOU with immediate effect. Notwithstanding such termination, Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with ANVISA, the Brazilian drug regulatory body to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin," Bharat Biotech said in a statement.After the Brazil government cancelled the deal, Bharat Biotech clarified that its international price was already in the public knowledge. The global pricing was set between $15-20 and it offered Covaxin to the Brazil government at a rate of $15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-cancels-mou-with-brazil-s-precisa-says-will-work-with-govt-regulator-101627054273770.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai Police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app caseA team of Mumbai Police, which is investigating the alleged porn racket case involving businessman Raj Kundra's Hotshots app, on Friday recorded Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's statement regarding the case. Read moreGovt expects all beneficiaries above 18 years to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by December 2021The Union government on Friday informed Parliament that it is expected that all beneficiaries in India above 18 years of age will be vaccinated against the disease by December 2021. Read moreIs reopening schools in India risky now? What experts, government saidSeveral states have declared dates to reopen schools in July-August after over one year of online classes. This reopening is for the second time after the pandemic struck in March 2020. Read moreAll eyes on Elavenil and Saurabh as Indian shooters launch medal quest in TokyoOn Saturday, July 24, 2021, the Shooting competitions of the Tokyo Games get underway with two of the 15 finals lined up and four Indian shooters on show. Read moreShilpa Shetty urges fans to watch Hungama 2 as Raj Kundra gets sent to jail, says 'film shouldn’t suffer'Shilpa Shetty has urged her fans and followers to watch her movie, Hungama 2. Up for release on Disney+ Hotstar on Friday, Hungama 2 marks Shilpa's comeback to acting after many years. Read moreTokyo Olympics 2020: Tweet about wood used to make the logo impresses peopleThe Olympic Games have officially began in Japan’s Tokyo after being delayed by a year due to the coronavirus pandemic. This is, however, not the first time the capital city has hosted Olympics. Read moreAmazon Prime Day Sale 2021: Smartwatches under ₹5,000 that can track your SpO2 levelsIt has been more than a year since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, and the fight against the novel virus is far from over. Even though people are getting vaccinated worldwide, there is an increased concern triggered by the latest reports about the virus mutating. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-police-record-shilpa-shetty-s-statement-in-raj-kundra-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101627052872722.html
23-07-2021||India||PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of those killed in Maha landslides||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a relief of ₹2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who died due to the landslide in Maharashtra’s Raigad. The Prime Minister’s Office said that those who have been injured in the landslides.The Maharashtra government announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh for the kin of people who died in landslides in the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also expressed grief at the loss of lives.President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed his condolences and said he was saddened by the news of the loss of lives due to the heavy rainfall in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Satara districts.Several politicians including Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi also extended their condolences towards those who lost their lives in the landslide. Rahul Gandhi appealed to party workers to assist in relief and rescue work in the region.At least 36 people were killed in a landslide in Taliye village on Friday and the same amount of people are feared to be trapped in the debris. The incident occurred on Thursday evening where at least 32 houses were destroyed in the landslide.In Chiplun, water levels rose up to 12 feet after the region received 24 hours of uninterrupted rain causing the Vashishti river to overflow. The rescue operations undertaken by the NDRF are going on. NDRF officials have said that the rescue operations will continue for some time.At least 129 people have died due to rain-related incidents in Maharashtra over the last two days. An official of the Maharashtra government told news agency PTI that most of the deaths are from the Raigad region. At least 27 people died in Western Maharashtra's Satara district and fatalities were reported from Gondia and Chandrapur as well.No relief is in sight as the India Meteorological Department issued a red alert earlier today for Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg and Pune, Satara and Kolhapur all of which have been pounded by incessant rain in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-those-killed-in-maha-landslides-101627052827257.html
23-07-2021||India||Howrah to New Delhi in 12 hours, trains to run at 160 kmph in Bihar, UP under 'Mission Raftaar'||Trains passing through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand on the existing Howrah-New Delhi rail route will run at a speed of 160 kilometres per hour, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. The infrastructure for increasing the average speeds of passenger trains on the Howrah-Delhi route is being improved as a part of ‘Mission Raftaar’ announced in the Railway Budget 2016-2017.Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer for East Central Railway, told Live Hindustan that the speed of trains on the Grand Chord railway section will increase from 130 to 160 kmph. After the completion of the ongoing project under ‘Mission Raftaar’, the distance between Delhi and Howrah could be covered in just 12 hours.An estimated ₹6,975 crore will be spent on the improvement of infrastructure for achieving such high speed on the 1,500 km long Grand Chord rail section, reported Live Hindustan. In the current financial year, the ECR has reportedly been allocated ₹408 crore for maintenance work.In 2019, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved two projects for raising the speed to 160 kmph on New Delhi- Mumbai and New Delhi-Howrah routes. These corridors are part of Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals of Indian Railways which carry 52% of total passenger traffic and 58% of total freight traffic.The action plan to improve mobility and increase average speeds of passengers and freight trains includes removal of speed restrictions, construction of Road Over Bridges and Road Under Bridges, right powering of trains and replacement of conventional trains by Main Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) trains and Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) trains, according to the then minister of railways Piyush Goyal in a written reply to Lok Sabha in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/howrah-to-new-delhi-in-12-hours-trains-to-run-at-160-kmph-in-bihar-up-under-mission-raftaar-101627052292465.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt expects all beneficiaries above 18 years to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by December 2021||The Union government on Friday informed Parliament that there was no fixed timeline at present for the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive due to the “dynamic and evolving” nature of the disease. However, the government also said it is expected that all beneficiaries in India above 18 years of age will be vaccinated against the disease by December 2021.“The COVID-19 vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, which is being guided by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID- 19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of concurrent scientific evidence. In view of the dynamic and evolving nature of COVID-19 pandemic, no fixed timeline at present can be indicated for the completion of vaccination drive, however, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha.Also read | Govt’s expert group in talks with Pfizer for their vaccine, says Union health ministerMandaviya further said that as per the latest guidelines for vaccination, all citizens above 18 years of age are entitled to free vaccination at all government centres. He said this in reply to a question about whether the government has decided to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to the entire population free of cost on a priority basis.The revised guidelines for the implementation of the national Covid vaccination programme came into effect on June 21 in India. Following this, the government of India procured 75% of the doses produced in the country by the vaccine makers, while the remaining 25% was allowed to be provided directly to direct hospitals.States and Union territories are allotted vaccine doses based on their target population, consumption pattern and vaccine wastage, the minister further said. He also said that 34.83 crore doses of the vaccine have been given free of cost by the centre to the states.When asked if states had kept up the pace of vaccination and about vaccine wastage, the minister said that between May 1 and July 13 this year, 249,000 doses of the vaccine have been wasted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-expects-all-beneficiaries-above-18-years-to-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-by-december-2021-101627052460179.html
23-07-2021||India||Mumbai Police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app case||A team of Mumbai Police, which is investigating the alleged porn racket case involving businessman Raj Kundra's Hotshots app, on Friday recorded Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's statement regarding the case, news agency ANI reported. On Friday, Kundra's police custody was extended till July 27, against which Raj Kundra has moved the high court. The police team visited the Juhu residence of the Bollywood actor to record her statement.The investigation into a porn racket which began in February this year snowballed into a major controversy after Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra was arrested on July 20. It has been alleged that in collaboration with a UK-based company, which is owned by Raj Kundra's brother-in-law, Raj was operating a paid, porn streaming platform. It has also been alleged that young women have been exploited by the racket on the promises of acting roles.'No direct sexual act shown': Raj Kundra moves high court, says arrest over porn film allegation illegalSeveral Bollywood personalities have given statements in favour and against the app.Following Raj Kundra's arrest, joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe said on Tuesday that Shilpa Shetty did not have an active role in the operation of Hotshots. "We have not been able to any find any active role (of Shilpa Shetty) yet. We are investigating. We will appeal to the victims to come forward and contact the Crime Branch Mumbai and we'll take appropriate action," Bharambe had said.So far, 11 people have been arrested in connection with the case. It has been alleged that Kundra had an inkling of a possible investigation against him and was planning to wrap up the functioning of Hotshots and launch another streaming app. The Anti-Corruption Bureau of Maharashtra said they have received emails alleging that Raj Kundra has been evading arrest by bribing Mumbai Police. Reports said he has paid  ₹25 lakh to police officials as a bribe.Raj Kundra, however, has not admitted to any wrongdoing and has moved the high court against his police remand till next Tuesday. His lawyers have said that the content of Hotshots are vulgar like many other streaming apps, but can't be classified as pornography as they don't deal with an explicit sexual act.Since Raj Kundra's arrest, Shilpa Shetty did not make any official statement. She was off social media as well. On Friday, she posted a quote by American author James Thurber that read, "Do not look back in anger; or forward in fear but around in awareness. We look back in anger at the people who've hurt us, the frustrations we've felt, the bad luck we've endured. We look forward in fear at the possibility that we might lose our job, contract a disease, or suffer the death of a loved one. The place we need to be is right here, right now—not looking anxiously at what has been or what might be, but fully aware of what is. I take a deep breath, knowing that I'm lucky to be alive. I have survived challenges in the past and will survive challenges in the future. Nothing need distract me from living my life today."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-record-shilpa-shetty-s-statement-in-raj-kundra-porn-app-case-101627049677692.html
23-07-2021||India||Is reopening schools in India risky now? What experts, government said||Several states have declared dates to reopen schools in July-August after over one year of online classes. This reopening is for the second time after the pandemic struck in March 2020. Educational institutes which were reopened after the first wave shut physical classes with the advent of the second wave which, according to health ministry data, is now on the wane.But is it wise to reopen schools now amid the apprehension of a possible third wave?Many health experts have expressed their views regarding this issue and said schools can be reopened judiciously in places where the Covid positivity rate is low. Physical classes are important and hence schools should reopen, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said, but there has to be a balance, he said."I think we have to balance things out. There is a number of children who have missed out on schools for a very long time as they do not have the excess to computer and therefore they are not able to get the quality of education. Therefore, having physical classes is important also schools are not only important from an education point of view, but for building a child's character for social interaction, for interaction with peers, the physical school has a much bigger role to play than what can be done through virtual classes," Dr Guleria said to ANI.Reopening schools after 2nd wave of Covid: List of states that announced dates"We can do it in an alternate manner so that the crowd is less. We can do surveillance; children can be monitored. If they have any symptoms they can stay at home. If the positivity rate continues to be low schools can continue, if it rises then the school can be shut down," the AIIMS chief said.What did the government say?In June, the government had said that schools should reopen when the majority of the staff are vaccinated. Dr Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research recently said that schools can reopen starting with the primary sections. All support staff, including bus drivers, will have to be vaccinated first.But why primary schools? Dr Bhargava explained that children can handle viral infections better than adults and seropositivity reports have shown that children have equally been exposed to the infection like adults.Since children are better at handling viral infection, some Scandinavian countries did not even suspend physical classes, Dr Bhargava said. Are states following this advice?States which have already announced the reopening of schools have done it for senior students keeping their board exams in mind. Most of the states are reopening schools for classes 9,10,11,12 -- and not for primary sections.What about the third wave?It is apprehended that the possible third wave of the pandemic may affect children more as this age group was not infected much in the earlier two waves. Experts have confirmed that this speculation does not have any scientific backing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-reopening-schools-in-india-risky-now-what-experts-government-said-101627048660031.html
23-07-2021||India||Mizoram forms boundary commission to handle border disputes with Assam||The Mizoram government has constituted a boundary commission to deal with demarcation of the state’s border with Assam. A government notification issued on Thursday said the boundary commission will be chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Tawnluia and will have Home Minister Lalchamliana as vice chairman.The boundary commission’s formation came at a time when Mizoram and Assam ahead of a visit by Home Minister Amit Shah to the northeast to try and sort out the various border disputes.State home department secretary was made member secretary. The commission which will have the state home department secretary as its member-secretary, will consider the various aspects of the Mizoram-Assam border imbroglio, the notification said.The commission will also have one member each from leading NGOs, recognised political parties, Joint Action Committee on Inner Line Reserve Forest Demand apart from three ministers, chief secretary, additional chief secretary and Director General of Police (DGP), it said.Prominent citizen and former Lok Sabha member C.L Ruala and former state home secretary Lalbiakzama were also appointed as members of the commission. Meanwhile, a senior police officer said on Friday that the situation at Aitlang hnar and Buarchep areas in Kolasib district along the Mizoram-Assam border remained tense.Mizoram Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range) Lalbiakthanga Khiangte told PTI that both the states forces are now camping on the border areas, face to face, and warned a serious confrontation could take place at any time if either side tried to make any advances. He however said that Assam police had not made any advances since a standoff on July 10. Khiangte said that people living along the inter-state borders on Mizoram side are now living a normal life and none of them have had to leave their villages as a result of the confrontation.The Mizoram-Assam border issue is also likely to be discussed during a meeting of chief ministers, chief secretaries and DGPs of all Northeastern states to be presided over by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Shillong on Saturday, according to Khiangte. Three Mizoram’s districts- Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit share a 164.6 km long inter-state border with Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts.Tension along the inter-state border flared up in June, when Assam police allegedly seized Aitlang hnar about 5 km from nearest border village Vairengte in Mizoram accusing the neighbouring state of encroaching on its territory, according to Mizoram police officials. Both states have accused the other of encroaching on their lands. Standing crops and betel nut trees belonging to a Mizo farmer were allegedly destroyed during a claimed “eviction” by Assam police and officials at Buarchep near Phainuam village on July 10.A grenade was allegedly hurled on an Assam government team visiting the border by suspected miscreants from Mizoram on July 10. However, the allegation was denied by Mizoram claiming it was a case of an earthmover’s tyre bursting. The chief secretary-level meeting held in New Delhi on July 9 had ended inconclusively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-forms-boundary-commission-to-handle-border-disputes-with-assam-101627045909068.html
23-07-2021||India||Reopening schools after 2nd wave of Covid: List of states that announced dates||The Andhra Pradesh state government on Friday said that the schools in the state would open for the academic year 2021 - 2022 on August 16. The decision was taken following a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The reopening of schools was delayed due to the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country.Earlier on July 7, state education minister Audimulapu Suresh made a similar announcement that schools would be reopened from August 16. The minister also announced the commencement of online classes from July 12.After the second wave of Covid-19, several state governments have announced their decisions on reopening education institutions. Here is a list of the states and the announcements made by them -Himachal Pradesh - Schools would be allowed to reopen from August 2 for classes 10 and 12, while students of classes between five and eight would be allowed to visit schools for clearing their doubts about the subjects. The decision was taken following a state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday, news agency PTI reported citing an official spokesperson.Gujarat - The Gujarat government has allowed the physical reopening of schools in the state for classes nine to 11 from July 26. However, only half the seating capacity would be allowed in schools. Also, attendance is not mandatory and students willing to attend the classes are required to submit a consent form signed by their parents. Meanwhile, online classes will also continue, according to the government’s latest order. Meanwhile, the schools had already opened for class 12 students in the state on July 15.Odisha - The Odisha government on July 18 decided to reopen schools for classes 10 and 12 from July 26. School and mass education department secretary Satyabrata Sahu said that a comprehensive standard operating procedure for reopening schools would be issued, HT had previously reported.Haryana - On July 16, schools in the state were reopened for classes nine to 12, following strict Covid-19 protocols. The students were also required to submit written permissions from parents for attending the classes physically. Also, attendance was not mandatory and online classes continued.Tamil Nadu - In its order extending the Covid-19 lockdown in the state on July 16, the Tamil Nadu government had allowed only teachers to attend schools for student admissions, distribution of textbooks, preparation of academic syllabus and other such administrative activities. However, the order made no mention of reopening schools for students.Rajasthan - Schools in Rajasthan will reopen from August 2, the government said in an official statement on July 22 (Thursday). “In the cabinet meeting held today, it has been decided to open all the schools of the state from August 02,” school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted. However, there was no mention of the classes for which the reopening has been announced.West Bengal and Delhi have no immediate plans to resume physical classes, the governments have said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reopening-schools-after-2nd-wave-of-covid-list-of-states-that-announced-dates-101627046524937.html
23-07-2021||India||Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project's location survey, geotechnical investigation done, says Ashwini Vaishnaw||The ministry of railways has completed the location survey and geotechnical investigation for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail (MAHSR) project, railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said in the Rajya Sabha on Friday. This is the only bullet train project sanctioned in the country and is being executed with financial and executive assistance from the government of Japan.The Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which has been formed to implement the project has concluded the final location survey and geotechnical investigation and finalised the alignment. Statutory clearances relating to wildlife, Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) and forest clearance have also been obtained, the ministry said.The newly inducted railways minister, Ashwini Vaishnaw, reviewed the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project on July 13 after assuming office. “All matters were reviewed with an aim to ensure that no stone is left unturned to achieve the objective,” a senior official told Hindustan Times.The project which will connect the two cities through a high-speed rail network was scheduled to be completed by December 2023 but has been delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic and the slow land acquisition. “The ongoing pandemic and slow land acquisition process in Maharashtra is adversely affecting the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project. The revised timelines will be worked out after assessing the exact impact of the pandemic on the entire project, land acquisition, and tender finalisation in the state of Maharashtra,” a top railway official told HT.As per the government’s latest statement, the consent agreement has been signed for 1046 hectares of the 1,396 hectares of the required land. The 508.17km rail corridor project will comprise 348.04km in Gujarat, a 155.76km stretch in Maharashtra, and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The entire project work has been divided into 27 contract packages, including a training institute at Vadodara. At present, 07 packages have been awarded and 10 more have been invited.The ministry has also assigned the work for survey and preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the seven High-Speed Rail (HSR) corridors to National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) which include Chennai-Bangalore-Mysore and Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad routes of South India, Vaishnaw informed the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbaiahmedabad-bullet-train-project-s-location-survey-geotechnical-investigation-done-says-ashwini-vaishnaw-101627044917415.html
23-07-2021||India||HC quashes UP Police notice in Twitter case, says amounts to ‘arm-twisting'||The Karnataka high court on Friday quashed the notice issued by the Uttar Pradesh police to Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari and said that the notice was malafide. The court allowed the Ghaziabad police to question Maheshwari through virtual mode either in his office or at his residential address in Bengaluru.The single bench of Justice G Narendar said the notice under Section 41(A) CrPC should be treated as Section under 160 of CrPC. The Uttar Pradesh police sought Maheshwari’s personal appearance as part of its investigation over a video which the Uttar Pradesh police alleged was shared with the aim of creating communal disharmony.Justice Narendar said that the Ghaziabad police did not place any material which would demonstrate even the prima facie involvement of the petitioner. The court also maintained that the provisions of the statute under Section 41(A) CrPC should not be permitted to turn into ‘tools of harassment’.“In the background of the fact that section 41(a) notice was issued by malafide, the writ petition (filed by Maheshwari seeking quashing) is maintainable. Accordingly, the notice under section Annexure A notice shall be read as section 160 of the CrPC,” the court said.“The action of the respondent (Ghaziabad police) trying to invoke section 41(A) of the CrPC gives no doubt in the mind of court that the same has been resorted to as an arm-twisting method as the petitioner refused to heed to the notice under section 160 of the CrPC,” the court further added according to news agency PTI.Ghaziabad Police issued a notice under Section 41-A of the CrPC on June 21 asking the Twitter India MD to report at the Loni Border police station on June 24. Maheshwari moved the Karnataka high court which, on June 24, restrained the Ghaziabad Police from initiating any coercive actions against Maheshwari. Justice Narendra said that police can examine Maheshwari in virtual mode.Ghaziabad police also booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India Pvt. Ltd.(Twitter India), news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, along with Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi over the circulation of the video where an elderly person was thrashed by five youths and was forced to chant slogans earlier in June. Police say that the video was shared with the aim of creating communal unrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-quashes-up-police-notice-in-twitter-case-says-amounts-to-armtwisting-101627044016687.html
23-07-2021||India||Remain prepared for third Covid-19 wave: Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday asked officials to remain prepared for the third Covid-19 wave likely to hit the state by August-end. “Though...(the) positivity rate has been under control in the state for the last few weeks, the situation is yet to improve in some districts. Health care is the top priority and if the third wave comes by the end of August, as predicted by scientists, the state will have to deal with the situation. Considering this, the officials should remain alert,” he said after a review of the Covid situation.Odisha on Friday reported 1,917 Covid infections, taking the number of active cases to 19,261. The number of deaths rose to 5,377 with 69 fresh fatalities.Patnaik said even though the pandemic situation is under control, this is no time for complacency. “Only by remaining alert, we will be safe. Therefore, people should strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines and not crowd places.” He said the state government is emphasising on investing in human resources along with strengthening the health care infrastructure. “The district administration has a responsibility to ensure that people are able to access health care without any hassle. It is the core responsibility of everyone, including police station inspectors, block development officers, sub-divisional police officers, sub collectors, superintendents of police and district collectors to ensure that there is no problem in health care delivery right from district headquarter hospitals to the community health centres in blocks,” he said.Patnaik said Odisha has spent around ₹2,004 crore to support the poor, especially small farmers, construction workers, tribal families, Scheduled Castes, tribal students and street vendors during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remain-prepared-for-third-covid-19-wave-patnaik-101627043347505.html
23-07-2021||India||Maharashtra districts to receive more rain tomorrow, decline only after July 26||Several districts in Maharashtra were battered by heavy rain on Friday, which led to a landslide in Raigad, killing 36 people. Several have been missing after the landslide incident. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced ₹2 lakh ex gratia for families of the landslide victim.The rain situation will persist in Maharashtra for a few more days, the Indian Meteorological Department has said. Maharashtra districts will continue to receive rainfall as the offshore trough at the mean sea level running from Maharashtra coast to North Kerala coast will only weaken from July 26.Maharashtra: At least 36 killed in Taliye landslide, 22 feared trapped in SataraStates which will receive rainfall in the coming daysIn its afternoon bulletin, the IMD said the well-marked low-pressure area lying over the Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts is likely to move slowly west-northwest wards during the next two days.> Konkan, Goa, Ghat area of Madhya Maharashtra are likely to receive fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely during next 2-3 days. Then rainfall will gradually reduce.> Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls likely to continue over Gujarat till July 23 with an increase from July 24. It is likely to increase to fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls between July 24 and 26 and isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over Gujarat region on July 25.> Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over east and adjoining central India from July 23 to July 25 with gradual reduction thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over West Madhya Pradesh on July 23 and 24. East Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha are likely to receive rainfall on July 23.> The IMD has predicted an increase in rainfall activity over northwest India over the western Himalayan region from July 25 and over adjoining plains from July 26. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Uttarakhand on July 25 and 26 and over west Uttar Pradesh on July 26.Delhi, on the other hand, will receive very light rainfall at isolated places till July 25. Rainfall in Delhi may increase after July 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-districts-to-receive-more-rain-tomorrow-decline-only-after-july-26-101627042367604.html
23-07-2021||India||Official triggers row by mentioning Bengal Class 12 topper’s religion, not name||Political and religious organisations have called for the removal of West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE) head Mahua Das for mentioning the religion and not the name of the Class 12 state board exam topper.“The highest marks obtained this year is 499. A Muslim girl secured the marks. She is a Muslim lady from Murshidabad,” said Das on Thursday. On Friday, the West Bengal State Chhatra Parishad, a student organisation, staged a protest against Das. A scuffle broke out between the police and another set of protesters outside Das’s office.In a statement, the Bengal Imams Associations said: “It is very shameful and unfortunate. We condemn this. Instead of naming the student, she chose to highlight her religion.” The association has urged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to remove Das.Tapas Roy, a ruling Trinamool Congress spokesperson, said this could have been avoided. “She could have referred to the girl as a candidate or a student.”The student’s wing of the Congress also demanded either Das should apologise or be removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/official-triggers-row-by-mentioning-bengal-class-12-topper-s-religion-not-name-101627040527316.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi calls Pegasus project a 'treason' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.It’s treason, no other word for this: Rahul Gandhi on Pegasus projectCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah of using Pegasus spyware against “India, its institutions and its democracy”, and said that the only word for this is “treason”. Read More2 weeks after Turkish prisoner escapes, Tripura forms inquiry committeeTwo weeks after an undertrial Turkish prisoner escaped from a government-run hospital, the Tripura government constituted an inquiry committee to probe the case. Read MoreChinese prez visits Tibet for the first timeChinese President Xi Jinping visited the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) this week, the first time as the country’s head, beginning his two-day tour at a strategic border city near the Sino-India boundary in Arunachal Pradesh, on Wednesday. Read MoreSanju Samson among 5 to get ODI caps; joint-most debutants for India in their 47-year history of One Day InternationalsTeam India captain Shikhar Dhawan on Friday won the toss and elected to bat first in the third and final ODI against Sri Lanka in Colombo. Read More100-year-old woman shares her life’s ‘secret.’ Wholesome video wins heartsA video of a 100-year-old woman sharing meaningful life lessons has captured the attention of netizens. Read MoreNokia looks to provide 4G link to budget phone buyers, launches 110 4G; set to take on Micromax Bharat 1, Intex Aqua A4HMD Global is looking to cover as many market segments as possible and for that, it is launching smartphones across price points. Read MoreFitness Friday: Sameera Reddy says she lost 9 kg in new post, Tahira Kashyap cheers for herActor Sameera Reddy took to Instagram today to share a fitness update with her followers. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-calls-pegasus-project-a-treason-and-all-the-latest-news-101627039579851.html
23-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border dispute: Assam Police camping at two locations along border||Assam Police on Thursday said that it is camping at two locations along the interstate boundary with Mizoram. The development comes amid tensions between both states regarding a border dispute near Hailakandi district. Assam Police officials also denied reports that civilians have left their homes out of fear.Cachar Superintendent of Police Nimbalkar Vaibhav Chandrakant said that police officials from both states were camping along the interstate border. “Both the Assam Police and the Mizoram Police are now camping in that area. As a result, some people have left the place, but it is not due to any threat from the Mizo forces,” Chandrakant was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also said that Assam Police officials are camping at Khulicherra and Dholakhal.Chandrakant said that Assam Police is fully capable of protecting their border. He further added that the police are there to protect the citizens of Assam and their property. Responding to reports of people leaving earlier, he said that residents belonging to the Muslim community who work as daily wage labourers, were working on areas owned by Mizoram and were returning due to Eid festival with their belongings. He added that these people were citizens of Assam as per the voter list of Cachar.“This is the land of Assam. We are strongly defending our post and rebutting any attempt to encroach on our land. Discussions are on at a higher level and I am sure that a solution will be achieved soon,” Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli who visited the area earlier this week said.Spike in tensions between both statesThe tension between both states along the interstate border with Mizoram and Hailakandi escalated after Assam Police conducted a drive to clear land allegedly encroached by some persons across the border. The Assam government team which visited the area on July 10 was attacked by an IED by unidentified persons. Explosions were also heard from across the border on July 11.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma earlier this week said that the situation along the interstate border with Mizoram is ‘fragile’. He also said that it will take some time for both the states to resolve the issue. “The situation with Mizoram, however, is not conducive. We are not seeing eyeball to eyeball in Hailakandi district (bordering Mizoram). The situation is fragile. It will take some time with Mizoram,” Sarma said on Tuesday. Sarma will meet his counterparts as chief ministers of the northeastern states will come together in Shillong for the North East Space Applications Centre (NESAC) meet which will be chaired by Union minister Amit Shah. Sarma said that some headway can be made with Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh during the talks to resolve the border disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-dispute-assam-police-camping-at-two-locations-along-border-101627036977014.html
23-07-2021||India||No delay in purchase agreements with domestic Covid vaccine manufacturers: Govt||There has been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with domestic Covid vaccine manufacturers and advance payments have been made for the supply orders, minister of state of health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar told Parliament on Friday.The minister’s written reply came in response to an unstarred question raised by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress’s Mala Roy on whether the government has taken note of a significant delay in entering into advance purchase agreements with vaccine manufacturers, thereby affecting the pace of the vaccine rollout. Pawar also said that a total of 1.35 billion [135 crore] Covid vaccine doses are expected to be available in the country between August and December.Also Read | Acknowledge the brutality of the second waveOn being asked whether the government aims to inoculate the entire adult population by the end of the year, the minister said it is an ongoing process guided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of scientific evidence.She said ₹9,725.19 crore has been spent so far on the vaccination programme, in the form of procurement of vaccines and the operational costs.The Congress responded on Twitter by saying that it exposed the government’s lies. “Modi Govt’s lies exposed in reply to Shri Rahul Gandhi’s question in Parliament on #Vaccination: Govt says - 1. No fixed Timeline can be indicated for completion of vaccine drive ! 2. Only 9,725 Crore spent on #COVID19 Vaccination drive against budget of 35,000 crore,’’ tweeted Congress leader Randeep Surjewala.Pawar’s previous statement that there were no records of oxygen-related deaths during the second wave caused a furore, and the Opposition moved a breach of privilege notice against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-delay-in-purchase-agreements-with-domestic-covid-vaccine-manufacturersgovt-101627039627182.html
23-07-2021||India||'No direct sexual act shown': Raj Kundra moves high court, says arrest over porn film allegation illegal||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband, businessman Raj Kundra, arrested on the charges of making pornographic films in Mumbai, on Friday moved the high court after the magistrate court extended his police custody till July 27. News agency ANI reported that Kundra's lawyer approached the high court saying that his arrest in the first place was not legal.According to reports, Kundra's lawyer has said that in the 4,000-page chargesheet that the Mumbai Police has filed against Kundra and others involved in the alleged porn racket, there is no specific mention of pornography, an allegation that Kundra's another lawyer Abad Ponda earlier raised. Ponda had earlier said that the arrest did not follow the due procedure as he was not issued a proper notice of appearance under Section 41A o the CrPC. Ponda also contested that the videos that Raj Kundra apparently made for Hotshots, the video-streaming app, owned by a UK firm, were vulgar but not pornographic, as they did not explicitly show the sexual act.In the plea moved in the high court after the local court extended Kundra's police custody, Kundra's lawyer said his arrest by the Mumbai Police is illegal as he was arrested on the pretext of recording a statement. He was not issued a proper notice of appearance under Section 41A of the CrPC, the petition challenging the magistrate court order said."Notice in the matter where FIR is registered on 05.02.2021, the Charge sheet is filed on 03.04.2021 and they could have easily served notice and could have allowed the Petitioner to appear and give his statement and if the Petitioner failed to do so the consequences would had followed. However, if the Petitioner did appear then under Section 41A (3), he should not be arrested at all, is the mandate of law," the plea said, as reported by Livelaw.The plea also said that the content in question "does not depict direct explicit sexual acts and sexual intercourse but shows only material in the form of short movies which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of the persons at best."The plea also found some holes in the provisions that have been invoked against Raj Kundra. Kundra has been booked under sections sections 354(C) (Voyeurism), 292 (sale of obscene content), 420(cheating) of the IPC and Sections 67, 67A (transmission of sexually explicit material)of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate did not consider that the police have wrongly invoked IPC provisions where Information Technology Act applies, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-moves-to-high-court-says-arrest-over-porn-film-allegation-illegal-101627037143475.html
23-07-2021||India||‘Avoid crowd, non-essential travel, maintain appropriate behaviour’: Dr Guleria on delaying third Covid-19 wave||With the looming threat of the third wave of Covid-19 infections, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr Randeep Guleria, on Friday suggested three measures for the public to follow in delaying the impending danger. “For the next few months, until a larger part of our population gets vaccinated (against Covid-19), we should avoid crowd, non-essential travel and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour. With this, I think we can delay and also flatten the third wave,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Guleria as saying.Further, Dr Guleria said that the virus will not mutate much in the coming months. He also referred to the fourth national serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and said that a “reasonably” good amount of immunity against Covid-19 has been observed in the Indian population.Also read | 'Delta variant continues to be dominant variant in new Covid cases': INSACOG“We can not predict how the virus will behave but it seems that the virus will not mutate so dramatically in the coming months. As per the serosurvey, there is a reasonably good amount of immunity in the population,” he said.The fourth national serosurvey, to find the prevalence of antibodies against Covid-19 in the population, was conducted during the last weeks of June and the first week of July this year by the ICMR. The results were released by ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bharghava on July 20. He said that one-third of the population didn’t have antibodies against the disease which meant that roughly 400 million people were still vulnerable to the disease. The findings also showed that people who were fully immunised with two shots of the vaccine had more antibodies than those that were not vaccinated or had received only one dose of the vaccine.Meanwhile, several news reports earlier in the month showed crowds flocking tourist attractions in some states after the Covid-19 restrictions were beginning to ease across the country. Apart from Dr Guleria, several health experts, the Union ministry of health and family welfare and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have all warned against crowding in tourist destinations.India suffered a deadly second wave of Covid-19 infections, during which the number of daily new infections went past 400,000 cases every day and the number of fatalities stayed above the 4,000-mark. However, the daily cases have declined since then and on Friday, over 35,000 people tested positive while 483 people lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-crowd-non-essential-travel-maintain-appropriate-behaviour-dr-guleria-on-delaying-third-covid-19-wave-101627035898959.html
23-07-2021||India||12 central varsities including Jammu, Haryana and Karnataka get new VC. Full list of universities here||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday signed on the appointment of vice-chancellors across 12 central universities in the country, the Union ministry of education said in a statement.The Central varsities that will be getting a new Vice-Chancellor include central university of Haryana, Jammu University, Jharkhand university, Karnataka university and Tamil Nadu university.President Kovind serves as the visitor of India's Central universities.President Ram Nath Kovind approves the appointment of Vice-Chancellors of 12 Central Universities: Ministry of Education pic.twitter.com/oYDGX5y8mGHere is the list of varsities for which President Kovind has given a nod:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-central-varsities-including-jammu-haryana-and-karnataka-get-new-vc-full-list-of-universities-here-101627032745585.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt’s expert group in talks with Pfizer for their vaccine, says Union health minister||An expert group constituted by the Indian government is holding talks with Pfizer for access to their Covid-19 vaccines, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday. “An expert group of the Indian government is still in talks with Pfizer over COVID vaccine supply," the minister said in the Lok Sabha.The US State Department spokesperson Ned Price told PTI on July 14 that the country was ready to send both Pfizer and Moderna vaccines “expeditiously” and was waiting for India's nod. Mandaviya did not elaborate if the current talks had any connection to the 3-4 million doses of Moderna and Pfizer that the country is set to receive from the US as a donation or is a separate talk for commercial import. The US has decided to donate 80 million doses of vaccines through the global vaccine initiative COVAX.Price also told the news agency that the doses have not been shipped yet because the Indian government was reviewing its legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations. "Once India works through its legal processes, our donations of vaccines to India will proceed expeditiously. We would need to refer you to the Government of India on the status of its discussions with COVAX, which, in this case, is helping to facilitate that delivery,” he had said.Also Read: Govt aims to inoculate all above 18, no time for politics: Health minister in LSIndia has also been offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine through the COVAX programme, but it remains unclear when the jabs will arrive in the country as a consensus on the indemnity clause is yet to be reached. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul recently said the government is working actively with Moderna to see how its vaccine can be imported and made available in the country.Both Pfizer and Moderna want the indemnity clause so as to protect themselves from any future lawsuits that might arise from the vaccine’s administration.India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme has been regularly discussed during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. While informing the Lok Sabha that ₹9,725.15 crore has been spent by the government on the vaccination drive, Mandaviya also said, "There has been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with the domestic vaccine manufacturers. Advance payments have also been made to manufacturers for the supply orders placed with them,"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-expert-group-in-talks-with-pfizer-for-their-vaccine-says-union-health-minister-101627033861221.html
23-07-2021||India||What is 'right to be forgotten' that ex-MTV Roadie Ashutosh Kaushik has sought from court?||Television personality Ashutosh Kaushik who shot to fame in 2007 after winning MTV Roadies and then Bigg Boss in the next year has recently approached the Delhi high court seeking his 'right to be forgotten. In legal parlance, this means he wants his digital data to be deleted from Google and any other online platform. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the ministry of information and broadcasting, Google LLC, Press Council of India and Electronic Media Monitoring Centre to respond to the petitioner’s invocation of the rights to privacy.What is right to be forgotten? Is there any such provision in Indian law?This is not the first time that someone has approached the court seeking this right.For example, an American citizen of Indian origin, Jorawar Singh Mundy, approached the Delhi high court a few months ago saying that he was not getting a job because of an old case, details of which were available on Google. The Delhi high court allowed an interim right to be forgotten to the person.Read: Reality show winner invokes ‘right to be forgotten’, moves HCThere is no such provision in Indian laws but Section 20 of the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 says that an individual has the right to restrict or prevent the disclosure of their personal data under certain conditions, including when such data has served the purpose for which it was collected or is no longer necessary for the purpose. This Bill is yet to become law.What Orissa high court said on right to be forgottenAccording to reports, the Orissa high court in 2020 mentioned the issue of the right to be forgotten and said that if there is no such right to erase electronic data in specific cases, then "any accused will surreptitiously outrage the modesty of a woman and misuse the same in cyberspace unhindered." This was regarding a case where the accused uploaded videos of his former partner that he surreptitiously recorded .Why Asutosh Kaushik wants to be forgottenAsutosh Kaushik wants his drunk driving videos dating back to 2009 to be removed from online platforms. For driving under the influence of alcohol and without a helmet, he was arrested. Asutosh Kaushik presently runs a YouTube channel and he tied the knot last year during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-right-to-be-forgotten-that-ex-mtv-roadies-ashutosh-kaushik-has-sought-from-court-101627032270426.html
23-07-2021||India||Amid furore over oxygen-linked deaths, C’garh to audit Covid fatalities||The Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh will audit Covid-19-related deaths amid the controversy over the fatalities caused by the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic, state health minister T S Singh Deo said on Friday while insisting the Centre never sought such data.The decision comes days after opposition parties accused the Union minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar of misleading Parliament by saying no state reported such fatalities. The Congress on Thursday moved a breach of privilege motion against Pawar for allegedly misleading Parliament over the deaths. To be sure, no state has so far said there have been deaths on account of a shortage of oxygen during the brutal second wave of the pandemic in April and May, and while the minister’s statement can be targeted for its insensitivity, it is technically correct. Deo comments echoed comments of ministers in various states that have maintained that while their own province saw no deaths caused by oxygen shortage, others did. Deo said Chhattisgarh is a state with surplus oxygen, but added that in states such as Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, people died due to lack of oxygen. Deo said the oxygen production capacity of Chhattisgarh is 388.87 MT and the peak consumption reported was 180 MT on April 26.But the minister added that his government wants to behave responsibly. “So, we are going to audit each and every Covid-19 death. For Chhattisgarh, we are responsible and hence we will... bring out the truth. We are also open for inputs from the citizens.” He asked NGOs, members of civil society, and journalists to bring any relevant information to the government’s notice.“I also urge the central government to conduct a similar audit,” he added. The Bharatiya Janata Party has maintained health is a state subject and that the Centre just collects the data from the states, and does not generate it.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain this week also attacked the Centre, saying it was “completely false” to say no one died for want of oxygen. “If no deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage, why did hospitals move high court one after another every day? Hospitals had been saying that oxygen shortage led to deaths. The media flagged this issue daily,” Jain told reporters.The Delhi government has pointed out that it set up a committee to collect data on such deaths but the Centre got the panel disbanded through the lieutenant governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-audit-deaths-death-due-to-o2-shortage-101627030806619.html
23-07-2021||India||Mobile number on Aadhaar card can now be updated at one’s doorstep: Centre||Aadhaar card, which is the unique identification given by the Centre, is an extremely crucial document for all citizens of the country as it is used for a number of governmental and non-governmental transactions. It is important for citizens to keep the details in the card updated at all times as even the slightest of errors can stall their work.In view of this, the Centre has announced that resident Aadhaar cardholders can get their mobile number updated in the card at the ease of their doorstep.Also Read| Link Aadhaar with mobile number in five easy steps: A step-by-step guide“Now a resident Aadhaar holder can get his mobile number updated in Aadhaar by the postman at his doorstep. India Post Payments Bank (@IPPBOnline) launched today a service for updating mobile numbers in Aadhaar as a Registrar for Unique Identification Authority of India (@UIDAI),” the ministry of communications posted on Twitter on Tuesday.Now a resident Aadhaar holder can get his mobile number updated in Aadhaar by the postman at his door step. 👉👉@IPPBOnline launched today a service for updating mobile number in Aadhaar as a Registrar for @UIDAI . pic.twitter.com/TGjiGhHPeGThe service will be available in 650 branches of India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) and 146,000 postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks have been enabled to provide a range of banking services equipped with smartphones and biometric devices, according to an official statement. As of now, IPPB is only providing mobile update service and will very soon also enable child enrollment service through its network, it added.Also Read| Aadhaar update: How many times changes in details can be made? ExplainedDr Saurabh Garg, the chief executive officer of UIDAI, said the provision will immensely help the residents as once their mobile is updated in their Aadhaar, they can avail a number of the authority’s online update facilities and also several government welfare schemes.“The mobile update service of UIDAI through the ubiquitous and accessible network of post offices, postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks will help in actualising IPPB’s vision of serving the underserved and unbanked areas, and bridging the digital divide,” J Venkatramu, MD and CEO of IPPB, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-number-on-aadhaar-card-can-now-be-updated-at-one-s-doorstep-centre-101627029879464.html
23-07-2021||India||Deeply distressed: Venkaiah Naidu on ruckus in Parliament||Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said he was “deeply distressed” by the ruckus in Parliament. “I rise in deep anguish from the course of events in the first three sittings of the august House. I am not able to understand why the House is not allowed to discharge its responsibilities as mandated by the Constitution,” said the chairman. The chairman pointed out that the only business that could be done in the past three sittings was a four-hour discussion on the government’s management of Covid-19 and a one-hour reply from the health ministry. Also Read | TMC MP suspended from Rajya Sabha for tearing minister’s papersTalking about Thursday when TMC MP Santanu Sen snatched IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw’s statement regarding Pegasus spyware row and tore it, Naidu said, “I’m deeply distressed by the course of events in the House. Unfortunately, proceedings of the House hit a new low with papers being snatched from the minister and torn into pieces. Such actions are a clear assault on our Parliamentary democracy.”When he was interrupted while speaking, he reprimanded the MPs and asked him not to test his patience as they have done in the past three sittings. “Three weeks from now, we will be entering the 75th year of our Independence. The spirit of the celebration should not be marred by a dysfunctional Parliament. I appeal to the leaders to enable the smooth functioning of the House,” he appealed. Past three days of the session were marred by chaos with the Opposition protesting over a wide array of issues, from the Pegasus row to farm bills to the Centre’s management of the Covid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-distressed-venkaiah-naidu-on-ruckus-in-parliament-101627030206574.html
23-07-2021||India||Low pressure in Bay of Bengal, rainfall predicted over Tamil Nadu in next 4 days||hinThe low-pressure area in the north-western Bay of Bengal will result in moderate and light rainfall in 17 districts of Tamil Nadu for the next four days starting from Friday, reported Tamil newspaper Dina Thanthi on Friday. Tamil Nadu is witnessing widespread rainfall after the southwest monsoon arrived along the western coast. Some of the districts, especially those bordering the Western Ghats, are receiving consistent rainfall starting from July.The regional meteorological center at Chennai has predicted heavy, moderate, and light rainfall across 17 districts due to the low pressure in the Bay of Bengal on Friday. Coimbatore and the Nilgiris districts will receive heavy rainfall as the effect of southwest monsoon is aggravated by low pressure in the Bay of Bengal. Districts bordering the Western Ghats like Theni, Dindigul, and Tenkasi districts will get rains while moderate rainfall is likely in districts like Erode, Salem, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruappathur, Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruvallur, Chennai, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, and Kanyakumari.Heavy rains in Coimbatore and the Nilgiris may cause landslides; people in these districts and travelers are warned. The center has predicted sporadic rainfall on Saturday in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni, Dindigul, and Tenkasi districts bordering the Western Ghats, coastal districts of Northern Tamil Nadu, and Union Territory Puducherry. On July 25 and 26, coastal districts of Northern Tamil Nadu and Union Territory Puducherry will get light showers, the center forecasted.The low pressure will cause heavy wind action ranging 50 kilometers per hour in Coastal Tamil Nadu, Gulf of Mannar, Coastal Kerala, and Karnataka as well as Lakshadweep Sea. The regional center warned fishermen not to venture into these areas.Some areas of Tamil Nadu received copious rainfall in 24 hours by Thursday morning. Avilanji in the Nilgiris received 12 centimeters, Bandalur received 7 centimeters, Gudalur and Naduvattam received 6 centimeters, Chinnakallar, Valparai and Melkudalur received 5 centimeters rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-in-bay-of-bengal-rainfall-predicted-over-tamil-nadu-in-next-4-days-101627028819144.html
23-07-2021||India||High rainfall batters Karnataka; railways, road and airways disrupted, houses and few schools submerged||The ongoing heavy to very heavy rain in Karnataka has lashed as many as 13 districts in the state, disrupted transport services, including road and rail traffic, and caused floods in 22 rivers. A report published in Prajavani today stated that Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi districts have been among the worst affected. There has been heavy to very heavy rainfall here that has ravaged the region. Due to the opening of many reservoirs following heavy rains in Marathwada region, rivers in Northern Karnataka have experienced heavy flooding. This has caused interruption of railway, road and air travel.The adverse effect of heavy rains has been seen far and wide in the state. Due to heavy rains, two schools in Joida and Mundgod taluk in Uttara Kannada district have collapsed. Another school in Dharwad taluk, including 3 government schools have partially collapsed in rural areas.In addition, heavy rain in Chikodi and Nipani taluk of Belagavi have caused heavy flooding in the Krishna river and its tributaries. Rajapura barrage of Maharashtra is releasing 58000 cusecs per day into the river following heavy inflow from the ghat areas. Doodh Ganga river is also in spate and releasing 19,000 cusecs in the river into the lower riparian course.As a consequence of heavy inflow in the rivers, 6 bridges have been submerged in the Krishna river course. Pandora, Kaneri, Kali rivers are under heavy flooding and 120 villages in 4 districts are inundated.Remarkably, Kali river has also experienced heavy inflow. This is for the first time in the last few years that the river has released 40,000 cusecs into its course. Besides, Gangavali river is also in spate and creating flood situation in low lying areas in Ankola taluk . A transport link has been severed between Yellapur and Ankola consequently.Railways have not been spared either by the effect of incessant and heavy rainfall. Konkan Railway that connects Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka has cancelled many trains. According to a Konkan railway communique, several trains going North have been suspended or rescheduled due to heavy influx of water, on Chiplun river railway bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-rainfall-batters-karnataka-railways-road-and-airways-disrupted-houses-and-few-schools-submerged-101627028327905.html
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus list: Pakistan seeks UN probe into reports of PM Imran Khan’s name||Pakistan on Friday accused India of being behind efforts to hack a phone number once used by Prime Minister Imran Khan using the Pegasus spyware and called for an investigation into the matter by UN agencies.The spokesperson of Pakistan’s Foreign Office said in a statement that Islamabad intends to bring the matter to the attention of “appropriate global platforms”, but didn’t give details.According to reports by a global consortium of media outlets that examined a leaked database of 50,000 phone numbers selected for surveillance by clients of the Israeli company NSO Group, the developer of Pegasus, a number once used by Khan and those of dozens of diplomats in India were among potential targets of the spyware programme.Also Read | Plea filed in SC seeking SIT probe into charges of snoopingBoth The Washington Post and Le Monde reported on Monday that the number once used by Khan had been selected by a NSO client for surveillance.“Not surprisingly, Pakistan is the most scrutinised country,” Le Monde said in its report.“The numbers of Imran Khan and several of his ambassadors in India appear on the list as potential targets,” the report added, without giving details.Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson alleged India was using the Israeli spyware to “hack the phones and computers of journalists, judges, diplomats, government officials, rights activists, and global leaders including Prime Minister Imran Khan”.“We have noted with serious concern recent international media reports exposing Indian government’s organised spying operations against its own citizens, foreigners as well as Prime Minister Imran Khan, using an Israeli origin spyware,” the spokesperson said.“We condemn in strongest possible terms India’s state-sponsored, continuing and widespread surveillance and spying operations in clear breach of global norms of responsible state behaviour,” he added.The spokesperson further said: “We are closely following these revelations and will bring the Indian abuses to the attention of appropriate global platforms.“In view of the gravity of these reports, we call on the relevant UN bodies to thoroughly investigate the matter, bring the facts to light, and hold the Indian perpetrators to account.”There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the allegations made by Pakistan. The Indian government has so far denied all wrong-doing and also not confirmed or denied whether it licensed the Pegasus spyware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-for-probe-by-un-agencies-into-reports-of-pm-imran-khan-s-name-on-pegasus-list-101627027807942.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt aims to inoculate all above 18, no time for politics: Health minister in LS||Union health minister Manuskh Mandaviya on Friday reiterated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks that the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should not be politicised and said it is the Centre’s aim to vaccinate every citizen in the country who is above 18 years and it is not the time to do politics.Also Read| Five vaccines, 19 trial sites among Covid projects supported by CentreAddressing the Lok Sabha, which witnessed opposition uproar on several issues including the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, Mandaviya said, “I want to place some facts in front of you (Speaker Om Birla). Till now, PM Modi, in accordance with a federal structure to fight the Covid crisis on a collective basis, has held discussions with states and chief ministers 20 times. Work was done on a time to time basis on the suggestions provided by them (states).”PM has said many times not to politicise vaccination programme. It's our aim to vaccinate every 18+ citizen in the country. This is not the time to do politics: Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/ALjG6kazXQAs opposition parties and state governments earlier said that “health is a state subject” and states should be taken into confidence, the Centre agreed that from May 1 that states could purchase 25 per cent of doses, private firms could also purchase 25 per cent of the doses and the Centre would buy the remaining 50 per cent doses for inoculating the country’s population, Mandaviya said. “The Centre also agreed to help those states which had taken out tenders for procuring the 25 per cent doses,” he added.The health minister also informed the Lower House that an expert group of the Centre is still in talks with Pfizer for vaccine supplies, adding talks are also continuing with other manufactures such as Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).Also Read| Six months into India’s vaccination drive: What is right and what is notPointing out that India is running the biggest vaccination program under the leadership of PM Modi, Mandaviya appealed to all opposition parties to cooperate and answer back to those who are spreading rumours about the program.India has so far administered 423,417,030 doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 of which 54,76,423 doses were administered in the last 24 hours.As several states have flagged and continue to raise the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, health minister Mandaviya said last week that useless statements were being made to create panic among people and the availability of jabs has gone up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-aims-to-inoculate-all-above-18-no-time-for-politics-health-minister-in-ls-101627027575695.html
23-07-2021||India||Watch: Navjot Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Congress' chief, takes stage in cricketer style||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday took the reins of Congress' Punjab unit as the party president in the presence of chief minister Amarinder Singh, marking the end of a bitter infight. The cricketer-turned-politician, who was appointed as the Punjab unit chief on Sunday by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, was seen getting up from his chair, warming up with a batting move he displayed during his time as a cricket player and heading towards the dais to address party workers as Amarinder Singh looked on.#WATCH: Newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu mimics a batting style as he proceeds to address the gathering at Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh. (Source: Punjab Congress Facebook page) pic.twitter.com/ZvfXlOBOqiAfter taking charge at the state Congress headquarters, Sidhu said there is no difference between an ordinary worker of the party and its state unit chief. "Every Congress worker in Punjab has become the chief of the party's state unit from today," the Amritsar (East) MLA said.Even as Sidhu and Amarinder Singh managed to put the issue aside and come together for the Punjab Congress unit's reshuffle, the two leaders were not seen talking during the ceremony and while getting photos clicked.Capt Amarinder recalled the Patiala ties with Sidhu and said: “I was commissioned in the army, the year Sidhu was born. When my mother asked me to enter politics, his (Sidhu’s) father helped me. I used to go to his house when he was about six years old.”Sidhu met the chief minister hours before the ceremony at Punjab Bhawan over a cup of tea in what has been termed as a cordial meeting between the two. This was the first time in nearly four months that Sidhu and Singh met each other.The Congress party has attempted the reshuffle ahead of the assembly elections scheduled for next year. The party is eyeing to retain power in Punjab as other players like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) try to gain ground. The Congress party is fiercely backing farmers protesting the three central farm laws in the state, amping up the pitch against the BJP-led government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-takes-charge-as-punjab-congress-chief-takes-stage-in-cricketer-style-101627026108243.html
23-07-2021||India||Mahabaleshwar records its highest single day rainfall ever||Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district located in the Western Ghats, has recorded the highest rainfall ever in its history with 60cm in 24 hours. Recording 20cm or more in 24 hours is classified to be “extremely heavy” rain by India Meteorological Department (IMD). Between 8.30am on Thursday and 8.30am on Friday, Mahabaleshwar recorded rainfall which is three times that threshold. Other parts of the west coast also recorded exceptional rain and flooding during the past 24 hours with Kolhapur - 40cm; Londa - 38cm; Belagavi - 34cm; Betul - 28cm; Shivamogga - 27cm; Uttar Kannada - 24cm; Sanguem and Hoshangabad - 21cm each; Sanquelim -18 cm; and Kodagu -17cm. Also Read | Mumbai under orange alert, to receive lesser rain than last 4 daysMahabaleshwar recorded its second highest rainfall of 49.7cm on August 11, 2008. Its third highest rainfall of 48cm was reported on Thursday, July 22, 2021. Fourth highest rain, of 43.9cm, was recorded on July 7, 1977.The offshore trough at mean sea level running from Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast which is causing very heavy rains over the west coast is likely to weaken from July 26. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over the west coast during the next 2-3 days with reduction thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls (over 20cm) are also very likely over Konkan, Goa and the adjoining ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during July 23 and 24 with reduction thereafter and over coastal and south Interior Karnataka from July 23. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are likely to continue over Gujarat till July 23 with an increase from July 24. It is likely to increase with isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 24 to 26 and isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Gujarat from July 25. The monsoon trough at mean sea level runs south of its normal position. It is likely to continue to remain south of the normal position for 2-3 days. A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to the mid-tropospheric level. It is likely to move slowly west-northwest wards during the next two days. The IMD warned that there is likely to be an increase in rainfall activity over northwest India and Western Himalayan region from July 25 and over the adjoining plains from July 26. “We need to monitor and forecast these events better as climate change is bringing in more of these short spells of heavy rains. We have better data for the cities, but fewer over the ghats,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahabaleshwar-records-its-highest-single-day-rainfall-ever-101627026306344.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Flood water starts receding in Maharashtra Chiplun and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Flood in Maharashtra’s Chiplun: Water starts receding, rescue ops continueWater started receding in most parts of Chiplun in Ratnagiri on Friday after rain wreaked havoc, even as rescue operations were started in the Konkan town of Maharashtra.Read more.TMC MP suspended from Rajya Sabha for tearing minister’s papersTrinamool Congress (TMC) member Santanu Sen was on Friday suspended from Rajya Sabha for the remainder of the Monsoon Session for “unruly and unbecoming behaviour” a day after he snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw while he was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to potentially target politicians, activists and journalists.Read more.Covid-19 patient dies days after high court's nod to sperm collectionA 32-year-old Covid-19 patient in Gujarat's Vadodara has died days after the high court allowed a city hospital to collect his sperms following his wife's petition saying she wanted to bear his child artificially. "Read more.Cold war ends as CM Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu meet, sip tea togetherPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday met Navjot Singh Sidhu at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh ahead of a ceremony to appoint the cricketer-turned-politician as the chief of the Congress' state unit, signalling a thaw in the relationship between the two leaders.Read more.Vikrant Massey recalls lying about dating 'pretty girls' because he was 'absolutely unattractive' as a schoolkidVikrant Massey has recalled spreading rumours about dating girls who wouldn't give him the time of day, and eventually being confronted by one of them. Vikrant recently appeared in the Netflix film Haseen Dillruba, and then in 14 Phere, which debuted on ZEE5 on Friday.Read more.Rubina Dilaik in ₹2k crochet bralette and lace shorts keeps it casual and chicBigg Boss 14 winner Rubina Dilaik is cooking up a storm on social media with her latest craftcore look, and we are swooning. The star slipped into a crochet ensemble for a recent photoshoot and proved why this hand-knit essential is the go-to for warm sunny days when you want to keep things casual and fun.Read more. Watch: Rio de Janeiro lights up 2016 Olympic flame as 2020 Games beginRio de Janeiro re-lighted the 2016 Olympic flame as the 2020 Games began. The flame will burn throughout the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. Rio de Janeiro Mayor Eduardo Paes was seen carrying the torch. In 2016, Rio de Janeiro was the host city for the Olympics. Tokyo is hosting the 2020 Olympics. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-flood-water-starts-receding-in-maharashtra-chiplun-and-all-the-latest-news-101627024612926.html
23-07-2021||India||TMC MP suspended from Rajya Sabha for tearing minister’s papers||Trinamool Congress (TMC) member Santanu Sen was on Friday suspended from Rajya Sabha for the rest of the ongoing Monsoon Session for “unruly and unbecoming behaviour” a day after he snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw while he was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to potentially target politicians, activists and journalists.Union minister V Muraleedharan moved a motion for Sen’s suspension saying the TMC lawmaker’s behaviour brought “disrepute” to the house. Sen refused to leave the House even as he was asked to exit multiple times by Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. Naidu earlier allowed the motion, which was subsequently passed in the House. TMC’s chief whip, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, objected to the motion, saying it was not on the list of business of the House. Roy said TMC was given no time to prepare.“We have had no opportunity to react to the government’s motion to suspend Shantanu Sen,” he said.Naidu countered Ray’s objections. He said the motion was approved as it was a question of the “dignity of the House”. TMC lawmaker Derek O’Brien raised the issue of “hooliganism” by members of the ruling party. Naidu refused to entertain the allegations and adjourned the Rajya Sabha until 12:30. Sen continued to refuse to leave the House even after it resumed, prompting the deputy chairperson Harivansh to ask him to leave.Sen snatched the papers from the minister, tore them, and flung them in the air amid a heated exchange with Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The TMC alleged that Puri abused Sen and complained to Harivansh. Sen said he was surrounded and threatened.Also Read | Plea filed in SC seeking SIT probe into charges of snoopingHarivansh asked the members to desist from unparliamentary behaviour, before adjourning the House for the day on Thursday.The government sought Sen’s suspension under Rule 256 (2). The rule says a lawmaker, who “disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council” through “wilful” disruptions can be suspended from the House for up to the remainder of the parliamentary session if the Rajya Sabha chairman “deems it necessary”. Once the motion is moved, there can be no debate or adjournment allowed, the rule says. Last year, the same rule was applied to suspend eight opposition members from Rajya Sabha for a week after their protests against the farm laws.Protests have rocked Parliament over the alleged targeting of phones with military-grade spyware, the controversial farm laws, and income tax raids on the premises of a newspaper group. They have forced repeated adjournments and allowed little business in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcmp-suspended-from-rajya-sabha-for-tearing-minister-s-papers-101627024626726.html
23-07-2021||India||India speeds up Green approvals as environmentalists call foul||India’s Environment Ministry has almost halved the time it takes to clear projects, cheering companies hit by the pandemic and worrying green activists concerned the increased pace may come at a cost.It took an average of 84 days to clear a project in 2021, compared with 162 days the year before, according to data shared by the ministry. That’s a result of cutting down needless processes and setting timelines for assessment panels, according to Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the top bureaucrat in the ministry who took charge last year.The increased pace comes several years after the ministry was accused of deliberately stonewalling projects, causing delays that slowed down the economy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed to change that and in his seven years in office the Environment Ministry has brought in a series of policy changes in the country’s environment regulations that have been welcomed by industry.“Lots of changes have been made, which save a good amount of time,” said A.K. Singh, joint president for sustainable development at cement maker Birla Corp. “If a project gets held up, it really hits the economy directly.”However, environmentalists say the pendulum may have swung too far. They say that the ministry is rushing through assessments and going soft on polluting coal-fired power plants as Modi’s government proposes to ease laws that were formed as a result of the world’s deadliest industrial disaster more than three decades ago.One area of concern is the field of expertise of those involved in assessment committees, according to Ritwick Dutta, a New Delhi-based environment lawyer. Assessments can be weakened if people from unrelated areas are involved as they might not be able to ask appropriate questions, such as professors of electronics and automotive engineering in a panel on river valleys and hydropower projects, he said.“Chasing speed over quality of assessments can pose grave risks,” Dutta said. “It’s an environment risk as well as a business risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-speeds-up-green-approvals-as-environmentalists-call-foul-101627019431792.html
23-07-2021||India||Covid-19 patient dies days after high court's nod to sperm collection||A 32-year-old Covid-19 patient in Gujarat's Vadodara has died days after the high court allowed a city hospital to collect his sperms following his wife's petition saying she wanted to bear his child artificially. "The hospital had informed us that they had extracted the sperm of my client's husband shortly after the high court gave a go-ahead for it on Tuesday evening. But he passed away on Thursday," Nilay Patel, the woman's lawyer, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. "Further hearing in the case is scheduled today," Patel also said.The wife of the man, who was on life support at Sterling Hospital after suffering from multi-organ failure following coronavirus infection, moved the high court on Tuesday. The woman said she wanted to have the man's child through in vitro fertilisation method or Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) procedure but he was not in a condition to give consent for the collection of his sperm.She said in her plea citing doctors that his chances of survival were slim and approached the court after the hospital demanded a court order to collect his sperm.Also read | Guj HC orders collection of critical Covid patient's sample as wife wants childJustice Ashutosh J Shastri granted an urgent hearing to the woman and directed the hospital to collect the man's sperm as soon as possible and store it appropriately. In its order on Tuesday, the high court said that "interim relief is granted in an extraordinary urgent situation" and it "shall be subject to the outcome of the petition".Further hearing about the granting permission for IVF/ART procedure has been scheduled on Friday.Anil Nambiar, zonal director at Sterling Hospital, told reporters on Wednesday that doctors successfully extracted the man's sperm on Tuesday night, within hours of receiving the court's order."The patient's family decided to carry out the procedure. But we needed the consent of the individual on whom the process is to be carried out. Since he is critical and cannot give his consent, we could do so only if the court allowed," Nambiar told the media on Wednesday, reported PTI.Nambiar also said that the IVF procedure will be carried out after the court allows it.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patient-dies-days-after-high-court-s-nod-to-sperm-collection-101627021191921.html
23-07-2021||India||Flood in Maharashtra’s Chiplun: Water starts receding, rescue ops continue||Water started receding in most parts of Chiplun in Ratnagiri on Friday after rain wreaked havoc, even as rescue operations were started in the Konkan town of Maharashtra.According to Chiplun district collector B R Patil, illegal constructions along the Vashisthi river and discharge from the Kolkewadi dam could have led to flooding. Downpour in Mahabaleshwar, which recorded 60cm rainfall in 24 hours ending Friday morning, triggered floods in Vashishti river which flows through Chiplun before merging into the Arabian Sea. “There has been illegal construction along the river and the release of water from Kolkewadi dam and torrential rains flooded the entire city.We can call it a partially man-made disaster . Once the flood water recedes, a probe will be ordered into the illegal constructions. Food packets are being distributed to those stranded on different floors of various buildings,” he added.The four National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams along with, Coast Guard, the navy and the army began rescue operations on Friday morning after the situation improved partially. The NDRF teams reached the town but water didn’t let the rescuers enter. Also Read | Mumbai under orange alert, to receive lesser rain than last 4 days“We have requested for six additional teams of NDRF personnel and army columns to aid us in our rescue and relief work. The navy teams will be reaching today while the coast guard is already helping us in the operations,” said Patil. The Western Naval Command in Mumbai has deployed five teams to Chiplun following a request by the district administration. Each team will have five rescue team members, and a boat, and can save between 5-7 adults. Two helicopters of the Indian Air Force helicopters have been deployed for rescue operations of people stranded in Chiplun and Khed towns in the district. More than 80% of the town with a population of 70,000 has been submerged due to the rise in the water level of river Vashishti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-in-maharashtra-s-chiplun-water-starts-receding-rescue-ops-continue-101627021565543.html
23-07-2021||India||Cold war ends as CM Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu meet, sip tea together||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday met Navjot Singh Sidhu at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh ahead of a ceremony to appoint the cricketer-turned-politician as the chief of the Congress' state unit, signalling a thaw in the relationship between the two leaders.The meeting ended the speculations around Amarinder Singh's presence at the event where Sidhu will be formally handed over the reins of the Congress party's Punjab unit. Shortly after the two leaders who were embroiled in bitter infighting met, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the 'Punjab crisis' has been resolved.The leaders, swarmed with other party leaders, were seen exchanging few words as Singh looked and pointed at his watch while speaking to Sidhu.Singh on Thursday invited the party's MLAs, MPs and senior functionaries from the state for high-tea.Even though Sidhu arrived at the venue first, he left for a brief period after Amarinder Singh reached Punjab Bhawan. He later rejoined the gathering and went into the room to greet the Punjab chief minister. Both the leaders then sat together for a tea alongside All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. Senior Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present.The two leaders managed to reach a truce and the first signs emerged on Thursday when two of the four newly-appointed working presidents of the state, Congress Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, extended a formal invite to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the Friday's ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by more than 55 legislators.Additionally, Sidhu also reached out to Amarinder Singh, asking him to join the installation ceremony and said that he had no "personal agenda", reported PTI.The party witnessed the first step marking the end of the "Punjab crisis" after Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday appointed Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit.Tensions between the two Congress's stalwarts in Punjab soared in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident.Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the issue of alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police-firing incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-war-ends-as-cm-amarinder-singh-meets-navjot-sidhu-sip-tea-together-101627018351087.html
23-07-2021||India||PM Modi pays tributes to freedom fighters Tilak, Azad on their birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to freedom fighters Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Chandra Shekhar Azad on their birth anniversary and recalled their contributions towards India’s freedom struggle.Taking to Twitter, Modi said Bal Gangadhar Tilak was a firm believer in Indian values and ethos, adding his views on education and women empowerment continued to motivate people. “I bow to the great Lokmanya Tilak on his Jayanti. His thoughts and principles are more relevant than ever before in the present circumstances, when 130 crore Indians have decided to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat that is economically prosperous and socially progressive,” he wrote on the microblogging site.Lokmanya Tilak was a firm believer in Indian values and ethos. His views on subjects such as education and women empowerment continue to motivate several people. He was an institution builder, nurturing many top-quality institutions which have done pioneering work over the years.Bal Gangadhar Tilak, a teacher, independence activist and social thinker, was the first leader of India’s independence movement. Regarded as the “Maker of Modern India” by Mahatma Gandhi and “The father of the Indian unrest” by the British, Tilak was one of the strongest advocates of Swaraj or self-rule and is seen as the first political leader who appreciated the importance of identity issues. One of his most famous quotes is “Swarajya is my birthright and I shall have it!”.While paying tributes to the revolutionary Chandra Shekhar Azad, Prime Minister Modi said he was a futuristic thinker and dreamt of a strong and just India. “Remembering the valiant son of Bharat Mata, the remarkable Chandra Shekhar Azad on his Jayanti. During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India,” PM Modi tweeted.Remembering the valiant son of Bharat Mata, the remarkable Chandra Shekhar Azad on his Jayanti. During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India.Born in 1906, Chandra Shekhar Azad, was a part of Mahatma Gandhi’s non-cooperation movement. Associated with a string of revolutionary incidents to target the colonial British regime, he vowed never to be captured by the police and remain “azad” (free). In 1931, Azad died at a young age of 24 as he shot himself after being surrounded by the police in Uttar Pradesh's Allahabad, now known as Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-freedom-fighters-tilak-azad-on-their-birth-anniversary-101627017267716.html
23-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 420 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 420 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, July 22. Citing limited supply, Delhi government said Covishield jabs will be reserved for those due for their second dose until July-end.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 422,826,035 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,886,103 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 2,362,689 were given the first dose while 214,281 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 132,960,281 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 5,540,162 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases drop to 35,342; nearly 500 deaths in 24 hoursMadhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.As many as 35,342 new Covid cases and 38,740 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Friday.The cumulative positive cases now stand at 31,293,062, including 30,468,079 recoveries and 405,513 active cases. The country’s Covid death tally has reached 419,470, including 483 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-420-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627017665337.html
23-07-2021||India||Stakeholders consulted before pension rules amendment: Minister||Union minister Jitendra Singh has said intelligence and security organisations were consulted before the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules were amended last month to bar former officials from publishing materials related to the “sensitive information” post-retirement without prior permission.“Prior to amendment, it was up to the concerned official to decide whether the published material falls in the prescribed prohibited categories or not. In case, the official feels that the material he is going to publish does not fall in the prohibited category then he could publish the material without any prior approval of the Government,” Singh told Parliament on Thursday. He added in case the officer publishes something under prohibited categories, a loss to the country would already have happened. “To prevent such situations, the current amendment has been made.”Also Read | Singh was responding to a question from Trinamool Congress member Santanu Sen on whether stakeholders were consulted before the amendment to the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules.Former Army chief Ved Prakash Malik said knowing how the government functions, either the permission will not come, or it will take a very long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stakeholders-consulted-before-pension-rules-amendment-minister-101627015684910.html
23-07-2021||India||Parts of NW India to receive heavy, widespread rain during next 2-3 days: IMD||There is likely to be a wet spell over parts of northwest India from July 23 to 26, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The western end of monsoon trough has moved slightly southward but still runs north of its normal position. It is likely to shift to the normal position during the next two days. Its eastern end now runs south of its normal position dipping to eastcentral Bay of Bengal. Due to shifting of the trough, widespread rain with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on July 23 and enhanced rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 25 and 26 over these areas. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over plains of northwest India during the next two days with enhanced rainfall activity thereafter and very heavy falls over Uttar Pradesh is likely on July 25 and 26.A low pressure area is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move west-northwestwards along the monsoon trough during the next two days. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over east and adjoining central India during July 23 - 24 with reduction thereafter. An off-shore trough at mean sea level is running from south Gujarat coast to Kerala coast. It is likely to persist during the next two days. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over the west coast during the next two days with reduction thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-nw-india-to-receive-heavy-widespread-rain-during-next-2-3-daysimd-101627015205173.html
23-07-2021||India||Security tightened around Jantar Mantar as 'Kisan Sansad' enters Day 2||Barely two kilometres away from the ongoing monsoon session at Parliament, security remained heightened around Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Friday as 200 farmers hold their 'Kisan Sansad' or farmer's parliament for a second day to protest against the three agricultural laws.The early visuals from the heart of the national capital showed thick barricading by Delhi Police on Friday morning at the designated protest site ahead of the arrival of farmers to continue their agitation. Security personnel from the Delhi Police, Rapid Action Force (RAF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were seen armed with anti-riot gear in the area.On the first day of the farmers' parliament, police used barricades along with metal detectors been placed on either side of the Jantar Mantar and two water cannons have also been stationed.Additionally, the security has been heightened at the Singhu border - a protest site at Delhi's entry point used by the farmers for nearly eight months now. The Delhi Police personnel have also escorted the farmers to the Singhu border to and back from Jantar Mantar.The farmer protesting against the three farm laws since November last year have said that the current agitation is being held to reiterate to the government that they are continuing to hold it after the union lost close to 600 people in the last eight months.The Kisan Sansad will run alongside the monsoon session till August 13 - the last day of Parliament.Farmers on Thursday said their parallel parliament will discuss the 42 anti-farmer laws brought by the Centre after 2014 and also pass a resolution declaring that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is anti-farmer.The demonstration comes almost six months after violent protests broke out in parts of Delhi during a tractor rally carried out by farmers on January 26.The farmers' protests are the longest such demonstration in decades of independent India. Farmers have maintained that the laws, forced in by the government, essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law. The government has made it clear that it won’t scrap these laws and held at least 12 rounds of talks with the agitating farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-tightened-at-jantar-mantar-singhu-border-as-farmers-protest-enters-day-2-101627009644576.html
23-07-2021||India||Only 'symbolic snan' in Haridwar on Guru Purnima, devotees need negative Covid-19 report||Guru Purnima celebrations in Uttarakhand's Haridwar this year will be limited to only a symbolic snan on Sunday in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and warnings of a likely third wave, reported news agency ANI citing officials. Only devotees with a negative RT-PCR report carried out in the last 72 hours will be allowed to participate, officials said."In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and a possible third wave, only a symbolic 'snan' will be held in Haridwar on July 24 on the occasion of Guru Purnima. Only 'Shri Ganga Sabha' and 'Teerth Purohit' to participate in the snan," the Haridwar district administration said on Saturday, according to ANI."Devotees will be allowed in Haridwar if they produce a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours, but they won't be allowed in the snan," it added.More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-symbolic-snan-in-haridwar-on-guru-purnima-devotees-need-negative-covid-19-report-101627012497316.html
23-07-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases drop to 35,342; nearly 500 deaths in 24 hours||India on Friday saw a slight dip in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it recorded 35,342 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's data showed. The country, however, saw its daily deaths spike after 483 fatalities were recorded by the health ministry, taking the toll to 419,470 so far.Active cases of Covid-19 also decreased by 3,881 and were logged at 405,513, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total cases India has recorded. As many as 38,740 recoveries were witnessed in the last 24 hours, taking the number to 30,468,079 so far.A total of 16,68,561 tests were carried out on Thursday to detect the infection, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,29,39,545. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent -- it has been less than three per cent for 32 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.14 per cent.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,04,68,079, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34%, the data stated.The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 423.4 million.Researchers from the Center for Global Development, Washington DC, and Harvard University scientifically analysed data and concluded that an estimated 4.9 million people in India may have died from Covid-19. The report was based on estimating “excess mortality”, the number of extra people who died compared with pre-crisis figures. India, however, denied the study findings and said that the case fatality rate in the country remained largely unchanged during the peak of second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-to-35-342-nearly-500-deaths-in-24-hours-101627013013046.html
23-07-2021||India||Guru Purnima to be observed tomorrow: Know significance, time, tithi||Guru Purnima, a festival dedicated to all academic and spiritual gurus (teachers), will be celebrated on July 24 this year. On this day, students pay respect to their teachers for sharing their lessons and knowledge. Guru Purnima is celebrated on the full moon day in the Hindu month of Ashadha, which is from June to July.Who celebrates Guru Purnima?Traditionally, Buddh Purnima has been celebrated by Buddhists. It commemorates Gautam Buddha’s first sermon to his first five disciples in Uttar Pradesh’s Sarnath. However, Hindus and Jains also celebrate this festival to revere their teachers.Significance of Guru PurnimaGuru Purnima marks the relationship between students and teachers.In today’s time, it has been said that teachers play the most important role in the lives of students. Apart from imparting education and teaching other co-curricular and non-curricular skills, teachers also familiarise students with values and life skills that help them deal with the outside world once they become adults.Schools, colleges and other educational institutions across India celebrate Guru Purnima by organising various events to thank the teachers in bringing out the best in students.TithiThe Guru Purnima Tithi this year will begin at 10.43am on July 23 and end at 8.06am on July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guru-purnima-to-be-observed-tomorrow-know-significance-time-tithi-101627008562789.html
23-07-2021||India||Cyclones, floods in India among Asia’s top ten deadly disasters in past 50 yrs||Top ten disasters in Asia during 1970 and 2019, both in terms of deaths and economic losses, included cyclone and flooding events in India, according to data released by World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) on Friday. The biggest disaster in Asia in terms of deaths was recorded in Bangladesh during cyclone Bhola in 1970 when an estimated 300,000 persons were killed. The worst disaster in terms of economic losses was recorded in China during 1998 floods causing an approximate loss of 47.02 billion USD. Tropical cyclones that affected India in 1977 killing 14,204 people; in 1999 killing 9,843 people and in 1971 killing 9,658 people figure in the top ten list in terms of deaths. India’s 2014 floods figure in the list of costliest disasters with a loss of approximately 16.90 billion USD. In Europe, in comparison, the top ten disasters were dominated by extreme temperatures causing massive loss of lives and floods in terms of economic losses. Super cyclone Amphan which made landfall in the Sunderbans near the India-Bangladesh border last year is estimated to be the costliest tropical cyclone on record in the North Indian Ocean with economic losses of approximately US$14 billion, WMO said last year. Citing data from the forthcoming WMO Atlas of Mortality and Economic Losses from Weather, Climate and Water Extremes (1970-2019) which will be released ahead of the United Nations General Assembly in September, WMO said over the 50-year period, weather, climate and water hazards accounted for 50% of all disasters (including technological hazards), 45% of all reported deaths and 74% of all reported economic losses at global level. WMO also said on Friday that recent flooding events in China; heat waves in North America are clearly related to climate crisis and that no country developed or developing will be spared from its impacts. Of the top 10 disasters, the hazards that led to the highest lives lost globally during the period have been droughts (650,000 deaths), storms (577,232 deaths), floods (58,700 deaths) and extreme temperature (55,736 deaths), according to the Atlas. As far as economic losses are concerned, the top 10 events globally include storms (US$ 521 billion) and floods (US$ 115 billion), according to an excerpt from the Atlas. “Weather, climate and water-related hazards are increasing in frequency and intensity as a result of climate change. The human and economic was highlighted with tragic effect by the torrential rainfall and devastating flooding and loss of life in central Europe and China in the past week,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas. In the past week, Mumbai and other parts of India’s west coast also reported unprecedented rains. Landslides killed at least 31 persons in Mumbai on July 18; and at least 74 people were killed in lightning strikes in 24 hours on July 12 and 13 in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh. “Recent record-breaking heatwaves in North America are clearly linked to global warming,” said Taalas, citing a rapid attribution analysis that climate change, caused by greenhouse gas emissions, made the heatwave at least 150 times more likely to happen. “But increasingly, heavy rainfall episodes also bear the footprint of climate change. As the atmosphere gets warmer it holds more moisture which means it will rain more during storms, increasing the risk of floods. No country – developed or developing – is immune. Climate change is here and now. It is imperative to invest more in climate change adaptation, and one way of doing this is to strengthen multi-hazard early warning systems,” he added. According to WMO, the German national meteorological service, DWD, said up to two months’ worth of rainfall fell in two days (July 14 and 15) on soils that were already near saturation in the most affected regions of Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg. Switzerland and Austria were also hit by severe flooding. About 100 to 150mm rain was recorded in 24 hours between July 14 and 15. The DWD weather station of Wipperfuerth-Gardeweg (North Rhine-Westphalia) recorded 162mm followed by Cologne-Stammheim (North Rhine-Westphalia) with 160mm, Kall-Sistig (North Rhine-Westphalia) with 152mm and Wuppertal-Buchenhofen (North Rhine-Westphalia) with 151mm. Some parts of the central Chinese province of Henan received more accumulated rainfall between July 17 and 21 than the annual average. The national meteorological observation station in Zhengzhou reached 720mm – compared to its annual average of 641mm. “Climate change is exacerbating the climate crisis with an increased frequency and intensity of hydro-meteorological disasters across the globe. An analysis by CEEW suggests that more than 97.51 million people in India are exposed to extreme flood events, and the frequency of associated flood events (like landslides, heavy rainfall, thunderstorms, sea-level rise, etc.) have increased 20-fold. These numbers are a grim reminder of the state of vulnerability, and ignoring these signals only compounds the chronic and acute risks that we will face in the near future. India needs a proactive climate risk mitigation strategy with a broad focus on building back faster and better. Enhanced investment in an improved emergency response framework and climate-proofing of infrastructure that accounts for multi-hazards can build resilience. Restoring and reviving the natural ecosystems should be a national imperative that needs renewed political, financial, and technological focus,” said Abinash Mohanty, Programme Lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclones-floods-in-india-among-asia-s-top-ten-deadly-disasters-in-past-50-yrs-101627012985312.html
23-07-2021||India||5 dead in Raigad landslide triggered by heavy rains||As Maharashtra continues to get battered by heavy rainfall, a fatal landslide in the state's Raigad district on Thursday night claimed the lives of five people, reported news agency ANI on Friday, citing the district collector."Five people died in the Raigad district due to landslides and floods," district collector Nidhi Chaudhary told ANI. She added that the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been informed, as authorities continue to attempt headway in the disaster rescue operation.Five people died in Raigad district due to landslides and floods: Nidhi Chaudhary, District Collector, Raigad#Maharashtra"The NDRF team is having trouble reaching the affected villages as roads are submerged underwater," the Raigad district collector was quoted as saying by the news agency.Also Read | Maharashtra rains: PM Modi assures of full support to CM Uddhav ThackerayThe Ratnagiri and Raigad districts of Maharashtra have been battered by torrential rains over the past 24 hours, resulting in a flood-like situation. Following an emergency meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, NDRF rushed two teams to Ratnagiri's Khed and Chiplun areas to tackle the critical situation due to high tide and heavy rain.As of Friday morning, a team of NDRF managed to evacuate and shift residents of the Chikhli village to safer places.#WATCH | Maharashtra: National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team shifts people from Chikhali in Kolhapur district to safer locations. Several parts of the state are facing floods due to incessant rainfall. (Source: NDRF) pic.twitter.com/H0SZH9wWteMeanwhile, Raigad's guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said the Maharashtra government has sought assistance from the Centre and the Indian Army to rescue the people trapped in Mahad.The Western Naval Command of the Indian Navy, based in Mumbai, has mobilised flood rescue teams and helicopters for assistance, based on a request from the Maharashtra government. Seven naval rescue teams from Mumbai departed by road for deployment to Ratnagiri and Raigad on Thursday, ANI reported.Moreover, the armed forces are also helping in airlifting marooned personnel from the Raigad district. A Seaking 42C Helo chopper from INS Shikra, docked in Mumbai, departed for rescue at Poladpur in Raigad during the early hours on Friday. Two more NDRF teams have been mobilised for rescue operations -- one each for Khed in Ratnagiri and for Mahad in Raigad -- from the disaster management body's Pune headquarters. Additional flood rescue teams have been kept on standby for immediate deployment, should the need arise.The national forecasting agency India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued red and orange alerts for several regions in the state and said they are set to receive heavy rainfall in the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-five-dead-in-raigad-landslide-triggered-by-heavy-rains-101627009772305.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: 2 militants killed in J-K's Sopore and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two militants killed in overnight gunfight in Kashmir’s SoporeTwo militants were killed in an overnight gunfight in north Kashmir’s Sopore village, police said on Friday. This is the second such exchange of fire this week. Police said they had information about presence of two to three militants in the area. Read moreSchools, educational institutions in Rajasthan to reopen from August 2The Rajasthan government has announced all schools and other educational institutions in the state will reopen from August 2 amid an improvement in the overall situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreMaharashtra mulls further relaxations in curbs, records 7,302 fresh Covid casesAmid increasing pressure from various quarters to provide further relaxations in Covid-19 curbs in the state, the Maharashtra government is expected to take a decision over opening suburban train services for a few more categories in the next few days. Read moreCIA may now deploy 'China specialists' to compete with BeijingThe United States has to come to terms with the fact that it is no longer the "only big kid" on the geopolitical block, said Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns has said. Read moreChutzpah review: Varun Sharma’s new SonyLIV show has nothing that is scroll-stoppingWith the ubiquity of social media, millions across the world are seduced by the lure of a virtual world which promises instant validation in the form of likes, comments and retweets. Read more'The debate in itself is wrong': Shoaib Akhtar explains what Babar 'needs' to do to 'beat Virat and surpass him'Shoaib Akhtar has given his view on the comparison between India captain Virat Kohli and Pakistan skipper Babar Azam, saying that despite all the comparisons that are being drawn between the two players, the debate surrounding the two is wrong. Read morePriyanka Chopra's backless polka dot shirt dress in new pics is worth ₹1 lakhActor Priyanka Chopra Jonas gave a glimpse of her breezy summer wardrobe recently as she shared several pictures of herself dressed in a pretty printed ensemble. Read moreWatch how Tiger Shroff got 'action ready' for Heropanti 2Bollywood actor Tiger Shroff gets ready for his upcoming movie Heropanti 2. The actor, who started off his career with Heropanti, will now be seen in the action sequence. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-militants-killed-in-j-k-s-sopore-and-all-the-latest-news-101627010794498.html
23-07-2021||India||Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill to be taken up in Parliament today||Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Pashupati Kumar Paras are scheduled to move the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill and National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill in Parliament on Friday. The first proposed legislation seeks to widen the scope of factoring, and the second aims to declare the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (Kundli), and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (Thanjavur) as institutions of national importance.The two bills were scheduled to be taken up earlier this week but could not be because of protests over the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities.Union ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and Smriti Irani will also table Marine Aids to Navigation Bill and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill for passage.Several private members’ bills are also expected to be taken up including one related to compulsory teaching of Sanskrit language in schools by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Sudhakar Tukaram Shrangare. Hans Raj Hans, another BJP member, is scheduled to table a bill seeking enhanced compensation for the families of soldiers killed in the line of duty.Saugata Roy of the Trinamool Congress is expected to introduce a private member bill related to the preservation of secularism and communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factoring-regulation-amendment-bill-to-be-taken-up-in-parliament-today-101627011244915.html
23-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in overnight gunfight in Kashmir’s Sopore||Two militants were killed in an overnight gunfight in north Kashmir’s Sopore village, police said on Friday. This is the second such exchange of fire this week.Police said they had information about presence of two to three militants in the area. A cordon-and-search operation was launched in Warpora village in Sopore on Thursday evening. They said the operation turned into a gunfight when militants started firing at the forces. “Two militants have been killed,” confirmed Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar, adding that one of the militants was identified as Fayaz Ahmad War who was allegedly involved in many killings of civilians and security force personnel.Also Watch | Kargil Diwas: Army organises motorcycle rally, musical evening at Udhampur HQOn Monday, top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Ishfaq Ahmad Dar alias Abu Akram, who deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police about four years ago, was among the two militants killed in in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.Police said the commander was involved in the killing of four cops in 2018 in south Kashmir’s Zanipora village.Last Friday, two militants were neutralised by security forces at Alamdar Colony in Danmar area of Srinagar. So far, 83 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year, including some top commanders belonging to different militant groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militants-killed-in-overnight-gunfight-in-kashmir-s-sopore-101627010044462.html
23-07-2021||India||Foreign secretary Shringla to begin 2-day UK visit, roadmap 2030 on agenda||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla is set to embark on a two-day visit to the United Kingdom (UK) on Friday to further India's bilateral ties with the nation as per Roadmap 2030, a 10-year diplomatic coordination strategy between New Delhi and London, the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) said. According to an official release, the foreign secretary will discuss a host of issues with his counterparts in the UK, including the implementation of the said roadmap and the evolving situation in Afghanistan.Also Read | UK Strike Force joins Indian and Quad navies to put a stamp on Indo-Pacific"During the visit, the foreign secretary will meet with his counterparts and conduct a detailed review of bilateral relations with particular focus on the implementation of the 2030 Roadmap," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing on Thursday.Roadmap 2030 for India-UK future relations was launched during the virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his English counterpart Boris Johnson in May. The partnership agreement envisions "revitalised and dynamic connections" over the next decade between the two countries in the spheres of trade, investment, technology, climate action, and health. Moreover, the plan aims to boost India-UK defence and security cooperation in the Indian Ocean and the Indo-Pacific regions.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will be conducting a detailed review of the bilateral ties between India and the UK with a focus on this 10-year roadmap, the external affairs ministry said. It is understood that the evolving situation in Afghanistan is also likely to figure in Shringla's engagements in London."He will also discuss regional and global issues of mutual interest," MEA spokesperson Bagchi said while speaking of Shringla's upcoming visit to the UK.India and the UK recently conducted a joint drill for over three days in the Bay of Bengal as part of efforts to enhance interoperability and naval cooperation. Britain's largest warship, the 65,000-tonne aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group conducted complex maritime exercises with the Indian Navy as part of the country’s moves to enhance its profile in the Indo-Pacific and to foster defence ties with nations across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-to-begin-2-day-uk-visit-roadmap-2030-on-agenda-101626997039552.html
23-07-2021||India||Six months into India’s vaccination drive: What is right and what is not||India launched its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16. Six months into it, there has been visible improvement on most fronts: the pace has picked up, and the gender and urban-rural gaps are reducing. Still, more needs to be done if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population of 940 million by the end of 2021.Daily jabs are off their peak, but still higher than beforeIndia’s vaccine supply policy has gone through several phases. In the first three, vaccinations were opened up to healthcare workers, front-line workers, and those over the age of 60 years or over the age of 45 years but with co-morbidities. In all three, the vaccines were sourced and supplied by the Union government -– to the states and to private centres. Starting April 1, vaccinations were opened up to those over the age of 45. In this phase too, vaccines were procured and allocated to states and private centres by the Union government. Starting May 1, India opened up vaccinations for everyone over the age of 18. This happened even as supplies remained constrained. States were allowed to procure up to 25% of the vaccines made locally for this; private hospitals were allowed to buy another 25%; and the remaining 50% was sourced by the Union government for distribution to the states for healthcare and frontline workers and those over the age of 45 years. After a messy month-and-half when supplies played truant, and demand soared, the Union government took over the sourcing of 75% of the vaccines starting June 21 (the private sector continued to procure and administer 25%). The seven-day average of new doses administered reached an all-time high of 6.39 million on June 26, a number that India could never hope to sustain because it translates into a supply of 191.7 million a month (and in July, according to the health ministry, the supply is expected to be 135 million doses). The numbers fell subsequently, reaching just 3.42 million on July 12. However, in the past week, the pace of vaccinations has increased again. While it is still short of the peak of 6.39 million, it is significantly higher than what it was before.But the current pace needs to increase to meet the December 31 deadlineThe Union government has set a target of vaccinating India’s entire adult population by December 31. As of 6pm on July 22, 87.8 million people have been fully vaccinated and 242.2 million people have received at least one dose. India’s adult population, as on March 1, according to a projection by the National Commission on Population is 940 million. This means that 65% of the adult population has not received even one dose of vaccines until now. As the share of people who have been given their first dose of vaccine increases, future vaccine supplies will have to be reserved for administering second doses. Even if the current rate of administering first doses to 4.32 million people (as on July 20) daily is maintained, the target of vaccinating the entire population by December 31 will not be met. However, supplies are expected to increase significantly starting August, making it possible for India to accelerate it drive.Vaccination in rural districts is increasingUrban India had a head-start in terms of vaccinations. While this is to be expected, it is self-defeating. An HT analysis based on merging the 754 districts listed on the Co-Win app with the 640 districts in the 2011 census shows that almost three-fourth (72.8%) of India’s population lived in rural districts with at least 60% of the population living in rural areas. On July 21, the seven-day average of new doses administered per million population in rural districts was 2,799. This number was 4,477 for the urban districts where the share of rural population was less than 40%. To be sure, things have improved on this front. The ratio of seven-day average of new does per million in urban and rural districts was 2.76 on June 6, against 1.60 on July 21.Dr Shahid Jameel, director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, said while the reduction in gap between rural and urban areas in the pace of vaccination is welcome news, the gap needs to be reduced further. This is because, he said, the results of the latest sero-prevalence survey shows that the Covid-19 infection could spread just as readily in rural areas as urban areas.More women are getting vaccinated nowOn June 8 an HT analysis pointed towards a male-bias in India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme. Things are improving on this front too now.After the vaccination drive was opened up for all adults on May 1, the ratio of fresh first doses per million men and women (7-day average) peaked on May 25 at 1.348. It has been falling since then and was at 1.079 on June 24.A change in design of the gender-wise data on vaccination from June 25 -– we now have data on total doses instead of the first dose -- does not allow us to keep track of this ratio anymore. However, there is no evidence to suggest that the trend towards gender equality in vaccination has reversed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-months-into-india-s-vaccination-drive-what-is-right-and-what-is-not-101626986375355.html
23-07-2021||India||SC says ‘very unlikely’ it will cancel bail of student activists held in riots||Frowning upon “hypersensitivity in political matters”, the Supreme Court on Thursday said it is “very unlikely” to send back to jail three student activists, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested in May last year for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots.The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta made the observation while hearing appeals filed by the Delhi Police against the grant of bail to the three by the Delhi high court in June when it asked whether the police will confine the case to interpretations of certain provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by the Delhi high court, or would also appeal the bail.“We are here on both aspects. We want the bail orders to be set aside,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Delhi Police in the matter, told the court.To this, the bench retorted: “Very unlikely...but you can try.”The court also recorded in its order that the Delhi Police wanted the bail orders to be quashed apart from other comments made by the high court on the interpretations of the UAPA Act. Delhi HC had interpreted the UAPA Act to hold that the law can be invoked only for offences limited to defence of India and for activities carried out during war. The HC defined what constituted a “terrorist activity”, noting UAPA could apply only when activities led to widespread violence threatening the defence of the country.During the proceeding, justice Kaul, speaking for the bench, further expressed his displeasure at repeated interruptions from Mehta and additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, who also appeared for the police, when the judge sought to get clarifications on the issues being pressed by the Delhi Police.As Mehta said that even a single observation from the bench can have a huge impact because of wide reportage, justice Kaul said a judge cannot be stopped from asking questions.“We don’t understand hypersensitivity in political matters. Can I be precluded from asking questions? Whenever I want to ask something, either you (Mehta) say something or Lekhi interrupts. What is this? We want to segregate the issues and that is why it is important for us to know what you want. Do you want to argue on the interpretations of the law or do you also want to take them back in custody?” justice Kaul asked Mehta.Mehta replied that the Delhi Police would press for both. Lekhi, on his part, claimed the high court had undone UAPA by interpreting the Act in a particular manner and argued that its order must go in entirety.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Siddharth Aggarwal, who were representing the student activists, asked for four weeks to put in their replies to the appeals filed by the police, along with the copy of the charge sheet in the case. The court gave them time and adjourned.The court, which on June 18 directed that the bail orders in this case would not be treated as a precedent in any other case or relied upon in any court proceeding, also observed that bail proceedings could not become final adjudicatory proceedings and that provisions of an Act were not to be debated extensively in a bail matter.At this, Sibal pointed out that there are some cases in which both sides argue on facts as well as on statutory provisions and therefore, bail orders end up interpreting the law too.The bench, however, clarified that it was not inclined to hear a bail matter for hours together and hence, the lawyers should endeavour to limit their arguments mostly to the facts of the case when they argue it later.Over 750 FIRs were filed and several people arrested for the communal riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, leaving 53 people dead and several hundreds injured.Kalita, Narwal and Tanha are named in one of these FIRs, accused of orchestrating the blocking of roads in an area where riots broke out. Narwal and Kalita have been granted bail in two other cases, in which they were accused of unlawful assembly and inciting riots. Tanha received bail in another case that alleges he was part of a “premeditated conspiracy” to orchestrate the riots.On June 18, the apex court said it was staying “the effect of the high court order” but clarified that the three activists, who had been released from prison, would remain out on bail . The court accepted Mehta’s submissions that the high court orders could impact several other cases under UAPA pending before different courts.A high court bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani on June 15 ordered the release of the three student activists on bail, describing the charges against them as “hyperbole” and ruling that it would be “a stretch” to “say that the protest affected the community at large for it to qualify as an act of terror||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-very-unlikely-it-will-cancel-bail-of-student-activists-held-in-riots-101626985231560.html
23-07-2021||India||First doses of Covishield halted as supplies dry up||Covishield jabs at government centres will be reserved for those due for their second dose of the vaccine until July-end, the Delhi government said in an order on Thursday, citing a limited supply of doses. The order noted that beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group who began receiving shots in May are due to be eligible for their second dose.“Vaccination of 18 to 44 cohort began on May 1, 2021, and with the completion of the 84-day interval for the second dose of Covishield, many of them will become eligible for the second dose in the coming weeks. In view of a limited supply of vaccines, all slots –for online booking and walk-in … in government Covid vaccination centres will be reserved for the second dose with immediate effect till July 31,” said health and family welfare department director Monika Rana in the order.This is the first time Covishield doses have been limited in this manner, since the vaccination drive began in the Capital. On June 6, the Delhi government stopped administering first doses of the Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin, owing to a shortage of stocks. Later, on July 12, as stocks stabilised, it reserved 20% of the vaccine for first doses.The move is likely to further slow the pace of vaccination in Delhi, with the number of first doses in the city already falling behind the number of second doses administered. The Centre’s CoWin dashboard on Thursday showed that as of 5pm, 25,662 second doses were given in the city, as compared to 21,597 first doses.On Thursday, as of 5pm, Delhi administered 47,259 vaccine doses, fewer than even the number of vaccinations a day before when 63,265 jabs were administered. The number of operational vaccination centres also dropped from 729 on Wednesday to 660 on Thursday, as Covishield stocks dried up. There are 1,374 vaccination centres in the city.As on Thursday morning, the Delhi government said it had 65,460 Covishield doses in stock. It was not immediately clear if the government received any fresh stock till the time of going to print.The state also had 245,590 doses of Covaxin as on Thursday morning.“With the district receiving fewer Covishield doses, there are days when we administer more Covaxin shots now. This is probably why more second doses are being given,” said an official from the West district.An official from East district said, “This is being done because we have limited number of Covishield doses and everyone who got the shot in May will need their second dose. This had happened with Covaxin too.”“At the beginning of the month, we were unofficially informed that the pace of the vaccination will stay slow because of a lack of doses. We cannot operate all our sites every day because we are getting fewer doses than we can administer,” an official from south district said.Delhi’s vaccination rates have been erratic since June 21, when the Centre took over control of purchasing and distributing vaccines to states, a change from the earlier policy, when states were buying doses for those aged between 18 and 45 at a separate, higher price.In the three weeks since then, vaccinations peaked on June 26, when the city administered over 207,000 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. In fact, Delhi vaccinated over 200,000 in a day on three occasions in four days between June 26 and 29.However, they have also dipped precipitously on weekdays — most government vaccination centres are shut on Sunday, falling to a low of 22,353 on July 7, a Wednesday.Delhi adds 49 new Covid infections, 1 more deathMeanwhile, the city on Thursday added 49 new cases of Covid-19.The state government’s daily health bulletin on Thursday showed that one person died of the viral infection, taking the Covid-19 toll in Delhi to 25,040.The test positivity rate, a crucial metric to understand the scale of infection spread in a region, remained below the 0.10% mark on Thursday. Of the 58,502 samples collected, just 0.08% returned positive, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-doses-of-covishield-halted-as-supplies-dry-up-101626984518882.html
23-07-2021||India||HC to TN: Can’t buy buses that aren’t disabled-friendly||In a push for the rights and independence of people with disabilities in their commute, the Madras high court on Thursday restrained Tamil Nadu from purchasing any new bus to its fleet in the public transport system unless such buses were disabled-friendly as prescribed by law.The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the interim injunction on a batch of pleas that have been pending before the court for years including from as far back as 2005. One of the petitions in the case had sought to restrain the state from acquiring any further bus unless it conforms to the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017 and under the latter, Rule 15 in particular. Rule 15 mandates that every establishment complies with the specified standard as indicated in a notification issued by the Government of India on September 20, 2016.The state submitted to the court that there are certain practical difficulties, particularly in finding resources not only to acquire the more expensive buses but also to create the road infrastructure required for such sophisticated buses. The state sought more time to indicate a roadmap but the court rejected it and said that implementing this policy shouldn’t be delayed any further.“... there may be no room to manoeuvre and little scope for the court to delay the implementation of the policy as reflected in the statute and the laws made thereunder,” the court said in its orders. “In other words, (the) State will not acquire any new bus for use thereof as part of the public transport system unless such bus meets the standards indicated in the notification of September 20, 2016.”The matter has been posted to August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-to-tn-can-t-buy-buses-that-aren-t-disabledfriendly-101626982981187.html
23-07-2021||India||DVAC raids former minister, AIADMK says political agenda||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday conducted searches in more than 20 premises linked to former AIADMK transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar. From Thursday morning, the team raided 20 places in his native in Karur district and searched his Chennai residence. By evening DVAC sleuths conducted searches in three additional places including a private company, a residence of his associate and at his personal assistant’s house. A case under Section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(b) and 12 r/w 13(2) r/w 13(1)(b) of the PC (Amendment) Act, 2018 was registered against Vijayabhaskar, his wife Vijayalakshmi and his brother Sekar, DVAC said in a statement. “During the search proceedings, net cash of ₹25,56,000, sale deed documents, documents pertaining to investments made in insurance policies and documents related to transactions in the business firms in which M R Vijayabhaskar is a partner and other incriminating documents were seized,” DVAC.Vijayabhaskar’s lawyer Selvam in Chennai told reporters that they were cooperating with the agency. “They asked for accounts. We have given them,” he said. The AIADMK condemned the DMK government over the raids and called it a political vendetta. “The DMK hasn’t even completed 90 days in government but with an intention to register a false case they are raiding former minister Vijayabhaskar’s residence,” AIADMK’s coordinator O Panneerselvam told reporters outside the party headquarters. He was flanked by former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and other leaders. “The AIADMK is ready to face any major avenging act of the DMK. We will face any legal action. “The DMK government has to stop such anti-democratic activities. It is with political vendetta that they are raiding a party which has governed for the last 10 years for people’s rights and livelihood. Such raids carried out soon after they have come to power will not do any good to the political situation in the state.”This is being seen as DMK’s first strike against the AIADMK as one of the DMK’s election promises is to establish a special court to try graft charges against AIADMK ministers from the previous regime. When the DMK was in the opposition, they had submitted corruption charges against top cabinet ministers including former chief minister and deputy chief minister Edappdi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam to governor Banwarilal Purohit. The DMK government had appointed IPS officer P Kandaswamy, to head the DVAC as its chief. He is a low-key officer who is most known for leading the team in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that arrested present Union home minister Amit Shah when he was Gujarat minister in 2010 for his alleged involvement in the Sohrabuddin encounter case. Vijayabhaskar was appointed as transport minister after the party was elected in the 2016 assembly elections. Vijayabaskar lost the recently held assembly elections to DMK’s Senthil Balaji who was formerly with the AIADMK. Balaji, who is now electricity minister, was accused in a job scam when he was the transport minister between 2011 and 2015. Following J Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016, he joined the rebel camp led by V K Sasikala’s nephew, TTV Dhinakaran camp and he was one of the 18 disqualified MLAs. But he subsequently joined the DMK in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dvac-raids-former-minister-aiadmk-says-political-agenda-101626982921155.html
23-07-2021||India||Madurai official suspended after road repair order ahead of RSS chief Bhagwat’s TN visit||Chennai: After an internal circular from a Madurai civic official to his juniors asking them to fix roads ahead of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s visit began circulating on social media, he was shunted out from the post. S Shanmugam, an assistant commissioner of the Madurai Corporation, had issued a circular on July 20 directing zonal officers to repair roads, fix streetlights and keep the routes, which Bhagwat was scheduled to take, clean. He also instructed them not to take up any repair works during the RSS Sarsanghchalak’s visit from July 22 to 27 in the district. This quickly turned into a political controversy after S Venkatesan, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Lok Sabha MP from Madurai constituency, tweeted the circular and sought explanation from the district administration. “Under which government rules has this circular been issued?” Venkatesan tweeted. The ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) allies such as the Left and the Congress sought action against the official for issuing the circular. Shanmugam, who had been on deputation at the Madurai Corporation, has been sent back to his parent department in the district’s revenue office. Following the controversy, Madurai Corporation commissioner KP Karthikeyan issued a press note, explaining that the circular was issued as part of routine arrangements made for any VVIP with Z-plus security cover as per protocol. Bhagwat was provided with Z-plus security cover by the UPA government in 2012, and it was further extened to a countrywide Z-plus security cover of 60 commandos from the CISF in 2015. A senior official in Madurai pointed out that though they were only following the protocol, the contents of the letter caused the problem. “If there is a pothole and his vehicle gets stuck, it is a breach of security protocol, so we were only following routine procedures that we are meant to follow for anyone with Z+ security,” the official said, not wishing to be named. “But the circular made it sound like some extraordinary work. Also, the circular was not sent to higher ups for approval, so we have demanded an explanation from the official,” the official added. Civic chief Karthikeyan signed an order relieving Shanmugam from duty on July 21 evening and sought an explanation for why he issued this circular without the approval of senior officials. Bhagwat is in Tamil Nadu as part of his annual tour. “He will review the organisational work done by Sangh during the last one year and is planning for expansion in the next three years,” said B Narasimhan, state secretary of the RSS. “He will also review Covid-19 relief activities carried out by Sangh volunteers teaming with other organisations during the second wave.” As part of his visit, Bhagwat will spend three days in Vellore and visit Chennai on August 2. He is expected to interact with NGOs and social media influencers. The RSS is the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is working towards gaining ground in Tamil Nadu where it doesn’t enjoy the popularity as in other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madurai-official-suspended-after-road-repair-order-ahead-of-rss-chief-bhagwat-s-tn-visit-101626982862429.html
23-07-2021||India||With no new movie releases, single-screen theatres in Karnataka struggle to survive||Bengaluru: With no new movies available for screening, theater owners in Bengaluru are a concerned lot despite the state government allowing theatres to operate at 50% capacity. With film producers not keen on releasing their movies until 100% occupancy at theatres is announced, theatres owners are left in the lurch. The government on July 18 had allowed the reopening of cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, rangamandiras, auditoriums and similar places of entertainment. However, the order said that they will be allowed to operate at only 50% seating capacity and strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the concerned departments. Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association president KV Chandrasekhar said even though the government’s decision to reopen theatres come as a relief, they have not received any word from any producers on releasing movies. “The single-screen theatres in the state depend on a lot of Kannada movies. No producers have announced any movie for this week or for that matter next weekend. So, many theatres still remain shut,” he said on XX According to the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, Karnataka has around 630 single-screen theatres and around 260 multiples theatres. More than 1200,000 employees work at these establishments. Chandrashekar said that most of the theatres have been paying their employees half their salaries during the lockdown. “The minimum salary of an employee at a single screen theatre is around ₹13,000 to 14,000. With no movies running and without a clear picture about when big movies will release, these theatre owners are running into losses,” he said. An office-bearer of the Kannada Film Producers Association (KFPA), said on the condition of anonymity that film producers were facing their own problems. “It is a difficult situation; we are still not sure if people will come to theatres because of the fear of the third wave. We are not sure if the movies will get enough audience if they are released now. If you look from the exhibitor’s side also, if people don’t come to theatres, they won’t make any money either,” said the official. He said that in the coming days, meetings will be held with concerned authorities on how the situation can be improved. Meanwhile, a distributor based in Bengaluru said that during the lockdown, producers have an affinity towards the online streaming platforms. “If you look at last year, a lot of movies are getting premiered on the OTT platforms and most of the producers are making handsome profits. In fact, there are many movies now, that are made only for streaming,” said the distributor, who didn’t want to be named. However, the official at KFPA said that streaming can’t be an alternative for theatres. “Most of the movies in our industry are made for theatre experience. “These movies make money when people come to the theatres, there are buyers for these movies online because these are mass movies. So, finding a solution to make people get back to theatres is important,” he said. Karnataka government on July 8 had ordered a complete waiver of property tax on single-screen theatres for the financial year 2021-22, after the Karnataka State Film Exhibitors Association submitted a detailed memorandum to CM BS Yediyurappa, citing the problems faced by the industry during the lockdown. Chandrashekar said that despite this announcement from the government, the benefit of this wavier will take time to reach the pockets of some theatre owners. “Most of the theatre owners had paid their property taxes in time and the announcement came much after this. It takes times for these refunds to come to people’s accounts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-new-movie-releases-single-screen-theatres-in-karnataka-struggle-to-survive-101626982741172.html
23-07-2021||India||116 booked for violating Covid norms during Shah rally: Police to HC||Bengaluru: The Belagavi police on Thursday told the Karnataka high court that 116 people have been booked for violating Covid-19 norms during a rally led by union home minister Amit Shah on January 17. The report comes after the HC, on June 18, pulled up the Belagavi police commissioner over the First Information Report (FIR) filed regarding a violation of Covid-19 norms during Shah’s rally. The court questioned why the Belagavi police had named only six persons in the FIR and questioned why a thousand others, (including Shah) were not booked. Following this, the bench had directed the officer in-charge of the APMC yard police station at Belagavi city to file the investigation report carried out in a sealed cover by July 19. “On what basis the commissioner has made a statement that only six persons were there at the rally who were not wearing masks? In the rally of thousands, he is bold to say only six persons were not wearing masks. Can anyone believe this?” asked a division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj on June 18. The comments came after advocate general Prabhuling K Navadgi said that Belagavi police have filed an FIR in the case regarding the violation of Covid norms during the rally at Belagavi on January 17. The FIR was filed after the HC had pulled by Belagavi police on May 25 for failing to register a case against BJP leaders in connection with a rally that was held in the city in January where Covid-19 protocols were flouted. At the rally, held in the run-up to the Lok Sabha by-election to the Belagavi seat, Covid protocols were flouted with people not even wearing masks or maintaining social distance. During the hearing, the commissioner had filed an affidavit stating that only fines were collected from certain persons for violation and no FIR was registered. Dissatisfied with this response, the court had observed: “Reading the affidavit as a whole, we find that the commissioner approached the matter very casually. The large gathering took place in Belagavi where rules regarding the wearing masks and social distancing were thrown to the wind. But the commissioner seems to be satisfied with the recovery of the fine amount.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/116-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-during-shah-rally-police-to-hc-101626982501142.html
23-07-2021||India||As BSY hints at exit, buzz over the next CM begins||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who till now strongly denied all reports of his resignation, on Thursday, in a statement hinted that he may not remain in the chief ministerial post after July 26, the day his government completes two-years in office. This has led to fresh speculations in the state on who would be the next chief minister. When asked, if he had suggested a replacement for chief minister, Yediyurappa simply said, “I will not make any suggestion (on successor)… who should be made (the next CM) is left to the central leadership. I’m not naming any one, there is no need for it also.” While the leaders in the BJP claim that the decision will come from the central leadership of the party, there are some names doing rounds in the political circles. HT spoke with several leaders in the party to get an idea of the names that have been doing the rounds. All leaders, including some ministers, insisted that such decisions are not made at the state level.About the possible candidates, a state minister said a Lingayat chief minister is on the cards. “The party knows the importance of the Lingayat community. We have seen in the last three days how Lingayat seers have rallied behind Yediyurappa. We are hearing some names of (Murugesh) Nirani and Arvind Bellad,” said the leader who didn’t want to be named. Nirani and Bellad are Lingayat leaders from north Karnataka, which is the heartland of the community. Nirani, a three-term MLA from Bilgi constituency, is currently the minister for mines and geology. Nirani is from the Panchamasali sub-sect of the Lingayat community, the largest sub-sect in the Lingayat community. Since there has been a demand for a chief minister from this community and from north Karnataka, he stands a good chance, a party leader said. However, some leaders claimed that the Lingayat community didn’t want Nirani to be the chief minister. “He is a businessman, and the community wants someone who is a political figure and who would stand with the community,” said an MLA from north Karnataka. Bellad is second time MLA but he is yet to get a cabinet position. While being a Lingayat leader puts him on the list of probable candidates, his lack of experience may work against him. At the same, there are talks within the party that a non-Lingayat leader could be selected for the top post since the names of Prahlad Joshi, CT Ravi and CN Ashwath Narayan were also doing around in the political circles. Joshi, who led the party in 2013, when the Yediyurappa left the BJP to form another party, is currently serving as the union minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal, and Mines. However, the state hasn’t had a Brahmin chief minister since 1988 and Joshi is a Brahmin from north Karnataka. CT Ravi and Ashwath Narayan, who are from the Vokkaliga community, which is the second-largest vote bank in the state, are on the list of probable candidates. “There has been a talk in the party to move away from its dependence on the Lingayat community. Having a chief minister from the Vokkaliga community will help us break into the vote bank. And leaders like Ravi and Ashwath are young. They are good choices,” said a senior leader who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-bsy-hints-at-exit-buzz-over-the-next-cm-begins-101626982441130.html
23-07-2021||India||Cong in a fix over floor strategy||The Congress’s decision to revive protests in Rajya Sabha on Thursday after allowing a smooth debate on the Covid-19 pandemic underlined the party’s dilemma and divergent views on floor strategy.A senior Congress leader claimed a section of the central leadership was not happy with the party leaders’ decision to participate in a debate on the Covid-19 situation in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The top Congress leadership wanted its Rajya Sabha unit to continue protests. The Congress in Lok Sabha has been participating in protests over price rise, Pegasus snooping charges and farm laws.In the last session too, the Rajya Sabha unit of the Congress had applied breaks on its protests and allowed House to resume business. The leaders argued that the House of the people and the council of states can have different strategy.This time too, the Congress’s decision to participate came after much deliberation internally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-in-a-fix-over-floor-strategy-101626981975378.html
23-07-2021||India||Cabinet approves central university in Ladakh||In a slew of decisions, the Union Cabinet on Thursday approved the setting up of a central university in the union territory of Ladakh, while also giving its nod to an integrated multi-purpose infrastructure development corporation.The decision was taken at the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an aim of addressing regional imbalances in higher education level and stimulating the intellectual current within the broader society of Ladakh.“Cabinet approves establishment of a Central University in the Union Territory of #Ladakh,” Jaideep Bhatnagar, principal director general of the Press Information Bureau (PIB), tweeted on Thursday.In a press release, the Union government said, “The Cabinet also approved the creation of one post of Managing Director, for the corporation in the pay scale of ₹1,44,200- ₹2,18,200 level.”“The authorised share capital of the Corporation will be ₹25 crore and recurring expenditure will be around ₹2.42 crore per year. It is a new establishment. Presently, there is no such similar organisation within the newly formed UT of Ladakh,” the release added.The government said that the approval has the potential to generate employment as the corporation will be undertaking various developmental activities. “Corporation will work for industry, tourism, transport and marketing of local products and handicraft. Corporation will also work as main construction agency for infrastructure development in Ladakh,” the press release added.“The establishment of corporation will result in inclusive and integrated development of the Union Territory of Ladakh. This will, in turn, ensure socio-economic development of the entire region and population of the Union Territory. The impact of development will be multi-dimensional. It will help in further development of human resources and better utilisation thereof. It increases domestic production of goods and services and will facilitate their smooth supply. Thus, the approval will help in realising the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat.”The Cabinet also approved a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for specialty steel. The duration of the scheme will be five years, from 2023-24 to 2027-28. “With a budgetary outlay of ₹6,322 crore, the scheme is expected to bring in investment of approximately ₹40,000 crore and capacity addition of 25 MT for speciality steel. The scheme will give employment to about 525,000 people, of which 68,000 will be direct employment. Speciality steel has been chosen as the target segment because out of the production of 102 million tonnes steel in India in 2020-21, only18 million tonnes value added steel/speciality steel was produced in the country,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-central-university-in-ladakh-101626982023652.html
23-07-2021||India||MP moves motion against new IT rules||A Rajya Sabha MP has moved a proposal to strike down the contentious new social media and intermediary guidelines, notified by the government in February. The motion that has been accepted is a rarely used statutory one, moved by Communist Party of India MP Binoy Viswam.“This House resolves that the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, issued under clause (z), (zg) of sub-section (2) of Section 87 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 published in the Gazette of India dated the 25th February, 2021 vide Notification No. G.S.R. 139(E) dated the 25th February 2021 and laid on the Table of the House on 25th March 2021, be annulled. This House recommends to Lok Sabha that Lok Sabha do concur in this Motion,” the motion states.If voted and adopted by Rajya Sabha, it will then go to the Lok Sabha to decide whether they want to initiate a debate.“All laws provide that rules made under the cabinet be scrutinized by Parliament. Individual MPs can move a motion either asking for the striking down of a rule or amending the rule made by the government under a law. The motion is then debated and voted upon in the House. If the MPs motion is approved by the House then it requires to be approved by the other house for the rule to be either completely negated or amended,’’ said Chakshu Roy, Head of Legislative and Civic Engagement, PRS Legislative Research.The new rules for social media intermediaries, over the top platforms and digital news media publishers have been cleared as a “subordinate legislation”: a power essentially invoked by the government to ratify new rules.“Subordinate legislation is the legislation made by an authority subordinate to the legislature… Most of the enactments provide for the powers for making rules, regulations, bye-laws or other statutory instruments which are exercised by the specified subordinate authorities...,” the RS Website sates.These rules do not necessarily have to be debated by the Parliament; they only have to be placed at floor of the house||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-moves-motion-against-new-it-rules-101626981636750.html
23-07-2021||India||No urgency in hearing pleas on whatsapp privacy||There is no urgency in hearing pleas challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy as the instant messaging provider has already made a statement that it would “not transfer data” to Facebook till the personal data protection bill is finalised, the Delhi high court said on Thursday.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh was also informed by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, that they would not block anyone who is not accepting their new privacy policy.“We said we will not block,” Sibal stated. Taking note of the submission, the court said, “They have already made a statement that till the personal data protection bill is not finalised, they will not transfer. There is another matter before this court in which they have made the statement. This is not so urgent,” and deferred the pleas challenging WhatsApp’s privacy policy.The pleas have contended that the updated privacy policy violates users’ right to privacy under the Constitution and they can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt to not share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The company had pushed back the deadline for new privacy policy launched in January this year which allowed it to share some data about users’ interactions with business accounts with its parent company Facebook.On July 9, when the court was hearing a plea by WhatsApp and Facebook against a probe by the Competition Commission of India into its privacy policy, the instant messaging platform had told the court that till the data protection bill came into force, it would not compel users to opt for its new privacy policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-urgency-in-hearing-pleas-on-whatsapp-privacy-101626981028194.html
23-07-2021||India||IT raids premises linked to Dainik Bhaskar, UP channel||The income tax (IT) department on Thursday conducted raids at the premises of the Dainik Bhaskar Group across the country in a suspected tax evasion case, officials familiar with the matter said.The search operations spanned 32 locations in multiple cities consisting of residential and business premises of various office bearers of the Dainik Bhaskar group in Mumbai, Delhi, Bhopal, Indore, Jaipur, Korba, Noida and Ahmedabad. Subsequently, the IT teams also raided a regional news channel, Bharat Samachar, based in Lucknow and premises of its state head Virendra Singh and editor-in-chief Brajesh Mishra.The income tax department or its policymaking body, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), didn’t officially comment.But an officer with direct knowledge of developments said, “A search under section 132 of income tax act is being carried out in Dainik Bhaskar group offices as there are allegations of huge tax evasion by the group by claiming bogus expenses and purchases using shell entities. The group has floated several paper companies for this purpose, with their employees as shareholders and directors.”“The money siphoned off in this manner is routed back into various personal and business investments, in the form of share premium and foreign investments through Mauritius-based entities. The family members’ names also figured in Panama leaks case,” the officer added.“The DB group is involved in various sectors, including media, power, textiles and real estate, with a group turnover of more than ₹6,000 crores per annum. The group has more than 100 companies including the holding and subsidiary companies,” said a second IT officer.Opposition parties alleged that the raids were an attack on journalism and was being done to scare the journalists. They added that raids on Dainik Bhaskar were carried out for its reportage on Covid-19 mismanagement by the Narendra Modi government during the second wave in April and May.“Through its reporting Dainik Bhaskar has exposed the Modi regime’s monumental mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is now paying the price...,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted.Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh too chimed in, terming it an attack on journalism. Singh alleged that PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were using the investigative agencies as weapons against the media.He also raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha.BJP leader and Union minister Anurag Thakur rejected the allegations. “Agencies are doing their own work and there is no interference...One should take complete information and, in its absence, sometimes many issues come up that are far from the truth...,” he told reporters at a cabinet briefing.Apart from Ramesh and Singh, other opposition leaders too criticised the tax raids on media houses. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi: “Income tax raids conducted on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar are an attempt to scare the media. Their message is clear-- those who speak against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not be spared,” Kejriwal said in his tweet posted in Hindi.”Founded by Ramesh Chandra Aggarwal in 1958 in Bhopal, Dainik Bhaskar has a strong presence in the Hindi heartland, with 65 editions in 12 states. It is published in three languages, Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati.During the peak of the second wave, the newspaper published a series of articles to show the actual scale of devastation on account of the pandemic and on the undercounting of deaths in many states including UP, Rajasthan and Gujarat. There was no official statement from Bhaskar group but it ran a lead story on its website saying “the government is scared of true journalism”. “Government exerts pressure on Bhaskar Group, which showed actual figures of Covid-19 deaths and bodies floating in the Ganga river,” the story said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-premises-linked-to-dainik-bhaskar-up-channel-101626980719205.html
23-07-2021||India||India, China most vulnerable to climate crisis, pollution||New Delhi: India and China are among the five countries most vulnerable to climate change and air pollution, a first- of-its-kind research assessing the combined risks of the two factors said on Thursday.The world’s two fastest developing economies have witnessed a spurt in particulate matter induced air pollution levels in the past two decades and a simultaneous increase in frequency of extreme weather events such as extreme rainfall, frequent cyclones and heat waves .On Wednesday, extreme rainfall over the week had flooded many parts of Henan province in central China, leaving 33 persons dead. Several other regions of China have faced flooding this week even as north America is witnessing extreme heat wave.“Deaths resulting from toxic pollution are highest where the distribution of toxic pollution is greatest and, critically, also where the impacts of climate change pose the greatest risk,” the study, titled Global Distribution and Coincidence of Pollution, Climate Impacts, and Health Risk in the Anthropocene, said, in a specific reference to India and China.For at least 30 years, the scientists on the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have assessed the impact of human induced climate change even as bodies such as the World Health Organisation have focused on the health impact of rising air pollution globally.Scientists at University of Notre Dame found a “strong and statistically significant” link between the two hazards and said the countries which are at most risk from climate change are also the countries with highest risk from toxic pollution.A vital difference between climate change and air pollution is that green house gases that causes global warming are considered non-toxic whereas air pollutants such as particular matter or nitrogen dioxide are toxic.“It is not surprising to find that these risks are highly correlated, but this study provides the data and analysis to inform policy, data and analysis that were previously lacking,” Debra Javeline, an associate professor of political science at the university said in a statement.To make the study useful for policymakers, the authors ranked 177 countries on “Target”, a measure that combined a country’s climate impact risk, toxic pollution risk and its potential readiness to mitigate these risks. China is the world’s leading total GHG emitter and India is on track to join it at the top and they are the two top ranked countries in terms of toxic air pollution.Based on these criteria, the study ranked Singapore, Rwanda, China, India, Solomon Islands, Bhutan, Botswana, Georgia, the Republic of Korea and Thailand as the top 10 countries at risk from the two factors combined. “The top one-third of countries at risk of toxic pollution and climate impacts represent more than two-thirds of the world’s population, highlighting the magnitude of the problem and unequal distribution of environmental risk,” researchers wrote in the paper published on peer-reviewed scientific journal PLOS One.On India and China, the two largest countries, with a combined population of over 2.5 billion people, the study said they have relatively high Proportion Mortality ranks --- India ranked 5th and China 13th with 23.5% and 17.9% of annual deaths associated with toxic pollution, equaling 2.3 and 1.9 million premature deaths annually, respectively.The study also pointed out that the two countries have come up with national pollution reduction policies to reduce pollution deaths. In case of China, it said, its National Plan on Air Pollution led to 40% reduction in pollution levels.“The improved air quality resulted in significant corresponding reductions in respiratory disease and cardiovascular disease mortality rates,” the study said.he paper also said that by mitigating toxic pollution in large countries with high populations such as China and India, neighbouring countries will also benefit.Anumita Roy Chowdhary of Centre for Science and Environment said the study provides broad parameters linking air pollution and climate change and insights on how tackling both with singular policy instrument can be co-beneficial. “We know that reducing air pollution helps in managing green house gas emissions and vice-versa. The study, however, analyses the capability of 180 countries to deal with twin environmental problems,” she said.Notre Dame University’s postdoctoral research associate Drew (Richard) Marcantonio said the idea of ranking (Target) is to highlight where action can be taken to reduce risks to human health and whether it can be done through incentives or sanctions. “A range of measures can be used to promote risk reduction such as trade incentives, be they negative or positive incentives, or other policy and regulatory enforcement mechanisms.”BOX: RankingTop five: Singapore, Rawada, China, India, Solomon Islands||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-most-vulnerable-to-climate-crisis-pollution-101626980821614.html
23-07-2021||India||JPC head to seek time to submit report on data protection bill||The new chair of the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) studying the personal data protection law is set to move a motion on Friday to seek time till winter session to submit the panel’s report, the revised list of business for the House said on Thursday.Bharatiya Janata Party MP PP Chaudhary was appointed the new head of the JPC on Thursday after the previous chair, Meenakshi Lekhi, along with several other members, were included in the government as ministers.The panel’s report on the personal data protection bill was expected in the monsoon session.“That this House do extend upto the first week of the Winter Session of Parliament, 2021, the time for presentation of the Report of the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019,” the revised list of business for Parliament states.The draft law was introduced in parliament in December 2019 and is meant to provide the legal framework for the right to privacy of Indian citizens. But it was soon referred to a JPC to iron out several contentious issues.Members of the committee, people aware of the process, and legal experts say replacements will now need to be appointed before the JPC report can be tabled.“The draft report remains to be circulated among members of the panel,” said a person aware of the developments, asking not to be named.The JPC got an extension first till the Winter Session last year, then until the first week of the second half of the Budget Session this year, and finally until the Monsoon Session this month. The committee has met various stakeholders, including industry representatives and civil society members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jpc-head-to-seek-time-to-submit-report-on-data-protection-bill-101626980820999.html
23-07-2021||India||TMC govt failed to probe post-poll clashes’ complaints: HC||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court observed on Thursday that the Mamata Banerjee-administration failed to properly investigate complaints of post-poll violence seen in West Bengal after the results of the assembly elections were announced in early May.Its response came after the state argued that it is equipped to investigate the violence.“Today, the state is asking for a role which does not belong to it. The proceedings have become adversarial because the state has failed to properly investigate,” the bench said.Violence broke out in various parts of the state hours after the Trinamool Congress trounced the Bharatiya Janata Party to secure a third consecutive term on May 2. The BJP has alleged that its workers and supporters were targeted in the post-poll violence. The West Bengal government has denied the charges, and has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of using central agencies and the office of the governor to target it.A seven-member panel of the National Human Rights Commission, set up on the high court’s order in June to look into clashes after the results, submitted its report on Tuesday. The report recommended a CBI probe and asked for trials to be held outside the state.“It is nothing but a politically motivated report. We do not give credence to the NHRC report” said Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior advocate, appearing for the West Bengal government. He also said whatever is there in the report is not the gospel truth.Advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, counsel of a deceased BJP supporter, however, pressed for a probe by an independent agency.“Today the state whose inaction has triggered the entire litigation wants to now investigate on its own. An independent agency is called for...,” he said.The report had said that at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged in the state between May 2 and June 20. Out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are currently in jail, according to the panel.The court on Thursday directed the state government to file its reply on the NHRC report by July 26. The matter will be heard again on July 28.The NHRC counsel told the court that Raju Mukherjee, who was a part of the seven-member panel, received complaints even on Thursday in which police were allegedly threatening people to withdraw complaints.The NHRC report also recommended setting up court-monitored SIT with a special public prosecutor, trial in fast-track courts and deployment of central forces to protect victims.“One of the members of the panel was a member of the BJP’s student’s wing. Check his social media. He wrote in the report whatever the BJP instructed him...,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP’s state unit said, “The NHRC panel was appointed by a five-judge bench of the high court and not by any political party...The report has quoted the statistics provided by the DGP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-govt-failed-to-probe-post-poll-clashes-complaints-hc-101626980760982.html
23-07-2021||India||Plea filed in SC seeking SIT probe into charges of snooping||Terming the Pegasus spying scandal a “serious attack” on Indian democracy, the judiciary and on the security of the country, a petition has been filed by a lawyer in the Supreme Court demanding a court-monitored investigation by a special investigation team (SIT) to identify those responsible for snooping on opposition leaders, activists, journalists and judges among a host of other persons.The petition filed by advocate Manohar Lal Sharma said, “The Pegasus scandal is a matter of grave concern and a serious attack upon Indian democracy, judiciary and country security. The widespread and unaccountable use of surveillance is morally disfiguring.” It is yet to be admitted.The petition has named Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a respondent along with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) without making the Union of India as a party. Sharma earlier approached the CBI for registering a first information report (FIR) into allegations of Pegasus spying but this was not done, the petition stated.Sharma, who is known for being the first to file petitions on major issues, made a two-fold demand to the top court. He sought a probe by a SIT under the supervision of the top court into the revelations and prosecute all accused persons who bought the Pegasus software and allegedly snooped on Indian citizens for criminal breach of trust (IPC Sections 408, 409), criminal conspiracy (IPC Section 120B), read with Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act 1923 (penalty for spying) and relevant provisions under the Information Technology Act 2000.Sharma, a serial petitioner has been previously reprimanded and fined by the court by the petitions, some of which have been dismissed in minutes.He further requested the top court to declare buying of Pegasus software for snooping to be “illegal” and violative of a person’s right to life and privacy protected under Article 21 and said, “Buying of Pegasus software without approval (of Parliament) contra to the Art. 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution is a criminal breach of trust and also attracts Sections 408, 409 and 120-B of IPC.”Articles 266(3), 267(2), 283(2) provide that any amount to be spent or withdrawn out of the Consolidated Fund of India or the Contingency Fund maintained by states should be in accordance with law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pleafiled-in-sc-seeking-sit-probe-into-charges-of-snooping-101626980642458.html
23-07-2021||India||Clearing encroachments duty of state, not ours: SC||Clearing encroachments cannot be left to the judiciary as the state must take responsibility and act against them, the Supreme Court said on Thursday.The top court made the remarks while hearing a matter related to Mahakaleshwar temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain district wherein, in September 2020, it had ordered the removal of all encroachment within 500 metres of the temple along with a slew of other directions for the temple’s maintenance and repair.“The state cannot shut its eyes to its responsibility under law. Why do you (state) permit such encroachments to take place and then leave it for the court to pass orders? Why has this court been asked to step in and then you (state) say that we are throwing encroachers out because of the court order?” a bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi said.“We see this happening day in and day out. Everytime an encroachment comes up, there is a public interest litigation (PIL). We issue a notice on the PIL and then political considerations come in. You (state) are under responsibility to clear the encroachment in the first place. Why cannot these political people (in government) take a decision?” the bench asked Mishra. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clearing-encroachments-duty-of-state-not-ours-sc-101626980098125.html
23-07-2021||India||MP proposes 5-year furlough for govt employees to save expenditure||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government is considering a scheme to save as much as ₹6000 crore by offering its employees in non-essential departments a furlough as long as five years at half-pay, a state official said.During the period of paid leave, the employees are free to work elsewhere or start their own businesses . After the furlough, they have an option to retire or return to work.According to a senior MP finance department official who asked not to be named, the proposal for the scheme has been readied. The state is reeling under a debt of ₹2.53 lakh crore and revenues have plunged by up to 30% because of Covid-19’s adverse impact on economy.“We have sent the proposal for the chief minister’s approval,” added the official. There is an estimate that about 70,000 to 100,000 employees will avail this benefit. State finance minister Jagdish Deoda confirmed that the scheme is part of the government’s plan to save expenditure.“We all know that lockdown left a negative impact on government revenue. So, we are trying to increase the revenue from many other sources and also trying to cut the expenditure. This scheme is a part of this plan,” he said.The department has proposed that government employees and officers in non-essential departments would be allowed to take leave for three to five years at half-pay. “The government employees will be allowed to take up another (private sector) job or business during this period. They will not get any increments or extra allowances during this period, but this leave period will not break their service,” the finance department official added.However, employees facing departmental inquiry or who are under suspension will not be allowed to avail the scheme. Employees of essential departments such as home, health, education and revenue will not be part of the scheme, the official said. A second government official said an internal survey showed that those earning less than ₹1 lakh, or above the age of 50 years, were excited by the scheme. It is not for the first time that such a scheme is being introduced in the state. In 2002, then chief minister, Digvijaya Singh, had introduced a similar scheme to reduce government expenditure. The scheme was withdrawn a year later in 2003, when the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power, replacing the incumbent Congress.In an effort to shore up its finance, the state government set up a public asset management department in September 2020 for the efficient management and rationalization of public assets, including monetization of unused properties. Through tenders, the state government has auctioned at least 22 properties in the state to generate ₹500 crore.MP Congress Committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “Former chief minister Digvijaya Singh always use to think in advance and that’s why his government introduced this [scheme] 18 years ago. But I have a serious doubt on the motive of the state government of introducing the scheme as this scheme can be misused by officer, who are close to the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-proposes-5-year-furlough-for-govt-employees-to-save-expenditure-101626979620803.html
23-07-2021||India||Farmers hunker down at Jantar Mantar, demand repeal of farm laws||Busloads of farmers arrived in the national capital on Thursday from various states to protest three contentious agricultural laws during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament after authorities decided to let them in. On the first day of their protests, they held a ‘kisan sansad’ or ‘farmers’ parliament’ at Jantar Mantar — Delhi’s designated spot for protests — demanding the government scrap the laws immediately.The three agricultural laws passed by the Modi government in September last year have been at the heart of massive protests by farmers since November. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of 40 farm unions, had declared on July 7 that farmers would march into the national capital to protest outside Parliament while it is in session.On Thursday, there was heavy police deployment all around Jantar Mantar, the historic 18th-century observatory in the city and the site where nearly 200 farmers have hunkered down for their protest, a few hundred metres from the Parliament complex. The current Parliament session, which began on July 19, will run till August 9, and so will the farmers’ sit-in.Iron barricades and baton-wielding policemen, including women personnel, formed a two-layer security cordon around the protest site, guarding its main entry points. Apart from several companies of personnel from Delhi Police, Rapid Action Force and Central Reserve Police Force — all armed with anti-riot gear — deployed in and around Jantar Mantar, nearly 5,000 security and traffic personnel also fanned out across central Delhi in view of the ongoing Parliament session and the approaching Independence Day celebrations, senior police officers said.On January 26, a farmers’ rally in the capital on Republic Day had turned violent, with cultivators on tractors clashing with riot policemen and laying siege to the 17th-century Red Fort. Police had used water cannons and teargas after repeated clashes broke out.“Those were not farmers but conspirators,” said Rakesh Tikait, an influential farm leader, adding: “When genuine farmers protest, it will be disciplined and peaceful as you will see. We will not rest till the government gives in to our demands.”Prominent farm leaders from the SKM addressed hundreds of farmers who carried colourful placards and chanted anti-government slogans. They include Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, Rakesh Tikait and Balbir Singh Rajewal of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Hanan Mollah of Communist Party of India (Marxist), and Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union.The ‘farmers’ parliament’ began with a ceremony to pay tributes to over 500 farmers who have died during the course of the nine-month-long protests. The SKM says 584 farmers have died so far, but the government had told the Parliament on Wednesday that it did not have any records of farmers’ deaths.“The United Kingdom’s parliament has found it fit to debate our issues but not our Parliament. Farmers have come here to prove that they can’t be fooled. These laws are designed to exploit farmers,” said Yogendra Yadav, a prominent critic of the government, addressing the farmers.Yadav was referring to British MPs discussing the farmers’ protests in India in the House of Commons in March, which India has officially rebuked. Following this, the external affairs ministry had summoned the British High Commissioner in Delhi.“We held a kisan sansad today where we demanded that the government immediately withdraw the three laws beginning with the APMC Act,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.The protesting farmers’ contingent also included actor Sonia Mann, a popular face in Punjabi music videos. She was holding a placard that said, “MSP legal right”, a reference to the farmers’ demand for a legal right to assured prices for their produce.The farmers are demanding repeal of three farm laws that, together, seek to allow agrobusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming.“If they (farmers) express their issues with the laws point-wise, we can discuss it,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday. On July 19, he had said the government was ready to discuss all issues except the demand for scrapping of the laws.The Modi government has said the three reform-oriented laws were necessary to modernise the country’s antiquated farm sector. Farmers say the new measures will leave cultivators at the mercy of big food corporations.Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding protests at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border).On January 13 this year, the Supreme Court temporarily suspended the three laws and formed a panel of experts to examine them. The panel has submitted its report to the court, which has yet to take it up.“In a country like India, it is always easier to do reforms that affect elite sections, such as financial reforms. Hard reforms affecting sectors, such as labour or agriculture, will always be tricky because it involves the masses,” said KK Kailash of the University of Hyderabad.Farm unions say the new laws will force them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining powers at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices for cereals.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the government won’t stop the MSP system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-hunker-down-at-jantar-mantar-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-101626979321616.html
23-07-2021||India||Verma, Asthana, Anil Ambani in Pegasus list: Report||Phone numbers belonging to the former chief of the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI), his then deputy, and a third CBI officer, were selected as possible targets for surveillance through the Pegasus spyware, as were those used by industrialist Anil Ambani, and Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama’s associates, reports said on Thursday.According to The Wire, numbers linked to the three people and several others in their close circle were among a database of 50,000 phone numbers possibly selected for surveillance by agencies that were also clients of Israel-headquartered NSO Group, which makes the Pegasus spyware.The Wire, which is part of the consortium of media organisations that analysed the database, said the database included Verma’s phone number, the personal telephone number of his wife, daughter and son-in-law soon after he was ousted as CBI chief on October 23, 2018 after a rare open dispute with his deputy Rakesh Asthana. The number of Asthana and of a third CBI official, AK Sharma, were also placed on the list, the report said.HT reached out to Verma, Asthana and Sharma but did not receive a response immediately.“The numbers of Asthana, Sharma, Verma and his family members figure in the leaked database for a short period. By the second week of February, 2019, by which time Verma had finally retired from government service, this entire cluster of persons ceased being of interest to the government agency which had added them to the list,” the report said.Anil Ambani and a senior official of the Reliance ADA Group, corporate communications chief Tony Jesudasan and his wife, were also added to the list of phones purportedly shortlisted for targeting. These numbers figure at a time when the central government’s decision to purchase 36 Rafale jets was subjected to public scrutiny, with questions being raised as to how the offset partner -- Ambani’s firm -- was chosen, the report released late on Thursday night said.The report added that there were other numbers of people connected to the defence or aerospace industries. These were Dassault Aviation’s representative in India, Venkata Rao Posina, former Saab India head Inderjit Sial and Boeing India boss Pratyush Kumar -- their numbers appear in the leaked database at different periods of time in 2018 and 2019.The report clarifies that the presence of a number on the list does not mean it was snooped upon. That conclusion can only be drawn after a forensic analysis of the phone is conducted.The Guardian, which is among the consortium of media organisations reporting on the Pegasus Project, on Thursday stated that a person close to the Dalai Lama was also part of the list. “(The) Indian government, which hosts the Tibetan leader, suspected of being NSO client that selected numbers,” the report stated.“The phone numbers of a top ring of advisers around the Dalai Lama are believed to have been selected as those of people of interest by government clients of the NSO Group. Analysis strongly indicates that the Indian government was selecting the potential targets,” the report said.“Senior advisers to the Dalai Lama whose numbers appear in the data include Tempa Tsering, the spiritual leader’s long-time envoy to Delhi, and the senior aides Tenzin Taklha and Chhimey Rigzen, as well as Samdhong Rinpoche, the head of the trust that has been tasked with overseeing the selection of the Buddhist leader’s successor,” the report added. The report in The Wire, however, said that “the phone numbers indicate that the targets may have been selected by an unknown India-based client of the NSO Group”.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.The list database was first obtained by France-based nonprofit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices of at least 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of these 37, 10 were in India.On Monday, reports revealed that aside from 38 journalists, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, two of his aides, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Union minister Prahlad Patel were also allegedly hacked. The list also included 11 members of the friends and family, along with the number of the woman who accused former Chief Justice of India Rajan Gogoi of sexual harassment.Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who defended the government in Parliament hours, was also named as a potential hacking target on July 19.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government denied any involvement. The opposition, however, has called for a probe into the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verma-asthana-anil-ambani-in-pegasus-list-report-101626979200830.html
23-07-2021||India||Ruckus mars Vaishnaw’s RS statement on Pegasus||The parliamentary disruption caused by a Trinamool Congress MP’s move to snatch and tear a statement being read out by Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus spyware controversy triggered a war of words on Thursday, with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also planning to move a suspension motion against the TMC leader.The Union communications and information technology minister was addressing the Rajya Sabha on allegations of illegal spying on activists, politicians and journalists by the central government, when TMC’s Shantanu Sen snatched the papers off Vaishnaw’s hands, tore them and flung them into the air.With his speech cut short, the minister said he was placing a copy of his statement on the table of the House, while marshals were forced to intervene as BJP and TMC leaders engaged in an argument. Eventually, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh rebuked lawmakers from their “unparliamentary” behaviour before adjourning the House for the day.The chaotic scenes prompted the BJP to mount an offensive against the TMC and people aware of the matter said that the government may seek Sen’s suspension from the upper house of Parliament under Rule 256(2) on Friday. The norm states that a lawmaker, who “disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council” through “wilful” disruptions can be suspended from the House for up to the remainder of the parliamentary session if the Rajya Sabha chairman “deems it necessary”. Once the motion is moved, there can be no debate or adjournment allowed, the rule says.Last year, the same rule was applied to suspend eight opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha for a week after their protests over the contentious agriculture laws.The motion is likely to be moved when the House meets on Friday.Later in the day, BJP president JP Nadda also accused the opposition of creating “obstacles” in the country’s development journey by disrupting Parliament to “save” its political existence.Separately, the TMC MP Sen alleged that he was surrounded by BJP leaders in the House, and that Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri verbally abused him after live proceedings were closed off due to adjournment.“The Union minister (Puri) threatened and abused me. He was about to assault me when my other colleagues came to my rescue,” alleged Sen at a press conference in Delhi.Puri has so far not commented on the issue.TMC chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, also at the briefing, added that Vaishnaw’s statement was full of lies.Opposition parties have been demonstrating during the monsoon session of Parliament, demanding that the government initiate a probe into the Pegasus row after media reports -- citing leaked documents -- said this week there may have been attempts to hack into the mobile devices used by journalists, activists, ministers and political leaders including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi. The Pegasus software by Israel-based NSO Group has previously said it only caters to government clients.In Thursday’s statement, IT minister Vaishnaw reiterated the government’s stand that many over-the-top allegations had been made by the reports. “There is no factual basis to these allegations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-mars-vaishnaw-s-rs-statement-on-pegasus-101626979141649.html
23-07-2021||India||India cannot have two parallel legal systems for rich, poor: SC||While noting that India cannot have separate legal systems for the rich and poor, the Supreme Court on Thursday cancelled the bail granted to the husband of a Madhya Pradesh BSP legislator in connection with the murder of Congress leader Devendra Chaurasia.The top court also said that the Madhya Pradesh high court order granting bail to Govind Singh, husband of BSP MLA from Patharia in Damoh, Ramabai Singh, was a failure to “protect the sanctity of justice” and directed that the accused be transferred to another jail in the state for fair trial.Singh, who was arrested in March this year and granted bail later, is facing at least 28 cases with regard to various crimes committed by him. Somesh Chourasia, son of Devendra who was killed in 2019, had moved the top court against the high court’s refusal to set aside the bail granted to the accused.“India cannot have two parallel legal systems, one for the rich and the resourceful and those who wield political power and influence and the other for the small men without resources and capabilities to obtain justice or fight injustice. The existence of a dual legal system will only chip away the legitimacy of the law,” a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and Hrishikesh Roy observed.“Unfortunately, the high court failed in its duty to ensure that the sanctity of the criminal justice process is preserved. This court has had to step in to ensure that the rule of law is preserved,” the bench added.The influence that the accused in the present case exerted over the police and state administration became clear after the court learnt that despite facing criminal antecedents and evading arrest in a murder case, Singh was provided security by the state police on July 11, 2020. It was only after the Supreme Court questioned this decision that the security was withdrawn by the state in January this year.The court reminded the state of its duty under Article 50 to take steps to maintain strict compartmentalization of the judiciary and executive. “There is no gainsaying that the judiciary should be immune from political pressures and considerations,” the bench said, asking the state machinery to avoid transgressing into “governmental lawlessness” and the judiciary from being wary of launching into a diatribe against the State authorities without due care and reflection.The court also took note of the lack of infrastructure and protection given to trial court judges, saying subordinate judiciary judges are made targets when they stand up for what is right and are at the mercy of the high court for transfers and postings which makes them vulnerable.“The colonial mindset which pervades the treatment meted out to the district judiciary must change. It is only then that civil liberties for every stakeholder – be it the accused, the victims or civil society – will be meaningfully preserved in our trial courts which are the first line of defense for those who have been wronged,” the bench said.Referring to additional sessions judge (ASJ) in Damoh allegations that he was under tremendous pressure while conducting the trial, the bench said: “A judiciary that is susceptible to such pressures allows politicians to operate with impunity and incentivises criminality to flourish in the political apparatus of the state. An independent and impartial judiciary is the cornerstone of democracy.”“Independence of judiciary is independence of every judge and this independence must begin by protecting the district judiciary which acts as the first line of defence for people who are wronged. If the faith of the citizen in the administration of justice has to be preserved, it is to the district judiciary that attention must be focused as well as the higher judiciary,” the judgment read.In February this year, the ASJ had expressed serious apprehensions that the accused and Damoh superintendent of police had colluded to “frame serious charges” against him after a lady police officer, in a letter to the high court, accused him of humiliating in the court. The top court directed the chief justice of the high court to enquire into the matter within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-cannot-have-two-parallel-legal-systems-for-rich-poor-sc-101626978663889.html
23-07-2021||India||Will abide by party brass decision: Yediyurappa||“I’m going”, is the between-the-lines message Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers in Karnataka have taken away from a series of statements issued by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa since Wednesday night, partially resolving the will-he-won’t-he debate that’s only intensified since the 78-year-old leader’s return from New Delhi last week.The lack of information over the decision taken during Yeddyurappa’s Delhi visit (if one was indeed taken) and the ultimatums issued by some Lingayat mutts against his removal -- the CM has the solid backing of the religious bodies -- led to uncertainty in the BJP camp. But following Yediyurappa’s statements, senior leaders in the party also have begun talking about a change of leadership with more clarity.On Wednesday night, Yediyurappa tweeted asking his followers not to indulge in any protests. “I’m privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics and behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics and not indulge in protests or indiscipline that is disrespectful and embarrassing for the party.”This was followed by a statement on Thursday, where he said that he would abide by any decision taken by the party leadership. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said that everything will become clear after the event on July 26, commemorating the second-year anniversary of his government.“Amit Shah and our national president (JP) Nadda have immense faith in me. As you know, no one above the age of 75 years is given any posts or positions by the party. But considering my work, the national leadership has given me the opportunity to be in power till 78. I will finish two years as chief minister on (July) 26. My aim is to strengthen the party and bring our government back to power once again,” Yediyurappa said.He added that there will be a special programme to commemorate two years of the government. “Based on whatever directions are given by the party leadership on (July) 26, I will begin my work. There will be a special event on our government completing two years in power. After attending this event, whatever directions are given by the party leadership, I will abide by it,” he added.Talking to the reporters on Thursday evening, Yediyurappa said he will remain the CM if the party wanted. “If they ask me to remain the CM for some time, I will do so. If they say no, I will work to strengthen the party in the state. Tomorrow (Friday) I’m going to inspect all the development works happening in Bengaluru. So, I will do my duty till the last minute. Let’s see what happens now,” he told reporters.Asked about the multiple meetings with seers of the Lingayat community, which is the largest vote bank for the BJP in the state, he said they have given him their blessings. “Hundreds of mutt heads have met me and blessed me. I can never the support they have given me. With their blessing, I will carry out the task given to me by the national high command… I request all party workers not to create any problems and stand with me. Whatever protests have happened in my support are not right,” he added.Reacting to his statement, Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashok, who is a close associate of the chief minister told HT that he will go by whatever the chief minister has said. “We will listen to what he (Yediyurappa) has said. We are loyal workers of the party, who will follow what is said by our national president. I have worked in the BJP for more than 40 years. Since we have grown up in the party, following the orders of the party is within us. The chief minister has clearly said that on (July) 26, whatever our national president orders will be followed. We will also accept it ,” he said.Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he has faith in Yediyurappa to unite the party before the next elections and everyone is together in supporting him. “We can’t speculate (on central leadership’s decision). When he (the CM) returned from New Delhi, he had said regrouping the party and ensuring a win in the next election was his responsibility. About the decision (change of chief minister), we have a tradition of the central leadership taking a decision after consulting everyone… everyone in our party is together.”Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah said that he already knew that Yediyurappa was going to be replaced. “Yediyurappa has been running a corrupt government. I have been saying that Yediyurappa will be replaced. I had information about this for a while now. No one believed me and now, I have been proved right. But I don’t believe that removing Yediyurappa will not bring a non-corrupt government to Karnataka, because BJP is a corrupt party,” said Siddaramaiah.Following the reports of the possible change of leadership, BJP ministers who had moved to the party from the Congress and JD(S) held a meeting on Wednesday. On Thursday, K Gopalaiah, Karnataka excise minister and one of the lawmakers who had joined the BJP from JD(S), resulting in the fall of the Congress-JD(S) alliance, said that the chief minister has given a clear message.“We have all heard his statement and he has made himself very clear.” When asked whether defectors will suffer if Yediyurappa is removed from the top post, he said: “We have given our resignations and come to the BJP. We are all BJP now. We are a family. There is no question of us being outsiders. There is no need for us to worry now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-abide-by-party-brass-decision-yediyurappa-101626978662419.html
23-07-2021||India||Missing out on deaths is unlikely: Govt on reports of excess Covid fatalities||New Delhi: The Centre on Thursday refuted reports that claimed India’s actual Covid-19 death toll could be in millions, far higher than the official toll of 419,043.In their study published this week, researchers from Center for Global Development, Washington DC, and Harvard University scientifically analysed data and concluded that an estimated 4.9 million people in India may have died from Covid-19. The report was based on estimating “excess mortality”, the number of extra people who died compared with pre-crisis figures.But the government argued its case using the case fatality rate. A statement released by the ministry of health and family welfare said the case fatality rate, as on December 31, 2020, stood at 1.45%. “...even after an unexpected surge observed in the second wave in April-May 2021, the case fatality rate today stands at 1.34%,” the statement read.The government conceded that some cases could go undetected, but given the “robust and statute-based” death registration system in India, “missing out on deaths is unlikely”.The health ministry also informed that the reporting of daily new cases and deaths in India follows a bottom-up approach, where districts report the number of cases and deaths to the state governments and to the ministry constantly.“As early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency or confusion in the number of deaths being reported, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued ‘Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India’ for correct recording of all deaths by States/UTs as per ICD-10 codes recommended by WHO for mortality coding,” the statement from the ministry further read.As regards the reports of massive under-reporting of deaths due to Covid-19, the ministry clarified that these were quoting findings from recent studies and using age-specific infection fatality rates of the US and European countries to calculate excess deaths in India based on sero-positivity.“The extrapolation of deaths has been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying is the same across countries, dismissing the interplay between various direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, genomic constitution of a population, previous exposure levels to other diseases and the associated immunity developed in that population. Furthermore, the sero-prevalence studies are not only used to guide strategy and measures to further prevent the spread of infection to the vulnerable population but are also used as another basis to extrapolate deaths,” the ministry said, adding that the studies also have another potential concern that the antibody titers may diminish over time, leading to underestimation of true prevalence and corresponding overestimation of the infection fatality rate.“The reports also assume that all the excess mortality figures are Covid deaths, which is not based on facts and totally fallacious. Excess mortality is a term used to describe an all-cause mortality figure and attributing these deaths to Covid-19 is completely misleading,” the statement read.The health ministry said that it has been advising all states and Union territories to follow guidelines while recording deaths. It has also emphasised the need for a robust reporting mechanism to monitor deaths down to the district level, the ministry said, adding that it has advised the states to conduct thorough audits in hospitals and report deaths that may have been missed.“During the peak of the second wave, the entire health system was focused on effective clinical management of cases requiring medical help, and correct reporting and recording could have been compromised which is also evident in a few states such as Maharashtra, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh reconciling their number of deaths recently,” the statement read.In addition to this reporting, the government said, the robustness of statute-based civil registration system ensures that all births and deaths in the country are registered. This is a time-consuming process and the numbers are usually published the following year, but it ensures that no deaths are missed, the government said.In his speech in Parliament on Tuesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, “The Centre compiles and publishes the data that is sent to it by the state governments. Our job is to publish that data and nothing else.” He also said that the government didn’t instruct anyone to disclose fewer deaths and positive cases.Frontline health workers said they saw more lives being lost to the second wave of Covid-19 than the first one.“One of the main reasons for that could be that people were reporting late to a hospital, leading to Covid-19 related complications that became difficult to treat. Not all cases are fit to undergo home quarantine, and if there are danger signs visible such as dip in oxygen saturation levels, high persistent fever, breathing difficulty, etc., then the patient needs to be rushed to a hospital as fast as possible,” said a senior doctor at a Covid-19 designated hospital on condition of anonymity.He, however, said, the overall mortality rate doesn’t seem to have seen a massive jump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-out-on-deaths-is-unlikely-govt-on-reports-of-excess-covid-fatalities-101626977941535.html
23-07-2021||India||Uproar in Parliament on Pegasus, farm laws||Massive protests rocked Parliament on Thursday over the alleged targeting of phones with military-grade spyware, the controversial farm laws, and income tax raids in a newspaper office, forcing repeated adjournments and allowing little business to be done in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha.Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Santanu Sen snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw while he was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to potentially target politicians, activists and journalists in the Rajya Sabha. Earlier, a few other MPs rushed to the Well of the House with their phones to protest against the alleged snooping.Officials indicated that on Friday the government might seek Sen’s suspension from the House.In the four days of the Monsoon Session of Parliament since Monday, only a debate on the Covid-19 pandemic in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday can thus far be counted as substantive business, underlining the Opposition’s emphasis on protests over discussions on the other issues. Strategists in the Opposition camp hinted that protests will continue on Friday.The government and the chairmen of both Houses repeatedly urged protesting MPs to participate in debates. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla told them, “You should raise issues related to problems faced by people, then debate on those issues to find a solution. But you are flouting the decorum of the House.” Similarly, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu could be heard saying, “Members seem to be not interested in discussing people’s issues.”Rajya Sabha functionaries told HT that the government offered to debate the economic situation of the country and that it could be taken up early next week, a sign that the Opposition might allow the Upper House to function, at least in part. “Four hours have been allotted for the debate on the economic situation. It will be taken up sometime next week,” said a senior Rajya Sabha official.Efforts are also on to end the impasse. “Naidu asked the government’s managers to sit with opposition party leaders for prioritising legislative business and discussions on opposition’s issues. He also asked the floor managers to discuss and decide which bills should be referred to committees for scrutiny,” added the functionary.On Thursday morning, even before the proceedings started, the Congress staged a dharna in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws that were passed last year but sparked massive protests. The agitation coincided with the gathering of farmer leaders in central Delhi’s Jantar Mantar for the same cause.As soon as proceedings started in the Rajya Sabha, Congress leaders such as Digvijaya Singh and KC Venugopal tried to raise the issue of income tax raids at the offices of Hindi newspaper Dainik Bhaskar but they were not allowed to as no notice to the effect had been served. The Shiromani Akali Dal continued to protest against the farm laws while Trinamool Congress (TMC) remained focused on the Pegasus row. A TMC MP, Abhishek Banerjee, was on the list of people potentially targeted by the software, an investigative consortium reported this week.Around 2pm, as Vaishnaw rose to speak, TMC Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen snatched papers from the minister, tore them and flung them in the air. A heated exchange was also seen between Sen and Union minister Hardeep Puri. The TMC alleged that Puri abused Sen and complained to the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. Sen said he was gheraoed and threatened.Deputy chairman Harivansh asked the members to desist from unparliamentary behaviour, before adjourning the House for the day. “You do not want a discussion on an issue you have been agitated about...this is undemocratic,” he said.Government functionaries indicated late on Thursday that it might push for Sen’s suspension for his “unruly behaviour”.Rule 256 of the Upper House says, “The chairman may, if he deems it necessary, name a member who disregards the authority of the chair or abuses the rules of the council by persistently and willfully obstructing the business thereof.”“If a member is so named by the chairman he shall forthwith put the question on a motion being made, no amendment, adjournment or debate being allowed, that the member (naming him) be suspended from the service of the council for a period not exceeding the remainder of the session,” the rule added. Last year, the same rule was applied against eight Opposition MPs in the Upper House after unruly protests over the farm bills.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) condemned Sen’s behaviour. “TMC has a long history of working against the dignity of Parliament. Making noise, tearing papers are their culture. The BJP strongly opposes this,” BJP chief JP Nadda tweeted.TMC’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay blamed the government. “For the Opposition, Pegasus is the biggest political issue. The minister read a half-baked statement and ran away without taking a few questions. The problem is there is a total breakdown of communication between the government and the Opposition. The government has not offered to hold a debate on it.”A top government functionary refuted the Opposition’s claims and said, “The government had discussed the situation with the Opposition in meetings with both Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairman. The Opposition is not interested in any discussion.”The Pegasus row erupted on Sunday night after an international investigative consortium reported that India was among countries that used Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists.The first report alleged that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide, including Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, and reporters from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monde. Subsequent reports said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and two sitting Union ministers – including Vaishnaw -- were on the list of potential targets.A highly invasive malware, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.To be sure, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. In the absence of digital forensics of specific devices, it is not possible to conclusively establish that the phones linked to these numbers were hacked.The allegations roiled Parliament. The government as well as the BJP refused any wrongdoing and insisted that India had a well-established protocol for tapping telephones and it was used only for national security. But the Opposition called for a separate probe into the charges.The three farm laws, enacted last year, promised major reforms in the agriculture sector but farmers, primarily from Punjab and Haryana, launched massive protests blocking arterial highways in the national capital. The farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices – charges refuted by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uproar-in-parliament-on-pegasus-farm-laws-101626977520671.html
23-07-2021||India||Brick structure unearthed in Tamil Nadu’s Korkai may date back to 2,000 years||The ongoing archaeological excavation at Korkai region in Tamil Nadu’s Tuticorin district, 623km from Chennai, threw light on a 2,000-year-old brick structure, local media Dinakaran reported on Thursday. The seven-layer brick structure since evinced the interest among archaeology enthusiasts in the state.Finding its mention in Sangam literature for its pearl fishery, Korkai was the ancient port city that dates back to the early Pandya dynasty. In the present day it is a small village in Srivaikuntam taluk of Tuticorin district. It is believed that the ancient city once situated at the banks of Thamirabarani river ended up inland, six kilometres from the sea, due to river sedimentation and the receding water.In addition to the existing excavation works, Tamil Nadu state archaeology department also commenced excavation work at three places in the state, including Korkai. In the Korkai region, excavation trenches have been dug at Korkai, Sivagalai and Adichanallur. The excavation work commenced on February 26 after the state government sanctioned ₹29 lakh for the project.The archaeologists dug 17 trenches at Korkai from where they found cast iron material, glass beads, and signs of industrial activities. The recent addition is the seven-layered brick structure indicating that it was a settlement area of the ancient civilisation.Between 1968 and 1969, the Tamil Nadu government undertook archaeological research at Korkai and surrounding areas. It was the first time since the archaeology department was formed that the government commissioned excavation works. Research conducted in the past established that Korkai was an archeologically significant place with 2,800 years of history. The literature and archaeological evidence suggest that Korkai was the hub of export and import of goods with other ports of ancient civilisations.It could be noted that the department recently unearthed a sword, possibly dating back to 2,500 years, and a large clay pot that could be a burial urn at Mayiladumparai in Krishnagiri district where the excavation work is currently underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brick-structure-unearthed-in-tamil-nadu-s-korkai-may-date-back-to-2000-years-101626975302272.html
23-07-2021||India||Fake story created on tapping: Lekhi||Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi on Thursday said a “fake story” about the illegal tapping has been “crafted, created and circulated” amid demands by the opposition parties for a probe into the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities. The opposition lawmakers sought an explanation over the matter and disrupted Parliament proceedings on Thursday.Lekhi said NSO, the manufacturer of Pegasus, has denied that the list out in the media is indeed that of its customers. “The published story (about the targeting) is based on a list of numbers available in a directory. Second, Amnesty International has denied this. The company whose product is Pegasus has claimed that these claims are uncorroborated and do not tally with its customer base.”Also Read | Pegasus row: UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu detained during rallyAmnesty International, however, maintained that it stands by the findings related to the alleged targeting and said the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware.Lekhi said 10 countries have been named for using the spyware and asked whether the opposition in any of these places reacted as it has in India. She said the fake narrative has been created to “malign India” and “undermine institutions” on the basis of reports that “are not based on evidence”. Other countries are Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Hungary, India, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Morocco, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, according to the reports.“These kinds of stories are floated to undermine Indian institutions and stop the Data Protection Bill that is set to become the law of the land. This is to desensitise the public of the credibility of the structures and to malign the image of our country.” She said there is a pattern in controversies surrounding the government.“Whenever something right and good is supposed to happen in the country, this kind of conduct is indulged in…There is a chronology.” w Lekhi said the JPC report on Data Protection has been submitted to the Lok Sabha Speaker. Lekhi said the government is serious about the data safety of Indians. “Repeatedly, these narratives are built to damage the reputation of India. They want to damage the ecosystem protective of the Indian people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-reports-are-false-fabricated-meenakshi-lekhi-101626954299271.html
23-07-2021||India||Cong moves privilege motion against MoS||The Congress on Thursday moved a breach of privilege motion against the minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar for allegedly misleading Parliament over deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.She told Parliament on Tuesday that no state reported such fatalities and triggered a war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Opposition parties. Her submission brought back the focus on a crisis that in part defined the devastation of the second wave. HT on Thursday cited a database of media reports from the time and reported it has identified at least 619 deaths that likely occurred because of lack of oxygen. Many more deaths may have taken place outside of inundated hospitals. In the same report, HT also pointed out that almost all states continue to deny that they saw any deaths on account of a shortage of oxygen. Also Read | No factual basis to reports about alleged use of spyware: Vaishnaw in RSThe Congress accused Pawar of distorting facts with the “intention to mislead and deceive the August House” over the actual number of deaths due to lack of oxygen during the second wave.“This amounts to a breach of privilege and contempt of the House and the minister is guilty of contempt,” said Congress lawmaker K C Venugopal said. Pawar made the submission in response to Venugopal’s question in Rajya Sabha.HT reached out to several BJP leaders for comment on the issue but did not get any response.Venugopal said everyone saw how people died due to a shortage of oxygen including in the national capital. In a letter to Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, Venugopal cited examples of deaths reported due to oxygen shortage. He referred to a newspaper report and added between May 11 and 15, 83 deaths due to acute oxygen shortage were reported at the Goa Medical College. He also cited similar instances in places such as Karnataka and Haryana, where the government ordered an investigation into at least 19 deaths due to oxygen shortage between April 5 and May 1.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, too, attacked the Centre, saying it was “completely false” to say no one died for want of oxygen. “If no deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage, why did hospitals move high court one after another every day? Hospitals had been saying that oxygen shortage led to deaths. The media, tolagged this issue daily,” Jain told reporters.The AAP leader said the Delhi government set up a committee to collect data on such deaths and give ₹5 lakh compensation to the families of the deceased, “but the Centre got the panel disbanded through the lieutenant governor”.The BJP has maintained health is a state subject and that it just collects the data from the states, not generate it.According to Parliamentary rules, if individuals or authority violate or disregard any of the privileges, powers and immunities of the House or members or committees thereof, they are liable for punishment for breach of privilege or contempt of the House. The House has the power to determine what constitutes the breach of privilege and contempt. The penal jurisdiction of the House in this regard covers its members as well as strangers and every act of violation of privileges, whether committed in the immediate presence of the House or outside of it. A person found guilty of breach of privilege or contempt of the House “may be punished either by imprisonment, or by admonition (warning), or reprimand”, according to chapter 16 of Rajya Sabha rulebook. Two other punishments may also be awarded to the members for contempt--suspension and expulsion from the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/o2-deaths-cong-moves-breach-of-privilege-motion-against-minister-for-statement-101626952019151.html
23-07-2021||NA||Highlights: 3 more test positive for Zika virus in Kerala; tally at 44||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India reported 41,383 fresh Covid-19 cases and 507 fatalities due to the viral disease, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Thursday morning. With this, the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has risen to 31,257,720 including 30,429,339 recoveries, 418,987 deaths and 409,394 active cases.Also on Thursday, farmers protesting against the three contentious central farm laws held a "Kisan Sansad" at Jantar Mantar, very close to the Parliament where the monsoon session is currently going on.Follow all the updates here:3 more test positive for Zika virus in Kerala; tally at 44Three more people have tested positive for the Zika virus in Kerala. The total number of Zika virus cases in the state is 44: Kerala health minister's officeRajasthan to open all schools from August 2Rajasthan school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra announces all schools in the state, across all classes, will reopen on August 2.PM Modi speaks to Maharashtra CM over heavy rainsSpoke to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray and discussed the situation in parts of Maharashtra in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. Assured all possible support from the Centre to mitigate the situation. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being. @OfficeofUT"Spoke to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray and discussed the situation in parts of Maharashtra in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. Assured all possible support from the Centre to mitigate the situation. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being," tweets PM Modi.NIA arrests two persons from Bihar over alleged terror plot in J&KNational Investigation Agency (NIA) says it has arrested two persons from Bihar in a case relating to a conspiracy hatched by members of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, an offshoot of Jaish-e-Mohammed, to carry out terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir with an intention to "threaten the sovereignty, integrity & security of India."Schools in Gujarat to reopen at 50% capacity from July 26Gujarat govt announces reopening of schools for classes 9-11 at 50% strength from July 26. Students willing to attend need to submit consent form signed by parents.Telangana reports 648 new Covid-19 cases and three deathsTelangana reports 648 new #COVID19 cases, 3 deaths and 696 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 9,857Total cases: 6,39,369Death toll: 3,774 pic.twitter.com/eKdLPLBJEpTelangana reports 648 new Covid-19 cases, 696 recoveries and three deaths.PM Modi hails PLI scheme for specialty steelToday’s Cabinet decision will ensure all-round development of Ladakh and provide a range of opportunities to the dynamic youth there. https://t.co/WjWwZnpumT"The Steel sector will get an impetus with this crucial Cabinet decision," tweets prime minister Narendra Modi on the Production-linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for specialty scheme announced today.7302 new Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths in MaharashtraMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases and toll fall to 7302 and 120 respectively. Mumbai reports 389 fresh infections and 10 deaths.Schools to reopen in Himachal PradeshHimachal Pradesh cabinet decides schools will reopen for classes 10th, 11th and 12th from August 2 in strict adherence with Covid-19 norms. Students of classes 5th and 8th would be allowed to visit schools for doubt clearances from August 2.1 more arrested in Sagar Dhankar murder caseDelhi Police Special Cell arrests one Surjeet Grewal in the Sagar Rana murder case. Grewal, a close associate of wrestler Sushil Kumar, who is the main accused in the case, disclosed that Kumar first scolded and beat up Vikas, Brahmachari and Ravinder at Chhatarsal Stadium.Kerala's fresh Covid-19 cases drop to 12,818; 122 new deathsKerala reports 12,481 new Covid-19 cases and 122 related deaths, day after reporting 17,481 infections and 105 deaths. Test positivity rate at 12.38%.Andhra reports 1843 new Covid-19 cases; Goa sees 97 fresh casesAndhra Pradesh reports 1843 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths recorded in Andhra in the past 24 hours; active cases reach 23,571. Goa reports 97 new cases of Covid-19, 5 deaths and 129 recoveries; active case tally at 1376.'Shocking incident': MEA on abduction of Afghan diplomat's daughter in PakistanThis is a shocking incident. However, since Pakistan's interior minister has dragged India into it, I would like to say that even by their standards, Pakistan's denial of the victim's account is stooping to a new low": MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on abduction of the daughter of an Afghan diplomat in PakistanEarthquake strikes ImphalEarthquake of magnitude 3.5 on the Richter scale occurred 21 km east of Imphal in Manipur at at 1628 hours: National Center for SeismologyMamata Banerjee to visit Delhi on SundayWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi on July 25; also says prime minister Narendra Modi has given her appointment for a meeting though doesn't mention the date of the meeting.Will quit when directions come: Karnataka CM YediyurappaTill now I've not been asked to resign. When the directions come, I'll quit and work for the party. I've not recommended any name. The party high command has not said anything to me. Let's see what will happen after July 26: Karnataka CM BS YediyurappaMaharashtra CM chairs emergency meet to review flood situationMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray held emergency meeting to take stock of flood situation in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts caused due to torrential rains in the last 24 hours. He has directed Disaster Management units and departments concerned to stay vigilant and start rescue ops: CMOUnion cabinet approves central university for LadakhThe Union cabinet has approved a central university for Ladakh, as well as Ladakh Integrated Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (LIIDCO): Union I&B minister Anurag ThakurPolice have detained UP Congress chief Ajay Lallu, alleges CongressUttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Lallu was detained as he came out to lead a march to protest Pegasus software phone tapping issue, says party spokesperson Ashok Singh.Bombay HC dismisses Anil Deshmukh's plea seeking quashing of FIRBombay High Court dismisses a plea of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh seeking quashing of FIR against him registered by CBI in a corruption case.Hyderabad Police bust interstate ganja smuggling racketThe Special Operations Team (SOT) of Hyderabad police busts interstate ganja smuggling racket. One drug peddler arrested in Saroornagar; 320 kg of ganja, one Mahindra Bolero vehicle, one mobile phone, worth ₹40 lakh seized.Delhi reserves Covishield stock only for 2nd dose till July 31Due to limited supply of vaccines, slots for online booking and walk-in vaccination at govt CVCs administering Covishield will be reserved only for the second dose till July 31 with immediate effect: Delhi govtAAP to field candidates in all seats for Uttarakhand assembly elections: SisodiaManish Sisodia addresses a press conference in Roorkie, Uttarakhand. During the presser, Sisodia asked people of Uttarakhand if Retired Colonel and AAP leader Ajay Kothiyal should be the state's chief minister."AAP to field candidates in all seats for Uttarakhand assembly electionsUttarakhand lacks quality education, faces electricity problem. AAP will change this if its wins the election," he said in the conference.Madagascar president survives assassination attemptMadagascar president survives assassination attempt, reports AFP citing prosecutorsIran opens new oil export terminal bypassing strait: RouhaniIran opens new oil export terminal beyond Strait of Hormuz, reports AFP quoting president Hassan Rouhani.Secretary Blinken to meet PM Modi, Afghanistan, Quad and Indo-Pacific on agendaUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval in New Delhi on July 27-28 with Af-Pak, Indo-Pacific and vaccines on top of the agenda. All official meeting are scheduled on July 28. Read MoreDelhi has a total of 1,734 cases of Mucormycosis: MoS in Rajya SabhaA total of 1,734 cases of Mucormycosis has been reported in Delhi, says MoS Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar in Rajya Sabha.Rahul Gandhi stage protest against farm lawsRahul Gandhi along with other Congress leaders stage protest over three farm laws in Parliament.India administers more than 43.79 crore vaccine dosesMore than 43.79 crore (43,79,78,900) vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs so far. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 40,59,77,410 doses as per data available at 8 am today: Union Health MinistryTaliban victory not ‘foregone conclusion’, says top US generalThe top US military leader on Wednesday expressed doubts if a Taliban victory is imminent in Afghanistan, contrary to a reported intelligence assessment. Read MoreActive cases in India rise for 2nd consecutive dayActive cases in India registered an increase for the second consecutive day and were recorded at 4,09,394, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.Uttar Pradesh next stop for farmers' protest, leaders plan to 'isolate' BJPFarmers protesting against the three contentious agri laws passed by the central government will launch an agitation on Thursday at the Jantar Mantar near Parliament in New Delhi. Read MoreFarmers begin to leave for Delhi ahead of Jantar Mantar protestFarmers gather to board the buses at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border, ahead of protest against three farm laws at Jantar Mantar in Delhi pic.twitter.com/S4JFHt6lv4India reports 41,383 new Covid-19 cases; 507 fatalities take death toll to 418,987India's Covid-19 tally rises by 41,383 new cases. More than 500 fatalities take death toll to 418,987.Back to back earthquakes hit Rajasthan, says NCSThe National Center for Seismology (NCS), confirmed on Thursday that back to back earthquakes of magnitudes 5.3 and 4.8 have hit Rajasthan.Thane's Bhiwandi area waterlogged due to heavy rainfall#WATCH | Maharashtra: Waterlogging at Thane district's Bhiwandi area due to heavy rainfall pic.twitter.com/anRdwWFORHSevere waterlogging was seen at Bhiwandi area in Thane district of Maharashtra due to heavy rainfall, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.K'taka CM Yediyurappa calls off July 26 legislative party meetAmid speculations of a leadership change in Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa is learnt to have cancelled the legislative party meeting scheduled on July 26, on the second year of the anniversary of his government. Read moreGetting vaccinated 'gigantically important', says US President Joe BidenUnited States President Joe Biden said on Wednesday that it is 'gigantically important' for American citizens to get themselves vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "We have a pandemic for those who haven't gotten the vaccination — it's that basic, that simple," Biden said on the CNN town hall.Heavy rains lash Mumbai, several areas waterloggedMumbai continued to witness heavy rainfall on Thursday due to which several areas in the city were waterlogged. The Railways has halted local train services between Umbermali and Kasara. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, on Wednesday predicted heavy rains Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, and Raigad districts. Read moreBrazil records 54,517 new Covid-19 cases, 1,424 more deathsBrazil's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 19,473,954 after 54,517 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the national ministry of health said on late Wednesday. As many as 1,424 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 545,604, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-22-2021-101626915338858.html
23-07-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Centre to bring privilege motion against TMC MPs||The monsoon session of Parliament enters its third day today and both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha have been adjourned thrice as opposition parties continue to target the central government over several issues including farmers' protest, coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the income tax raids on the Dainik Bhaskar group and the Pegasus hacking controversy.The Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 4pm today while the Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till Friday 11am.Also Read| Pegasus row: IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to speak in Parliament todaySeveral important bills are expected to be tabled in Parliament today including the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021; the Factoring regulation amendment bill, 2020 and the Inland vessels Bill, 2021.Track LIVE updates on farmers protests at Jantar Mantar hereMeanwhile, farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws since November last year, are holding protests at Jantar Mantar from today. The farmer groups earlier said that they would hold a 'Kisan Parliament' till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will visit Jantar Mantar daily.Follow all the updates here:Centre to bring privilege motion against TMC MPs for their misbehaviour with IT minister Ashwini VaishnawThe central government will bring privilege motion against TMC MPs who misbehaved with IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw while he was reading the statement on 'Pegasus' report in Rajya Sabha today, ANI reported citing sources.Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrowAfter Rajya Sabha was adjourned earlier in the day, now Lok Sabha has also been adjourned till 11am tomorrow.Verbal feud ensued between TMC MP and Hardeep Singh Puri after RS adjournedAfter Rajya Sabha was adjourned, a verbal feud ensued between TMC MP Shantanu Sen and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri after the latter snatched papers from IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw while he was speaking on 'Pegasus report, and tore it.Rajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrowRajya Sabha has been adjourned till tomorrow amid uproar by the Opposition MPs, which started as soon as IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw rose to speak about 'Pegasus' report.Both houses adjourned for the third timeThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 4pm today while the Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till Friday 11am.Both houses adjourned till 2pm as Oppn uproar continuesThe Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have once again been adjourned till 2pm.Buses carrying protesting farmers arrive at Jantar Mantar in DelhiBuses, carrying farmers, arrive at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. The protesting farmers will agitate against Central Government's three farm laws here. pic.twitter.com/ru3WfYa63pLok Sabha session resumes amid uproar by Oppn partiesThe session in the Lower House of Parliament has resumed, however opposition parties continue their protest over several issues.Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha adjourned till 12 noon amid uproar by Oppn partiesBoth houses of Parliament has been adjourned till 12pm.Rahul Gandhi, other Cong MPs hold protests against farm lawsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and other MPs of the party are protesting against Centre's three new farm laws in Parliament.Cong MP gives adjournment motion in Lok Sabha on farmers' issueAhead of the farmers protest at Delhi's Jantar Mantar, Congress MP K Suresh on Thursday gave an adjournment motion on the farmers' issue in the Lower House of Parliament. "The rights of farmers to their land and produce are sacrosanct and needs to be protected. The anti-farmer legislations by the government must be repealed and farmers be heard," Suresh wrote to the secretary general of the Lok Sabha.Farmer protest to begin at 11am, area around Jantar Mantar turns into a fortressThe Delhi Police has barricaded the entire area around Jantar Mantar, ahead of a planned protest by the farmers, who have been pushing for the repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. Read moreCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over Pegasus projectCongress MP Manish Tewari on Thursday gave an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over Pegasus project.CPI MP moves privilege motion in RS against Centre's reply on Covid deathsCommunist Party of India (CPI) MP Binoy Viswam on Thursday moved a privilege motion notice in the Rajya Sabha against the reply of Minister of state of health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar’s that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically by states and Union Territories (UTs) during the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India."Beyond being absolutely disrespectful to the hundreds who suffered this avoidable demise, the Government has tried to mislead the Parliament with its response and thereby broken parliamentary privilege," Viswam wrote in the notice.Important bills to be taken in Parliament todaySeveral important bills will be tabled in Parliament today. Union minister Rajnath Singh will table the Essential Defence Services Bill in Lok Sabha; Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill for consideration and passage and Sarbananda Sonowal, the newly appointed ports, shipping and waterways minister, will introduce the Inland Vessel Bill in the Lower House. Read moreI-T minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to speak in Parliament at 2 pmElectronics and Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to speak in Parliament at 2 pm today pic.twitter.com/ysRJBcNHB4Union minister of Information Technology (I-T) Ashwini Vaishnaw will speak in Parliament at 2pm. The minister might make an announcement on the Pegasus project. Read more'Will monitor Parliament proceedings', says Rakesh TikaitI, along with eight others (protesting farmers) will leave for the Singhu border, and then will go to Jantar Mantar. We will hold 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar. We will monitor Parliament proceedings: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait pic.twitter.com/X1CMVfFMghBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who has left for the Singhu border, said on Thursday that he along with eight other protesting farmers will hold a 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Manta. "We will monitor Parliament proceedings," Tikait told news agency ANI. Security tightens at Singhu border ahead of farmers protest at Jantar MantarDelhi: Security tightens at Singhu border ahead of a farmers' protest at Jantar Mantar against three farm laws amid monsoon session of Parliament Farmers will gather at Singhu border from different protest sites and head towards Jantar Mantar pic.twitter.com/KcQZg1v1e6Ahead of the farmers protests at Jantar Mantar, security has been tightened at the Singhu border. The protesting farmers will gather at Singhu border from different protest sites and head towards Jantar Mantar, news agency ANI reported. Opposition in sync on Rajya Sabha; Lok Sabha path still unclearThe Opposition parties have been able to find a collective script for their efforts to take on the government in the Upper House of Parliament, something they demonstrably lacked in the Lower House on the first two days of the ongoing monsoon session. Read moreFarmers to hold protests at Jantar Mantar from todayFarmers who have been protesting against the farm laws since November last year, will hold protests at Jantar Mantar from today. The farmer groups earlier said that they would hold a 'Kisan Parliament' till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar daily. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101626912256250.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Opinion | The Taste by Vir Sanghvi: Is PM Narendra Modi down or up?||We live in strange times --- politically, at least. Contrast the mood of the Opposition and the mood of this government and you will see that the two views of the political situation are in complete contrast to each other.The Opposition is on a high. It believes that the government’s abject failure to handle the second wave of the pandemic and the disaster of the vaccination programme have left the regime weak and vulnerable. It also believes that neither the prime minister (PM) nor the home minister have recovered from the drubbing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) received in the Bengal elections and are much less confident of their popularity throughout the country.And now, the Pegasus hacking scandal, the Opposition believes, will be the knockout blow. Revelations that the private information of industrialists, politicians, journalists and many others was hacked has shocked the nation. It has also raised, the Opposition says, serious questions about governance in the Modi-era. Why, for instance, was the phone of the lady who accused the chief justice of India (CJI) of sexual harassment hacked? Was the information acquired this way, asks the Opposition, used to pressure the CJI? Does this explain the string of Supreme Court judgments that so pleased the government?On the other hand, the government is much less worried than the Opposition thinks it should be. It has worked out that the only way to recover from the Bengal defeat is to suggest that the winning Trinamool Congress (TMC) is now conducting a pogrom against Hindus on behalf of it Muslim votebank. Day after day, this theme is echoed by BJP leaders, their proxies and by their social media glove puppets.The government knows that Bengal is lost for the next five years, but it hopes that the claims of anti-Hindu violence will reinforce one of the BJP’s election-winning planks throughout the country--the notion that Hindus are under threat from Muslims, backed by the so-called secular parties.On Covid, it became clear during the second wave, that the government had not only lost control of the situation, it was also reconciled to sitting it out till the wave receded. Its focus was on preventing a third wave.Have its failures during the second wave harmed the government? The Opposition thinks it has but the government believes that a) public memory is short and b) if it can rewrite the truth about its vaccine failures, it may convince some voters. Hence the constant untruths about how successful the vaccine programme has been and the publicity campaign about the generosity of the PM in arranging free vaccines for Indians.All this has been accompanied by a flurry of activity designed to change the narrative and to suggest that the PM is back in firm control. The first such initiative was the Kashmir outreach. It is still not clear what, if anything, will come of this initiative but at least it took the focus away from Covid.Then there has been the reshuffle with its focus on younger, more meritocratic ministers and its carefully crafted caste strategy.The sacking of the hapless Dr Harsh Vardhan was meant to send out the message that Mr Modi’s ministers had let him down but that the PM had now reshuffled his team to help him serve the Indian people better.Has all of this worked?In my view, it would be foolish to deny that it has had a positive impact on the government’s image. Mr. Modi no longer seems like the ineffectual, distant figure he appeared to be during the second wave. He seems, once again, like a man who is back in action, firmly in charge of things.The Opposition hopes that Pegasus will change all that. It might well but frankly, I am sceptical. The scandal only reaffirms what Mr Modi’s critics have always said: That his government intrudes on civil liberties and invades privacy. So no surprises there.ALSO READ: Opinion | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Racism and CommunalismYes, his critics will say they are appalled by the revelations. But will it mean very much to the average voter? Or will it just be treated as yet another instance of politicians spying on each other?The government thinks that the scandal will have little long-term impact. And so far, at least, the regime has emerged relatively unscathed from the scandal.Plus, there is one other factor. The Opposition has pinned its hopes on Uttar Pradesh (UP) where Yogi Adityanath is said to be unpopular and where Covid was expected to keep cutting a deadly swathe through the rural areas.But, in fact, Covid deaths in UP have gone down, and every poll suggests that the BJP is poised for victory. Nor have the Opposition parties in UP launched their campaigns with the ferocity one might have expected.Mr. Modi’s strategy is to wait for the UP election and to restrictall criticism to a bare minimum. Newspaper groups (such as Dainik Bhaskar) and TV channels which have dared focus on the failures of the regime have been raided and intimidated. While government officials have pointed to the grounds for such raids, no one can deny that the optics look bad.Then, when the BJP romps home in the UP election , it will declare that Mr Modi’s troubles are over and that he is back to being the strongest PM in nearly 50 years.At the moment, it looks like he may pull that off.Until the next crisis comes along.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-is-pm-narendra-modi-down-or-up-101627047215647.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Acknowledge the brutality of the second wave||First we felt we were mere numbers; now we feel we are not even numbers,” Ruchika Gupta, told me, all the way from the Netherlands, from where she has mobilised a support group for families whose relatives died from a shortage of oxygen at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital in April.Like everyone else, Gupta, whose father was among the 21 patients who died within a few hours at the hospital because the oxygen supply to the intensive care unit (ICU) was stalled, is horrified at the callousness of the government’s response in Parliament. Passing the buck to the states and Union Territories, the health minister argued in the Rajya Sabha that no oxygen-related deaths had been officially reported to them.Also Read | Centre, states row over O2 deaths in 2nd waveEven a perfunctory acknowledgment of the pain and suffering of thousands of Indians was not made on the floor of the House. Instead, the central government took refuge behind a technicality. And while the Opposition attacked the Narendra Modi government for its lack of empathy, non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) states have done no better in computing the deaths that took place in their hospitals from a shortage of oxygen.At the very least, the government could have, in its reply in Parliament, displayed greater empathy in expressing compassion and regret over the lives lost. One cannot underscore enough that these were not natural deaths that took place during a pandemic; these deaths, running into the thousands, were a consequence of the failure of State institutions.“Even the man on the street knows that there was an oxygen shortage in hospitals across India,” Dr SC Gupta of the Capital’s Batra Hospital tells me. Twelve people died in his hospital’s ICU, including a doctor colleague.So how did oxygen deaths get erased from all official records?There is a trail of evidence should anyone want to investigate where and what went wrong. Hospitals took to social media to plead for oxygen. There are videos of doctors breaking down on camera as they make plaintive appeals for oxygen supply. Doctors have chronicled the helplessness they felt while dealing with the shortfall and watching patients die.And then, of course, there are those of us who have documented the countless tragedies on camera, chronicling not just the deaths that took place inside hospital wards in the absence of high-flow oxygen; but also out on the streets, in the backs of cars and auto-rickshaws, and even right at the closed gates of hospitals that had to turn away patients because they did not have the requisite supply of oxygen to take them in.Every Indian who was refused a hospital bed because of the absence of oxygen should also be acknowledged and counted. Instead, governments, both states and central, have fallen back on what the discharge summaries and release papers in hospital records documented. And this is where the process of sanitising the evidence begins.At Jaipur Golden Hospital, for example, the medical superintendent confirmed the shortage of oxygen in a brief statement to the media. But the paperwork provided to families, while releasing the bodies for cremations, only mentioned “respiratory failure,” enabling the hospital to claim in court that there was no oxygen shortage.“With their silence on how these deaths were classified, doctors are breaking their Hippocratic oath,” says Prachi Awasthi, whose mother, Seema, was among those who died at the hospital when the oxygen ran out. “I have been robbed, first robbed of the chance at saving my mother’s life and now robbed of the chance to give her dignity and acknowledgment in death.”Awasthi says she respects the sacrifices made by countless doctors at the Covid-19 frontline but believes, as fellow-sufferers and victims, it is time for them to speak out against the official invisibilisation of these deaths.Shalu Kataria, a mother to two young children, was widowed by the oxygen shortage at the same hospital. She reminds me that hundreds of thousands of Indians mortgaged jewellery, sold land and took loans to pay expensive fees at private hospitals. She was no exception. But spending her life’s savings on medical expenses could not save her husband’s life. Now, with the family losing its only breadwinner, she is struggling to pay school fees for her children. She believes that the hospitals where oxygen shortage caused deaths must, at the very least, refund money to families.Kataria’s children are petitioners in a court case that seeks justice from the judiciary. This is not about one hospital or one set of patients — but the larger health care infrastructure, the management of the second wave, and most crucially, perhaps, the need for acknowledgment of the deaths and losses for reasons that were so clear to all those who suffered and watched what was happening on the frontlines.In the awful, unseemly battle between the BJP and the Opposition, citizens have quite literally been disenfranchised. As Awasthi remarks wryly, “Next, they will tell us the second wave was a figment of our imagination.”Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/acknowledge-the-brutality-of-the-second-wave-101627035607005.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Ensure justice, in the courts and beyond||At the height of the 2019 sexual harassment scandal involving then chief justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi, ran the frisson of a rumour — was there a larger conspiracy?Gogoi has since retired and is now a Rajya Sabha member nominated by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government. His accuser, after being dismissed from service, has been quietly reinstated.All would have been forgotten but for the Pegasus revelation that the woman and 11 phone numbers associated with her were potential targets of surveillance. Who had the power to subject a junior court assistant to a level of global scrutiny that reportedly includes 10 prime ministers, three presidents and a king? Was the intended target someone else? Was there a quid pro quo? One can only speculate since Gogoi has refused to comment.The story, reported in The Wire, indicates that the woman became a “person of interest” after she sent an affidavit to 22 Supreme Court (SC) judges on April 19, 2019, complaining she had “been victimised for resisting and refusing the unwanted sexual advances of the CJI.” The 12,300-word affidavit details how she joined the SC library in 2014, was transferred to Gogoi’s court two years later and how, in 2018, when he became CJI, she was transferred to his home office. She and her husband attended his swearing-in. He helped her disabled brother-in-law get a job as a court attendant.Also Watch | ‘Pegasus a weapon’: Rahul Gandhi’s attack as BJP calls it fake newsWhere it gets murky is with what happened after the affidavit went public. The woman was transferred thrice, and then sacked. Her husband and his brother were suspended from their jobs. In March 2020, she was arrested on charges that were subsequently dropped. For many women, her story is a chilling tale of just how far a powerful, patriarchal system can go in punishing women who speak up.A three-judge enquiry turned down her request to explain the procedure or allow her a support person during the proceedings; so, she withdrew from it. The report exonerated Gogoi but has never been made public or shown to the complainant. Another enquiry into allegations of a larger “conspiracy” has also remained outside the public realm.In the wake of Pegasus, the woman’s lawyer Vrinda Grover told me, “Prima facie, it appears there is credibility to her complaint.” But, she added, the woman would not participate in any future enquiry since she has lost faith in getting justice.Yet, it is precisely to restore faith that the Pegasus revelation about her apparent surveillance must be probed. This is not about one woman or even about all women who speak up. This is about reassuring half this country’s citizens that justice is our constitutional right; that there is zero tolerance for the abuse of power; that we are not wrong to repose our faith in our highest court.It is in every citizen’s interest to know the truth about this sordid saga. It is, after all, a “matter of great public importance touching upon judiciary’s independence”.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ensure-justice-in-the-courts-and-beyond-101627035006736.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Respond to Pegasus with responsibility, remedy, and reform||In his interviews with David Frost after he was forced out of office due to the Watergate Scandal, Richard Nixon famously said, in the context of revelations regarding spying on domestic critics, “... when the president does it, that means that it is not illegal”.This mindset around the executive branch being beyond the law or any form of ethical reproach is now what the Indian Republic has to grapple with and confront in our pervasively digital present.There have now been multiple rounds of revelations regarding the widespread use of the foreign spyware firm NSO Technologies’ Pegasus hacking suite in India — from initial disturbing information around its possible use to target lawyers, activists and those who dissent to it being used target those holding public office in all branches of our government, bureaucrats, Opposition leaders, scientists, whistleblowers and horrifically, their families and loved ones.The range of those who have been sought to be targeted or actively pursued using the Pegasus spyware suite’s hacking capabilities is shocking. The breadth of this in itself constitutes a surveillance scandal shaking our democracy to its core.Also Watch | ‘Pegasus a weapon’: Rahul Gandhi’s attack as BJP calls it fake newsThere is now, without question, a crisis of complete impunity with regards to surveillance and digital intrusion in India. These recent spyware revelations should not be read in isolation. There is a wider digital authoritarian trend in our country. This is demonstrated by the massive number of secret censorship and surveillance orders directed to tech firms during the farmers’ protests and, later, during criticism of the government during the second wave of Covid-19. It is also demonstrated by the issuance of the information technology (IT) Rules, with its Orwellian mandates requiring the retention of personal data and undermining of encrypted messaging.The Indian government’s possible and suspected use of NSO’s Pegasus spyware paints a picture of lawlessness and State-commissioned cyber destabilisation. Indian law is clear; the deliberate intrusion into digital systems with harmful intent constitute the crime of hacking under the Information Technology Act. There is no “carve-out” provided to the executive branch under the law. All hacking, including government hacking, is a crime in India.Private firms who aid government actors in India in hacking have no shield from prosecution or legal liability. NSO has repeatedly stressed that it sells its hack-for-hire services only to governments. And lest we doubt the importance of NSO’s stated words, we need look no further than the government’s own words to Parliament.In his remarks this week, newly appointed Union minister for electronics and IT, Ashwini Vaishnaw (himself now revealed to have been a potential target for Pegasus use) relied extensively on the public relations statements and corporate documents of NSO to justify the government’s evasive position.In his Independence Day address in 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of the importance of protecting Digital India’s information, communication and technology systems and promised that the government would publish and implement a new National Cybersecurity Strategy to better secure all Indians online. It has nearly been a year. And not only is there no sign of this cybersecurity strategy, we instead see our Union government possibly relying on a global spyware industry that relies on the exploitation of digital security vulnerabilities, putting all digital users at risk, and defending the actions of a hack-for-hire company. And if they have had no dealings, let there be a clear denial — which, strikingly, has been missing.The people of India now need three things addressed expeditiously — responsibility, remedy and reform.There needs to be a clear, honest government statement on what interactions Indian government agencies have had with NSO and a disclosure of the officials responsible for that. The government and ruling party should not seek to frustrate the enquiries of Parliament’s Standing Committee on IT or other bodies investigating this issue.Those directly victimised by NSO malware on their devices or otherwise subjected to being on these targeting lists must receive justice. Officials and NSO representatives must be prosecuted. As investigation and legal proceedings kick off, officials must not be shielded using colonial era sanction-for-prosecution powers. Judgments and relief must be made in favour of these victims, and the data hacked from them must be destroyed after proper accounting.Crucially, this must never happen again. India has far too often catapulted from one surveillance scandal to another, without fixing the larger problem. Rather than a watered down, government-friendly data protection bill as currently before Parliament, what we deserve is a strong privacy code that includes meaningful reform and controls over surveillance. Indian citizens deserve the same protections and redressal mechanisms that their counterparts in other major democracies enjoy.All surveillance and data access operations must be sanctioned through independent judicial approval, not by compliant bureaucrats. There must be a robust mechanism to review such intrusive measures, and the ability to challenge them. Government hacking should be presumptively prohibited. An office — whether as part of a privacy commission or separately — must exist that collates all such orders, independently scrutinises the government’s overall measures, and reports on this in an accountable way to Members of Parliament.We need change, not spin or outright denial of India’s surveillance problemRaman Jit Singh Chima is Asia Pacific policy director, Access NowThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/respond-to-pegasus-with-responsibility-remedy-and-reform-101627033806851.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Mucormycosis is only the tip of the fungal iceberg||Mucormycosis is a debilitating and often fatal disease that requires aggressive treatment with antifungal drugs such as amphotericin B. The infection spreads rapidly, often through blood vessels, after vulnerable people inhale fungal spores. Invasion of tissues of the face, nose, eyes, and brain can occur. As tissues die, they turn black. Even with treatment, fungal invasion into tissues can cause blindness and disfigurement. Fortunately, the causative fungi do not spread from person to person.The explosion of cases of mucormycosis that India has experienced in the past few months alongside the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is unprecedented for any fungal disease. Many hospitals went from admitting one or two patients a month with mucormycosis prior to the pandemic, to over 500 cases at once. Special wards to treat patients were set up. By the end of June, India had reported nearly 41,000 cases.Moulds that cause the fungal infection mucormycosis (often erroneously called “black fungus”) are pervasive. You and I breathe in spores of these fungi every day. Yet, most people have immune systems that can clear them without symptoms.Also read | India reported over 45,000 black fungus cases so far, says Mandaviya in RSWhat contributed to this crisis in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic? Speaking at the Joint General Session on “Emerging Pathogens” at the World Microbe Forum held last month, microbiologist Ilan Schwartz of the University of Alberta noted that while much remains unknown, an “unholy trinity” of factors precipitated the mucormycosis crisis in India. A plethora of Covid-19 cases during the second wave, poorly controlled diabetes in many patients, and indiscriminate use of steroids such as dexamethasone led to the sharp spike. Steroids are useful in patients requiring oxygen, but as Schwartz noted, they reduce immunity to fungal infections and can worsen diabetes.Even before the pandemic, India experienced a higher baseline of mucormycosis compared to many other countries due to its tropical climate. India also has a large population with poorly controlled diabetes. In the fourth edition of the Textbook of Medical Microbiology published in 2018, Jagdish Chander foreshadowed the calamity that would befall India (even if he had no inkling of the Covid-19 pandemic). He wrote that an “upsurge in the number of diabetics has really changed the entire scenario more of less like an epidemic… Mucormycosis is going to destroy India shortly, in a couple of years.”Mucormycosis is not the only concern; other fungal infections are resurging. Many new fungal diseases are also emerging. Certainly, better detection of infections explains some (but not all) of the cases. Candidiasis was not common before the 1950s. Many other fungal diseases were rare until HIV/AIDS and immunosuppressive treatments became common. Overall, we are witnessing an alarming trend.Deadly fungal infections were thought to only occur in people with weak immune systems, the elderly, and those battling other infections at the same time. But there is accumulating evidence that external factors such as global travel are increasing their prevalence. And over the past decade, microbiologist Arturo Casadevall of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health has gathered evidence for a hypothesis involving another culprit — the climate crisis.A few years ago, Casadevall wondered why only a few hundred of the roughly 1.5 million fungal species cause diseases in mammals (including humans). For comparison, insects are susceptible to around 50,000 fungal species. Among vertebrates, cold-blooded animals such as amphibians are particularly prone to fungal infections. He found that the comfort zone in which most fungi grow in the environment is cooler than the core temperatures of most mammals.Based on this research, Casadevall proposed an elegant hypothesis that mammals evolved stable and warm core temperatures as a firewall against environmental germs such as fungi. Among fungal species, there are only a few variants that can tolerate warm mammalian core temperatures. This thermal gap has protected us.But on the flipside, with global temperatures rising, heat tolerant variants are expected to flourish. As the difference between environmental temperatures and body temperature diminishes, we may face fungi that have the potential to cause new diseases in humans.In fact, this may already be happening. Candida auris is a fungal species that has caused hundreds of deadly outbreaks worldwide. No one on the planet knew of its existence before 2009. Today, it is highly prevalent in India. And in 2011 and 2012, cases of C. auris exploded almost simultaneously on three continents.C. auris can grow at temperatures higher that those suitable for most fungi. And it may have become tolerant of higher temperatures only recently. Unlike mucormycosis and most other fungal infections, it is contagious. To make matters worse, C. auris is incredibly difficult to remove from surfaces, and many strains are resistant to known antifungal drugs. This fungus represents “a perfect storm” of a new pathogen that can wreak havoc in humans.Writing in the journal mBio in 2019, Casadevall and colleagues hypothesized “that C. auris may be the first example of a fungal species that has jumped the thermal barrier due to adapting to global warming,” In March of this year, a team led by Anuradha Chowdhary of the Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute at the University of Delhi published the discovery of C. auris strains from a salt marsh and a sandy beach in the Andaman Islands in mBio. In this scheme, heat-tolerant fungi infected animals that encountered then in the environment, and then spread through people to hospitals in urban areas. While this data does not prove that the climate crisis precipitated the jump of this fungus to humans, it provides evidence of an environmental reservoir— a necessary step in Casadevall’s hypothesis.If thr climate crisis selects fungal strains that thrive in the higher core temperatures of humans, the rise of fungal diseases is all but certain. Unfortunately, the mucormycosis epidemic is only the tip of the iceberg.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-mucormycosis-is-only-the-tip-of-the-fungal-iceberg-101627021805814.html
23-07-2021||Today's||Starting Gun: In a dark time, the Great Symbol to the rescue||Great symbols are ubiquitous, instantly recognisable, and their origins, though often hard to trace, are accompanied by legendary stories. The cross, the pentacle star, the swastika, the rainbow flag. Silver arrows, and golden arches. The swoosh, and the bitten apple. They encapsulate religions, ideologies, ideals, ideas. They build nations, and create corporations, transcending time and place, until one glance is enough to spark a string of memories or a chain of emotions. What is perhaps the greatest of the symbols was devised by a French aristocrat who had fulfilled his dream of recreating Ancient Olympia by managing to convince the world that sport, at the turn of the 20th century, would cement the bond between nations, some newly formed and newly evolved, that were not always in league with one another. Having organised the first modern Olympics in Athens in 1896, then four more in Paris, St Louis, London, and Stockholm, by 1913, he needed something that would capture and inspire this movement. A symbol that would put a stamp on his philosophy that the struggle was more important than the triumph, that it wasn’t about winning and losing but about playing the game. Click here for LIVE updates of Olympics 2020 Day 1So, in a moment of inspiration, Baron Pierre de Coubertin did the simplest of things. He drew overlapping circles, interlaced them like Venn diagrams, shaded them in colours from national flags around the world, and gave birth to what has come to be known, literally, as the Great Symbol. Those five rings can mean only one thing — the Olympic Games — but they signify much more. Fuelled by the words “Citius, Altius, Fortius”, they are rings of glory, hope, aspiration, and excellence; rings that make you a part of something larger than yourself -- a unifying celebration of human achievement. The Great Symbol faces its greatest test in Tokyo over the next two weeks. The challenge is tougher than when it was put in abeyance during the second World War, and when it seemed for a while that it may be lost forever. That was a solely manmade hurdle. The path to overcoming it would always lie with the better judgment of humanity about what kind of world it wanted to live in. This time, the world faces a contagion that can get anyone, at any time, that can overrun cities, derail the best laid plans, and the extent of whose power we may still not be aware of. Though Covid is a great leveller in how indiscriminately it strikes, instead of uniting people, it has created deeper divisions. Class, wealth and geography now determine who can get treated faster, who can get the antidote quicker, who can study online, who can work from home, who can use this time to take up new hobbies, and who must walk home for hundreds of miles with all their belongings on their backs. In a divided world at an uncertain time, the pressure to deliver for the Olympic movement is heightened. Over 125 years, it may not have been able to prevent wars, plagues, floods, the Great Depression, or global terrorism, but it made the world a better place by tearing down borders, even if for only two weeks once every four years. It gave humanity a peek into what is possible when all faculties are working to push the boundaries of excellence -- and knowing that is worth something.Tokyo 2020, being held in 2021 without spectators and with a spectre over it, comes when we are in desperate need for inspiration. If the world ever required a Great Symbol to turn to, that time is now. Over to the five rings and the new Olympic motto. Let’s move faster, soar higher, and get stronger – together. Citius, Altius, Fortius – Communiter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/starting-gun-in-a-dark-time-the-great-symbol-to-the-rescue-101627008544397.html
23-07-2021||Editorials||The rise in extreme weather events||Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district in the Western Ghats, on Friday, recorded the highest ever rainfall in its history: 60cm in the previous 24 hours. More than 35 people have died in rain-induced landslides in the state’s coastal Raigad district. Mumbai continues to be battered by heavy rainfall and has been placed under orange alert (“heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places”). Other parts of the western coast, including cities and towns in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Goa, have also recorded exceptional rainfall and flooding in the last 24 hours. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) classifies rainfall as “extremely heavy” if an area records 20 cm or more in 24 hours. An offshore trough running from the Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast is causing such heavy rains and is likely to weaken from July 26, said IMD.Also Read | India, China most vulnerable to climate crisis, pollutionOver the past month, India has seen several rain-related extreme weather events. Last week, 31 people died in a series of house collapses after a short burst of intense rain triggered landslides in Mumbai. Both Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh have seen incessant rainfall, with a flash flood in the latter. Delhi has seen some shorter, intense bursts of rain in the last few days, but only after a slow and delayed start to the monsoon. These wayward weather events carry not only the indelible sign of a surging climate crisis but are also a compelling reminder that the country is under-equipped to tackle many of its effects, such as urban flooding and flash floods. But just blaming the climate crisis will be wrong. Despite some proactive efforts by some states, India’s development plans are marked by frenzied and unregulated construction, even on flood plains, an utter disregard for natural topography and hydro-geomorphology, and poor quality affordable housing. Along with overburdened drainage, these are only exacerbating the effects of the climate crisis, leading to large-scale human tragedies and destruction of property.In 100 days, the world will witness the Cop26 summit, the vital United Nations climate talks that open on November 1 in Glasgow, United Kingdom. The extreme weather events in India and across the world (floods across Europe and China, wildfires in the United States, killer heatwaves stretching into northern latitudes) are a sharp reminder of what is at stake, and the express need to accelerate worldwide measures that are required to control the climate crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-rise-in-extreme-weather-events-101627044007854.html
