31-07-2021||Delhi||July ends with record rain, August likely to be surplus too||New Delhi: Starting off as an unusually hot month, July ended up with 507mm of rain -- twice the city’s average of 210.6mm for the month, making it the wettest in the past 18 years, another weather extreme that was characteristic of the patterns being observed in the capital since August 2020. The city has been breaking a weather record every month since August 2020. For instance, this February was the second warmest in 120 years, with the mean maximum temperature in the month touching 27.9 degrees Celsius (°C), falling marginally short of the all-time record of 29.7°C in 2006.Then March this year recorded the hottest day in 76 years, with the mercury levels touching 40.1°C on March 29. But then, after a sweltering February and March, the conditions changed again in April and the lowest minimum temperature in at least a decade was recorded on April 4, at 11.7°C.July 2021 has kept with the record-breaking pattern: it started off with an unusually hot day when the maximum temperature spiked to 43°C. Over the next eight days, there were four heatwave days – a frequency not seen since 2014. Around this time, the monsoon should have arrived – but it would not till nearly the middle of the month on July 13, which was the latest onset since 2013. And in a span of three weeks, the monsoon has now dumped more rain this month than it did in any year since 2003.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said Delhi has received “excess” rainfall this July, adding that more rain is expected over the next couple of days. “More showers are expected over the next couple of days. Given that the month of August, when the city receives its maximum rainfall, is beginning, we may have a slightly above normal monsoon this year. However, we have to watch out for how much it rains in September. Even last year, August received very good rainfall but September went almost dry, making it slightly below normal monsoon,” he said.Besides registering a record for the month, the rain over the city was erratic and inconsistent in its geographical pattern. The rain spells have also been short and intense, instead of being uniformly spread over the month, with some areas getting heavy rain on days when others got trace or no rain. Though Safdarjung station recorded 507.1mm rain, Aya Nagar weather station received 295.7 mm rainfall. This phenomenon can also be seen in the rain data of July 30, when Safdarjung observatory received 41.6 mm rain between 2.30pm and 5.30pm, but barely two kilometres away, at the Lodi Road station, showers were more intense (62mm). Similarly, on July 29, when rains lashed Safdarjung (72mm) and Lodi Road (73.4mm), areas around southwest Delhi’s Palam observatory were almost dry. RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the IMD, explained, “Rainfall does vary within a few kilometres. On Friday, around the Lodi Road area clouds suddenly built up from the east, and there were already favourable weather systems. Local land use and land cover also impact weather activities in an area.” Private weather forecasters also said that a change in monsoon patterns, which is being observed over the region over the last few years, was more prominent this season. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, said the change in pattern is being observed because over the last few years most of the rain received in this region was through convective clouds, which cause short, more intense rain spells that cover a smaller area. “Convective clouds, unlike sheet clouds (altostratus clouds), cover a smaller area. So, there are chances that one area might receive intense rainfall and another, just within its 8-10km radius would be completely dry. Earlier, the clouds used to cover 300-400km radius of area and the showers would also be more uniform and continue till days,” Palawat said. This can be seen from the fact that the rain recording of 507.1mm at Safdarjung in July was a result of just nine days of rain in Delhi. Till 2001, Delhi used to record an average of 15-20 days of rains in July. Forecasters also said that August is likely to be an “above average” monsoon month for Delhi. “Looking at the forecast, it does seem like August will also record a surplus for Delhi. The coming few days are also favourable for moderate to heavy rains in Delhi and NCR,” Palawat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/july-ends-with-record-rain-august-likely-to-be-surplus-too-101627754658632.html
31-07-2021||Other||Delhi: 24-yr-old shot dead in suspected gang war||New Delhi: At least three bike-borne assailants opened fire in Anandpur Dham near Kanjhawala in outer Delhi, killing a 24-year-old biker on the spot and triggering panic among locals on Saturday morning. The assailants fired around a dozen bullets of which at least eight hit the victim, police said, adding that they suspect it to be a fallout of a gang war between two jailed gangsters Jitender alias Gogi and Sunil Tajpuriya aka Tillu.The victim, Nitesh, was the brother of a jailed criminal, Pravesh, who reportedly belongs to Gogi’s gang, senior police officers associated with the probe said.Police said Nitesh suffered bullets in his chest, back and abdomen, after which he fell off the bike and died on the spot at around 11 am on Saturday. The attackers fled on their bike.“Prime facie, it appears that the attackers were waiting for Nitesh. They chased Nitesh’s bike and shot him dead from a close range. Some locals rushed and informed Nitesh’s family members about the firing. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said a senior police officer.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said that several teams have been working on the case. “We have some leads about the attackers. They will be caught soon,” said the DCP.The CCTV cameras installed around the crime scene and the routes taken by the suspects while fleeing are being scanned for clues, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-24-yr-old-shot-dead-in-suspected-gang-war-101627754656993.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||Jewar Airport - all land transfer formalities over, construction to start soon||Formalising the transfer of land for the construction of the Noida International Airport, popularly known as Jewar Airport, the state government signed a licence memorandum, on Saturday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was present on the occasion. With the signing for 1,334 hectares of land, all formalities for the handover of the Jewar Airport land from the Noida International Airport Limited to the Yamuna International Airport Pvt Limited have been completed. This has cleared the decks for construction work to begin. Yamuna International Airport Pvt Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International, will execute the project. Christoph Schnellmann, CEO of the Yamuna International Airport Pvt, Vishak G Iyer, director, Civil Aviation, and Arun Veer Singh, CEO, Noida International Airport Limited signed the agreement.Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said: “Civil aviation is an area of great potential in terms of generating employment and ensuring economic prosperity. With the establishment of the Jewar Airport, the industrial infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh will be augmented and will create more investment opportunities, besides giving impetus to the tourism sector.”Adityanath added that the Jewar Airport would be connected with high speed rail while the Indira Gandhi Airport will be connected to it by road and metro rail. The CM expressed happiness over the progress of work of Jewar Airport.“Very soon Uttar Pradesh will have five international airports. Construction of the international airport in Kushinagar is almost complete and operations from this airport will start soon,’’ he pointed out.“We are pleased to confirm that over 1,300 hectares of land have been handed over to us today for the development of Noida International Airport. We have signed a site inventory memorandum, which gives us the right of way to the available part of the site to commence construction activities,” said Christoph Schnellmann, in a statement issued on Saturday.“We are committed to developing the aviation ecosystem in India, with an investment of ₹5,700cr for phase I of the airport development. The Noida International Airport will hold strategic importance and will be an economic engine for growth in Uttar Pradesh and India,” Schnellmann added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the project soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jewar-airport-all-land-transfer-formalities-over-construction-to-start-soon-101627754479696.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases in July drop by 24%; 33% dip in toll||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 6,959 Covid-19 new infections, taking its July tally to 239,863 cases. This is a 24% decline from the Covid-19 cases reported in June, when the numbers had totalled to 316,293.Similarly in the case of fatalities, Maharashtra recorded 5,020 deaths, which is 33.43% less than the 7,542 deaths reported in June.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said the trend indicated a decline in Covid-19 infections. “This shows the development of immunity among people as many have been infected in the second wave. In addition, the mass-scale vaccination has also helped,” said Dr Salunkhe. However, he warned against adopting a casual outlook in light of the findings. “The authorities need to strictly monitor the situation regularly and ensure that all the rules are followed,” Dr Salunkhe added.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said “Citizens need to strictly adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and participating in mass gatherings,” said Dr Mandot. “This will ensure further decline in the cases and will eventually result in more easing of curbs,” he added.The total number of Covid-19 patients in the state, has now reached 6,303,715. As on Saturday, Maharashtra had 76,755 active patients, while the total number of deaths reached 132,791. The state conducted 206,747 tests on Saturday, while it clocked 7,467 recoveries.Of the 76,755 active patients across the state, Pune has the highest –15,674 –followed by Satara with 7,855 active patients and Sangli with 7,406 patients.Pune also has recorded the highest number of deaths (18,476), followed by Mumbai with 15,889 deaths and Thane with 11,037 fatalities. On Saturday, Mumbai recorded 345 new cases and nine deaths.In April 2021 at the peak of Maharashtra’s second wave of Covid-19, cases consistently topped 60,000 a day. The state imposed several restrictions after the peak in cases in April and May. While the downward trend began in May, the state’s numbers hovered around 10,000 and 14,000 for the first half of June. It was only in the second half of June that new daily Covid-19 cases in most parts of the state began falling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-19-cases-in-july-drop-by-24-33-dip-in-toll-101627754301292.html
31-07-2021||Pune||Students can edit their form for CET||Pune: Students appearing for the Common Entrance Test (CET) for First Year Junior College (FYJC) or Class 11 admissions can now edit their forms till August 2. Interested students can edit their phone numbers, permanent and temporary address to get a nearby examination centre. Dr Ashok Bhosale, secretary of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), said that the students can edit the details from August 1 at 11 am. “The link will be active till August 2 11:59 pm. Students can edit permanent addresses and temporary addresses to get the closest examination centre. The students can also change the category as well,” said Dr Bhosale. Maharashtra CET is scheduled by the board on August 21. Even though the CET is not mandatory for all students, many are preferring to attempt the test. Students who will appear for the CET will be given preference for Class 11 admissions. Students from all boards can attempt the test. CET will be based on the state board syllabus for admissions in Class 11. CET for class 11 will be for 100 marks based on Class 10 syllabus in the multiple choice questions (MCQ) in offline mode. The exam will be conducted in eight mediums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-can-edit-their-form-for-cet-101627753756989.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||Shah to lay foundation stone of Vindhyachal Corridor project in UP on Sunday||Union home minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of the Uttar Pradesh State Forensic Science Institute on Sunday that will come up on 50 acres of land in Lucknow. He would later lay the foundation stone of the Vindhyachal Corridor project in Mirzapur. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be present at both these places, officials said.After arriving at the Lucknow airport at around 11 am, Shah would be driven straight to the venue at Piparsand in the Sarojininagar area of the state capital where, along with the chief minister, he will lay the foundation stone of the institute.When the institute is ready, it will act as a resource centre in the field of forensic science, behavioural science, civil and criminal law by becoming a pool of trained manpower.Shah’s itinerary doesn’t include any visit to the UP BJP office in Lucknow. “We don’t have any details of his arrival at the party office. He is coming to Lucknow for laying the foundation stone of the forensic science institute. Once ready, it will not only help in the investigation of complex crimes but will also provide better opportunities for education and employment to the youth of the state,” a UP BJP leader said. “His official programme includes an estimated little over two-hour stay in the state capital as he is scheduled to leave for Delhi from Mirzapur where he, along with the chief minister, will lay the foundation of the Vindhyachal Corridor project,” the BJP leader said. From Mirzapur, Shah will reach Varanasi where he will offer prayers at Kashi Vishwanath temple. He will also inspect the Kashi Vishwanath corridor.According to a government release, the forensic science institute would be headed by a senior police officer and students of science and IT stream will be able to undertake courses in various subjects. The institute will also work to train forensic scientists working in forensic labs and police personnel by developing professional skills for scientific investigation of cases of complex crimes. A Center of Excellence for DNA will also be established in this institute in collaboration with National Forensic Science University (NFSU), Gandhinagar, Gujarat, on five acres.After its establishment, it will help in developing the latest technology and research in the field of DNA testing in Uttar Pradesh, the government release said.The state government, along with the UP State Forensic Science Institute, is also setting up forensic labs at the police range level with forensic equipment and DNA labs across the state.The DNA labs have already been started in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur and Agra while other forensic labs are being set up in various districts of the state, the release stated. Eight mobile forensic vans with modern equipment have also been made available to all the zonal headquarters for the quick and safe collection of evidence after the crime, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shah-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-vindhyachal-corridor-project-in-up-on-sunday-101627753577519.html
31-07-2021||Other||Bhubaneswar achieves target of 18 lakh doses of vaccination, TPR still above 5%||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has reached its target of administering over 18 lakh doses by July 31, officials said.BMC Commissioner Sanjay Singh said the target was to administer a total of 18.14 lakh doses - both first and second - to a little over 9 lakh people in the 18+ age group. However, 18,35,903 doses have been given by July 31. Among the people vaccinated, 10,59,753 have received the first dose and 7,76,150 have received the second dose.Singh said as people from other districts are coming to Bhubaneswar, they may have taken the vaccine that was meant for people living within the BMC area. He, however, said Bhubaneswar citizens have been given priority.When vaccination started in Odisha, Bhubaneswar was the only place where Covaxin was given. As the gap between two doses was 4 weeks compared to 12 weeks of Covishield, it helped quicker vaccination of people in the BMC area. The municipal body speeded up the vaccination by arranging drive-in facilities at parking areas of malls where people in their two-wheelers and cars could drive in and get jabbed. The BMC also organised doorstep vaccination in various apartments and private companies. It also started the vaccination of beggars and the poor.Singh said from Monday, people who are waiting to get their second dose of the jab can visit any vaccination centre near their home and get jabbed without booking a slot on the CoWin app.Despite record vaccination in Bhubaneswar, the city still continues to report more than 350 cases daily which officials said is happening as people are not adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. Besides, many cases are being reported among those less than 18 years who are yet to be vaccinated. On Saturday, the city reported 354 new cases of Covid-19 with the test positivity rate (TPR) climbing to 5.48%. Meanwhile, the state government on Saturday announced that weekend shutdowns will continue in Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Puri from August 1 as the cases continued to remain high there. However, the rest of the state would see no weekend shutdown from August 1. Street food vendors shall be allowed to operate with on-spot eating in compliance with Covid-19 safety protocols. Daily and weekly haats shall remain open with strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. Inter-state and intra-state public transport by buses shall remain functional with seating capacity only.All educational institutions, including coaching centres, would function as per the guidelines issued by respective departments. Indoor amusement centres, entertainment parks, amusement parks, theme parks, water parks, museums, tourist places, zoos and archaeological monuments would remain open observing Covid-19 safety protocols.Government and private swimming pools would remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhubaneswar-achieves-target-of-18-lakh-doses-of-vaccination-tpr-still-above-5-101627752378984.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 37% more rain in July this year||With Mumbai recording a total of 1,125.9mm rain in the past month alone, this July marks the fourth consecutive year in which monthly rains have crossed the 1000mm mark, as opposed to the monthly normal of 827mm, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This year, July rainfall in the city was 37% in excess of the monthly normal or long-period average, as per data from the IMD’s monitoring station in Santacruz, representative of the city and suburbs. Though the intensity of rains began to subside after July 21, the previous week saw the city grapple with two consecutive, atypical thunderstorms which dumped more than 500mm rain over the city. A convective thunderstorm, described by meteorologists as “monstrous”, deposited a whopping 235mm rain between 12am and 4am on July 18, less than 48 hours after a similar high rainfall event resulted in the season’s highest daily rainfall on July 16 at 253mm.During the week starting July 15, the city received 689.9mm rain, which is 251% in excess of the weekly normal amount for the same period (196.7mm). In July, Mumbai also crossed the 2,000-mm rainfall mark for the entire monsoon season from June to September, with receiving 2,087.2mm rain since June 1. This is 94.6% of the monsoon long-period average of 2,205mm rain as per IMD. Of this, 961.4mm was recorded in June, which is also more than the monthly normal of 505mm.As the monsoon enters its third month, Mumbai is likely to see a drier start to August due to lack of typical synoptic features which drive precipitation over the city, such as a vigorous offshore trough and low-pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal. An official with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai said, “There is a possibility of monsoon revival between August 5 and 7, but the next spate of heavy downpours is at least another 10 to 12 days away.” With the monsoon oscillation moving northward, a break phase in the monsoon is expected next week not only in Mumbai but across the state as well as other parts of western and central India, the IMD’s long-range forecast indicates.Mumbai has been placed under a green alert by IMD till at least August 5. Temperatures are expected to hover at a maximum of 31 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 26 degrees Celsius for at least the next week. Remaining coastal districts in Maharashtra which were recently battered by heavy rains leading to flooding are also expected to see light to moderate rain with isolated heavy showers during the first week of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-37-more-rain-in-july-this-year-101627751237338.html
31-07-2021||Indore||Indore 'spurious liquor' case: Suspect dies day after turning up at police station||A suspect, who turned up at a police station days after four persons died after consuming liquor in two bars in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore, died on Saturday, news agency PTI reported quoting a police official. The suspect had suddenly arrived at the police station on Friday night, and was hospitalised due to “ill health,” city superintendent of police (CSP) of Chhatripura area, BPS Parihar, said.Also Read | 2 die, 1 ill after liquor party in Indore; 'suspected poisoning', say policeExplaining the sequence of events, Parihar further said, “Police personnel visited the house of the deceased on Friday in connection with the incident but could not find him. However, late in the night, he turned up at the police station and started vomiting. We contacted his family and he was taken to hospital, where he could not be saved.”In the last seven days, four people had died after drinking liquor in two bars in Indore district, in what the police had described as a case of suspected poisoning. On July 27, superintendent of police Mahesh Chandra Jain had addressed the media and said that the police had questioned bar operators in Chhota Bangdada area, and found that they purchased liquor from licensed shops, as well as other people. “There’s a suspicion that the liquor brand is fake and thus harmful and spurious. A probe is underway to determine that,” Jain had announced.Of the four, two consumed liquor at a bar in Chhota Bangdada area, while the other two had it on two separate days at a bar in Marimata area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-spurious-liquor-case-suspect-dies-day-after-turning-up-at-police-station-101627750514269.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Surat-based diamond firm buys Worli bungalow for ₹185 crore||In one of the largest transactions in recent times, a bungalow in Worli was sold to a Surat-based diamond firm headed by Ghanshyambhai Dhanjibhai Dholakia for a staggering ₹185 crore.‘Panhar bungalow’ consists of a basement and ground-plus-six storeyed structure located opposite Worli sea face, one of the sought-after locations in Mumbai. It occupies an area admeasuring 19,886 square feet and was purchased by Harikrishna Exports Private Limited from Arkay Holdings Limited.Savji Dholakia, elder brother of Ghanshyambhai said it was meant for a family home. “We were searching for a high-end property which will be able to accommodate our joint family. This bungalow suited our requirement perfectly,” said Savji.Savji has been in news for lavishing his employees with gifts like cars, houses as well as jewellery to his employees. In 2018, he gifted cars to 600 of his employees and Prime Minister Narendra Modi handed over the keys to some of the beneficiaries in Delhi.The documents scanned by Zapkey.com, a real estate data analytics and research firm revealed that there were two documents registered — assignment of the lease of land and conveyance of the residential building.In the assignment, the amount of ₹47,00 crore was paid for which ₹2,57 crore was paid as stamp duty. The conveyance was valued at ₹138 crore for the bungalow, while ₹8.30 crore was paid as stamp duty.Sandeep Reddy, co-founder, Zapkey.com, said that such bungalows are still in great demand. “Since there is a shortage of bungalows, especially in south Mumbai, they attract huge demand and buyers are ready to shell out premiums to acquire them,” said Reddy.The last bungalow deal was in April when the Founder of DMart, Radhakishan Damani, has bought a two-storeyed bungalow by paying ₹1,001 crore. Damani has purchased the property at the tony Malabar Hill area along with his brother Gopikishan Damani and paid a stamp duty of ₹30.03 crore for this property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaisuratbased-diamond-firm-buys-worli-bungalow-for-185-crore-101627750097371.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra needs to prepare for 3rd Covid wave after easing curbs, says Aaditya Thackeray||As the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are ramping up medical infrastructure for the projected third wave of Covid-19, state environment minister and guardian minister of Mumbai suburbs, Aaditya Thackeray on Saturday said the state needs to start preparing for the third wave as soon as restrictions begin to ease. “When the third wave will hit us depends on us; as soon as we start opening things, we need to start preparing for the third wave,” Thackeray said. He was speaking at the launching of the report ‘Turning the Tide: Is Mumbai Ready for the Next Wave?’ by Mumbai-based Observer Research Foundation (ORF), via video conferencing on Saturday afternoon. The report captures lessons and learning from Mumbai’s experience with dealing with two waves during the Covid-19 pandemic and examines its preparedness to handle the projected third wave and the city-wise vaccination drive. Regarding easing of the present restrictions in Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra, Thackeray said, “We are being painfully slow, because at least as per our reading, it is here that the Delta strain originated. Maharashtra has been honest and transparent with reporting its [Covid] numbers. The real success lies in counting real numbers, identifying patients on time, getting them to the hospital, and then safely home.”Maharashtra has had success in dealing with the social response to the Covid-19 crisis as well, according to Thackeray. Speaking on the issue of migrant labour being displaced during the first wave of the pandemic, Thackeray said, “There is a larger policy issue at hand here, ...about housing, transit camps for the floating population in the form of migrant labour. But the social aspects of the pandemic, finding food, shelter, and psychological security for migrant labour are challenges we have addressed.”He also addressed the need to have a Covid-19 recovery master plan for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) region, and other crucial pockets of thriving commerce across the state, such as the Nagpur Metropolitan Region. “With the other aspect of when it comes to infrastructure development and amenities, we have to look at a unified approach at least city wise, if not MMR wise. One city one administration is a better approach,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-needs-to-prepare-for-3rd-covid-wave-after-relaxations-ease-says-aaditya-thackeray-101627749857298.html
31-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Simdega police provide smartphones to 36 govt school students for online classes||Altogether 36 students of different government schools received smartphones by Simdega superintendent of police Dr Shams Tabrez at an event on Monday.The police provided smartphones to “deserving” government school students who can’t afford to buy such gadgets. Similarly, the Dhanbad Police also distributed smartphones to 10 students on Friday.Officials said the initiative is a brainchild of the state director general of police Neeraj Sinha. The police have come up with Upkaran Banks (gadget banks) at police stations across the state and urged people to donate smartphones lying unused in their homes to the poor students, who have been missing online classes because they can’t afford such gadgets.So far, gadget banks across the state have received around 1,000 smartphones, tabs, laptops and personal computers through donations from the public.As per the latest figures provided by the police headquarters, 13 laptops and 23 personal computers, besides 926 smartphones and 13 tabs have been received across 432 police stations in the state. The corporate and other such entities have also contributed 23 smartphones, one laptop and 20 personal computers. “Even though the DGP had urged to donate old unused phones, 19 people donated new smartphones. We have donated phones to Classes 10 and 12 students as they would require the phones for their board exams. The police will also pay the bills of these phones as a part of community policing,” said Dr Shams Tabrez, superintendent of police, Simdega.“The principals of concerned government schools shortlisted the students as per their academic performance. We have also made it clear to the students and their parents that these gadgets should not be misused. And to ensure that, we have directed the school principals to review the progress report of these students every three months,” said Tabrez.All verifications regarding the credentials of the donated gadgets have been done before handing over the devices to students. Fifteen-year-old Sulendra Milwar from Jokbahar Turitoli village in Simdega district is excited to get a smartphone. “I am excited to get the smartphone. Till now, my father had a basic phone as he is a daily wager. I would now be able to use the smartphone for my online classes. My father is likely to get a SIM installed on Saturday,” said Sulendra on Friday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhandsimdega-police-provide-smartphones-to-36-govt-school-students-for-online-classes-101627749136808.html
31-07-2021||Patna||New ECR GM takes charge||Anupam Sharma, additional general manager of Southeastern Railway, on Saturday took charge as general manager, East Central Railway (ECR)Anjani Goyal, GM (diesel locomotive works in Varanasi, who was holding the additional charge as GM (ECR) after Lalit Chandra Trivedi, who took charge on March 7, 2018, retired on June 30. Sharma, an IRSME (Indian Railway Service of Mechanical Engineers) officer, joined Indian Railways in 1986 and has since served in several important capacities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/new-ecr-gm-takes-charge-101627749016740.html
31-07-2021||Other||Man kills younger brother over theft of ₹500 in Bihar’s Kaimur district||A 20-year-old man from a village in Kaimur district has been arrested killing his younger brother, a minor, for allegedly stealing ₹500 from his shop. The incident occurred at Sondhi village under Mohania police station limits of Kaimur district on Friday night.According to police, their mother Jhuniya Devi filed a murder case against her elder son Ramu Sharma, 20, with Mohania police, alleging that he locked her younger son Khushi Sharma, 15, inside a room and brutally assaulted him, leading to his death. The accused, however, told police that his brother was a drug addict and often stole cash and valuables from home and his grocery shop. He said he had merely slapped his younger brother when he fell down and died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-kills-younger-brother-over-theft-of-rs-500-in-bihar-s-kaimur-district-101627748896590.html
31-07-2021||Other||No-confidence motion against Ara mayor, her deputy defeated||A no-confidence motion, moved against the mayor and the deputy mayor of Ara municipal corporation on July 24, was defeated on Saturday.Mayor Ruby Tiwari and deputy mayor Pushpa Kushwaha retained their seats.On July 24, a total of 17 ward councillors moved a no-confidence motion against the mayor by levelling several charges, including irregularities. On the same day, 19 ward councillors moved a no-confidence motion against the deputy mayor.The voting was done Saturday in the presence of in charge municipal commissioner and sadar SDO Vaibhava Srivastava.For the no-confidence motion to be successful, there was a need for 22 votes out of 42 ward councillors.However, out of 24 ward councillors present, only 16 voted in favour of the no-confidence motion against the mayor. Two votes were declared invalid, while six councillors voted against the motion.While 15 voted in favour of the motion against the deputy mayor, one councillor did not cast his vote. One vote was declared invalid while seven ward councillors voted against the no-confidence motion against the deputy mayor.Meanwhile, mayor Ruby Tiwari said that her priority will be the renovation of roads and drains across the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noconfidence-motion-against-ara-mayor-her-deputy-defeated-101627748897136.html
31-07-2021||Patna||49-year-old man resisting robbery bid in Patna shot at||A 49-year-old contractor of Central Public Works Department (CPWD) was shot at by while resisting a robbery bid on his sister-in-law in Punaichak locality of Patna on Saturday, the police said.The victim, identified as Suresh Chandra, sustained a bullet injury on his left shoulder and is undergoing treatment in at PMCH, police said, adding that he was out of danger. The suspect is yet to be identified. Station house officer of Shastri Nagar police station, Ramashankar Singh, said police are looking for CCTV footages from areas along the route. He said a case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/49yearold-man-resisting-robbery-bid-in-patna-shot-at-101627748836635.html
31-07-2021||Patna||Govt schools must form management committees within a month: Bihar education department||The education department has written to all the district education officers (DEOs) to ensure constitution of management committees headed by local legislators in all the government schools.The direction comes following questions raised in Bihar’s Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council during the just concluded monsoon session on delay in constitution of the school management committees (SMCs).“The SMCs are formed under the chairmanship of members of the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, Assembly or Council. Due to non-constitution of SMCs, development work has been affected in the schools. Despite provisions, not forming SMCs is a serious matter and the headmaster and his deputy are directly accountable for it. They have to ensure formation of SMCs,” says a letter from additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar to all DEOs on Thursday.Kumar has directed that all the SMCs be formed within a month and a certificate in this regard be obtained from the headmasters and submitted to the department. “Any lapse or delay in forming SMCs will invite action,” he wrote.The right to education (RTE) Act provides for SMCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/govt-schools-must-form-management-committees-within-a-month-bihar-education-department-101627748776623.html
31-07-2021||Patna||PU to begin admission process from Sunday, no entrance exam this year||Patna University (PU) is all set to begin the admission process for the new academic session 2021-22 from Sunday. Considering the pandemic-triggered circumstances, the varsity has decided to do away with the entrance test as holding an exam for thousands of students would not be feasible.The last date for filling online admission form is August 20. PU officials said applicants will have to pay ₹1,100 for filling the admission form.Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare, said, “Details regarding online admission process in undergraduate (UG) courses will be uploaded on www.patnauniversity.ac.in on Sunday. Admission to UG courses will be done based on marks obtained by applicants in Class 12. The entrance exam has been eliminated only for the current session due to the Covid-19 pandemic.” “In a first, the varsity has resorted to the university management information system (UMIS) this year for facilitating centralised admission process at all constituent colleges. Candidates will get a chance to select multiple preferences for colleges and courses without paying additional charges. The new system is likely to expedite the admission and counselling process. We are hopeful to commence classes for the new academic session on time”, he said.Meanwhile, students aspiring to take admission in PU evoked mixed responses on scarping of entrance exam.Rahul Kumar, who is aspiring to pursue BSc, said, “The varsity should take out merit list for state board and CBSE students separately due to huge difference between exam and evaluation pattern of both boards. CBSE students have fetched high scores than state board students. In such circumstances, a handful of state board students will get admission in PU.” Deepak Singh, a CBSE Class 12 pass out, said, “Entrance exam gives fair and uniform opportunity to all students irrespective of their previous background. Mediocre students are likely to suffer as they might not get admission to reputed colleges. I have scored 70%. My chances of getting admission in PU is low if cut off marks remain high.”PWC reopens admission portal till August 10Patna Women’s College (PWC) has decided to re-open the admission portal for UG courses from Sunday to August 10.“Interested students can fill online admission forms for various vocational and conventional UG courses. The offline entrance exam will be held on August 14”, said a college official.About the processLast date for filling online admission form: August 20Form filling fees: ₹1,100For further details: www.patnauniversity.ac.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-to-begin-admission-process-from-sunday-no-entrance-exam-this-year-101627748716624.html
31-07-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge death: Soren govt recommends CBI probe||The Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand on Saturday recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of Dhanbad judge who died in the coal city on July 28 after being hit by an auto rickshaw while he was on his morning walk. “The death incident of judge Uttam Anand has been transferred to CBI for further probe. Chief minister Hemant Soren has given his consent,” a statement from the chief minister’s office said. The police have already seized the auto rickshaw that allegedly hit Uttam Anand, posted as additional district judge in Dhanbad, and arrested two persons riding the vehicle.A CCTV footage of the incident, which has since triggered an outcry, shows the auto rickshaw swerving to extreme left from middle of the road near the magistrate colony and hit Anand from behind before speeding away. The decision to recommend a CBI probe comes a day after the Supreme Court took suo motu cognizance of the incident and directed Jharkhand’s chief secretary and director general of police to submit a complete report in a week. On Friday, Anand’s family had also met Soren in his office. Earlier, the family had demanded a CBI probe.An SIT led by additional director general Sanjay Anand Lathkar has been probing the case since Friday. However, the police were yet to reveal the motive of the arrested accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-death-soren-govt-recommends-cbi-probe-101627748657249.html
31-07-2021||Patna||JD (U) parliamentary delegation to meet PM for caste-based census||The JD (U), a key ally of the BJP in Bihar, has demanded from the centre to hold a caste-based census. A political resolution to this effect was passed by the party at its national executive committee meeting in New Delhi on Saturday.Earlier in the morning, a meeting of party national office-bearers welcomed the Modi-government decision to provide 27% reservation to OBC and 10% to EWC in medical education.“JD (U) parliamentary party delegation has sought time from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hand over a memorandum demanding caste-based census in the country,” said JD(U) principal general secretary KC Tyagi.The party also passed a resolution to publish recommendations of Justice G Rohini Commission report so that the advantage of the reservation is extended as per the numbers. On Friday, the main opposition parties of Bihar led by the RJD had met chief minister Nitish Kumar and had demanded that the issue of caste census be raised before the PM. “Caste-wise enumeration is necessary as it would only help in identifying the backwardness in economically and socially weaker groups among backward classes and extend them the benefits of welfare schemes. We will press hard for it,” said Tyagi.On July 20, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai had told Parliament that the government had directed it as a policy matter not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SC/ STs.The JD (U) also passed a resolution concerning population control. “We support ways and means to control the population. But this cannot be done through acts or laws. It should not be forced. A concerted effort to create public awareness is required through the benefits, education, etc., to bring down the reproduction rate,” said Tyagi. Talking about the political decisions, Tyagi said that the party has decided to contest elections in all the states going to polls in near future. “We have talks with union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda for a respectable seat-sharing formula for UP polls. If the things did not work out in UP, the JD (U) will contest on at least 200 seats in UP,” said Tyagi. The party has also requested Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to take out time and tour other states as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jd-u-parliamentary-delegation-to-meet-pm-for-caste-based-census-101627748656584.html
31-07-2021||Pune||Pune’s Sahakarnagar leads city’s tree count||PUNE: Sahakarnagar ward office area is a greener part of Pune city and less tree cover is in Bhavani peth and Kasba Vishrambaug areas with respect to other localities, as per Pune Municipal Corporation’s released Environment Status Report (ESR). PMC tabled ESR before the general body on Friday. While presenting ESR for 2020-21, the environment department has given area wise green cover in the city. As per ESR, PMC conducted the tree census recently and Sahakarnagar-Dhankawadi ward office areas have the highest number of trees. Hadapsar-Mundhwa fall in the second number with less and half the tree count. As per the PMC record, Sahakarnagar Dhankawadi area has a total of 11.13 lakh trees. Second number ward office is Mundhwa-Hadapsar which has 4.87 lakh trees and third is Ahmednagar Road-Vadgaonsheri area with 4.70 lakh trees. The lowest tree cover is at Bhavani Peth area with only 12,474 trees and Vishrambaug with 34,025 trees. PMC conducted the tree census with the help of GPS technology and found a total of 47.13 lakh trees within the PMC limit which did not include recently merged 23 villages. Total tree species in the city are 429 and total families are 73. As per the ESR, Pune city has a tree ration of 1.39 per person. Ward wise tree count Sahakarnagar-Dhankawadi: 11.13 lakh Mundhwa-Hadapsar: 4.87 lakh Ahmednagar Road-VadgaonSheri: 4.70 lakh Shivajinagar-Ghole Road: 4.43 lakh Kothrud-Bavdhan: 4.29 lakh Aundh-Baner: 3.98 lakh Dhole Patil Road: 2.84 lakh Yerawada-Kalas: 2.41 lakh Kondhwa-Yeolewadi: 2.06 lakh Wanowrie-Ramtekadi: 1.75 lakh Warje-Karvenagar: 1.59 lakh Sinhgad Road: 1.38 lakh Bibwewadi: 1.17 lakh Kasba-Vishrambaug: 34,205 Bhavani Peth: 12,474||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-sahakarnagar-leads-city-s-tree-count-101627747276509.html
31-07-2021||Pune||Electricity consumption in Pune drops by 50 pc in commercial category due to Covid restrictions||PUNE: The electricity and other energy consumption for commercial establishments came down almost by 50 per cent in Pune city due to the Covid-induced measures like lockdowns. The electricity consumption by the commercial sector in 2018-19 was 1,324 million units (MU) which dropped to 743 MU in 2019-20. The Pune Municipal Corporation published the ESR (Environment Status Report) for 2020-21 on Friday and gave the energy consumption details. Even the energy consumption by industrial areas came down drastically. In 2018-19, energy consumption by the industrial sector was 1,460 MU which came down to 1,146 MU in 2019-20. PMC collected data from MSEDCL (Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited). Interestingly, though the energy consumption came down in industrial, commercial, municipal and other sectors, it remained almost the same in residential sector. Though many people left for their hometown or shifted to rural areas, the energy consumption remains constant in the residential sector as many people started working from home. PMC mentioned in the ESR that mainly electricity, LPG, petrol, diesel, kerosene, CNG and PNG are the sources of energy in the city. There is a slight drop in all these sectors during 2019-20, according to PMC’s ESR. Electricity consumption (in MU) Residential category Year/ Electricity consumption 2017-18/2,026 2018-19/2,194 2019-20/2,044 Commercial category 2017-18/1,277 2018-19 /1,324 2019-20/743||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/electricity-consumption-in-pune-drops-by-50-pc-in-commercial-category-due-to-covid-restrictions-101627746496494.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to appoint consultant to suggest measures for landslide-prone areas||To prevent disasters at landslide-prone sides across Mumbai, some of which are on the land owned by the collector or Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to appoint a consultant to survey these sites and suggest corrective measures. These measures will be suggested to the respective agencies who own such land and will be implemented by the agencies. While BMC will bear the cost of appointing a consultant, the construction or work cost will be borne by the respective agencies. The decision was taken as part of a multi-agency mid-monsoon review meeting conducted at BMC’s disaster management department on Friday. Representatives from Mhada, Mumbai Metro projects, the public works department, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), and BMC department heads were present at the meeting. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s disaster management department said, “As per an earlier survey conducted by Geographical Survey of India (GIS), landslide-prone spots across Mumbai have been categorised into light, moderate, and critical. There are 20 such critical spots that BMC has decided to focus on for immediate corrective measures. These spots are mostly in the eastern suburbs, in the S ward, (Bhandup area) and the L ward (Kurla area).” Among corrective measures that can be taken to prevent landslides are ramping up the drainage, construction of retaining walls, plantation of trees, strengthening the hillside by nut bolt intervention, to fix lose a portion of the hill. “After the interventions are suggested by BMC, the respective agency can organise funds to implement the suggestions, or district planning and development funds can be utilised where possible,” Kakani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-to-appoint-consultant-to-suggest-measures-for-landslide-prone-areas-101627745597095.html
31-07-2021||Other||Powerful IED detected, defused on Jammu-Poonch highway||Security forces on Saturday morning averted a major tragedy on the Jammu-Rajouri-Poonch national highway after alert troops detected a powerful IED concealed in a milk can, kept along the highway, officials said.“Vehicular traffic on Jammu-Rajouri-Poonch highway was suspended for around three hours and was restored after the IED was safely detonated,” said a police official.“Specific information was received by police that some suspicious activity has taken place in Dalogra area along the highway in Rajouri. We immediately suspended the traffic and an operation was launched during which security forces detected an improvised IED,” the official added.A bomb disposal squad (BDS) of police reached the spot and safely defused the IED.The IED was planted by suspected terrorists under a culvert at Bathooni-Daogra on Jammu-Rajouri national highway and was subsequently defused by the bomb disposal squad of the Army at 9.10 am.The terrorists are believed to have planted the IED during the intervening night under the cover of darkness, the officials said, adding that a massive search operation is on to arrest the terrorists who were planning to set off the blast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/powerful-ied-detected-defused-on-jammu-poonch-highway-101627745416951.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rainfall helps in substantial water stock in Maharashtra dams||The heavy rainfall for a week since July 22 across the state has helped in a significant rise in the water stock. The state reservoirs have the stock up to 51% of their collective capacity, against the stock of 41% last year on the day. This has resulted in sowing for the Kharif crops over 85% of the area under cultivation and the farmers are expecting good agricultural crops this season.The incessant rainfall across the state since July 22 has resulted in the state recording 125% of its average rainfall till July 31. Against the average of 538.5mm rainfall on this day, the state has recorded 674.2mm rains this monsoon. It was 522.3mm last year on the same day. At 145% (464mm) till today, drought-prone Central Maharashtra has received the highest rainfall until now, while it is 137% (2367mm against average 1726mm) in the Konkan division. Barring Nashik division, which covers north Maharashtra, all other divisions have received more than 100% of their average rainfall till July 31. Nashik has so far received 75% or 269mm against an average of 358mm.Of the 353 tehsils in the state, 273 have reported more than 100% rainfall, while only eight tehsils in Nandurbar, Dhule and Nashik have received rains between 25% and 50% of their average rainfall.This has also resulted in the rise in the water stock in the state reservoirs to 51% against the stock of 41% last year on the same day. “Though central Maharashtra has reported more than average rainfall in first two months of the monsoon, the water stock in the dams in the region have the accumulated stock of 35.04%, lowest among the other five divisions, against 39.5% last year on the same day,” said an official from the water resources department. He said that it was because not all the districts have received equal rainfall.The officer said that the water stock in 3,267 dams of all sizes, has increased significantly in the past 10 days. 20,440 million cubic meter (MCM) or 33.39% on July 21, it has increased to 27,935 MCM. The sowing average in the state stands at around 90%, with the area under cultivation of soybean and udid has increased.“We can expect good production and productivity this year in the wake of the satisfactory rainfall. In drought-prone central Maharashtra, the sowing in three districts (Aurangabad, Jalna and Beed) has crossed 98%, while in other districts too is excellent. Cash crops like cotton, soybean will do better this year. The area under cultivation for soybean has increased because of the procurement price of soybean mounting to ₹9,800 per quintal from ₹5000 last year. If any prolonged dry spell is not witnessed in near future, the production and productivity of crops will be much better this year,” said SB Varade, farm and irrigation expert.An official from the agriculture department of the state said that if the crops are not stressed due to the dry spells in the remaining period of monsoon, they can expect as satisfactory production as last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rainfall-helps-in-substantial-water-stock-in-maharashtra-dams-101627745177089.html
31-07-2021||Jaipur||4 killed in road accident after car slams into divider in Rajasthan’s Tonk||Four people were killed on the spot and the fifth was seriously injured in a road accident on late Friday night when the car they were travelling in hit a divider at Saroli crossing in Tonk district of Rajasthan. The critically injured person has been referred to Jaipur, said police. Resident of Kama area in Bharatpur district, all the deceased were friends heading to Udaipur, when their car slammed into a divider late night around 12.45 am. The accident was so bad that bodies were recovered with difficulties before being sent to their homes at Kaman after post mortem. The deceased are identified as Hemant Agarwal, son of Rajendra Agarwal; Diwakar Sharma, son of Pawan Sharma; Arihant Jain, son of Raju Jain; and Krishna, son of Babulal Saini. Gulshan, son of Harbhajan Rajput is undergoing treatment. All of them were aged between 20-22 years.Police said all the friends left home at around 4.30 pm and were planning to celebrate Arihant’s birthday in Udaipur on Sunday before heading to Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-killed-in-road-accident-after-car-slams-into-divider-in-rajasthan-s-tonk-101627715355470.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Rajasthan's most wanted 'woman don' arrested along with Jatheri, say police||Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, the most wanted gangster in Delhi, has been arrested along with “woman don” Anuradha from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, a police officer said on Saturday.Deputy commissioner of police (counterintelligence, special cell) Manishi Chandra said Anuradha was wanted by the Rajasthan Police as she faces cases of kidnapping, extortion and murder conspiracy. “Anuradha was previously a close aide to Rajasthan’s gangster Anand Pal Singh, who was killed in an encounter. The Rajasthan Police had declared ₹10,000 reward on her arrest. She has been arrested along with Kala Jatheri,”said Chandra.On Friday night, a special cell team arrested Jatheri and Anuradha from Saharanpur. Jatheri was wanted by Delhi Police and their counterparts in Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab, for his alleged role in several serious offences such as murder, extortion, and attempt to murder.Jatheri’s name surfaced in the GTB Hospital shoot out case of March 25 and during the investigation into wrestler Sagar Dhankad murder at Chhatrasal Stadium. Two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Sushil Kumar and his 12 associates have been arrested in the murder case. Jatheri is a relative of Sonu Mahal, who was also allegedly thrashed along with Dhankad by Kumar and his associates on May 4.Investigators said Kumar was earlier associated with Jatheri, but differences emerged between them following the Chhatrasal Stadium assault and murder.Born in 1984 in Sonepat, Jatheri escaped from the Haryana Police’s custody in Faridabad on February 1 last year. He is considered to be close to jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.Investigators said many incidents of firing at businessmen related to extortion were reported from different parts of the city after Jatheri’s escape. In most of the cases, the shooters threw paper slips after firing. The slips contained intimidating messages and the name of Kala Jatheri-Lawrence Bishnoi gang. This was seen as threats to businessmen who did not give into the gang’s extortion demands. According to police, Jatheri’s gang is the largest in terms of its members and network. The gang is believed to be spread across at least four states. Even as nearly two dozen close aides and hitmen of Jatheri, including Priyawart, have been arrested in the last one year, his gang is still the biggest and has support of many other gangsters such as Jitender alias Gogi, who is presently in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/most-wanted-gangster-in-delhi-arrested-101627713975403.html
31-07-2021||Patna||Girl child sold at a Bihar nursing home for ₹65,000, 2 arrested||Owner of a private nursing home in Bihar’s Madhepura district was among the two arrested on Friday for trafficking an infant girl for ₹65,000. Police investigations so far suggest the presence of an elaborate trafficking network spread across the state’s Kosi region.The unregistered nursing home called Baba Vishnu Raut Hospital was found operating with untrained staff and was sealed after its patients were shifted to a nearby primary health centre.Acting on a tip-off, Madhepura district magistrate (DM) Shyam Bihari Meena constituted a team under Udakishunganj sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajiv Ranjan Kumar Singh to probe the nursing home’s alleged involvement in infant trafficking. The nursing home owner R K Ravi was arrested red handed along with a staff member named Navin Kumar while receiving ₹65,000 to sell an infant delivered at the centre. The infant was later shifted to Madhepura sadar hospital. and staffRavi, who had forged educational documents to falsely claim to be a doctor, said he used to sell babies abandoned by parents after delivery at his nursing home for anything between ₹85,000 and ₹1.5 lakh. The police said they were yet to establish the identity of the child’s parents. The SDM said investigations revealed the trafficking racket was running at the nursing home for the last two years with the assistance of agents across the Kosi region. The SDM said some other private nursing homes and hospitals in Madhepura too were under the police scanner for running similar rackets.Madhepura police registered a case against the duo under Section 372 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for trafficking minors, which is punishable with 10 years in jail if proven guilty. Effort is also on to ascertain identities of doctors who worked on call at the unregistered and illegally-run nursing home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/girl-child-sold-at-a-bihar-nursing-home-for-rs-65-000-2-arrested-101627711035030.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two Pakistani intruders shot dead by BSF on Punjab border||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead two intruders who had entered Indian territory from Pakistan near Khalra village of Bhikhiwind sub division in Tarn Taran district at 11pm on Friday. Official sources said that personnel of BSF’s 103 Battalion noticed suspicious movement around 11pm between the barbed-wire fence and Zero Line on the Indian side near the Theh Kalan border out post (BoP). Also read: Two militants killed in KashmirWhen challenged, the intruders tried to flee back towards Pakistan instead of surrendering, prompting the BSF jawans to open fire. Both the intruders died on the spot. Two rucksacks were recovered. A search operation is on in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-pakistani-intruders-shot-dead-by-bsf-on-punjab-border-101627707194986.html
31-07-2021||Bhopal||21 inmates injured after roof of Bhind jail barrack collapses in MP||As many as 21 inmates of Bhind district jail in Madhya Pradesh were injured after the roof of a jail barrack collapsed due to continuous rainfall, said police officers.All the injured were rushed to the district hospital first and six of them were further referred to Gwalior hospital, said Manoj Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Bhind. “The prisoners were sleeping at barrack no 6 and 7 of district jail when [the] roof of barrack no 6 collapsed at 5 AM on Saturday. District administration cleared the debris and rescued 21 prisoners,” said the SP. The jail is over 65 years old and its walls are in a dilapidated condition. An inquiry has been ordered to know the exact reason behind the collapse, said Manoj Sahu, the jail superintendent. As many as 255 inmates are lodged in the seven barracks of the jail that have a maximum capacity to house 172 prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/21-inmates-injured-after-roof-of-bhind-jail-barrack-collapses-in-mp-101627701554608.html
31-07-2021||Bhopal||Class 6 student dies by suicide after losing ₹40,000 in online game||A 13-year-old boy died by suicide after losing ₹40,000 in an online game in Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh, police said. Police recovered a suicide note, allegedly written by the boy, apologising to his parents for spending ₹40,000 from his mother’s bank account while playing an online game called Free Fire. According to the note, the boy was depressed as he continued to lose money, said Sachin Sharma, superintendent of police Chhatarpur.“The boy’s father runs a pathology lab while his mother works in the district hospital’s pathology department. On Friday, the mother was at the hospital when she received a message notifying her of a transaction of ₹1,500, done from her account. She scolded her son over the phone for spending money on the online game. Later, the boy went to his room and hanged himself. The boy’s elder sister, who first saw him, called the parents. The boy was rushed to a district hospital where he was declared brought dead by doctors,” Sharma said.Police are investigating if he was himself spending money on the game or if someone else was threatening him for money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/class-6-student-dies-by-suicide-after-losing-rs-40-000-in-online-game-101627698614347.html
31-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal post-poll violence: HC deadline for state to file supplementary affidavit ends today||The West Bengal government was provided time till Saturday, July 31, by the Calcutta high court earlier this week to file supplementary affidavits in response to the report by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the alleged post-poll violence in the state. The Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal sought more time to respond to the allegations with the affidavits, and although the move was questioned by the petitioner, Priyanka Tiberwal, the high court eventually granted time till Saturday.Also Read | More complaints of post-poll violence are in, NHRC tells Calcutta HCThe five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Jindal told the state government that no further extension of time would be provided.Post-poll violence reportedly broke out in West Bengal following the announcement of the assembly election results on May 2. It was alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which won with an overwhelming majority in the poll results, turned a blind eye when its supporters clashed with the opposing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at various places in the state.After several BJP leaders raised alarm over a "complete breakdown" of law and order, the Union ministry of home affairs deputed a four-member team to visit the areas reported to have witnessed post-poll violence. The Calcutta high court eventually took cognizance of the matter and asked the NHRC to examine all the cases of alleged violence.Also Read | NHRC calls for CBI probe into Bengal poll violenceThe seven-member committee submitted its final report on July 13, slamming the Trinamool Congress-led state government, while recommending a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe. The state government on Monday filed an affidavit, refuting the charges while alleging that the report was politically motivated.The NHRC also informed the court that victims of the West Bengal post-poll violence are being threatened to withdraw their complaints. As many as 16 such cases have been reported, the commission said, adding that the matter has been forwarded to the director-general of police (DGP).Meanwhile, at least two TMC legislators, Jyotipriyo Mullick and Partha Bhowmik, who were branded as “notorious criminals and goons” in the NHRC report, have moved the Calcutta high court, challenging the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-post-poll-violence-hc-deadline-for-state-to-file-supplementary-affidavit-ends-today-101627691575709.html
31-07-2021||Gurugram||Sputnik V 2nd dose to be given from today in Gurugram||The second dose of the Sputnik V vaccine will be available at a government session site in Gurugram from Saturday, almost 21 days after the first shot of the vaccine was administered. Gurugram is the only district in Haryana to conduct Sputnik V vaccinations at a government health centre and private hospitals.The district health department received stock of around 4,800 doses of Sputnik V for the second dose drive on Wednesday.“Only those people who have taken their first shot of Sputnik V at the polyclinic will be eligible to take their second shot at the same government facility from July 31 based on the date mentioned on their vaccination certificate,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. "People who have taken their first dose in a private hospital will not be given a second shot of Sputnik V at the polyclinic," Yadav added.The first dose of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine is being administered in Gurugram since July 10. The Co-WIN portal dashboard shows that 16,697 doses of Sputnik V were administered in the district till Wednesday. The two doses of the Sputnik V vaccine must have a minimum gap of 21 days.Sputnik V is the third vaccine approved by the Centre to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The vaccine was developed by The Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology in Russia in 2020 and it shows over 91.6 per cent efficacy against the infection. The vaccine has to be kept at -20° C to -25° C and it also has to be kept outside for 15-20 minutes before it is administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sputnik-v-2nd-dose-to-be-given-from-today-in-gurugram-101627689499869.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||Covid antibodies found in 71% of UP's population; unvaccinated remain at risk||Amid apprehensions of the likely third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, antibodies against the virus were found in about 71 per cent of the population in Uttar Pradesh. According to a sero suvery conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), antibodies against the coronavirus have been found mostly in people who have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. People, who have not received a single dose of the vaccine, were found to have lower antibodies.The sero suvery conducted in the last 10 days of June and the first week of July covered 28,975 people including children over the age of six across the country. The survey covered 70 districts across 21 states and showed that 67.6 per cent of the samples had antibodies against the coronavirus. This is the fourth such sero suvery conducted across the country. The last sero suvery was conducted in December and January 2021.Also read | UP polls: Blunting public anger over Covid handling on top of BJP’s agendaNew data by the Centre shows that Kerala has had the lowest exposure to coronavirus and only 45 per cent of the population in the southern state is projected to have been infected till early July. Assam at 50 per cent and Maharashtra 58 per cent were the two other states to have the lowest estimated exposure to the coronavirus. The states with the highest exposure were Madhya Pradesh at 79 per cent, Rajasthan 76.2 per cent and Bihar at 75.9 per cent. Nearly 67 per cent of the population across the country have been exposed to Sars-COV-2.This sero survey was conducted on about 70,000 people in Uttar Pradesh. A large number of people were infected with the coronavirus in the state in April and May 2021. According to the sero survey, about 62,000 people were tested and a high level of antibodies were found in them.Also read | Kerala with lowest exposure to Covid-19: Sero-surveyHealth department officials have said a sero survey was conducted in 11 districts in the state in September last year. The districts where sero survey was conducted included Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Agra, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kaushambi, Baghpat and Moradabad. At that time, antibodies were found in 22.1 per cent of the people in the sero survey. That is, every fifth person was infected with coronavirus at some point or the other. In June last, sero survey was conducted in all the districts of the state.Also read | How close is India to achieve herd immunity? What experts sayUttar Pradesh's Covid-19 tally stands at 17,08,410 and its death toll climbed to 22,756 on Friday with 42 people testing positive for the coronavirus disease and four more fatalities, according to a health bulletin. It also showed the total recoveries have reached 16,84,925 and that the number of active cases of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh stands at 729. UP, which is India's most populous state has the highest number of vaccinations in the country at 47.5 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-antibodies-found-in-71-of-up-s-population-unvaccinated-remain-at-risk-101627690746630.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo to reopen from Aug 1; online tickets available from today||The National Zoological Park in Delhi is all set to reopen from August 1 with Covid-19 safety protocols in place and online tickets will be available from Saturday, zoo officials have said.According to Delhi zoo director Ramesh Kumar Pandey, the park will open in two shifts -- 9am to 12pm and 1pm to 4pm. "We are planning to open the National Zoological Park from August 1. Preparations are on in order to keep things in order. It will be opened in two shifts as earlier," Pandey said. "Online booking will open from July 31, a day ahead of the opening. We will try to maintain Covid appropriate behaviour and sanitise the zoo to keep it disinfected," he added.A senior official said that visitors can buy tickets either through the zoo’s website or at the entry gates using QR codes. "This time, we will allow 1,500 entries in each slot, adding up to 3,000 daily visitors,” he added.CCTV cameras in large numbers have been installed in the zoo for proper vigilance. The sanitisation drill will continue twice daily before the zoo opens and later after it closes for the day."We will see how it goes and accordingly we will think of increasing or decreasing the number of visitors," Pandey said, according to news agency ANI.The Delhi zoo was closed on March 18, 2020, and remained so for over a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and avian bird flu. It reopened on April 1 this year but was shut again on April 15 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-to-reopen-from-aug-1-online-tickets-available-from-today-101627688261996.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder orders probe into suicide by Congress worker in Ludhiana||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the director general of police (DGP) to probe the death of a Congress worker by alleged suicide in Dakha of Ludhiana district and bring the culprits to the book. In a Twitter post, the CM wrote, “Tragic news of our party worker from Ludhiana district Happy Bajwa committing suicide. Have directed @DGPPunjabPolice to immediately enquire into it and to bring the culprits to book. Anyone found guilty will not be spared (sic).”The body of the victim, Daljit Singh, alias Happy Bajwa, was cremated on Friday with several senior party leaders and workers from across the state in attendance and extending their support to the family. Before consuming poison, Daljit had circulated a WhatsApp message addressed to state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, accusing certain Akali workers from his village of harassing him in a property dispute case. Five FIRs were registered against Daljit by the police, three of which were of cheating and two of criminal intimidation, it is learnt. Captain Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to the CM, who attended the funeral, said strict action will be taken against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-orders-probe-into-suicide-by-congress-worker-in-ludhiana-101627675512592.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||HIV+ man jumps to death at Chandigarh govt hospital||Upset over testing HIV+, a 46-year-old man jumped to death from the sixth floor of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Friday.A native of Uttar Pradesh, he was admitted to the hospital for tuberculosis treatment on July 24. Police said while returning from the toilet on the sixth floor around 1.40pm, he jumped off the parapet and fell in the hospital’s corridor.He was rushed to the emergency with serious head injuries, but was declared brought dead. No suicide note was found. The deceased is survived by his wife, son and two daughters. According to police, he had a private job in Baddi and his family was facing financial hardships due to his treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hiv-man-jumps-to-death-at-chandigarh-govt-hospital-101627675392440.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE Class 12 results: Hiteshwar Sharma tops Chandigarh tricity area||Hiteshwar Sharma, 18, a humanities student at Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, Panchkula, has emerged as the tricity topper in the CBSE Class 12 results declared on Friday.Hiteshwar achieved 99.8% marks with perfect scores in sociology, political science, economics and physical education. A Panchkula resident, he aims to become an IAS officer.His father, Ashutosh Rajan, is an HCS officer, posted at the Collector Excise Office, Haryana. His mother, Meenakshi Sharma, is a homemaker. According to his school principal, Gulshan Kaur, Hiteshwar was a national topper in Class 10 as well and had been a part of the Haryana Under-17 cricket team.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar met Hiteshwar at his official residence and congratulated him for his exceptional performance. Hiteshwar was also among the Class 12 students who had interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June in an online programme organised online by the Union education ministry.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) did not conduct the Class 12 exams this year and no merit list was released.The results were prepared using a 30:30:40 formula – 40% weightage was given to marks in Class 12 internal exams, 30% to marks in Class 11 theory exams and 30% to average of best three performing subjects (out of five main) in Class 10.Panchkula district achieved a pass percentage of 99.5% and Chandigarh 99.47%. Details of Mohali district were not shared by the CBSE.With 99.4% marks, Aaditya Prasad, 17, a student of Delhi Public School, Chandigarh, had the highest score in non-medical stream in the tricity. Wishing to pursue computer science engineering (CSE), Aaditya, who lives in Mohali, said identifying his weaknesses helped him to focus better. His father, NG Prasad, is a professor at IISER, Mohali. Mother Jyothi Belavadi is also an academician.In commerce stream, Aditi Singla, 18, from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, Chandigarh, and Abir, 18, from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, Panchkula, shared the top spot with 99% marks. A Panchkula resident, Aditi wishes to go for BCom next. Her father, Davinder Kumar Singla, is a deputy general manager at Bharat Electronics Limited and mother Shifalika is a school teacher. Abir lives in Panchkula with doctor parents, Anil Kaushal and Sarita Kaushal. At 98%, Narmada Aggarwal, 17, a student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, had the highest marks in medical stream. She wants to pursue MBBS and then MD. Her father, Sanjeev Aggarwal, is a businessman and mother Nisha Aggarwal runs a parlour. Dhakoli, Zirakpur.UT govt schools improve performanceChandigarh’s 40 government senior secondary schools secured a pass percentage of 98.7% –7.1% higher than the last session. Among them, 28 schools got 100% result. A total of 788 students secured above 90% marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbse-class-12-results-hiteshwar-sharma-tops-chandigarh-tricity-area-101627675215122.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds Covid death after 24 days||After recording zero Covid-19 fatalities for 24 straight days, Chandigarh added another death to its toll on Friday.The 36-year-old man from Khuda Alisher had reportedly died by suicide. After his body was brought to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, the Covid test returned positive. There was no death in Mohali and Panchkula for the seventh consecutive day.A total of eight people tested positive for the virus in the tricity on Friday, same as the day before.Among them four cases each were reported from Chandigarh and Mohali, while Panchkula had no fresh case for the seventh time this month.Those found infected in the UT are residents of Sectors 11, 36, 44 and 49, while in Mohali, three cases surfaced in Kharar and one in Mohali City. Showing no major drop for the past five days, the active cases remained in the 80s. Among the 83 infected patients, 44 are in Mohali, 36 in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula.With the number of their cured patients standing at 67,350, 61,106 and 30,259, respectively, the recovery rate remains over 98% across the tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adds-covid-death-after-24-days-101627675034489.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: The predictability of pandemic, an expert writes||I am a respiratory physician who has been treating patients with Covid-19 for the past 16 months. While certain patterns have emerged which help triage patients, there is still little understanding as to why some patients deteriorate while others don’t. This is frustrating, because it makes it difficult to decide whom to confidently reassure, and whom to help brace for a stormy course ahead. In contrast, as an epidemiologist, I feel confident in knowing that the signals from a public health perspective have been fairly consistent to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Whether it was the potluck banquet for the Lunar New Year at Wuhan, China in January followed by an exodus of 5 million people from the city for the holidays or the football match at the San Siro stadium leading to Bergamo being the epicentre of the first wave in Italy in February 2020, or numerous instances since, overcrowding has consistently facilitated the exponential spread of the virus.The three Cs: closed spaces (such as restaurants and gyms), crowds (such as those seen in congregations of people for recreational, religious, political and other social reasons) and close contact (such as public transport) account for a majority of infections. With more transmissible variants such as the Delta, such “superspreader” events are even more likely to be the drivers of future spread. The investigations conducted by HT on the high incidence of infections in certain districts of Maharashtra arrive at similar conclusions. Elections and rallies leading up to them appeared to be a driver of spread. Congregation of crowds of at tourist destinations was another. An over-reliance on Rapid Antigen Test kits (which are prone to detect around 50% of those infected) meant that infected people were escaping the net, thereby continuing to spread the virus. As vaccines were in limited supply, prioritisation of vaccination of the elderly, whilst protecting the most vulnerable, may have led to the under-protection of the most exposed workforce, leaving them vulnerable. Most importantly, economic hardships have left individuals with no choice but to resume work, despite being cognisant and fearful of the risks entailed. All of these, based on our understanding of spread over the past year, were preventable. It cannot be emphasised enough that the workforce needs to be vaccinated on a priority basis, and we have not done this at a pace that we should have. This is especially needed in areas of essential activities such as grocery stores and marketplaces, where the sheer magnitude of the population will make it impossible to avoid crowds. One cannot expect individuals to behave in a way that is detrimental to their livelihood, and shaming or penalising them has almost never been a successful strategy. We have not focused enough on the economic safety nets and financial support from employers and the government that would enable individuals to refrain from engaging in risky behaviours. It will be worth considering mandating vaccination for recreational activities (restaurants, gyms, tourism, sporting events), which would boost vaccine uptake especially in the private sector, in which shortages do not seem to be as much a concern. Preventing crowds from aggregating for events, whether political, religious, or social will be more challenging, despite lockdowns in place. Focusing on harm reduction is likely to yield more dividends than attributing blame. While the government needs to strictly prohibit mass gatherings, we will need to think of innovative ways to dampen the effects of such events if they do occur. For example, encouraging masking and preventing sloganeering and chanting (speaking loudly can increase droplets 50-fold, and singing, almost 100-fold) at such events could all potentially reduce the probability of spread. “Cluster-focused backward tracing” — which was used with success in Japan — tracks every case to a likely superspreader event and then tests those present at the event, rather than forward tracing, which focuses on those who came into contact with the person post-infection.The uncertainty around the nature of the course of the illness once infected, versus the predictable nature of spread, suggests that we need to invest all our resources into preventing disease and overburdening the healthcare system. Doing this, while acknowledging the need for social interaction and earning one’s livelihood, in the most non-judgmental way, would determine our future success in containing this pandemic. Dr Lancelot Pinto is a pulmonologist and an epidemiologist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-districts-of-concern-in-covid-fight-the-predictability-of-pandemic-an-expert-writes-101627675032842.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula man eyeing life overseas duped of ₹2.1 crore||Police have booked six people, including three members of a family, for duping a Panchkula-based lawyer of ₹2.1 crore on the pretext of helping him and his family move abroad, and set up a business venture there. The accused include Anil Kumar Bhalla, alias Kaka, Akash Bhalla and Bhawna Bhalla, all from one family in Panchkula; Anil Kumar (now dead), Jayant Bakshi and Rajesh. Police said the family had similar cases lodged against them in Kharar and Panchkula.The complainant, Sikandar Sangwan, told the police that he knew Anil and his family since 2012 in Panchkula. He had promised to get him permanent residency and handsome returns through a business investment in Canada with the help of his contacts and existing businesses.“I met his partners, who said they had their offices in Ambala and Yamunanagar. I paid half of the amount in August 2018 and left for Canada with one of the partners to check out their business. As per commitment, my family deposited the rest of the amount in instalments in India. When I returned to India, to grab my money, the accused told me that the entire amount had been transferred to a wrong account,” Sangwan alleged.Following his complaint, a case under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Ambala City police station.The case has been transferred to Kurukshetra, where SP Himanshu Garg said the matter was under investigation and no arrest had been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-man-eyeing-life-overseas-duped-of-2-1-crore-101627674857039.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt agrees to give preference to ETT teachers in hiring for primary schools||The Punjab school education department on Friday announced to give preference to Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET)-qualified teachers during the recruitment process for government primary schools, agreeing to the long-standing demand. To implement the decision, the department will amend the Punjab State Elementary Education (Teaching Cadre) Group ‘C’ Service Rules, officials said. Sharing a copy of gazette on the department’s website, education secretary Krishan Kumar said, “This will come into force with effect from the date of publication in the official gazette.” The unemployed teachers have been protesting in Patiala for the past 6 months in support of their demands. State president of Unemployed TET-Passed ETT Teachers’ Union Deepak Kamboj said they are waiting for the final notification of the order before deciding on calling off their protest. “Detailed discussions were held with senior officials regarding our demand of giving first preference to ETT-qualified teachers over BEd degree holders in primary schools,” he said. The union warned the government of not adding any condition in the final recruitment notification. It is demanding recruitment for all 12,000 vacant posts of TET-ETT teachers and an increase in the upper age limit to 42.One of the protesters, Surinderpal Singh, 36, has been atop a 260-foot mobile tower for the past 134 days.Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana met the protesters on Friday in support of their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-agrees-to-give-preference-to-ett-teachers-in-hiring-for-primary-schools-101627674855999.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||SAD-led 8-party delegation meets LS speaker, demands JPC on Tomar remark on farmer deaths||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday led an eight-party delegation to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla demanding that a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) be constituted to probe Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s assertion in Parliament that the Centre did not have any record of farmer deaths during the ongoing agitation.A representation was submitted to the Lok Sabha speaker by MPs representing the SAD, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Communist Party of India (CPI), CPI-M, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) and National Conference. Former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal requested the representatives of all opposition parties, including the Congress, to join the delegation of MPs that will meet the President on Saturday demanding that he direct the Centre to discuss repeal of the three agriculture laws in Parliament. Harsimrat said the MPs pointed out that the agriculture minister had committed a serious lapse by claiming that the government did not have any record of farmer deaths. “This amounts to whitewashing the sacrifice of the ‘annadaata’ who has been agitating against the three laws for eight months. We are shocked that he said this despite there being clear proof of 537 farmers losing life during the protests,” she said.Requesting the speaker to intervene on the issue immediately, the MPs said the agricultural minister should be asked to apologise to the farming community for his “intemperate remarks”. Simultaneously, the speaker should form a JPC to ascertain details of the total number of lives lost during the ongoing protests and suggest ways to rehabilitate the victims’ families. The MPs also brought it to the notice of the speaker that the agriculture minister had gone on record to say that no study was conducted to understand the apprehensions among farmers about the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sadled-8-party-delegation-meets-ls-speaker-demands-jpc-on-tomar-remark-on-farmer-deaths-101627674794121.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC seeks control of Golden Temple galliara, heritage street||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has sought control of the galliara developed around the Golden Temple complex and heritage street, saying the Punjab government has failed to maintain cleanliness there.The brainchild of the Central government, the Golden Temple beautification plan, also known as the Galliara scheme, was announced amid much fanfare in June 1988. Its objective was to remove all narrow lanes and bazaars, which proved to be a hindrance for the security forces during the Operation Blue Star.“The present condition of the corridor (galiara) around Sri Harmandar Sahib is also not good. Due to lack of maintenance, piles of garbage are seen there. The SGPC is ready to take care of the gallliara and a letter has been written to district administration to hand over the galiara to us,” said SGPC president Jagir kaur addressing a press conference.The gurdwara body is also ready to take up the responsibility of maintaining the heritage street which was constructed during the then Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government, she added.Kaur said many such buildings may have been buried under the Galiara Scheme by the then government. Presently, the galliara is being maintained and taken care of by various departments of state government. The gurdwara body recently acquired its portion to build jora ghar (space for keeping shoes), a locker room and a parking lot amid increasing footfall of devotees. The SGPC chief in view of the increase in the number of devotees visiting the Golden Temple, it has been decided to set up new serais (inns), but some people were creating obstructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-seeks-control-of-golden-temple-galliara-heritage-street-101627674792222.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt gives sanction to prosecute accused dera men in 2 Bargari sacrilege cases||The Punjab home department has given a sanction to the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents to prosecute six Dera Sacha Sauda followers named as accused in two cases registered in connection with the Bargari sacrilege incidents that took place in 2015. The prosecution was sanctioned under Section 196 (prosecution for offences against the State and for criminal conspiracy) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) against Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all residents of Kotkapura; Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in Faridkot district in the FIR-128 registered at the Bajakhana police station on October 12, 2015 after torn pages of a bir (copy of Guru Grabth Sahib) was found near gurudwara at Bargari village. Also, the department sanctioned prosecution against Sukhjinder, Shakti, Ranjit and Baljit in the FIR-117 registered on September 25, 2015, after another sacrilege incident wherein three derogatory posters were pasted near gurdwaras at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages. Additional chief secretary (home affairs and justice) Anurag Aggarwal said he inspected the case files, including the report submitted under section 173 of the CrPc and statements of the witnesses recorded under section 161 of the CrPc. “I am fully satisfied that Sukhjinder, Shakti, Nishan, Baljeet, Ranjit and Pardeep committed offences under sections 295 (destroying, damaging or defiling any place of worship, or any object held sacred), 295-A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information), 120-B (being party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) and 153-A (promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence or language etc) of the Indian Penal Code.” “Being the competent authority, I grant permission to prosecute all the six accused under sections 295-A and 153-A of the IPC in both cases,” he added. On May 16 this year, the SIT led by inspector general of police (border range) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar had arrested the six sect followers in connection with the Bargari sacrilege episode. Later, Sukhjinder, Shakti, Ranjit and Baljeet were named as accused in the derogatory posters case. The SIT filed chargesheet against them in both the cases this month. The probe team has also nominated three members of dera’s national committee — Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri – as conspirators in both the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-gives-sanction-to-prosecute-accused-dera-men-in-2-bargari-sacrilege-cases-101627674732618.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Transfers deed in Chandigarh must state parents will be taken care of||The Chandigarh Maintenance Tribunal has mandated that children must give an undertaking that they will take care of their parents before a property transfer deed is executed between them.If the transferee (children or relatives or other person) fails to fulfil this clause, the tribunal may cancel the transfer deed.For strict compliance, the tribunal has directed the sub-registrar, Chandigarh, to ensure that the mandatory condition is followed by the transferee.The Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, mandates that the transferee must provide basic amenities and physical needs to the transferor (parents).Set up under this Act, the Chandigarh Maintenance Tribunal currently has more than 300 complaints by senior citizens pending before it. Most of these relate to property disputes, harassment by children and payment of maintenance.Applications under the Act can be made to the tribunal by a senior citizen or any other authorised representative. The tribunal magistrates also can take suo motu cognisance of a matter. Faith being floutedThe directions came after the tribunal observed that properties were transferred in good faith and with the verbal promise that they (transferee) will provide basic amenities and fulfil physical needs of the parents. But after the transfer deed was executed, they often failed to keep their promise.Headed by additional deputy commissioner KPS Mahi, the tribunal stated, “As per Section 23 of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, the tribunal is empowered with the power to declare such instrument of transfer or gift or otherwise as null and void wherein the condition is violated.” “In good faith under the influence of the transferee and due to lack of knowledge about the above provision, the transferor executes the instrument without quoting the condition in the transfer instrument,” it added further. Directions to sub-registrarThe tribunal has directed the sub-registrar that at the time of registration of instrument to transfer/gift deed, s/he must inform the transferor about the above provision of the Act. S/he must also ensure that the transferee has added the condition in the deed.The sub-registrar has been told to fix a notice about this to create awareness among the public, and also educate document writers and advocates dealing in such property transfers.“In Punjab, such property transfer deeds already must contain this provision. This was missing in Chandigarh. So, we decided to implement the provisions of the Act in this regard in letter and spirit,” said Mahi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/transfers-deed-in-chandigarh-must-state-parents-will-be-taken-care-of-101627674672275.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man, posing as cop, arrested for extorting money from farmers||A man was held for impersonating as a Haryana Police sub-inspector and extorting money from farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws at Bahadurgarh near Tikri border. Police identified the accused as Ravi Kumar of Bahadurgarh. Hisar resident Sovind, a dentist, said he had been providing his services to the farmers for many months. “Three days ago, the accused had come to my camp and demanded ₹1,500 after claiming to be police sub-inspector. We gave him the money. On Friday, he came again and started extorting money from farmers. We called the police,” he added. A spokesman of Jhajjar police said the accused Ravi is an alcoholic. “We have registered an FIR against him under Section 384 (punishment for extortion) and other relevant sections at Bahadurgarh City police station,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-posing-as-cop-arrested-for-extorting-money-from-farmers-101627674373101.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||PU conducts study to predict gender through handwriting||A study has been conducted by the Panjab University’s Institute of Forensic Science and Criminology that can be used to predict the gender of a writer of a document through his/her handwriting.The study has been carried out in collaboration with Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini New Delhi, Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL), Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, and Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Madhuban, Karnal, Haryana. It has been published in the Australian Journal of Forensic Sciences.The study focuses on the identification of individual characteristics in handwriting for the purpose of estimating the gender of the writer.A total of 150 individuals participated in the study and the relevant features were extracted from their handwriting. These characteristics were collectively studied and their potential of gender estimation was explored by utilising statistical methods of chi-square test, logistic regression, and likelihood ratios.This is a pilot study that paves]way for creating larger reference databases of handwriting and using automated feature extraction. The method can be used to predict the gender of the person in tune with the requirement of the present age, where methods of forensic identification are under scrutiny for the error rates and empirical foundations.The study proposes the significance of the individual characteristics of handwriting from 150 individuals from the Indian population in the estimation of the gender of the writer under question or suspicion.Vishal Sharma of PU’s forensic science institute said, “In this study, we had different steps, starting from the extraction of individual features from the set of handwriting, converting them into data form, use of statistical method to check the significance and then application of logistic regression for model creation.”He added, “We have checked this model with unknown samples and the correct classification rate for females and males are 80% and 76.4%, respectively, which is very high for such studies. This pilot study paves a way for creating a database of the handwriting of Indians and then automation using the current method for quick results. There is a dire necessity for such methods in countries like India where forensic identification is under scrutiny for empirical foundation and significance level in real casework.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-conducts-study-to-predict-gender-through-handwriting-101627674372253.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Vij tells health officials to increase sampling||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday directed to increase sampling of Covid-19 in order to detect and contain the spread of contagious virus. In the last 24 hours, 27,355 samples were tested, 26 fresh cases detected in 10 districts and three people succumbed to the contagion in Nuh, Panipat and Hisar, according to the health bulletin. The health minister, who held a meeting with senior functionaries of the health department, said that people should be categorised according to their work and that the priority should be given to sampling. Vij said random sampling should be conducted in crowded areas so as to prevent the spread of the infection. He directed the officers to expedite the work of setting up oxygen plants considering the possibility of third Covid wave. He directed the officers that an oxygen plant of 200-litre/minute capacity should be set up at Ambala’s community health centre or primary health centre at the earliest. Vij told the officers to make efforts and get all government laboratories in the state the accreditation of National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora asked the officials to ensure immunisation of staff and students of medical colleges while focusing on the administration of second dose of the vaccine against the Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-tells-health-officials-to-increase-sampling-101627674195212.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Escaping to Nainital lake||Bus terminals, or bus addas, aren’t thought to have the romance of a railway station, or an airport’s departure lounge.Such a prejudice collapses while aimlessly wandering in Kaushambi Bus Station in Ghaziabad—it’s across the interstate Delhi-UP border, in Anand Vihar. This evening, after a day-long rain, the inundated bus station ground is looking like Nainital lake. The sky, the departing buses, and the passengers are being reflected in its stagnant water. Most people are oblivious to this beauty. Despite being a busy terminus, there isn’t much crowd. Some dozens of people are sheltering under gigantic tin sheds lined with benches. Each bench is operating like a stage showing its own soap opera. In one, a middle-aged couple is sitting, the woman absentmindedly playing with the man’s nose as they chat; three elderly men are perched on another, loudly arguing about UP politics; on another bench, a woman is sleeping. And bus station staffer Ram Kishen is hard at work—cleaning the tiled floor with a machine, his arm tattooed with a bleeding heart.Hundreds of buses are parked in the station. Some are filled with passengers, and ready to leave for their respective destinations. Others are empty, their departure probably scheduled for later in the night. The name of the city each bus is headed to is prominently painted on its destination plate. Reading these place-names—most are in UP— makes you feel as if you have already escaped Delhi. Stationed at the edge of a metropolis, it is thrilling to find a material connection to these towns that seem to be part of some remote world—Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Gola, Tanakpur, Inhauna, Jagdishpur, Khurja, and Balia.Since it has again started to drizzle, the next best thing if you aren’t boarding a bus is to enter one of the eateries that line the bus station. Order Maggi noodles with scrambled eggs. It’s spicy, steaming, delicious, and a kind of quick stomach-filler commonly found in a bus-friendly highway dhaba.Meanwhile, a pair of pigeons is skipping in the rain pool, like a long-time couple vacationing in the great outdoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-escaping-to-nainital-lake-101627673644887.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||July 29 to be celebrated as new education policy day: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced that July 29 will be celebrated every year as new education policy day and review the progress of the aims and objectives of the policy the Centre had launched last year. The chief minister said that in line with the state government’s vision of empowering students with knowledge, skills and values by imparting quality education, Haryana is moving fast towards ensuring successful implementation of the NEP-2020, by 2025. He said that Haryana would set an example by implementing the education policy. The chief minister said that sensitising the teachers, educationists and other stakeholders as well as the children, who are the real beneficiaries of this policy, about NEP-2020 is the need of the hour. He said that for the successful implementation of NEP by the year 2025, a roadmap has been prepared by the senior officers of the departments of women and child development, school education, higher education and technical education. “Empowering students with knowledge, skills and values to enhance their employability is the top priority of the state government,” Khattar said . He said that in NEP-2020 the target of ensuring participation of women in higher education has been set at 50 per cent and in Haryana, at present, the participation of women in higher education is 32 per cent and soon dedicated efforts will be made to increase this percentage to 50 per cent. “For this, the state government has opened women’s colleges and is also providing transport facilities to girls to reach their college,” said Khattar, who held a function to formally launch the NEP in the state. He said work is being done to set up a multi-disciplinary education and research university in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/july-29-to-be-celebrated-as-new-education-policy-day-khattar-101627674072796.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Cloud over vaccination drive as Chandigarh awaits fresh doses||Left with just 40,000 doses, the Chandigarh health department is waiting for the fresh stock of Covid vaccines from the central government.Usually, the vaccine stocks are replenished by the end of month, but uncertainty prevails over the arrival of next assignment. The health department is, however, expecting the first batch of vaccines for the next month on August 5. The Centre has allocated 2,17,200 vaccine doses for Chandigarh to be utilised in August. Of the total doses, at least 1,69,160 will be given to the government sector for free inoculation, while the private hospitals in the city can buy up to 48,040 doses next month. According to the latest electoral list, around 7.2 lakh people are eligible to be vaccinated in Chandigarh, of which 84% have so far received the first dose. The percentage of those who have been fully vaccinated is 26%.The UT health department aims to vaccinate the entire eligible population with at least the first dose by August 15.On average, the city is inoculating 9,000 to 10,000 beneficiaries everyday. The count, however, crosses the 10,000-mark on some days. In the highest-ever inoculations in a day, the health department had vaccinated 13,735 people on July 24.On Friday, as many as 8,217 people were vaccinated in Chandigarh. If the vaccination will go on at the same pace, the UT health department may fall short of doses in the first couple of days in August.“The health department sends 15 mobile van vaccination teams to different rural and urban areas of the UT. Besides, we have started door-to-door vaccination in many areas so as to inoculate the disabled and senior citizens at their doorsteps. Also, vaccination camps have been set up in public areas, including Sukhna Lake. We are not having adequate vaccines to run such initiatives as the supply from the central government has been delayed,” said a senior official of the health department, on the condition of anonymity.Due to the delay in supply, the UT health department is likely to face challenges in meeting the target of vaccinating the eligible population by mid-August as many centres may soon run out of the vaccines completely.“The stock hasn’t dried out and we would receive the fresh stock soon. At present, we have 40,000 vaccine doses available in the government centres. People can walk in and take their first and second dose,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services (DHS), Chandigarh, adding that the health department is making all efforts to vaccinate the eligible population before August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cloud-over-vaccination-drive-as-chandigarh-awaits-fresh-doses-101627673952261.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Construction works in Thane Creek ESZ to require wildlife board NOC||All infrastructure development set to come up within the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) will soon be required to obtain a no-objection certification (NOC) from the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). A clause to this effect is also proposed to be added to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai’s (MCGM) development plan 2034 (DP2034), revealed the civic body circular dated July 9, which was accessed by HT on Friday.A letter by the deputy conservator of forests (Thane), dated April 9, to the Mumbai municipal commissioner had stated that NBWL’s clearance is mandatory for all construction work proposed within a deemed eco-sensitive area of 10km around the TCFS boundary. This would entail projects all the way in Mumbai’s eastern and western suburbs requiring a wildlife board nod.“This is merely a formality as per the law, and it remains to be seen whether such a restriction will actually stave off development pressures on the Thane Creek. It’s not conceivable that a building which has to come up in, say, Saki Naka, be denied wildlife clearance on account of the flamingo sanctuary. What is needed is for projects in the immediate vicinity of the creek to be restricted. This has not been Mumbai’s experience with developments around Sanjay Gandhi National Park, for example, where there are buildings coming abutting the national park despite a monitoring committee being in place,” said Stalin D, director of environment group Vanashakti.An official with the forest department, meanwhile, said that the 10-km zone is only a temporary measurement. “The final notification of the proposal, after it was initially gazetted on April 30, is expected to be issued by the Union environment ministry in August. The maximum width of the ESZ is only 3.89km and the minimum width is 0km. Once that notification comes into place, there will be no need for projects situated 10km away to procure NOC from the wildlife board,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/construction-works-in-thane-creek-esz-to-require-wildlife-board-noc-101627673893531.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||HIV+ blood transfusion in Bathinda: 7 months on, VB yet to question suspects||The vigilance bureau (VB) has failed to make any headway in the HIV+ blood transfusion cases at a government facility in Bathinda even after seven months. In December last year, the state health department had tasked VB’s Bathinda range unit to investigate possibilities of a nexus of the sacked hospital staff and others behind the repeated cases of wrong blood transfusion at the government-run blood bank at Bhai Shaheed Bhai Mani Civil Hospital. The step was taken after five persons, including four thalassaemia patients aged between 7 and 13, being treated at the district hospital were found HIV positive after blood transfusion. The role of at least six staffers then posted at the blood bank came under the scanner in the serious breach of strict guidelines of blood transfusion. However, VB has not questioned any of the key suspects to date. As the Bathinda district police are conducting a regular criminal investigation in which the main accused, Baldev Singh Romana, a medical laboratory technician was already arrested, the VB was asked to probe patterns where several were infused infected blood at the same place. Bureau’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kuldeep Singh confirmed that the VB is yet to question any of the suspects. “Four lab technicians namely Gurpreet Singh Godara, Jagdeep Singh, Ajay Sharma and Gurpreet Ghumman were dismissed by the health department for their alleged negligence. It took us a lot of time to locate their current addresses. Now these suspects have been summoned on August 2,” said the DSP. He said the VB is also seeking assistance from the district police in the matter. After two departmental inquiries suspected a mischievous role played by several department staff, the top brass of the health department suspected a link among the cases. Sources said records of the blood bank were allegedly tampered with and the VB was expected to find if there was an irregularity in the procurement of HIV test kits. Health secretary Hussan Lal had said the VB has been entrusted for an in-depth probe as it is better equipped and trained to find out possibilities of a nexus behind repeated cases of wrong blood infusion. Senior medical officer Dr Maninder Singh said the internal probe reports were handed over to VB in December and all assistance will be given to the police as and when required. Bathinda DSP GS Romana said another accused of attempt to murder charge, Richu Goyal, a sacked lab technician, secured a pre-arrest bail from the Punjab and Haryana high court. “No clinching evidence has appeared so far against then blood transfusion officer Dr Karishma Goyal. But the matter is under investigation and roles of other lab technicians are still being probed,” said Romana. Meanwhile, a family of an 8-year-old thalassaemia patient demanded trial by a fast-track court. “According to the internal report, the staff managing the blood bank hid an incident when the blood of an HIV+ infected donor was issued to a patient at the Bathinda civil hospital in May last year. The same person donated blood again in October last year at the same institute and it was infused to my daughter, who is already battling thalassaemia. This criminal negligence has jeopardised the life of my daughter. Victims should be compensated suitably to set a precedent to fix accountability for medical negligence,” said the patient’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hiv-blood-transfusion-in-bathinda-7-months-on-vb-yet-to-question-suspects-101627673892363.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Retired bureaucrats, intellectuals to take part in farmers’ stir||Retired Punjab IAS, IPS and army officers and intellectuals on Friday announced to join the “Kisan Sansad” for a day to express solidarity with the farmers agitating for their fundamental rights in a peaceful and democratic manner. In a statement after conducting the meeting in Chandigarh under the banner of Kirti Kisan Forum (KKF), SS Boparai, former secretary, government of India, said that the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has intimated that it will soon inform the KKF about the modalities to raise the issues concerning the farming community. Advocate JS Toor presented the members with his book against the newly introduced agricultural laws highlighting various legal infirmities in the legislation. RI Singh said succeeding generations of farmers would face an existential crisis, which is why the farmers have explained to the Union agriculture minister and his team many times that these laws have to be repealed. MS Chahal, former chairman of the Punjab and Sind Bank, and Kulbir Singh Sidhu highlighted the crisis facing the farming community. They said effective steps need to be taken to safeguard farm incomes and also protect the environment for the future generations. DS Bains said that ensuring procurement at the MSP on all 23 crops would ensure that farmers move away from production of cereals (which the nation has in plenty now) towards making the country self-sufficient in pulses and oil seeds. Brig Harwant Singh underlined the intimate connection of the farm and armed forces. He said that just as farmers joined the defence forces in their youth, the seasoned war veterans came back to their farms post retirement. GPS Sahi expressed surprise that the central ministers were time and again denigrating the farmers who had made the nation self-sufficient in food. Brig Indermohan Singh, Colonel Gill and Colonel Guron emphasised that the farmers must take the political plunge and work for their cause in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab elections. Gurbir Sandhu, ace shooter and former Olympian, said the book against the black agricultural laws must be translated into English and distributed to MPs and chief ministers. JR Kundal expressed surprise that none could come forward for an intellectual debate. Over 35 members of the KKF attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/retired-bureaucrats-intellectuals-to-take-part-in-farmers-stir-101627673052493.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rainwater floods fields in Sangrur villages, Ghaggar flowing near danger mark||The recent rain has inundated fields in many villages of Moonak in Sangrur, damaging crops over 5,400 acres. Besides, the level of Ghaggar river also reached 747 feet, just four feet below the danger mark on Friday, giving anxious moments to the farmers. The rainwater used to drain out in the Ghaggar through pipes in agriculture fields, but the river is flowing above the installed pipes, said farmers.Pargat Singh, a farmer from Surjan Bhaini village, said that the over 300 acres of crops have been submerged in his village. The rainwater also affected crops in Moonak, Salamgarh, Makror Sahib, Bangan and other villages in the area.Tarsem Singh, a farmer from Moonak, said his 14 acres paddy crop submerged in the rainwater. Former finance minister and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa also visited affected villages and alleged that the state government had not made adequate arrangements in the past four years to save fields from flooding.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said: “We are keeping a watch. If there is any damage, the administration will assess it.”Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said paddy and cotton crops over 5,400 acres have been submerged. “If the level of the Ghaggar decreases, the rain water will drain out, but if the level remains the same, it can affect the crops,” added Grewal.Farmers encroach upon drainage pipes Patiala: Farmers have encroached upon drainage pipes in villages of Patran sub-division in Patiala, leading to flooding of 900 acres of agricultural fields.Farmers of Jogewal, Ghular and Niawali village blocked national highway on Friday evening due to delay on the part of district administration in removing the encroachments.Villagers alleged that the farmers in the low-lying areas have illegally blocked drainage pipes. “Their crops are under two-feet deep water as some farmers are not allowing local administration to open drainage pipes,” said Balwinder Singh, a farmer in Jogewal village.Meanwhile, Patran SDM Palika Arora said they are going to register an FIR against farmers for blocking drainage pipes and not adhering to the district administration’s directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rainwater-floods-fields-in-sangrur-villages-ghaggar-flowing-near-danger-mark-101627672993540.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case against ex-Mumbai top cop: Hearing on DCP’s plea on Aug 5||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday adjourned the hearing of the petition filed by deputy police commissioner (DCP) Akbar Pathan, seeking the quashing of a first information report (FIR) registered by Marine Drive police.The FIR has named Pathan as a co-accused along with former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and four other officers in an extortion and cheating case based on a complaint by Bhayandar developer Sham Sundar Agarwal.The adjournment came after additional public prosecutor Jayesh Yagnik for Mumbai Police sought time for a special counsel to appear on their behalf and gave an oral assurance that no coercive action would be taken against the Pathan till the next hearing.The other police officers named in the case apart are assistant commissioners of police (ACP) Sanjay Patil and Shrikant Shinde and inspectors Asha Korke and Nandkumar Gopale.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing Pathan’s petition, was informed that apart from the police officers, two civilians – Sanjay Punamia and Sunil Jain – who were also named in the FIR are in police custody, and hence, the petitioner sought protection. Punamiya and Jain have also filed petitions in HC seeking quashing of the FIR against them.According to Agarwal’s complaint, Punamiya, Jain and the police officers had connived together and falsely implicated him in a case, and then demanded ₹50 lakh and a 2BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) flat in Bhayandar from him to prevent his arrest under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). Pathan’s counsel, advocate Niteen Pradhan, argued that the FIR was registered arbitrarily to hamper the probe to unravel Agarwal’s alleged underworld connection. Pradhan added that as Pathan was a DCP, the FIR could not have been registered against him directly and a preliminary inquiry was required to be carried out initially to ascertain if the allegations made against a public servant are true. He said the Prevention of Corruption Act prescribes a preliminary probe, and then an open inquiry can be conducted. Once the authorities were satisfied, they could grant sanction to register an FIR. Refuting the allegations of Pathan’s role in the extortion case, Pradhan argued that if the FIR was not quashed and the probe against Agarwal was scuttled, it would demoralise the department for investigating instances in which the underworld was involved in an organised crime.The bench has posted the matter for hearing to August 5.Meanwhile, another FIR was filed against Singh for extortion at Thane Nagar police station. Singh has been booked with 27 others, including senior cops, underworld gangsters and journalists. Singh, along with the then DCP Deepak Devraj, ACP NT Kadam, ex-cop Pradeep Sharma, senior inspector Rajkumar Kothmire and gangster Ravi Pujari were booked after a complaint filed by a man named Ketan Tanna, 54. An officer from Thane Nagar Police station confirmed the development and said, “We have booked 28 people including Singh and other cops under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The statements of the complainant and two others have been recorded so far.”Tanna, who runs a construction business, claimed that Singh and the other accused extorted crores of rupees by threatening to get him booked in a fake case. They allegedly also threatened to carry out his encounter on not paying the money. Tanna in his complaint said, “From January 2018 to February 2019, the accused extorted ₹1.25 crore from me and ₹3.45 crore from my associate and bookie Sonu Jalan. They also demanded high-end watches and other expensive gifts. On Singh’s directives, the accused also threatened me in my family’s presence.” Jalan, who had also given his statement to the police, said, “Singh, Sharma and Kothmire, along with some more officers, had arrested me under fake charges.” This is the third FIR against Singh, as cases of extortion have also been registered against him in Kopri (Thane) and Marine Drive police stations. At Kopri police station, Singh, DCP Parag Manere and three civilians were booked after the complainant, Sharad Agrawal, who deals a real estate business stated in his complaint that Singh had extorted ₹2 crore from him and also forced him to hand over some plots of land to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-hearing-on-dcp-s-plea-on-aug-5-101627672992254.html
31-07-2021||Other||After 2.5 months, slight increase in J&K’s Covid cases, positivity rate||After two-and-a-half-months of decline, Jammu and Kashmir’s active positive Covid-19 cases and positivity rate are showing an incremental increase in the last five days.Experts say the UT is better placed in Covid containment and the increase is not remarkable though they insist that people should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.From July 25 to 29, the UT recorded total 716 cases as against 467 cases from July 20 to 24 – the leanest five-day Covid period in the second wave with daily cases going down to a lowest of 63 on July 23.J&K saw 143 cases daily on an average in the past five days while from July 20 to 24, compared to the UT witnessing just 93 cases daily on an average – showing a 53% increase in the average daily cases.“There is some increase in cases but it’s not remarkable. There is increase in testing which might be the reason for this,” said Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community medicine and nodal officer Covid at Government Medical College, Srinagar.From the highest of 52,848 active positive Covid patients on May 13, the active cases were continuously declining and had plunged to a lowest of 1,124 on July 27. But after 76 days, now the active cases have shown an incremental increase from July 28.Similarly, the test positivity rate (TPR) for July 25-29 has increased to 0.24% from 0.2% of July 20-24. The increase is in the backdrop of the fact that 25% more overall tests were conducted in the last five days than the earlier five-day period.Dr Khan said the UT is still better placed but rued the fact that people are not taking precautions. “There is some fatigue in following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Many people are not wearing masks anymore,” he said.“This time, our vaccination rate is better than the previous time. We are ready with more oxygen beds and better infrastructure,” he said. The past five days also saw three covid related deaths against the nine in the previous five-day period.The incremental change in Covid scenario in J&K comes after the administration lifted the weekend curfew from all districts on July 25 though some restrictions such as night curfew remain in place.Officials said there is a significant improvement in total weekly cases, positivity rate, bed occupancy, case fatality rate, vaccination coverage and extent of compliance to Covid-appropriate behaviour.137 fresh cases reported in J&KJammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded one Covid-related death and 137 fresh novel coronavirus cases.There were 79 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 58 infections and one fatality.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 109 with active cases at 1,171.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 315, followed by Jammu with 117 cases. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,15,795 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.27%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,21,344 and the death toll 4,378.Officials said 58,377 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the UT.With 26 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new cases followed by 15 in Baramulla; and 14 districts had no or single-digit cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-2-5-months-slight-increase-in-j-k-s-covid-cases-positivity-rate-101627672933881.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capital support, credit for micro units in rural Haryana: Dushyant||Haryana government has decided to provide capital support and affordable credit to new micro enterprises in rural areas of ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ category blocks to spur rural industrial growth in the state, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said. He said new micro enterprises established under the Haryana Rural Industrial Development Scheme will also get other incentives specified for MSME sector under Haryana Enterprise and Employment Policy, 2020. Approval letter for providing benefits under the scheme will be issued within 45 days, acceptance letter within seven days and benefit disbursement within seven days. Subsidy on investment He said that under the Haryana Rural Industrial Development Scheme, 15 per cent subsidy will be provided on investment made on machinery and building up to maximum of ₹20 lakh for general category entrepreneurs, while 15 per cent subsidy will be provided on the investment up to maximum of ₹25 lakh for women and SC entrepreneurs. He said a subsidy of up to 50 per cent will be given on the cost of diesel generator set, the maximum limit of which has been fixed at ₹8,000 per KVA. In addition, interest subsidy of 7 per cent or maximum of ₹8 lakh per annum will be given on the term loan for 7 years. The deputy CM said in order to provide incentives, the scheme will be considered effective from January 1, 2021, and will be operational for a period of five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capital-support-credit-for-micro-units-in-rural-haryana-dushyant-101627672932815.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||CBSE class 12 results: UP farm labourer’s daughter gets 100% in five subjects in humanities||A farm labourer’s daughter, Ansuiya Kushwaha from VidyaGyan (school) Bulandshahr in western Uttar Pradesh, has got 100% marks in five subjects in the humanities stream in Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 12, the result of which was declared on Friday.The subjects in which she got the perfect score are history, geography, fine arts, English and Hindi. “My parents are illiterate, and they are unable to understand or appreciate what I have achieved. They are also unable to comprehend what it means to score 100 in five subjects. Can’t blame them either,” she said.Ansuiya, who aspires to be an IAS officer and serve the country as a civil servant, has a plan B ready too for her career.“Somewhere in my heart, I have this feeling of becoming a journalist so that I may highlight the plight of poor citizens and hardship faced by those living in the rural areas,” she said.While her father Laxmi Prasad is a farm labourer at Badera Khurd village in Mahoba district in the drought-prone Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh, her mother Rati Bai, is a homemaker. Ansuiya is the youngest among seven siblings.Lauding her ability to quickly grasp what was taught, principal Bishwajeet Banerjee said, “According to her teachers, she remained focused on her studies. This helped her to score 100 in five subjects. She is a shining example for many other students.” The CBSE announced the results for this year on the basis of an alternative assessment policy after the exams were cancelled in view of second wave of Covid-19. According to the alternative assessment policy decided by a 13-member panel of the board, the theory paper evaluation formula was 30% weightage to class 10 marks, another 30% to class 11 marks and 40% weightage to marks obtained in class 12 unit tests, mid-term and pre-board exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cbse-class-12-results-up-farm-labourer-s-daughter-gets-100-in-five-subjects-in-humanities-101627672813366.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Bargari sacrilege: Arrest warrants against 3 dera men extended after SIT fails to nab them||A Faridkot court on Friday extended non-bailable arrest warrants against three members of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee in connection with 2015 Bargari sacrilege till August 9 as the special investigation team (SIT) failed to nab them. On July 23, the court of Faridkot judicial magistrate issued arrest warrants against three Haryana residents -- Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri -- returnable by July 30 in two sacrilege cases wherein torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered in Bargari and three derogatory posters pasted near gurdwaras at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages. The SIT told the court that it needed time to conduct raids at more places to nab the accused. Police teams have already raided various locations in Punjab and Haryana, the court was told. Naming the three as conspirators in the Bargari sacrilege and derogatory posters cases, the SIT had filed challan in the court earlier this month. The SIT is likely to file a plea to start proceeding to declare them proclaimed offenders (PO) if it fails to nab them. The three have already been declared POs in three other sacrilege cases as police have failed to nab them since 2018 when they were first named as accused in desecration incidents in Moga and Bathinda districts in 2015. The SIT said two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, 2015, by dera followers on their directions. “A bir was also stolen on their directions from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on June 1, 2015, and its pages were scattered at Bargari on October 12, 2015,” the SIT said. Meanwhile, the hearing on the bail applications of two dera followers --- Nishan Singh and Pardeep Kumar --- in the Bargari sacrilege case was adjourned to August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-bargari-sacrilege-arrest-warrants-against-3-dera-men-extended-after-sit-fails-to-nab-them-101627672812360.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Memorial service of Sikh soldier held at Arlington National Cemetery in US||Recognising the valour of Sikh-American Gurpreet Singh, who died in a combat mission in Afghanistan over a decade ago, the Arlington National Cemetery on Thursday held a service in his honour more than six months after he was memorialised at America’s most hallowed ground with the placement of a memorial headstone.The service was held at the memorial marker of Corporal Gurpreet, the first and only Sikh service member from the Afghanistan campaign to be memorialised at Arlington National Cemetery.“The ceremony that was done today was for my brother late Cpl Gurpreet Singh. He was killed in action 10 years ago in Afghanistan. We didn’t do a proper burial, we had his cremation. We actually wanted to have a place at Arlington (National Cemetery),” his sister Manpreet Singh told PTI after the ceremony.After he joined the armed forces, Gurpreet was assigned to 1st Battalion, 5th Marines, 1st Marine Division, Camp Pendleton, California. He made the ultimate sacrifice on June 22, 2011, in Helmand Province, Afghanistan, while conducting combat operations. He was awarded the Bronze Star with Combat “V” for valour, posthumously for heroic service in Sangrin district. He was 21 when he died.In November 2020, he was memorialised at the Arlington National Cemetery with the placement of a memorial headstone. His memorial marker is one of two, symbolising Sikh warriors in the American wars. The other one is of Uday Singh, who died in the war in Iraq.“It took us a while. It has been a really emotional journey, even though it’s been 10 years. Today we were able to get him a gravestone and a place where everybody can come,” Manpreet said.Describing Gurpreet as part of the “wonderful historical military legacy” that Sikhs carry, LTC Kamal Kalsi, who was behind organising the event and was the first Sikh to be granted a religious accommodation in nearly a generation, said that Sikhs have a strong connection with the military.“Today, we honoured the life and service of Cpl Gurpreet Singh,” he told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/memorial-service-of-sikh-soldier-held-at-arlington-national-cemetery-in-us-101627672752370.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||250 workers lose job as Sonepat cycle unit wraps up operations||Milton Cycle Industries Ltd. that employed around 250 workers has closed down operations at its Sonepat unit. Set up in 1951, the unit initially manufactured bicycle parts and gradually produced its own product. Surender Malik, vice-president of Milton Cycles Workers’ Union, said, “Workers have been waiting for the salary since March this year and they had received only 50% of the wages for a year between March 2020 and March 2021. Around 250 workers are currently working here and all of them have been sacked without notice. This company can be run but it has collapsed due to family dispute.” Sonepat assistant labour commissioner said the company owners had submitted all documents regarding closing the operations. “The factory was shut down due to dispute in the owners’ family. A case is continuing in the National Company Law Tribunal in Chandigarh,” he added. Milton Cycle Industries Ltd’s manager Girdharwal refused to comment on the issue. “Everything is in public domain. We will not speak on this matter,” he added. Surender Singh, president of Milton cycles workers’ union said, “Milton was producing 1.5 lakh bicycles by the end of 2008, employing around 1, 200 workers. After a rift in the owner’s family, both Atlas and Milton suffered immensely,” Singh added. The owners of the Atlas and Milton cycles come from the same family. Both set up separate manufacturing units in Sonepat in 1951. At that time, Milton would produce bicycle parts for the family’s more popular brand, Atlas. After a feud in the family in 2003, the ownership of Milton’s unit went to Jai Dev Kapoor and the one of Atlas was operated by Rajiv Kapoor, Arun Kapoor and Vikram Kapoor until June last year when it closed down the unit in Sahibabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/250-workers-lose-job-as-sonepat-cycle-unit-wraps-up-operations-101627672636996.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||ED issues fresh summon to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||Hours after the Supreme Court refused to grant any relief to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in the money laundering case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday issued fresh summons to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and his son Hrishikesh. The agency has asked them to visit its office in south Mumbai at 11am on Monday.ED had earlier issued three summons to Deshmukh but he had not appeared before the agency and had sent his lawyer instead. Hrishikesh was sent summons twice previously. The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh had in the past said that the allegations against him are false.The central agency has alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that at Hrishikesh’s behest, the two brothers diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.ED has also claimed that while collecting money from the bar owners, Vaze told them that a part of the amount was to go to an entity – ‘No 1’ – as well as the crime and social service branches of Mumbai Police. The anti-money laundering agency has also said that Vaze’s in his statement to ED said that he was called to Deshmukh’s official residence and directed to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishments.During investigation, ED has identified 24 private entities that are controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money had been transacted among them without any rationale. “From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers, and thus it can be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had stated. The agency then arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde on June 26, claiming that they had handled the money laundering linked to the extortions for Deshmukh.In mid-July, the anti-money laundering agency provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties, worth ₹4.2 crore. The attached assets include a residential flat in Worli valued at ₹1.54 crore and 25 land parcels of book value ₹2.67 crore at Dhutum village at Uran in the neighbouring Raigad district.ED said its investigation has revealed that the Worli flat was purchased by the NCP leader in 2004 by making cash payment entirely by cash. It was registered in the name of Deshmukh’s wife Aarti, but the sale deed for the flat was registered in February 2020 after he became the home minister.The other seized properties too are held in Aarti’s name as well as in the name of company, Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd. According to ED officers, the Deshmukhs acquired 50% ownership in M/s Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd including its assets (land and shops), totally valued around ₹5.34 crore (book value) by merely paying ₹17.95 lakh, that too after a substantial gap.”Deshmukh had said that the allegations against him, made by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, cropped up only after the cop was shunted out as the commissioner over his poor handling of the Antilia and the Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-issues-fresh-summon-to-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101627672572215.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 6,600 new Covid cases amid plan to ease lockdown curbs||As the Maharashtra government plans to lift curbs in 25 districts, the state on Friday recorded 6,600 fresh infections, pushing the count to 6,269,756. The easing of lockdown restrictions is likely to come into effect from August 1, officials said. The tally of active cases has also reduced to 77,494 as 7,431 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state saw 231 casualties. Satara reported the highest toll with 40 deaths, followed by Aurangabad with 30 fatalities. The district recorded 29 deaths and one death was reported in the city.The state has planned to ease the lockdown restrictions in 25 districts where growth and positivity rates are lower than the state’s average. It is looking to reopen malls, multiplexes and restaurants with 50% capacity, while shops and establishments are likely to get extended hours of operation. The government is also looking at opening up trains for more categories. Also, it is facing a practical challenge of checking commuters’ vaccination certificates. An order for partial lifting of the curbs is likely to be issued on Saturday. Currently, the state has level-three restrictions, which involves tighter curbs with limited operational hours for shops and markets. Shops and bazaars remain shut on the weekends, while malls, theatres and multiplexes are completely closed.Even as 25 districts are likely to get relaxations, 11 districts — Pune, Solapur, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Beed and Ahmednagar — will continue to remain in level three. On Friday, these 11 districts reported 5,273 cases, over 80% of the total cases (6,600 cases) recorded. The highest number of cases was reported in Pune (922), followed by Ahmednagar at 851 cases, Satara at 830, Sangli at 784, Kolhapur at 679, Solapur at 419, Ratnagiri at 215, Raigad at 185, Beed at 185, Sindhudurg at 174 and Palghar at 29 cases.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said, “We are not providing any relaxation in Pune, Solapur, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Beed and Ahmednagar. If need be, the local administration can tighten the restrictions.”Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said easing of lockdown is inevitable. “We cannot be in a state of permanent lockdown as the economy is currently a shambles. We need to open up for ensuring livelihood,” said Shaikh. He also said that the state government needs to strictly enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.On Friday, Mumbai clocked 322 cases and reported a total 733,434 cases till date. It also recorded seven fatalities, taking the toll to 15,880. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 200,924 samples and had a positivity rate of 3.28%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 13.18%, according to the data issued by the state health department. It has also vaccinated 668,617 doses on Friday, according to the data available on Co-Win portal. It has administered 43,751,060 doses in the state till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-6-600-new-covid-cases-amid-plan-to-ease-lockdown-curbs-101627672452131.html
31-07-2021||Other||Banned Sikh outfit threatens Jai Ram||The US-based pro-Khalistan group, Sikhs for Justice, has threatened Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur of not allowing him to hoist the Tricolour on this Independence Day.The Sikh outfit made repeated calls on the contact numbers of a few journalists, the common public and some political leaders to apprise them of its intention.The organisation threatened that since Himachal Pradesh was also part of Punjab, it will hold a referendum to seek people’s views on Khalistan. The Sikh outfit made calls the entire day from different locations in England, the US, Australia and Canada.Phone calls to journalists came just five days after police had found graffiti on boulders and parapets on the roads connecting Anandpur Sahib and Naina Devi, supporting the Khalistan movement.‘SECURITY BEEFED UP’Police have beefed up the security of Jai Ram and other dignitaries in state, after journalist receiving recorded phone calls lasting 53 seconds made complaints to the police.The recorded message says: “The message is to the Himachal Pradesh government, on August 15 we will not allow Jai Ram Thakur to hoist the Tricolour... Himachal Pradesh was part of Punjab... Once we liberate Punjab, we will make sure to take over areas of Himachal that was part of Punjab.”The Himachal police have activated its team of cyber crime experts. The Himachal police have given a message on its official Twitter handle that the police force is fully capable of securing the state and preventing anti-national elements to thwart peace and security in HP in cooperation with central security agencies.The director general of police said, “We are in receipt of a pre-recorded message from pro-Khalistani elements from overseas which was sent to some journalists of Himachal.”NOT AFRAID OF ANY THREAT: CMResponding to the threat calls, the CM on Friday said no one can stop any Indian from respecting the national flag.Thakur, who arrived in Dharamshala in the evening, said the government has ordered a probe into the matter and police are trying to trace the source of the call.“We live in a free country. I’m not afraid. No one can scare and stop me from respecting the Tricolour,” he said.Thakur will visiting poll-bound Fatehpur assembly segment in Kangra district on Saturday where he will inaugurate and lay foundation stones of multiple developmental projects.He, however, said it was a regular visit and should not be linked to the bypolls. “I will interact with beneficiaries of state and Centre sponsored schemes in Fatehpur,” he said.On question of intense lobbying for ticket for Fatehpur, he said that everyone has a right to seek the ticket and it should not be seen in the wrong context.This is challenge to unity, integrity of HP: RathoreHimachal Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore expressed concerns over the threat issued by pro-Khalistan challenging the chief minister to not let him hoist the national flag on Independence Day.He demanded strict action against the perpetrators. Rathore said such statements will not be tolerated.He said this is a challenge to the unity and integrity of Himachal. “Security agencies should remain alert and book the persons issuing such threat under the sedition law,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/banned-sikh-outfit-threatens-jai-ram-101627672393168.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt launches NSUI’s ‘Mission 2022’ poster||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday launched the “Youth Mission 2022” poster of the state unit of the National Students Union of India (NSUI). “Our student organisation did commendable work during #Covid19 lockdowns. I am sure it would proactively take Government’s achievements and message to the grassroots ahead of 2022 elections,” the CM tweeted with photos. The poster, which talks about the CM’s vision, direction and leadership, carries the slogan: “There is only one Captain”. The NSUI delegation was led by state head Akshay Sharma who said that this mission was in continuation of the Capt for 2022” campaign started in February this year by then state unit president Sunil Jakhar. “The programme will be held in nine cities to begin with,” he said. Later, the CM met several MLAs and senior party leaders to discuss the ongoing development works in their constituencies. “Our topmost focus is to ensure timely completion of all pending projects,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-launches-nsui-s-mission-2022-poster-101627672392127.html
31-07-2021||Other||Hoping to resurrect him, Chamba woman keeps son’s corpse for months||A woman reportedly lived with her 20-year-old son’s body for months believing that her prayers and “divine powers will resurrect him from dead”.The incident was reported from Rei panchyayat of tribal Pangi sub-division in Chamba district.The matter came to light after the woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging self following the death of her 15-year-old daughter, who was undergoing treatment for some illness at Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College, Chamba.Chamba superintendent of police (SP) S Arul Kumar said the Purthi police received information that a woman has committed suicide at her home in Rei panchayat.When the police team reached the spot, her husband told them that for the past few months, he was in Chamba for the treatment of his daughter. On Wednesday, when he returned home after cremating his daughter, he found his wife’s body.While gathering clues, cops opened another room and found the son’s body on bed. The bodies were taken to Chamba and handed over to the family after conducting autopsy. It is suspected that the son had died around four months back. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the SP said.Meanwhile, Rei panchayat pradhan Pyare Lal said the woman was superstitious and was into shamanic practices.Pangi police station in-charge Nitin Chauhan said the cause of death of the son can be ascertained only after postmortem reports come. Police said the woman used to claim to have magical powers that could resurrect the dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hoping-to-resurrect-him-chamba-woman-keeps-son-s-corpse-for-months-101627672331976.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 49 fresh cases, no death||Punjab on Friday reported 49 new Covid cases, taking the total count to 5,99,053, officials said.No Covid-related death was reported on Friday, they said.The death toll, which stands at 16,292, includes two deaths which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.There are 544 active cases in the state, it said. Of the new cases, eight were reported from Jalandhar, six from Ferozepur, and four from Ludhiana among other places.With 55 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,82,217, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,20,94,239 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-49-fresh-cases-no-death-101627672212107.html
31-07-2021||Other||Mining in Dodamarg-Sawantwadi wildlife area leading to landslides: Mumbai activists||Following two landslides this week in Sindhudurg district’s Kalne and Galel villages in Dodamarg and Banda talukas, a Mumbai-based environment group wrote to the chief minister (CM) and the environment department, highlighting the likelihood of iron-ore mining having triggered the incidents. The site of the mining operations and the landslides lie squarely in the middle of the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi wildlife corridor, which was declared as an ecologically sensitive area (ESA) by the Bombay high court. However, the physical boundaries of the ESA are yet to be demarcated by the Maharashtra government, allowing non-forestry activities to continue.“Yesterday, a massive landslide occurred at Kalne, where the mining operations are being carried out. This mine in Dodamarg is in the middle of a crucial wildlife corridor of the Western Ghats connecting Andhi Dandeli/Bhimgad with Radhanagiri Widlife Sanctuary. Tens of thousands of trees have been felled and mining done even after the water table has been hit. We had intimated this illegality and objected to the granting of consent to operate to the mine vide our email dated May 30, 2020. However, our complaint was not taken note of. Today, not only have the forests been destroyed, but people’s lives have been impacted. Thousands of tonnes of mud/mining silt have entered the homes of the villagers of Kalne, and the Kalne river, too, is polluted with mining residue,” wrote Stalin D, director, NGO (non-governmental organisation) Vanashakti, in his letter to CM, on Thursday.Through successive orders over the past decade, HC in 2012 and 2013, based on Awaaz Foundation’s 2011 petition, had directed the Union environment ministry and the Maharashtra government to ensure that the 38 km-long and 10 km-wide corridor in Sindhudurg district be protected as an eco-sensitive area (ESA) where environmentally destructive activities are prohibited. HC had reiterated its order in 2018, based on a 2016 petition by Vanashakti, declaring the belt a ‘no tree felling zone’.However, the Kolhapur regional office of the state pollution control board in 2019 renewed an iron ore mining licence at Kalne village in the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt in 2019, allowing operations to handle 750,000 metric tonnes of iron ore per annum till March 31, across 32.25-hectare area at Kalne. The pollution control board had said mining operations were first issued permissions in 2009, much before the petition to protect the area had been filed, and renewing such consent is permissible for any proposed ecologically sensitive area as well.In April, Vanashakti had written to the environment department highlighting the long delay in demarcating the corridor’s boundaries. “The [HC] order is almost eight years old. Nothing stops the government from demarcating the corridor. A study of the flora and fauna in the 21 villages of the corridor is already with the state forest department. There is simply no plausible reason for the delay,” Stalin D wrote at the time.CM has requested the environment department to take appropriate action in the matter. An official with the environment department, seeking anonymity of name, confirmed that they are in receipt of Vanashakti’s petition. “But it requires clarification that there is nothing illegal about the mining work in Kalne, as alleged. The consent to operate is granted after due scrutiny. The connection between the mining and the landslide cannot be established without a study on the same,” the official said. Environmentalists, however, maintained that the renewal of consent to the mining operation in Kalne is in direct conflict with the Bombay HC’s order calling for the area to be protected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mining-in-dodamarg-sawantwadi-wildlife-area-leading-to-landslides-mumbai-activists-101627672092192.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Meeting with Sidhu: Dalit MLAs demand due share to community in party, govt||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday held a meeting with MLAs belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) community during which several of them sought the implementation of the 85th Amendment to the Constitution as well as due representation to the community in the party and government in the state. The meeting was convened by newly appointed state chief before the party’s long-awaited revamp of the organisational set up for feedback from SC ministers and legislators on issues faced by the community in the state. At the meeting, several MLAs pressed for the implementation of the 85th Amendment that will pave the way for faster promotions to SC employees and a promotion roster separate from that of the general category for them. The MLAs, several of whom have been grumbling from time to time about neglect and lack of adequate representation, sought due share in the party’s organisational set up, state cabinet and government bodies, besides raising pending poll promises, said two party leaders present at the meeting. They said the state government’s decisions on waiver of ₹590 crore loans under the farm debt waiver scheme for labourers and the landless farming community and the proposed Bill announced by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for the SC Sub Plan (SCSP) in the annual budget in proportion to their population were also appreciated. At 31.94%, Punjab has the highest percentage of SC population in the country and parties are going all out to woo this segment before next year’s assembly polls in the state. Gill MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid said that the 85th Amendment had been implemented in most other states but the bureaucracy was proving a stumbling block in Punjab. “There should be due representation in recruitment. We should have 5-6 ministers in the cabinet,” he said. Social security minister Aruna Chaudhary said the meeting was held to prepare for the 2022 assembly elections. “The government’s achievements and all issues, including those related to the SC community, and the government were discussed,” she said, refusing to go into specifics. Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny said the meeting was held to gather feedback from MLAs who gave valuable inputs and suggestions regarding the organisational set up and issues that require attention from the government. “The PPCC president has assured to address these issues, besides taking up with the chief minister the ones that require action from the state government, at the earliest,” said the MLA, who set up the meeting that was attended by at least 17 MLAs. Cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi was among those who were not present. A party statement said another meeting will be held next week for further discussions on the party’s vision for the community. Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka stressed on better coordination between the party and government with the former acting as a bridge with the workers. Raising the issue of budget allocation, another MLA said that only 9% of funds allocated for SCs were being spent. Earlier, Sidhu held detailed deliberations with Congress leaders and workers from Mohali, Rupnagar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Malerkotla districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/meeting-with-sidhu-dalit-mlas-demand-due-share-to-community-in-party-govt-101627672031961.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra floods: CM hints at action against encroachments near rivers||After taking stock of the damages in flood-ravaged western Maharashtra and Konkan, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced to rehabilitate residents in flood-prone villages to safer places and also hinted at taking stricter steps to remove the illegal constructions from the floodplains on riverbanks. CM said that a consensus will be built among the political parties over the plan of rehabilitation and action against the encroachments, as well as measures to avoid such calamities in the future.Thackeray visited parts of Kolhapur that are flooded for more than a week. He had visited flood-affected Mahad in Raigad and Chiplun in Ratnagiri last week. While talking about encroachments in the floodplains in the rivers at Sangli and Kolhapur and the recommendations by the expert committees for their removal, CM said that its time for stricter decisions to remove these structures. He said that the district collectors have been directed to remove them immediately and ensure that new structures do not come up on the blue and red lines of the riverbanks.Thackeray said that he has asked authorities to compile with the key recommendations made by the Madhav Gadgil and Nandkumar Vadnere committees. “We will have to take some harsh decisions related to these structures. If we don’t act in time, these crises will keep occurring frequently. Blue and red lines have been demarcated for the riverbanks. If we do not follow them, there was no point in marking them. I have asked the collectors to take action against them [encroachments]. The floods have brought before us a grave reality, and we want the crisis to be turned into an opportunity. We are determined to implement the plan chalked out to avoid any such losses in the future,” CM said at a press conference.He said that the government has chalked out a plan for the rehabilitation of the people from the vulnerable villages which are prone to the landslides. “We have been witnessing unprecedented crises in the form of landslides, caving in of roads, flooding. The plan is being prepared for the rehabilitation of these people. We are taking suggestions from the opposition parties to bring them on the same page by keeping politics aside. Once a consensus was built, stringent decisions would not be difficult. I would also urge locals to stand by the government for these steps,” he said.Meanwhile, energy minister Nitin Raut announced in Sangli said electricity bills will recovered from locals in the flood-affected areas. “Until the situation does not become normal, consumers in these areas will not be served bills or asked to pay the pending bills. Whether or not to give a complete waiver on the bills is a decision that the state cabinet has to take. We are, however, thinking of discounts in electricity bills to the flood-affected people,” he said. A week after the floods, 173,000 consumers are still without electricity supply owing to the damages to the power infrastructure. Around 960,000 consumers from 1,942 villages and towns experienced power outage last week. The supply of 787,000 consumers has been restored.Public works department minister Ashok Chavan said that losses to the roads and bridges belonging to the state government is worth ₹1,800 crore because of the floods.Thackeray-Fadnavis face to face Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis came face-to-face at Shahuwadi in Kolhapur as both were visiting the affected area at the same time. “I have told him that he will be invited for a meeting on the issues related to flooding and his suggestions will be incorporated in the plan,” Thackeray said. However, he did not miss the opportunity to take a jibe at Fadnavis over the relief package and said, “I am not the CM who announces packages for cheap publicity. I am the CM who likes to extend a helping hand to the people in need,” he said.Fadnavis in his reply said, “Let them call it a package or help, but it should be released soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-floods-cm-hints-at-action-against-encroachments-near-rivers-101627671802115.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Kala Jatheri, Delhi’s most wanted gangster, arrested||Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, Delhi’s most wanted gangster, who carried a reward of ₹7 lakh on his arrest, was arrested on Friday night by the Delhi Police’s special cell from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, nearly 200km away from the national capital.“We have arrested Kala Jatheri from Saharanpur and legal procedure is being followed. More details related to his arrest will be shared on Saturday,” said deputy commissioner of police (counter intelligence, special cell) Manishi Chandra.Apart from the Delhi Police, Jatheri was wanted by Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab police for his alleged involvement in several cases of murder, extortion and other heinous crimes. His name surfaced in the GTB Hospital shoot-out case of March 25 this year and during the investigation of wrestler Sagar Dhankad murder case at Chhatrasal Stadium, in which two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Sushil Kumar and his 12 associates have been arrested. Jatheri is a relative of Sonu Mahal, who was also thrashed along with Dhankad by Kumar and his associates on the night of May 4.Police officers said that Kumar was earlier associated with Jatheri, but differences emerged between them following the Chhatrasal Stadium assault and murder.Kumar feared life threats from Jatheri and his gang members and because of that reason he was shifted to Tihar Jail from Mandoli Jail, the officer said.Born in 1984 in Jatheri village in Sonepat, Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, escaped the Haryana Police’s custody in Faridabad on February 1 last year. He is considered to be close to jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kala-jatheri-delhi-s-most-wanted-gangster-arrested-101627671371947.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||CBSE class 12 results: Students in Uttar Pradesh dispel myth with performance, excel in arts stream||A number of CBSE class 12 students in Uttar Pradesh excelled in the arts stream despite the difficulties posed by Covid-19 situation, dispelling the myth that one cannot get 99% marks and above with humanities.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the results for this year on Friday on the basis of an alternative assessment policy after the exams were completely cancelled in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19.Last year, the exams had to be partially cancelled after a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Covid-19.According to the alternative assessment policy decided by a 13-member panel of the board, the theory paper evaluation formula was 30% weightage to class 10 marks, another 30% to class 11 marks and 40% weightage to marks obtained in class 12 unit tests, mid-term and pre-board exams.Many of the students who excelled in CBSE class results in Uttar Pradesh are ready to study undergraduate courses from Delhi University and elsewhere.One of those who shone this year was Jyotsna Yadav, a student of Lucknow Public School in South City in the state capital. She surprised everyone by scoring 99.4% in CBSE class 12 with humanities.She obtained 100% marks each in history and geography and 99% in Hindi core, English core and economics. She wants to pursue undergraduate studies from Delhi University with honours in political science. Aspiring to be an IAS officer, she also has a keen interest in joining politics. Her father is an assistant sub-inspector of police and mother a homemaker.A student of Study Hall, Tasneem Khan got 98.4% with humanities, scoring 99% in history, geography and psychology.“I honestly didn’t expect the result to be this good. I am truly very happy,” she said. Tasneem plans to take admission in Delhi University and is later keen to join the Indian Foreign Service (IFS).Talking about how she overcome the difficult times in Covid-19, she said, “It was challenging for all with poor internet connectivity and there was no concrete plan in place as how to go about it. But slowly we got the hang of it. The school and students collaborated to bring an end to the crisis.”Vidhi Agarwal, who got 98%, wants to study BA and become a journalist. Her father Dr Vivek Agarwal is a psychiatrist and mother Dr Deepti Agarwal is a pathologist.Aman Chandra, a student of Rani Laxmibai Memorial School at Sector 14 in Lucknow’s Indira Nagar, secured an aggregate of 98.4% with 99% in English, physics and chemistry. Aman, whose father is a businessman, wants to be a software engineer.At GD Goenka Public School, Hina Naela is the school topper. She got 99% overall and scored 100% marks in psychology. Ayushman Pandey of the science stream scored 97.8%.Principal Raveen Pande and chairman Sarvesh Goel congratulated the students on their performance. At The Millennium School, South City, Oshi Yadav scored 99% in the humanities stream, Riya Mathur secured 97% in the science stream and Akagra Agarwal got 96% in the commerce stream, said school principal Manjula Goswami.At Maharishi Vidya Mandir (Sitapur Road, Lucknow), Anshika Singh Chauhan of the science stream and Prani Yadav of humanities secured the first rank in the school with 95.60% marks. Anurag Singh of the science stream was ranked second in the school with 93.60% marks. Mohak Mehrotra was third with 93.40% and Jatin Gupta was fourth in the school with 92.60% marks (both in the science stream). Anchal Singh displayed her academic brilliance in the commerce stream.Anoop Srivastava, manager of Maharishi Vidya Mandir, along with principal Neelam Singh congratulated all the toppers. Several students of Red Rose Senior Secondary School, Lucknow, secured more than 95% marks in CBSE class 12. They are Akshara Shukla (96.8%), Sumiyah Mohammad Haleem (96.6%), Harshit Mishra (96.6%), Harshita Singh (96.4%) and Navya Verma (95%). Triumphing against all oddsAbhishek Gautam has topped at St Anjani’s Public School, Rajajipuram, Lucknow, by scoring 98.2% marks. His father worked as a guard in various establishments.The mother was a housewife when the boy was admitted in Class 9 to the school. According to his mother, the school was extremely lucky for them. Abhishek thrived in the school whereas she got a job as constable after years of wait. Being an only child, his mother was determined for her son to excel.He aspires to be an IAS officer so that he can bring “more opportunities to the underprivileged and change the society for the better,” said school manager Taru Saxena.Another student Akash Asthana, a meritorious student from an underprivileged background, has scored 97.6 % marks in CBSE class 12.Akash’ s mother is an anganwadi worker at Sandila in Hardoi district.Because of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown, his father who worked odd jobs as the guard of a marriage lawn was unemployed.The smartphone was the only lifeline in those bleak times, Saxena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cbse-class-12-results-students-in-uttar-pradesh-dispel-myth-excel-in-arts-stream-101627671252480.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra floods: State government ignored panels’ recommendations, say experts||While experts attribute the flooding in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur and Sangli broadly to climate change, reduction in tree cover and human intervention in the ecosystem, they have slammed the government for its lack of willpower to take the steps recommended by experts to avert such calamities. The downpour in Konkan and Western Maharashtra for three-four days since July 22 wreaked havoc in nine districts. It resulted in the loss of 213 lives, several are still missing and saw evacuation of more than 450,000 to safer places. Preliminary estimates by the state suggest the losses are expected to mount to more than ₹5,000 crore. This is second such flooding in Western Maharashtra in three years. The severity of the flooding could be indicated with the water level in Panchganga river, which was flowing at 55ft, much above its danger mark of 43ft. The Madhav Gadgil committee on Western Ghats ecology and Vadnere committee appointed after the 2019 floods to recommend measures to avoid floods have submitted their comprehensive reports to the governments. Gurudas Nulkar, ecologist and trustee, Ecological Society, said, “Sahyadri range is the source region of rivers and the rain gets divided into Konkan and Deccan Plateau equally. Concentration of the rain run-off in the floodplain and cloudburst led to the flooding. Urbanisation has resulted in change in the natural landscape which takes the shape of saucer and the use of cement, tar, paver blocks result in hardscaping of the structures. This obstructs the percolation of the water,” he said. “Similarly, the construction in river banks and floodplains lead to constricting of river channels. Owing to this, the rivers cannot hold the volume of water they were designed to hold naturally. Destruction to the riparian zones, which give stability to river banks, damage the first and second order streams due to construction and lead to disturbance of ecosystem. Secondly, the city drainage system is falling short for the flood waters. The pattern of the monsoon has changed. We get the season’s rainfall in just four days as cloudburst has become common phenomenon due to the climate change,” he said. The Maharashtra government had appointed an expert committee of 10 members, headed by retired head of irrigation department Nandkumar Vadnere, in August 2019 immediately after the flooding in July-August that year to study the reasons and propose technical measures. Besides the demarcation of restricted zones by marking flood lines and identifying the flood plains, the committee had recommended removal and rehabilitation of encroachments. It recommended advanced weather forecasting systems, real time decision support (RTDS) systems, restoration of natural waterways and their desilting, strengthening of river meanders, construction of more flood dams, temporary flood storage tanks. The committee had also recommended strict implementation of the guidelines on the management of floods and urban flooding issued by National Disaster Management Authority in 2008 and 2010. The committee had recommended forming Flood Zoning Authority for two districts. It also recommended amendment in clause 16 of the Maharashtra Irrigation Act for demarcation of floodplain zones. “The removal of encroachments is directly linked to political vote banks and hence nobody dares to touch them,” Nulkar said. Madhav Gadgil, who headed the state appointed Western Ghat Ecology Expert Panel in 2010-11, said, “We had said that haphazard planning of highways by cutting mountains slopes, unchecked construction and mining activities should not be done. The recommendations were not followed by the government.” Pradeep Purandare, retired professor from WALMI, irrigation expert and member of Vadnere committee, said, “The accurate balance between water stock in reservoirs and discharge of water is key.” Shailaja Deshpande, ecologist and founder-director of Living River Foundation, Pune, said, “The committees have recommended their conservation to protect the ecosystem. The subsequent Kasturangan committee report which diluted Gadgil committee report by 50%, too, has been overlooked by authorities. There is no objection to the development, but there should have been watershed approach to it. The construction should be done by taking the particular landscape into consideration and respecting the ecosystem there.” Deshpande said, “Areas like Chiplun, Mahad city will require specific measures for managing floods. In cities like Kolhapur, Sangli and confluence regions, floods will get retained over longer period due to morphological features of the landscape.” Opposition leader and former CM Devendra Fadnavis said, “The state, by accepting the Vadnere committee report, should constitute a separate department for implementation of the recommendations. The state should implement the World Bank approved 2019-project for the diversion of the flood water to drought-prone areas through diversion canals.” Deshpande also suggested dedicated guidelines for infrastructural developments in the districts which frequently witness the flooding. Natural green belts along flood plains will act like buffers to manage and reduce intensity of floods. Vijaykumar Gautam, officer on special duty , water resources department, said, “We have started holistic approach towards these problem by chalking out short-, mid- and long-term measures. For rapid alerts and forecast, 7 of the 26 Real Time Decision Support systems on rivers in Konkan will be installed in next three months. Similarly, there would be comprehensive plan for water management. Construction within the blue and red lines is the major problem.” Gautam said completion of incomplete dams on Kalu, Shai in MMR and Kaal in Konkan is the need of the hour. “Had the dam on Kaal been completed within time, the water level in Vashisthi would not have increased more than 4ft, which had swelled to 11ft this time. Koyana absorbed 3.5 lakh cusecs of water, by releasing just 50,000 cusecs of water and played a great role of flood mitigation,” he said. Vijay Nahata, member of State Environment Impact Assessment Committee, said, “There are financial constraints before the state while implementing the recommendations given by any committee. The government has started taking corrective steps in response.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-floods-state-government-ignored-expert-panels-recommendations-101627671191945.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Yusuf Lakdawala’s son accuses stepmother of theft||The legal battle between builder Yusuf Lakdawala and his wife Sabina has taken another turn with his son Feroz accusing Sabina, his stepmother, of theft. Lakdawala, a 75-year-old Mumbai-based builder, is currently in judicial custody after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) earlier this year in a land grabbing case. Feroz is his son from his first marriage, while Sabina is his second wife. Feroz submitted a letter to Bandra police on Wednesday, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times. According to the letter, the matter came to light when Feroz checked the locker in his house on his father’s instructions. “Dad gave me his locker combination as only he and Sabina had access to the locker. He had to check whether valuables worth ₹1.5 lakh, including Rolex watches and my mother’s diamond set, were there. To our surprise, when we came home and opened the locker, all the valuables were missing,” the letter stated. Feroz informed his father about the same and then submitted the application to the police on the latter’s instructions. Senior inspector Nikhil Kapse from Bandra police station confirmed that the application has been received and said they are investigating the matter. Sabina was earlier booked for allegedly assaulting Feroz’s wife Noorie in their Bandra house due to a property dispute. Noorie had registered a complaint against Sabina in connection with the alleged incident on July 4 this year. Sabina had subsequently moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking to quash the case. She had also stated that Lakdawala had assured to give her half the property.The Bombay HC, while hearing Sabina’s application on quashing the assault FIR, had sought Lakdawala’s view on whether he would like to amicably settle the dispute between him and Sabina. Advocate Kartikeya Desai, for Feroz and Noorie, said, “Since Lakdawala is lodged in Arthur Road Central Jail, a video call was arranged between him and his lawyers on Friday afternoon. However, he has not made up his mind about this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-yusuf-lakdawala-s-son-accuses-stepmother-of-theft-101627671013596.html
31-07-2021||Bhopal||MP scraps controversial rule to bar students named in FIRs from college admission||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh will drop a controversial rule that debars students from higher educational institutions if a criminal case is registered against them, higher education minister Mohan Yadav said on Friday. The provision was notified by the state’s higher education department on July 15 and was to be implemented by government and private institutions. It was circulated to colleges earlier this week.The minister said it was “a wrong rule”.“How can we stop any person from getting educated just on the basis of criminal cases against him. The court decides whether the charges against students are true or not… We can’t bar their admission only after an FIR and charge-sheet,” Mohan Yadav said.To be sure, governments have for years rejected suggestions that politicians with criminal antecedents should not be allowed to become lawmakers. Existing election rules framed by the Election Commission on orders of the Supreme Court only require them to declare criminal cases against them.Yadav said there were many occasions when student leaders are booked under different cases for “staging protest on issues of public interest and this rule will do injustice with these students”.HT first reported this controversial rule after the state’s higher education department sent the notification to MP colleges.“I came to know about this rule from different sources. ABVP (RSS-backed Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad) leaders also brought this to my notice that this will be injustice with many students, who are facing ‘political’ cases,” the minister said, stressing that he has issued instructions to remove this controversial provision.ABVP’s state secretary, Praveen Sharma, told HT earlier that in his opinion, “This (rule) will definitely end student politics and is against one’s right to education”.The new provisions also said that students found guilty of misbehaving with faculty, staff or other students and vandalising college property would not get admission to the next academic session. “If there is no improvement in his/her behaviour, the principal is not authorised to give admission to such student,” reads the notification.This provision will stay intact. Yadav said the decision on letting such students continue will be decided by a disciplinary committee.Welcoming the minister’s decision, Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary also took a swipe. “The state government planned to spoil the future of students of different ideologies but they realised that RSS’ student wing ABVP leaders will also get debarred in large numbers. We are happy they realised their mistake very soon and removed the rule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-scraps-controversial-rule-to-bar-students-named-in-firs-from-college-admission-101627670962364.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||CBSE Class 12 results: 99.35% students pass||Almost all Central Board of Secondary Exam (CBSE) Class 12 students have passed this year, showed the board results published on Friday. A total of 1.304 million students were set to appear for the Class 12 board exam this year across 16 regions in the country and 99.37% of them have passed. Pune region, which includes Maharashtra, recorded a pass percentage of 99.35%, up by 9.11 percentage points from last year’s 90.24%. Experts said this jump could be a result of the alternative assessment policy adopted by CBSE in the view of the pandemic. As the Covid-19 pandemic continued to rage in many parts of the country, the board exam was cancelled and students were assessed based on a new formula designed by CBSE.This year, the board evaluated students by compiling their marks in Class 10, 11 and 12. Of the total score, 30% weightage was assigned to the average of the three best performing subjects out of the five main ones in Class 10. Another 30% was assigned to theory marks obtained in Class 10 and the remaining 40% was given to scores in midterm/unit tests or pre-board exams that took place during Class 12. “The alternative assessment policy could be one of the reasons why the numbers are better this year. To moderate the marks, we are considering only the best and the highest marks scored by the student in the last three years. Another reason could be that the board has been liberal in its assessment this year given that the pandemic has been difficult for students as well,” said Avnita Bir, director-principal of RN Podar School, Santacruz.At the Delhi Public School in Nerul, Navi Mumbai, of the 316 students 83.2% got above 90% marks, said principal J Mohanty. All students passed with first division, he added. Across the country, the number of students securing more than 95% marks has almost doubled compared to last year with an 80% increase as compared to last year. Incidentally, flagged by a drastic surge in the number of top-scorers, CBSE had asked schools across the country to rework the marks earlier this month. Earlier schools were allowed to submit their moderated marks by June 30, but many were asked to redo the moderation and submit the marks by July 25, which led to a considerable delay in the much-awaited results.Principals said circumstances were different for students appearing for the board exam this year as compared with previous years. Kavita Sahay Kerawalla, vice-chairperson, VIBGYOR Group of Schools, said, “This year prompted the cancellation of board examinations but opened up promising prospects for novel ways of student assessment in the future. I congratulate our students for emerging victorious and surpassing all the challenges that the pandemic has presented.” For instance, at Bal Bharati Public School in Navi Mumbai, Parvati Paniker lost her mother to Covid-19 and her father was admitted to the hospital during her pre-board exams. She has managed to score 365 out of 500, securing 71% in aggregate.Students said their scores exceeded their expectations. “I was pleasantly surprised to find out I had secured 97.6%. I have done well in the past three years, but I wasn’t expecting to score this well. I’d like to credit my parents and teachers for this,” said Chinmaya DR, who topped in the science stream at Bal Bharti Public School, Navi Mumbai, and is preparing for engineering entrance exams.Ashwin Goyal, who secured 99.2% in the science stream, said amid uncertainties over the final exam, he would sometimes feel disheartened. “Of course, it was a difficult time and there was no certainty about how I would achieve my goals. I concentrated on my studies and that helped me tide through,” said Goyal, a student of DPS Nerul, who is weighing his options between a career in engineering and pure sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbse-class-12-results-99-35-students-pass-101627670892019.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||HSC results unlikely to be announced on July 31, Maharashtra board assures work is on||On Friday afternoon, while Class 12 students of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) were rejoicing their results, the Maharashtra board Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) students were in a state of confusion. A link activated by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) meant for confirmation of seat number was mistaken for the results link, leaving students and parents anxious.“Several WhatsApp groups started sharing a link for the results, and the link once clicked was directing students to the official state board website. We assumed the board has suddenly decided to announce results but nothing of the sorts happened,” said Manisha Kapadia, mother of a Class 12 student. She added that many HSC students tried checking their results through the shared link and were worried when they could not access their mark sheets.As per a Supreme Court order, all school education boards have been asked to adhere to the July 31 deadline for announcement of Class 10 and 12 board results. This year, most education boards decided to scrap Class 10 and 12 board exams due to increasing Covid-19 cases, and instead announced results based on their overall performance in previous and the current academic years.Officials from MSBSHSE told HT that work on HSC results is still on and the board will officially announce the result date soon. “Students should not fall for false leads. The board will officially announce date for HSC results through appropriate mediums and give students ample time to be prepared for the same,” said an official from the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hsc-results-unlikely-to-be-announced-on-july-31-maharashtra-board-assures-work-is-on-101627670532712.html
31-07-2021||Other||Varanasi: Ganga water levels up by 2 metres in last 24 hours||Several steps of Dashashwamedh Ghat and other Varanasi ghats are flooded following an increase in river Ganga’s water levels over the last 24 hours, stated the Central water commission on Friday.Over the last 24 hours, the Ganga’s water level has risen about 2.09 metres, the commission reported. Varanasi recorded a 62.52-metre water level on Friday, while the river was flowing at 60.48 metres on Thursday.A central water commission official said that rains in the hilly areas and adjoining districts have resulted in a rise in water levels.Additionally, connectivity between one ghat and another was cut off because of high water levels.Due to the sudden rise in water level, five to ten steps at Dashashwamedh Ghat, Sheetla Ghat, Rana Mahal Ghat, Tulsi Ghat, Asi Ghat, and Panch Ganga Ghat are submerged.The water has reached the stairs of Harshchandra Ghat. A few stairs of Manikarnika Ghat were also reported to be underwater.Shambhu Manjhi, a member of the boatmen welfare community said that the boatmen operate only motorboats and he has asked his counterparts to take all precautions while plying the boats.Vijay Yadav, a resident of the Pandeypur area, said that if the water level of River Ganga continues to rise, the water level of Varuna will also increase and the problem of people living in the catchment areas may also increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-ganga-water-levels-up-by-2-metres-in-last-24-hours-101627670412178.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Govt schools outperform pvt schools for sixth year in a row||The Class 12 results announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday saw the Delhi government schools improve their performance yet again -- the pass percentage rose to 99.96% from 97.92% last year -- and outshine private schools for the sixth year in a row.Private schools in Delhi east and west regions scored an average pass percentage of 99.72%, an improvement from 91.9% last year, according to data shared by the CBSE. The overall pass percentage in Delhi stood at 99.84% this year, making it the region with the second-highest pass percentage in the country after Thiruvananthapuram, which boasted a pass percentage of 99.89%. Last year, the Delhi region recorded a pass percentage of 94.42%.The CBSE declared Class 12 results for 909 government schools while students of 13 government schools are yet to get their results. The number of government school students scoring above 95% too jumped from 442 to 885.Among the 909 government schools, 875 government schools secured 100% result, a significant jump from last year when the number of such schools stood at 396, and 2016 when there were 130 such schools. Out of the 158,640 students whose results were declared, 158,571 students passed, 64 are in the compartment category and five did not pass.In the last four years, the pass percentage in Delhi government schools has jumped from 90.64% in 2018 to 99.96% this year.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government school results were “historic”. “Congratulations to Delhi govt schools students, teachers and parents. Congrats Team Delhi Education... It’s historic,” he tweeted.Sharing the data of Delhi government schools’ performance in CBSE Class 12 exams in the last four years, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, “Congratulations to all our class 12th students on your board exam results. I am extremely proud of you as you have survived extraordinary circumstances and adapted to the new form of learning.”Principals of Delhi government schools said their results increased by a huge margin this year.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya, Rohini Sector 8, said that the moderation policy worked in the favour of students. “Students benefitted from the moderation policy. The CBSE also seems to have given grace marks to students. Students and staff are happy with the result,” said Jha.Gaurav Sharma, who topped the Science stream at RPVV Surajmal Vihar with 97.6%, said that the result was as per his expectations though he had to face many challenges during online classes. “During online classes, network connectivity was a major challenge. On many occasions, I missed classes since there was no data or network. After all those struggles, I am happy with my result,” said Sharma, whose father is a labourer and mother is a housewife. Sharma will be the first in his family to pursue graduation and dreams of pursuing a computer science in an IIT.Sakshi Aggarwal, another student of RPVV Surajmal Vihar who secured 97%, credited her performance to the efforts by teachers during January-February when physical classes were held. “Online classes took place throughout the year but it was during the two-three month period that we gained a sense of confidence. Our teachers polished us very well during this period,” said Aggarwal.An ecstatic Aggarwal said that though her father expected a score above 95%, she was pleasantly surprised to secure 97%. The 17-year-old plans to pursue History honors and has set her eyes on Delhi University. “Since my father is not a graduate, studying in a good college will be a big step forward for our family,” said Aggarwal, whose father is self-employed while her mother is a homemaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-schools-outperform-pvt-schools-for-sixth-year-in-a-row-101627670291423.html
31-07-2021||Mumbai||Canadian commission comes to aid of student visa applicants||The Canadian High Commission in India on Friday came up with a special arrangement to clear backlog of student visas and opened a dedicated biometric appointments queue so that the process of biometrics is completed sooner. This comes as the situation of student visa applicants continues to be grim due to the pandemic. Students who have already booked their biometrics appointment will need to cancel their existing appointment to book an earlier date using the dedicated queue on the appointment management system (AMS).“This priority service is available only for study permits, short-term study and returning students. VFS [Visa Facilitation Services Global] will cancel appointments from all other applicants booked under the student-dedicated queue on AMS. AMS link https://t.co/ZxBEaDE98S,” read a tweet from the high commission on Friday.“Taking into consideration the increased demand from Canada student visa customers in India for earlier biometric appointments, VFS Global and high commission of Canada now provide a dedicated queue on the appointment system with increased capacity. Customers applying for all other visa categories are requested to avoid booking appointments under the student visa category,” stated VFS Global.As student visa applicants remain to be in a dicey situation, reports of fraud agents have also come to light. In a statement issued to the applicants, VFS Global said, “Customers are advised to beware of fraudulent entities who charge fees from customers for scheduling appointments using VFS Global’s name or independently,” British Deputy High Commission, too, issued an advisory about visa fraudsters.In a thread on Twitter on Wednesday, the British Deputy High Commission (BDHC) listed tips to avoid visa scams and stressed that UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) and visa outsourcing and technology services specialist, VFS Global, would never ask customers to share personal information via social media, and said scammers could use this for online trickery.Pointing out that UKVI or VFS would never ask for visa payments by email or phone, it said that one should pay for visa application online and if there were any suspicions or incidents, it should be reported on the link https://actionfraud.police.uk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/canadian-commission-comes-to-aid-of-student-visa-applicants-101627670233785.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi University cutoffs set to soar as over 70,000 score over 95%||With over 220,000 students scoring 90% or more marks -- over 70,000 of them securing 95% or more -- in the Central Board of Secondary Education Class 12 results announced on Friday, securing a seat in Delhi University (DU) this year will become all the more difficult as DU officials anticipate a steep rise in the cutoff marks for most undergraduate courses.Every year, over 70% of students who take admissions to the DU are from the CBSE board.A total of 220,156 students scored 90% or more this year, as compared to 196,620 in 2020 — a jump of nearly 12%.The number of students scoring 95% or more has almost doubled to 70,004 from last year’s 38,686. However, those scoring in the 90-95% range decreased by about 5% — from 157,934 last year to 150,152 this year.It is to be noted that the number of students appearing for Class 12 assessment has also increased — from 1,192,961 to 1,369,745 this year.In 2019, when the board managed to conduct exams for all papers without hindrance, 94,299 students scored in the 90-95% range while 17,693 students scored above 95%. The number of high scorers jumped by over 96% between 2019 and 2021 – indicating the impact of the revised assessment schemes on board results.For the past two academic sessions, the board devised an alternative assessment pattern to evaluate Class 12 students, as exam schedules were interrupted or disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic and the February 2020 riots in north-east Delhi. While all exams for classes 10 and 12 were scrapped this year on account of the second wave of the pandemic, in 2020, the board cancelled exams of 23 Class 12 papers in view of Covid-19 and the February riots.Several school administrators said the jump in pass percentage was mainly due to the 30% weightage given to class 10 and 11 scores. Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Group of Schools, said the results this year, too, are a continuation of the trend of high scores. “Also in previous years, the actual pass percentage was without the compartment exam results. This year, students who could have got compartment did not because 60% of their marks came from class 10 and 11 scores, which they already cleared, and their best scores were taken. Another reason for an increase in top scorers is that internal test scores and practicals were used to calculate results. Students generally do better in unit tests,” he said.Several educationists said the criteria were more empathetic this time. Ameeta Wattal, former principal of Springdales, Pusa Road, said, “The jump in scores is due to the revised marking scheme. But in the prevailing scenario, the assessment criteria were the best possible outcome and there was no other way. The board had formed a strict moderation policy for a holistic assessment of students.”The increase in pass percentage and the number of top scorers may affect the cutoffs for undergraduate courses in Delhi University, which are likely to come out by the second week of September. Former dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said, “The increase in pass percentage was expected. The number of high scorers nearly doubling was unexpected. Colleges will face challenges in deciding cutoffs and may have to decide on whether to leave seats empty or risk over-admissions.”In Delhi University, colleges are supposed to give admission to all applicants who meet the announced cutoffs; there is no “first come first served” policy. Several times, colleges have to increase seats to accommodate all eligible students. The university will begin registrations for undergraduate courses from August 2.Rajeev Gupta, chairperson of admissions, said, “If (pass) percentage has increased this year, it will also impact the cutoffs. But several entrance examinations are also in the pipeline. Once those examinations are conducted and certain students move out, that too will impact our admissions.”Miranda House principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said, “Cutoffs in popular courses will increase as per our calibration. In certain subjects, cutoffs may remain the same as per the choices of students. We will also be analysing the admissions data of previous years to ascertain the more popular courses.”Hindu College principal Anju Shrivastava said they are waiting for admissions data to analyse how many top scorers have applied for different courses over the years. “The first cutoffs will be on the higher side. As far as cutoffs of 100% are concerned, we have to see how many students scoring above 99% have applied and take a call accordingly,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-cutoffs-set-to-soar-as-over-70-000-score-over-95-101627670231336.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court seeks report on illegal constructions near Qutub Minar||The Delhi high court has directed the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to submit a report on unauthorised properties being built in the vicinity of Qutub Minar, while ordering its commissioner to hold to account officers who permitted these constructions.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva also directed the civic body to ensure that none of the illegally constructed properties are permitted to be occupied, if not already occupied, and asked for the deputy commissioner (south zone) to be present before the court on August 20, the next date of hearing.“Let a status report along with complete details of properties which have come up in the vicinity of the Qutub Minar unauthorisedly be filed, along with action taken, supported by the photographs.The directions were passed on a petition by one Rinku Kaushik, who alleged vast illegal and unauthorised colonies being developed on a plot adjoining Qutub Minar, a world heritage site, and that several multi-storey buildings are being built at Mehrauli.He contended that in spite of repeated directions by the court, SDMC permitted illegal and unauthorised construction to be carried out. While SDMC said that demolition action has already taken place, the court observed that further construction has nonetheless been carried out and some of the buildings were in the process of being occupied.“The judicial observations made last year on SDMC’s response to the illegal construction being insufficient seem to have been fortified,” the court said. Last year, SDMC in its Action Taken Report said that it has undertaken a demolition action with respect to some structures in the area. The court had however said that the “isolated punctures in walls or roofs are insufficient” and if the structure was illegal, “it would have to be brought down”.The court had observed that all the structures were in the vicinity of the Qutub Minar and it was imperative that the ambience of the area be maintained, especially in view of the strictly prohibited and regulated construction near protected monuments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-seeks-report-on-illegal-constructions-near-qutub-minar-101627670231920.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Water level breaches danger mark in the Yamuna||The water level in the Yamuna breached the danger mark on Friday following heavy rainfall and water discharge from Haryana.The water level recorded at Delhi’s Old Yamuna Bridge at 9pm on Friday was 205.59 metres, above the danger mark of 205.33 metres.According to officials of Irrigation and Flood Control Department (I&FC), the water level started rising on Thursday, reaching close to the warning level of 204.50 metres.“At 8 pm on Friday, the water level touched 205.58 metres after Haryana released 37,109 cusecs of water from the Hathnikund Barrage at 6pm,” said a senior I&FC official.Flood control officials, however, said that releasing high volume of water from Hathnikund is usual during the monsoon, especially when heavy rainfall in the hilly regions threatens to raise the water above the dam’s capacity.“Water is released into the barrage every four hours. On a regular basis, only 350 cusecs of water is released. During the monsoon, because of higher volume of water in the barrage coupled with rainfall in the hilly regions, more water is released, which leads to a surge in the Yamuna. It takes about 36 to 72 hours for the released water to reach Delhi. We are continuously monitoring the water levels,” the official said.Rajendra Kumar, SDM (Preet Vihar) and nodal officer for flood control, said that a flood alert has been sounded in the low-lying areas along the Yamuna and announcements are being made through loudspeakers in motor boats and e-rickshaws, to alert those living close to the embankments. Evacuation operations will begin if water level rises further, officials said.“All agencies concerned with providing rescue and relief have been put on alert. Also, preparations are underway for erecting tents if required. Keeping in mind the precautionary measures for Covid-19, in case people have to be evacuated, we will shift them to schools and provide all necessities,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-level-breaches-danger-mark-in-the-yamuna-101627670171930.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Moderate three-hour spell of rain in Delhi hits traffic, causes waterlogging||In what was nearly a repeat of Thursday’s sequence of events, a moderate three-hour spell of rain on Friday left major stretches across Delhi inundated, and brought traffic to a standstill,The Capital received a bulk of 42.8mm rainfall on Wednesday between 2.30pm and 5.30pm, enough to throw a spanner in the city’s flood and traffic management systems, which have repeatedly been overwhelmed by the short, but intense spells of rain that Delhi has received over the past few years.The maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung, considered representative for Delhi’s weather, was 32 degrees Celsius, two below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 24.5°C, three below normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that there is a forecast of ‘moderate’ showers on 31 as well. “Patchy rainfall will continue even after that and a heavy spell in parts of the city is expected on August 2. The monsoon trough is persisting in Delhi and hence more showers are likely over the next couple of days. This will also keep the temperature in check,” he said.Delhi saw a similar sight on Thursday as well, when an intense spell of showers between 2.30pm and 5.30pm left many roads flooded and commuters stranded.Over the last decade, the Capital has been receiving shorter and more intense spells of rain, weather scientists have said, a change in monsoon patterns that is the primary reason behind increasing instances of urban flooding and flash floods in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).Rainfall data maintained by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune shows that in the 1980s and 1990s, in July, Delhi used to record 15-20 rainy days on an average. This has, in the last decade, reduced to eight to 10 days.In line with this pattern, Delhi got a 100mm spell of rain in a three-hour span on Tuesday morning, inundating low-lying areas and key arterial stretches, and confirming this as the wettest July in Delhi since 2003. So far this month, Delhi has received over 506mm. The Capital’s wettest July on record was in 2003, when it received 632.2mm of rain.Many commuters posted photos of inundated roads and crawling traffic.Delhi traffic police data showed that a host of vital arterial stretches, including Vikas Marg, IP College to Mall Road (both carriageways), Signature Bridge to Yamuna Vihar, Dhaula Kuan, both ends of Nizamuddin flyover, Zakir Hussain Marg, AIIMS flyover, Geeta Colony and Laxmi Nagar, among others.“There was a long jam near Saket Metro station, as vehicles crawled through the waterlogged road. Every time it rains, it becomes a struggle,” tweeted Shalini Iyer, a commuter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moderate-three-hour-spell-of-rain-in-delhi-hits-traffic-causes-waterlogging-101627669996335.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||UP Board to declare high school, inter results today||The UP Board high school (class 10) and intermediate (class 12) results will be declared on Saturday.The results will be uploaded on the board’s website at 3pm, said director secondary education, Vinay Kumar Pandey.The state government had cancelled the Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad’s high school (Class 10) and intermediate (class 12) board exams in view of the Covid-19 situation.The CBSE Board too had cancelled its class 10 and 12 exams.With exams scrapped, the has board adopted a methodology to give marks.For intermediate students, the board will consider 50% marks obtained in class 10, then 40% in class 11 and the remaining 10% obtained by students in the pre-board examination of class 12.Likewise in high school, 50% marks will be calculated on the basis of total marks obtained in class 9 and 50% of marks scored in class 10 pre-board.A total of 56,04,628 candidates had registered for high school and intermediate examinations.For high school examination, 29,94,312 candidates were registered of which 29,74,487 (99.34%) were regular students and 19,825 were enrolled as private candidates. Similarly in intermediate, 26,10,316 students were registered. Of these, 25,17,658 were regular and 92,658 were private students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-board-to-declare-high-school-inter-results-today-101627669931335.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||Seven high-tech townships likely in five UP cities||Seven new high-tech townships are likely to come up in five UP cities as the state government has renewed licence of seven developers. The then state government had approved high-tech township policy in 2003. But in January 2010, the then state government scrapped it. Now, the Yogi government has renewed their licences. These developers have submitted detailed project reports to the housing department. These townships will come up in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Mathura-Vrindavan, Bulandshahr and Prayagraj. Till then, large number of people had invested in some of the high-tech townships. However, the policy was scrapped leaving investors in the lurch. Now after renewal of the policy, around 50,000 people are expected to benefit from these seven housing projects. In these high-tech townships, flats, plots, row houses and commercial establishments will come up. “The state government has renewed licence of developers for seven high-tech townships in five cities. The developers have submitted revised DPRs of the projects. These projects will benefit around 50,000 people,” said a senior official of the Housing Board. Three promoters have applied for licence with the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) for the likely Lucknow townships. “Proposals have come up for three integrated townships in Lucknow. However, proposals are yet to be finalised,” said Nitin Mittal, the chief town planner, LDA. According to LDA officials, these townships will be of 28 acres, 112 acres and 210 acres respectively.After this proposal, three private developers applied for the licence. Clearance for these three townships may take some time as new LDA vice-chairman Akshay Tripathi will take a final decision only after going through all the details of these projects, said those familiar with the matter.Earlier this month, three firms gave separate presentations before the Lucknow Development Authority for preparing the city development plan. The development authority on July 3 this year had invited proposal for preparing a “vision implementation and integrated infrastructure plan” for overall development of Lucknow. Contenders for the project are Arinem Consultancy Services, Skyline Architectural Consultant and Rudrabhishek Enterprises Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/seven-high-tech-townships-likely-in-five-up-cities-101627669811318.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Heated debate in Delhi assembly over GNCTD Act||The two-day Monsoon session of the Delhi assembly ended on Friday with a charged debate on the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, which gives overarching powers to the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) in the day-to-day functioning of the Capital.While leaders of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) argued that the law – also called the GNCTD Act – is “unconstitutional” and “anti-democracy”, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) asserted that the law did not weaken the powers of the Delhi Assembly.“The GNCTD Act is anti-democracy. It is like a colonial law which gave all powers of governance to the Viceroy. The BJP has failed to understand that the law is not in their interest as well in the long-term… Demanding a law that makes it mandatory for all executive files to be cleared by the L-G is unfair. I condemn such a law,” said Delhi minister Satyendar Jain, who is in charge of health, home, power and urban development.Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha said, “The GNCTD law makes elected governments impotent in administrative and legislative terms. In a few years, other parties can have a majority in this Assembly, including the BJP. This law is a major attack on federalism… This law violates the Supreme Court judgment in 2018 which clearly said that Delhi will be governed by the elected government and the lieutenant governor cannot interfere in any fashion other than domains of land, public order and police.”“It reduces this House into a mere debating society,” said Chadha.The law was notified in Delhi on April 27, after being passed in both houses of Parliament the previous month. While the AAP and other Opposition parties across the country criticised the law, the Centre claimed it promotes “harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further defines the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court.”According to the controversial act, the “government” in Delhi would mean L-G in the context of all legislations to be passed by the state assembly. This, according to the Centre, is consistent with the Delhi’s status as a Union Territory to address the ambiguities in the interpretation of the legislative provisions.Dismissing the AAP’s allegations, BJP MLA Vijender Gupta said, “The GNCTD Act does not reduce the power of the Assembly in any way. We fail to understand why the AAP wants to bring up the issue after eight months. Also, no committee of the Delhi Assembly has been nullified… The GNCTD Act asks that rules of the Assembly committees should be in line with rules that apply in the Lok Sabha. The law prohibits interference on day-to-day administrative work.”The law makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive action in the city. It also bars Delhi government from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. Any rule made till this act comes into effect will be void, according to the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heated-debate-in-delhi-assembly-over-gnctd-act-101627669751965.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Two found dead in locked Rohini flat, one with hands tied with live wire||The decomposing bodies of a 40-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman were found under mysterious circumstances -- the man’s hands were tied with a live electric wire; the woman’s body lay next, touching him -- in a locked flat in outer Delhi’s Rohini Sector 34 on Thursday. The bodies were found on Thursday after a neighbour informed the police about a foul smell.Investigators suspect a murder-suicide and are waiting for a post-mortem report from a government hospital, where the bodies are currently preserved.“Prime facie, it appears that the man first killed the woman, a music teacher, and then electrocuted himself by tying his hands with a live wire connected with the ceiling fan. The ceiling fan was switched on and current was flowing through his body,” said a senior police officer.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that the police control room received a call about a foul smell coming from a flat in Rohini Sector 34.A police team found that the flat was locked from inside, following which the fire department team was called to break open the door. Inside, they found the two bodies lying on the floor.“Since the deaths did not look natural, we called the electricity department and crime spot investigation teams along with forensic experts to inspect the spot and collect necessary evidence. Later, the bodies were shifted to a government hospital and an enquiry was initiated,” said the officer.Police did not identify the deceased but said that they hailed from Bihar and had moved into the flat on July 25.“The man had gone to his hometown on May 22 while the woman had left for Bihar on July 22. They both returned to Delhi on July 24 and shifted to the flat a day later. Some neighbours heard a verbal spat between them on the morning of July 27. What happened after the quarrel is not known,” the officer added.Police said the man, who allegedly had two failed marriages and a case filed by one of his former wives, was under psychiatric treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-found-dead-in-locked-rohini-flat-one-with-hands-tied-with-live-wire-101627669691286.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||Doctors should be given Bharat Ratna: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday in the Delhi assembly said that doctors across the country should collectively be awarded the Bharat Ratna — the highest civilian award in India — this year for their service to the people of the country during the Covid-19 pandemic.The assembly on Friday, in the second and last day of the Monsoon session, unanimously passed a resolution that said the Delhi government will this year nominate only doctors and paramedic staff in the Capital for the Padma awards. To this effect, Kejriwal also said the Delhi government has so far received 2,100 nominations from the public, three days after it launched an e-mail address for residents to send their recommendations for the awards.“It is our responsibility to deliver a message of respect to doctors, paramedics and health care workers for the service they have rendered during the Covid-19 pandemic. We arranged five-star hotels for doctors. I think, we were the first such government. In Delhi, we decided that all orders regarding Covid-19 management would be issued after due consultation with doctors and the medical fraternity. So, none of our orders faced any protest. We got full cooperation,” said Kejriwal in his speech at the assembly on Friday.“Every year, the central government invites nominations from states for Padma awards. We have decided to recommend names of only doctors and paramedic staff… We have received 2,100 nominations from general public in three days of launching an email address for taking public opinion. Doctor can nominate themselves too. This house also recommends that doctors from across the country should collectively be awarded the Bharat Ratna as a community.”On July 5, Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to consider awarding the Bharat Ratna collectively to the doctors’ community in India. On July 27, he announced that the Delhi government will nominate only doctors and health care workers this year for the country’s second, third and fourth highest civilian awards — Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan — to honour their contribution in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.Friday’s motion on Bharat Ratna and Padma Awards for the medical fraternity was proposed in the Assembly by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj. He said: “Delhi would not have survived its worst of peaks only because of doctors and health care workers… The risk that doctors have taken in Delhi is unimaginable.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also the leader of the opposition in the assembly, said, “We support the proposal by Mr Bharadwaj. But we request CM Arvind Kejriwal to make the list more inclusive. Safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) were entrusted with disposal of waste from residences of Covid-19 patients in home isolation. And many such workers died of Covid-19. We request that we should think of the safai karmcharis too when we talk about doctors and paramedics. Similarly, there are lift operators, teachers, police officers who were deployed on Covid-19 duty. All of them should be included in the Padma awards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doctors-should-be-given-bharat-ratna-kejriwal-101627669631923.html
31-07-2021||Delhi||An academic year like no other comes to an end||From being unable to attend school in person for most of the year to having to rely on online learning — an exercise that brought to the fore a glaring digital divide among students — the class of 2020-21 has been unlike any other till date. There were other novelties too. The academic session went on for 16 months — from end-March 2020 to end-July 2021— on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the batch became the first to graduate without appearing for the Board exams, which were cancelled also on account of the pandemic.The year, in short, was challenging not just for teachers and students but also for education officials, including Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) employees and school principals, who had to evolve and adapt to the “new normal”.Principals and teachers across several schools said that the entire academic year was rife with uncertainties over the conduct of exams and the online teaching-learning process.Mena Mittle, vice-principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said, “Teachers had to extend constant support to students during the year; there was so much uncertainty over the cancellation of exams and even the exam pattern. The pandemic also heaped a lot of stress on students for whom the future appeared quite uncertain. They were unable to interact with their peers or teachers in their final year of school.”Due to the revised assessment policy devised by the board, in the absence of board examinations, schools had their work cut out for them while tabulating scores as they had to feed in marks of students while keeping the moderation policy in mind.Before the pandemic, the board was responsible for tabulating results through head examiners and nodal centres.“While the portal (developed by CBSE to upload marks) calculated the weightage of marks accordingly, schools had to feed in marks and ensure that the moderation system was implemented. The high pass percentage this year is also because around 60% weightage was given to class 10 and 11 scores of students,” Mittle said.Deepa Chugh, a class 12 coordinator at The Indian School, who teaches political science, said teachers too struggled with the changes but managed to learn new ways of teaching in the process. “Connecting with students was difficult in the past year because not all could get their cameras on during online classes. Face-to-face interactions help us assess whether a student is understanding concepts or not, and structure our classes accordingly.”However, Chugh noted that students who could have scored a perfect 100 in a written exam were unable to do so this time. “We couldn’t give them 100 because of the Class 10 results which was already calculated by CBSE and put on the website. CBSE did not allow us to increase their marks to 100. We could do a maximum moderation of only one or two marks,” she said.The Class 12 theory papers were initially slated to begin in May and end by June 14 but due to the second wave of Covid-19, the board cancelled class 10 and 12 exams, surrendering to growing demands from parents and other stakeholders.On June 17, the board announced a revised assessment scheme devised by a 13-member committee which gave 30% weightage each to scores from classes 10 and 11, and 40% weightage to class 12 internal tests, including unit test, mid-terms and pre-boards.The board also formulated a strict moderation policy and a results committee monitored the process to ensure standardisation of process across schools, and no inflation of marks by schools.CBSE officials conducted several webinars with school officials to explain the moderation policy in detail and reduce any errors. The board also created a portal for schools to fill in the scores of students, and it would automatically adjust the final scores as per the norms.Dr Sanyam Bhardwaj, controller of examinations, CBSE, said that the comprehensive result compilation and tabulation system built by the board not only helped schools in verifying the Class 10 information but also in uploading the class 11 and 12 scores. “The system guided schools for moderation at every step, so that schools do not commit an error and are aware of the permissible moderation limit,” stated Bhardwaj.In the absence of board exams and admit cards, the education board also devised another portal for students to fill in their details and obtain a roll number to check their results this year.Kunal Singh, 18, a student of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Nand Nagri, who scored an aggregate of 91%, said he was happy with the result. “Studying remotely for an entire year is not easy. From network issues to problems with audio and video quality, there were several disruptions. Despite these obstacles, we gave our best,” said Singh, who plans to pursue his graduation in computer science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/an-academic-year-like-no-other-comes-to-an-end-101627669152039.html
31-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath orders transport dept to act against overloaded inter-state buses in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked the transport department to check the operation of unauthorised and ramshackle inter-state buses. He also asked them to take stern action in all such instances where these buses were overloaded.The chief minister said that it had come to notice that many unauthorised buses were being operated inter-state and they were ramshackle and overloaded.“The transport department must stop the operation of such buses. Check their permits and documents and go tough on overloading,” he said at a Covid-19 review meeting in Lucknow.Two days ago, in the early hours of Wednesday (July 28), 18 people died and 30 others were injured when a truck rammed into an overloaded bus which had broken down near Ram Sanehi Ghat in Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh. The bus was on its way from Palwal (Haryana) to Bihar with labourers returning home. There were about 140 labourers on the bus. Many of them were resting near or under the bus at the time of the accident. A majority of the victims were crushed in their sleep.No active Covid-19 case in nine districtsThe chief minister also said the state now had 729 active Covid-19 cases and there were nine districts without any active case.“Today, as many as nine districts in the state have no Covid active case. The total active cases in the state are 729. The Covid-19 situation is somewhat similar to the one in the initial days of the pandemic in the state last year. Aligarh, Amroha, Basti, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Kaushambi, Mahoba and Shravasti are the districts without any active case. None of the UP districts has reported fresh cases in double digits, while 20 reported fresh cases in single digit,” Yogi said.He said 2.44 lakh Covid-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours across the state and only 42 tested positive for Covid while 91 patients recovered.The 24-hour positivity rate in the state was 0.01% and the recovery rate 98.6%, he said.None tests positive after contact tracing in KanpurThe chief minister also referred to the state government’s intensive contact tracing of 22 Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Kanpur on Wednesday.Yogi said a total of 1,400 contacts were traced and tested. None of them tested positive, he said.He also said the vaccination drive was going on smoothly. So far, the state has administered a total of 4.67 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, he said.Yogi asks DMs to keep an eye on ambulance servicesThe chief minister also mentioned the ambulance services (the staff of the 102 and 108 ambulance services are on strike currently). He said all the patients who seek an ambulance must get one as per need. Under no circumstances, the patients or their kin must face any harassment or hardship, he said.The district magistrates should keep an eye on the operation of ambulance services, he said. He reiterated: “In case of any unfortunate incident of death of any patient because of an ambulance not being provided, then those responsible are sure to face the strictest of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-orders-action-against-overloaded-inter-state-buses-in-uttar-pradesh-101627667111999.html
31-07-2021||Pune||Pune metro’s trail run in Kothrud a success; commercial ops this November: Maha-Metro||Friday, July 30 is the day the Pune Metro finally got on the track for an official public trial. Maha-Metro believes that commercial operations will begin from November this year and took a major step in that direction with the trail run of the Pune Metro between Vanaz and Ideal colony in Kothrud on Friday morning. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar flagged off the run in the presence of Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol (BJP) and Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe.Maha-Metro’s managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “We are planning to start commercial operations by November this year on priority sections. Vanaz to Garware stretch is 75 per cent complete and PCMC to Kasarwadi is ready. The commercial operations would happen on these two sections.”Three metro coaches made the trial run on Friday and over the next few days, further technical drives will be made.Speaking at the test run Ajit Pawar said, “Considering Covid-19, we took held this trial run early in the morning to avoid crowds. Pune Metro has been completed in record speed and will serve citizens soon. It will be one more attraction in the city.”Pune Mayor Mohol said, “A dream has come true as the Metro runs in the city.”With the BJP in power at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the plan is to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the inauguration, which the BJP hopes to have before the municipal elections later in the year.Not to be left out of the euphoria, the Congress also issued a statement on Friday, saying, “The metro was approved in our tenure. We gave the nod for it.” The NCP has claimed that Sharad Pawar and Ajit Pawar pushed the project through, while the BJP adds, “The project work started in our tenure and we successfully built the metro in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-s-trail-run-in-kothrud-a-success-commercial-ops-this-nov-mahametro-101627659910740.html
31-07-2021||Pune||Pune civic body sees sharp fall in mosquito-related infections in 2020-21 than previous year||With the city battling Covid cases, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) environmental report for 2021, released on Friday, finds fewer cases of mosquito-related infections in 2020-21 as compared to the previous year. The report states that the number of dengue, malaria and chikungunya cases fell drastically compared to the previous year. Experts believe that the welcome figure could probably be because of the increased attention to hygiene or under-reporting of cases. As per the report, the number of dengue cases fell from 183 patients in 2020 to 31 in 2021, malaria cases dropped from 6 to just one and chikungunya cases dropped from 74 to 11 as of March 2021. The PMC health department said that they have not reported a single case of swine flu this year. All these diseases are spread via mosquitoes. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer said, “The number of these monsoon-related ailments has fallen sharply, and no swine flu cases has been reported till date this year. This could be because people are more conscience about hygiene and health during Covid times.” Dr Sanjay Dabhade, public health expert who runs an NGO Jan Aarogya Manch, which works in the field of public health said, “Concrete evidence is needed to prove co-relation between Covid and these other epidemic causing diseases. There could be broader reasons for this fall, including under-reporting of cases or even that people are not reporting these flu-like symptoms fearing isolation or hospitalisations due to covid and are resorting to self-medication or are not seeking medical advice.”  PMC sees fewer cases of mosquito-related infections in 2020-21 as compared to the previous year Disease/2019/2020/2021 Chikungunya/741/74/11 Malaria/0/6/1 Dengue/1407/183/31 *Source: PMC environment report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-sees-sharp-fall-in-mosquito-related-infections-in-2020-21-than-previous-year-101627654210303.html
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal landslides: 168 tourists stranded in Lahaul-Spiti||At least 168 tourists were stranded in Udaipur subdivision of the high-altitude Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh on Friday as heavy rain continued to batter the hill state, disrupting road traffic due to landslides.Helicopters deployed to airlift the 168 tourists in Udaipur could not make sorties due to the inclement weather. The chopper which was stationed in Annandale helipad in the morning has now been stationed at Kagnidhar helipad in Mandi.The district administration has sought assistance from the Ladakh administration to evacuate the tourists.“If the choppers do not fly from Mandi due to weather conditions, attempts will be made to send them to Sissu in choppers requisitioned from the Ladakh administration,” Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said.Three days after three people were swept away in a rivulet while trying to help an army vehicle cross Tozing Nullah, the Lahaul-Spiti DC said, “Teams of Border Roads Organisation, National Disaster Response Force, police, home guards and public works department continued with the search operation though none of them have been able to trace the three yet.”On Tuesday night, 12 people got washed away in a flash flood in Tozing Nullah. While two of them were rescued, seven bodies were recovered the day after but three people are still missing.The district administration has asked for sniffer dogs from police and the NDRF to trace the missing persons. “Police is sending sniffers dogs from Hamirpur,” he said.Teams of emergency workers on Friday rescued about 150 people who were stranded on Udiapur side of the bridge on Shansha Nullah. The rescued people were taken to Kriting from where they will be sent to Keylong in an HRTC bus. Tribal development minister Ramlal Markanda supervised the rescue operation. Markanda said work was on full swing to restore the roads in district damaged due to flashfloods. Chandigarh-Manali highway blockedAccording to the state emergency operation cell, the Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked due to a landslide at 7-Miles near Pandoh. The single lane has been opened for traffic and efforts are on to clear the debris.The Paonta Sahib-Shillai-Gumma-Hatkoti highway (NH 707) was also closed for traffic after a stretch of the road caved in after a landslide at Bar in Kamrau tehsil. Commuters had a narrow escape. In Lahaul-Spiti, two people were injured when their car met with an accident at Tindi in Udaipur. The injured were hospitalised where the condition one of them is said to be critical.Naina Devi in Bilaspur gets heavy rainHimachal Pradesh has been experiencing heavy rainfall over the past one week with several parts of the state receiving torrential showers in the last 24 hours.Naina Devi in Bilaspur was the wettest with 124.8mm of rainfall followed by Mandi recording 98.5mm and Jatton Barrage 52.6mm of rainfall. Paonta Sahib got 47.4mm of rainfall, Kangra 26.5mm, Shimla 26.2mm, Jubbar Hatti 24mm and Dharamshala 23.2mm.Inclement weather till August 4The toll in rain-related incidents has risen to 209 since the onset of monsoon in Himachal Pradesh on June 13, the state disaster management authority said, adding that 11 people are still missing.The meteorological department in Shimla has issued a yellow alert of heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning till August 2 at isolated places in 10 districts except for Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti. The inclement weather will continue till August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-landslides-175-tourists-stranded-in-lahaulspiti-101627631169162.html
31-07-2021||World||Xi demands rapid modernisation of PLA ahead of China’s army day||Chinese president Xi Jinping said that the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) ‘commands the gun’ and asked the military to make resolute efforts to transform China’s army into the world’s best army by 2027 on par with the US army. Xi’s comments come on the eve of China’s army day and are a reiteration of what was decided during the plenary session of the CPC in October 2020.Xi while addressing a group study session of the CPC Political Bureau on Saturday asked the army to build the determination to work hard and achieve the goal set for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) which celebrates its 100 years in 2027. He said that the goal is in alignment with national strength and it fulfils the future national defence needs of China.Xi heads the powerful Central Military Commission (CMC) which is the overall high command of the Chinese military. He also emphasised on holding military exercises in real battle conditions to win wars and rapid modernisation of the PLA.The Chinese president punished over 50 top generals besides a host of mid-rung officials as it held a massive anti-corruption drive after coming to power. On Saturday, he extended regards to officers, soldiers and civilian personnel of the PLA and the People's Armed Police Force. This meeting comes ahead of the 94th anniversary of the PLA on Sunday.Xi also highlighted during the meeting that these goals set by him are necessary to ‘build a modern socialist country’.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-demands-rapid-modernisation-of-pla-ahead-of-china-s-army-day-101627752943558.html
31-07-2021||World||Pulse oximeters to monitor Covid-19 work less well for darker skin, UK warns||Britain's state-run healthcare service warned Saturday that devices used by people with Covid to monitor blood-oxygen levels at home may give inaccurate readings for people with darker skin.The warning concerned pulse oximeters, currently being used by many of those at risk of severe Covid symptoms to check their blood-oxygen levels. Below a certain reading, they need to be hospitalised.The NHS, the UK state-funded health service, supplies them to those with virus symptoms, aged over 65 or clinically vulnerable.The NHS said in a statement that "there have been reports that pulse oximeters can be less accurate for people with darker skin because they may show higher readings of the oxygen level in the blood".The devices, clipped on to a finger, work by shining a light through a person's skin to measure the level of oxygen in the blood.Updated guidance for virus sufferers on the main NHS website now warns: "There have been some reports they may be less accurate if you have brown or black skin."They may show readings higher than the level of oxygen in your blood."But the important thing is to check regularly whether to see if they are going down, it adds.Habib Naqvi, director of the NHS Race and Health Observatory, said the issue affected "black (and) Asian diverse communities".Members of ethnic minorities, particularly Black Africans and Bangladeshi, have suffered the highest death rates from the virus in Britain.The death toll from Covid in the United Kingdom stood at 129,583 Saturday, one of the highest in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pulse-oximeters-to-monitor-covid-work-less-well-for-darker-skin-uk-warns-101627752992737.html
31-07-2021||World||Millions of Americans at risk of eviction as Covid-19 cases spike||Millions of Americans face could find themselves homeless starting Sunday as a nationwide ban on evictions expires, against a backdrop of surging coronavirus cases and political fingerpointing.With billions in government funds meant to help renters still untapped, President Joe Biden this week urged Congress to extend the 11-month-old moratorium, after a recent Supreme Court ruling meant the White House could not do so.But Republicans balked at Democratic efforts to extend the eviction ban through mid October, and the House of Representatives adjourned for its summer vacation Friday without renewing it.Several left-wing Democrats spent the night outside the Capitol in protest -- calling out their colleagues over the failure to act."We slept at the Capitol last night to ask them to come back and do their jobs. Today's their last chance," tweeted Congresswoman Cori Bush, who has herself experienced homelessness and was joined by fellow progressives Ilhan Omar and Ayanna Pressley.With the clock ticking down to Sunday, the country was braced for a heartbreaking spectacle -- families with their belongings at the curbside wondering where to go.One of those at risk is Terriana Clark, who was living out of a car with her husband and two stepchildren for much of last year, before finding a teaching job and an apartment in Harvey, Louisiana.Jobless again and struggling to pay rent after a bout of illness, the 27-year-old told The New Orleans Advocate she applied to a local assistance program four months ago, but is still waiting for help."If it comes, it comes. If it don't, it don't," she told the paper. "It's going to be too late for a lot of people. A lot of people are going to be outside."Up north in Michigan, Mary Hunt, who makes minimum wage driving a medical taxi, likewise fell behind on her rent on a mobile home because she got sick with Covid.She was served with eviction papers, and frets over what she will do with her stuff and her five cats and one dog."How do I choose which cats to keep? It's not going to happen. I'm not going to leave any of them behind," Hunt told National Public Radio this week."If I lose this house, then they go in the car with me. And people can think I'm a crackpot, but I'm not giving up my family," Hunt said.- Covid hot spots -Unlike other pandemic-related aid that was distributed from Washington, such as stimulus checks, it was states, counties and cities that were responsible for building programs from the ground up to dole out assistance earmarked for renters.The Treasury Department said that as of June, only $3 billion in aid had reached households out of the $25 billion sent to states and localities in early February, less than three weeks after Biden took office.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) ordered the eviction moratorium in September 2020, as the world's largest economy lost over 20 million jobs amid the pandemic shutdowns. The CDC feared homelessness would boost coronavirus infections.Although more than half of those jobs were since recovered, many families still have not caught up on missed rent payments.The Census Bureau's latest Household Pulse survey showed that of 51 million renters surveyed, 7.4 million were behind on rent and nearly half of those said they risked being evicted in the next two months.Nearly 80 percent of households that are behind on their rent as of early July lived in Covid hot spots, according to a study by the Jain Family Institute."Putting people out on the street is probably not going to have good effects on community transmission rates," the institute's housing policy researcher Paul Williams told CBS MoneyWatch.- 'No excuse' - Immediately after taking over, the Biden administration had eased paperwork and eligibility requirements for an emergency rental assistance program, but it has stressed that management remains in the hands of state and local officials."There can be no excuse for any state or locality not accelerating funds to landlords and tenants that have been hurt during this pandemic," Biden warned Friday.The CDC eviction moratorium and other protections prevented an estimated 2.2 million eviction filings since March 2020, said Peter Hepburn, a research fellow at the Eviction Lab at Princeton University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-americans-at-risk-of-eviction-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101627752934993.html
31-07-2021||World||Perseids meteor shower to light up night skies in August. When and how to watch||The Perseids are set to provide one of the most impressive skywatching opportunities in mid-August when the meteor shower will light up our night skies. First spotted by Nasa’s meteor-tracking cameras this year on July 26, the Perseids will peak on August 11, giving the best chance to witness one of the biggest meteor showers of the year.Every year, the Earth passes near the path of the comet Swift-Tuttle which orbits between the Sun and beyond the orbit of Pluto. The fragments left behind by the comet show up as meteor showers in the sky. These meteor showers are called the Perseids because they appear to hail from a point that lies in the constellation Perseus.Also Read | 'Mail from Mars’ brings new images of the Red Planet. Seen viral pics yet?When and how to watch the Perseids?In the United States, the peak viewing hours will be from midnight to dawn of August 12. Nasa said in a blog post that people in the Northern Hemisphere living far away from light pollution may spot more than 40 Perseids an hour. Those in the city may see only a few every hour. The intervening night of Aug 12 will also be a great opportunity to witness the meteor shower.To watch the Perseids, people should avoid bright lights and give time to their eyes to adjust to the dark, said Nasa.The meteor shower will appear as quick, small streaks of light and those unable to see it with their naked eyes can tune in to Nasa’s live streaming on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube. The live stream will start at 10pm CDT (8.30am IST) and end at 5am CDT (3.30pm IST) overnight August 11-12. If skies are cloudy, Nasa will try live streaming, hosted by the Meteoroid Environment Office at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center, at the same time on August 12-13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/perseids-meteor-shower-to-light-up-night-skies-in-august-when-and-how-to-watch-101627752262464.html
31-07-2021||World||UK PM Boris Johnson's wife says she's pregnant again||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s wife, Carrie, said Saturday that she is expecting the couple’s second child.Carrie Johnson announced her pregnancy in a post on Instagram in which she also revealed that she suffered a miscarriage earlier this year.“At the beginning of the year, I had a miscarriage which left me heartbroken,’’ she wrote. “I feel incredibly blessed to be pregnant again, but I’ve also felt like a bag of nerves.”Johnson said she hoped to welcome her “rainbow baby” around Christmas. Rainbow baby is a term used to describe a child born after a miscarriage, still birth or the death of an infant.The 33-year-old environmental campaigner and former Conservative Party communications director said she wanted to share the news about her miscarriage to help others.“Fertility issues can be really hard for many people, particularly when on platforms like Instagram it can look like everything is only ever going well,’’ she said. “I found it a real comfort to hear from people who had also experienced loss so I hope that in some very small way sharing this might help others too.”The Johnsons married in May of this year in a private Catholic ceremony at Westminster Cathedral in London. Their first child, Wilfred, was born in April 2020.The prime minister had four children with his second wife, Marina Wheeler, and has fathered at least one child outside of his marriages.The baby will be the fourth born to a sitting British prime minister this century. Tony Blair and David Cameron’s wives also had babies while their husbands were in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-s-wife-says-she-s-pregnant-again-101627748024925.html
31-07-2021||World||Delta variant likely to spread to more regions, warns China official as 14 provinces report cases||As China is witnessing its most serious coronavirus surge in months, a senior health official has warned that the highly transmissible Delta variant is likely to spread to more regions. After an original Delta cluster was detected in Nanjing city, the outbreak has now spread to 14 provinces, with Fujian province and the megacity of Chongqing reporting cases on Saturday."The main strain circulating at present is the Delta variant... which poses an even greater challenge to virus prevention and control work," said Mi Feng, spokesperson for China's National Health Commission.The outbreak in Nanjing city has caused concerns because nine cleaners, who tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), were working at the international airport busy handling hundreds of summer tourists. He Qinghua, a senior official with the National Health Commission, told reporters that the Delta variant outbreak may continue to spread to more regions.“The Nanjing outbreak has spread to other regions within and outside Jiangsu Province. There is a risk that it will continue to spread to more regions," he was quoted as saying by the state-run Global Times.In the early days of the pandemic, China was largely successful in containing the Covid-19 outbreak within its borders after the virus spread out of Wuhan. But the fast-spreading Delta variant, first detected in India, has jeopardised the virus response. For the first time in nearly 6 months, Beijing has reported Covid-19 cases in the last few days.Reports suggest that authorities have ordered mass testing in and around the areas where the Delta variaoutbreak has been reported. Zhangjiajie, a popular tourist destination in the northwest of China's Hunan province, has ordered over 11,000 tourists to take three nucleic acid tests before leaving the city, reported state-run news agency Xinhua.China is reported to have administered 1.63 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines, the highest in the world. But the efficacy of the Chinese vaccines, especially against the Delta variant, has been a matter of concern. Several countries, including Indonesia, administering China-made vaccines have reported more breakthrough cases than those administering other vaccines.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-variant-likely-to-spread-to-more-regions-warns-china-official-as-14-provinces-report-cases-101627747142068.html
31-07-2021||World||Biden names Indian-American to head religious freedom office||President Joe Biden has nominated Rashad Hussain, an Indian-American lawyer and diplomat, as ambassador-at-large to lead the state department’s international religious freedom office, which, among other things, publishes an annual report on the state of religious freedom around the world.If confirmed by the Senate, Hussain will be the first Indian-American to head the office created in 1998 to promote respect for religious freedom as part of US foreign policy.Hussain is currently serving as director for partnerships and global engagement at the National Security Council. His previous stints in the government include a term as senior counsel at the justice department’s national security division, Obama administration’s special envoy to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), special envoy for strategic counterterrorism communications, and deputy associate in the White House counsel.The White House said in the announcement that as special envoy, Hussain has worked with multilateral organisations such as the OIC and UN, foreign governments, and civil society organisations to expand partnerships on a whole range of issues, from education to international security to science and technology.Hussain also “spearheaded efforts on countering anti-semitism and protecting religious minorities in Muslim-majority countries”.Hussain earned a J.D. from Yale Law School, and master’s degrees in public administration at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. He has also taught at Georgetown’s school of foreign service.President Biden has nominated and appointed more than 60 Indian-Americans to senior positions in his administration, from Vivek Murthy, the surgeon general, to Vinay Reddy, who heads the president’s team of speechwriters, to Kiran Ahuja to head the office of personnel to Vanita Gupta, number three at the justice department.Biden also named Khizr Khan, a Pakistani-descent American, to the US commission on international religious freedom, a body which has been extremely critical of India, lately on the Citizenship Amendment Act, and has called for the administration to declare India a country of particular concern.Khan and his wife Ghazela Khan, parents of a US army officer who was killed in the Iraq War, had become instant stars of Democratic convention in 2016 after they challenged then Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump to read the American constitution.Khan immigrated to the United States from Pakistan in 1980, and went to Harvard Law School for his LL.M degree. The White House said he is licensed to practice law before the Supreme Court of the United States, various Federal District Courts, and Washington, DC and New York State courts.Syed Afzal Ali, president of advocacy group Indian-American Muslim Council, welcomed Hussain and Khan’s appointment, saying their deep experience in “advocating for rights of minorities will further bolster religious freedom for all people, especially in India, where Muslims and Christians are facing continuous persecution due to their faith”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-names-indian-american-to-head-religious-freedom-office-101627743917318.html
31-07-2021||World||Worse impact of Delta variant on pregnant women: Health experts | 10 points||The rapid spread of the highly contagious Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 has prompted health officials to warn about its impact on pregnant women. Several top UK health officials have urged expectant mothers to get vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as soon as possible. Jacqueline Dunkley-Bent, chief midwifery officer for England, asked GPs and midwives to encourage pregnant women to “protect themselves and their babies” by getting jabbed.“I cannot emphasise more strongly how important it is for pregnant women to get vaccinated in order to protect both them and their baby," said Marian Knight, Professor at the University of Oxford and chief investigator of a research paper studying the impact of variants on the severity of maternal infection.10 things to know about the impact of Delta variant on pregnant women:1. The health officials have pointed to new data showing more than 99% of pregnant women admitted to hospital with symptomatic infection were unvaccinated.2. The study conducted by University of Oxford researchers using data from the UK Obstetric Surveillance System (UKOSS) suggested the severity of pregnant women’s illness appears to have become worse with the Delta variant.3. Out of 3371 pregnant women admitted to hospital with symptomatic Covid-19, 24% of women admitted in the first wave had the moderate or severe disease as against 36% hospitalised with the Alpha variant and 45% with the Delta variant.4. About one in 10 pregnant women admitted to hospital with Covid-19 symptoms required intensive care.5. One in five pregnant women hospitalised with symptomatic Covid-19 gave birth prematurely6. According to the vaccination data collected since February 1, 2021, only four of 742 women admitted to the hospital have received a single dose of vaccine and none have received both recommended doses.7. Pregnant women hospitalised with symptomatic Covid-19 during the virus wave driven by the Alpha variant were more likely to require respiratory support and be admitted to intensive care, compared to women admitted in the first wave, the study said.8. Those admitted during the Delta surge had a further increased risk of pneumonia compared to those admitted in the Alpha period.9. Covid-19 cases during Alpha and Delta dominant periods were associated with more severe infection and worse pregnancy outcomes10. The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) have also recommended vaccination for pregnant women or those considering pregnancy, citing consistent evidence that pregnant women with Covid-19 are more likely to be admitted to an ICU than non-pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worse-impact-of-delta-variant-on-pregnant-women-health-experts-10-points-101627742500185.html
31-07-2021||World||Former Supreme Court judge suspect in Haiti president Jovenel Moise's killing, say police||Amid an international manhunt for mercenaries and masterminds, Haiti police have brought up fresh accusations against a former Supreme Court judge over her links in the assassination of President Jovenel Moise. The police said that the judge, Wendelle Coq-Thelot, had met some Columbian mercenaries accused of killing Moise, reported news agency Reuters.Moise, who took the office a year after he was elected in 2016, had been claiming that his presidential term should end in 2022, a stance backed by the US, the UN and the Organization of American States. However, the Opposition wanted Moise to step down in February citing a constitutional provision that sets the clock when a president is elected, not when he takes office. Coq-Thelot was ousted in February along with two other judges after Moise alleged a coup was being planned against him. Earlier this week, Haitian police issued an arrest warrant against the former Supreme Court judge. Also Read | Mystery swirls around Haiti president Jovenel Moise's murderInspector General Marie Michelle Verrier, the spokesperson for the National Police of Haiti, told reporters that Colombian mercenaries and Haitian-Americans arrested in Moise's murder case have indicated they met Coq-Thelot twice at her home."These people gave to (police) details of documents signed during the meetings at Mrs. Coq's home," said Verrier.The spokesperson said that the police have raided the former judge's main home and other residences in the countryside but her whereabouts remain unknown. A wanted poster for Coq-Thelot has also been launched, according to Reuters.While Haitian police have arrested several suspected members of the "hit squad" made up of Colombians and Americans in connection with Moise's assassination, they are yet to identify the masterminds and the motive behind the killing.Colombian defence minister Diego Molano had said that at least six suspected mercenaries appear to be former Columbian soldiers. Colombian President Ivan Duque had assured interim Haitian Prime Minister Claude Joseph of his country's "collaboration in advancing the investigation."(With Reuters inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-supreme-court-judge-suspect-in-haiti-president-jovenel-moise-s-killing-say-police-101627732857954.html
31-07-2021||World||Delta surge among unvaccinated will worsen, warn experts amid record US cases||With the United States witnessing a resurgence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, health experts have warned that the spike is going to worsen, especially in the southern states where the number of unvaccinated people remains high. The US recorded the highest new Covid-19 cases worldwide over the past week as the Delta variant of coronavirus, first detected in India, is wreaking havoc across the globe.Dr Peter Hotez, co-director for the Center for Vaccine Development at Texas Children's Hospital, told CNN that the US will witness “big, steep acceleration” in infections among unvaccinated individuals. “As bad as things are right now in the South, they are about to get worse for lots of unvaccinated individuals," he said.Hotez also sounded alarm bells about the rise in pediatric intensive care unit (ICU) admissions in southern states. Data from the US department of health and human services (HHS) shows a sharp rise in children hospitalised from Covid-19 after July 14. Experts say the surge is likely due to the July 4 federal holiday.“The vulnerability I'm sounding the alarm about is in the South. In Louisiana, the variant is accelerating, kids showing up in pediatric ICUs. You've only got 17% of adolescents vaccinated, no mask mandates,” warned Hotez as schools are about to open.On Friday, the US reported nearly 100,000 new infections, of which southern states contributed the most. Authorities in Florida and Georgia have been urging the residents to get vaccinated as the Southeastern states have reported a worrying surge in Covid-19 cases. While cases in Florida jumped by 50% over the last week, the infection rate in Georgia more than tripled over the last two weeks."Unfortunately, we can expect Covid numbers to keep growing. People who are unvaccinated or skip their second dose of vaccine are targets for infection," Georgia health commissioner Kathleen E. Toomey was quoted by CNN as saying.Meanwhile, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has changed its mask guidance for fully vaccinated people, marking a reversal in policy. US President Joe Biden said “in all possibility” new restrictions would be imposed in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-surge-among-unvaccinated-will-worsen-warn-experts-amid-record-us-cases-101627731293403.html
31-07-2021||World||US Delta surge prolongs India, UK travellers' wait for entry. All you need to know||As the world reported a 21% rise in deaths related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases over the past week, the US travel restrictions on India, the UK, EU member states, and other countries severely impacted by the pandemic are not going to ease anytime soon. Not only has the United States indicated to maintain its existing entry restrictions due to a surge in Delta variant cases, but it also issued new advisories this week for some popular destinations in the world.The US state department asked citizens to not travel to Spain, Portugal, Cyprus, Kyrgyzstan, and the Central African Republic after the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention raised its risk assessment level for these countries to ‘Level 4’, the highest on travel alert. The department has changed the advisory for Israel, The West Bank and Gaza to ‘Reconsider Travel’.Entry restrictionsIn April, US President Joe Biden issued a proclamation suspending entry of nonimmigrants who were present in India during the 14‑day period preceding their entry or attempted entry into the United States as the country was witnessing a deadly second Covid wave driven by the Delta variant.Similar proclamations have been issued over time to suspend entry of nonimmigrants travelling from China, Iran, the UK, Ireland, Brazil, South Africa, and EU member states.Also Read | These countries have extended travel ban on IndiaOn Monday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that the US will maintain existing travel restrictions “at this point” due to the Delta variant spread around the world.While the Biden administration has been under pressure from the travel industry to lift restrictions, Psaki said that the travel policies are going to be guided by the CDC and health experts."It would be actually surprising and odd if our health and medical experts were not having ... an active discussion about how to ... best protect the American people," she added.The surge in Delta cases threatening to derail the Biden administration’s Covid-19 response prompted the CDC to change the mask guidance for fully vaccinated people. Biden said “in all probability” new restrictions would be imposed in the US to contain the infections. These latest developments mean tourists from India and other countries facing restrictions may have to wait a bit longer than earlier expected to enter the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-long-india-uk-eu-travellers-have-to-wait-to-enter-us-all-you-need-to-know-101627725463346.html
31-07-2021||World||'Epic is right': Elon Musk slams Apple's app store fees||Tesla chief executive and billionaire Elon Musk supported the move of a gaming company challenging the removal of its application by Apple from its app store. Musk slammed the tech giant's app store fees, calling them a “global tax on the internet”."Apple app store fees are a de facto global tax on the Internet. Epic is right," Musk said in a tweet.Apple app store fees are a de facto global tax on the Internet. Epic is right.The issue came to focus after Epic Games, the maker of 'Fortnite', alleged that the iPhone maker has abused its dominance in the market for mobile apps. It even filed a lawsuit against Apple last year.Epic broke Apple's rules when it introduced its own in-app payment system in 'Fortnite' to circumvent Apple's commissions. The tech giant subsequently removed the game from its app store.Apple has so far not responded to the development, but the company has defended its app store practices both in court and to lawmakers in hearings."Actually, I like & use Apple products. They are just obviously overcharging with App Store. I mean 30% fees for doing almost zero incremental work is completely unreasonable. Epic wouldn’t bother processing their own payments if App Store fees were fair," he further said on Twitter."Normally, competitive pressure would force Apple to lower fees, but Apple & Android have a duopoly on phones. When interface familiarity is taken into account, it’s basically a monopoly," the Tesla CEO said while replying to a user on Twitter.In a subsequent tweet, Musk said that the effective 30 per cent sales tax Apple charges is hidden from users or there would be an outcry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/epic-is-right-elon-musk-slams-apple-s-app-store-fees-101627711846203.html
31-07-2021||World||Canada could be on cusp of fourth wave of Covid-19: Health authorities||Canadian health authorities have warned the country could be on the cusp of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, driven by the Delta variant.Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam said that their latest modelling, which was released on Friday, “suggests that we are the start of a Delta-driven fourth wave”.Canada recorded 462 new cases of Covid-19 infections on Friday, an increase of over two-third over the numbers recorded two weeks earlier.Tam cautioned that the country was in a “precarious period”, having to maintain the fine balance between vaccination levels and reopening.Overall, 81% of the eligible population in the country has received one dose of a vaccine, while 66% are fully jabbed. But the more transmissible Delta variant means that those numbers may have to climb further to avoid the fourth wave. Cumulative cases could reach 1,441,610 on August 8, from the current 1,430,046, according to the modelling. The modelling document stated Delta is the “most transmissible variant to date” and Canada has recorded a five-fold increase in proportion of Delta cases in June.It also stated that the majority of Delta cases in Canada were in unvaccinated or partially vaccinated people and two vaccine doses were “needed for strong protection against variants of concern”.That is also borne out by the infection trend data: 89.7% of new cases were reported in the unvaccinated population, just 0.5% in those fully vaccinated, and 4.6% in those partially vaccinated, and 5.3% in those not yet protected, meaning they had yet to complete 14 days since getting inoculated. Similarly, those unvaccinated accounted for 84.9% of hospitalisations as against just 0.7% for the fully vaccinated.With several provinces shedding Covid-19 restrictions, there is concern reopening too hastily could result in a sharp spike by September, precipitating the fourth wave. The document noted, “The longer term forecast predicts stronger resurgence if community-wide contact rates increase too quickly, highlighting the need for ongoing caution.”In recent weeks, Delta has displaced Alpha as the principal variant of concern causing new cases. According to official data, for the week ending July 4, Delta accounted for 76.5% of variant-driven cases, a figure that has been rising gradually.The document released on Friday also underscored the reality related to the Delta variant, that there was reduced effectiveness against symptomatic infection after one dose, though there was only a “small reduction” after both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-could-be-on-cusp-of-fourth-wave-of-covid-19-health-authorities-101627710855191.html
31-07-2021||World||Indian truck driver jailed in US for money laundering, firearms offences||An Indian truck driver in the US has been sentenced to 15 months in prison and fined USD 4,710 for money laundering and firearm offences, according to the Department of Justice.Lovepreet Singh of Indiana pleaded guilty in March to one count of money laundering, it said.He admitted to receiving and transmitting money obtained by his co-defendants as a result of the fraud scheme, and one count of unlawful possession of a firearm, it said.Singh, who worked as a truck driver, was sentenced to 15 months in prison and filed USD 4,710 in restitution for money laundering and firearms offences, the Department of Justice said on Friday.According to the indictment and testimony in court, beginning in 2015 and continuing through 2018, Singh conspired with nine other defendants, located across the US and India, to commit the federal offences of wire fraud, mail fraud, and bank fraud in addition to offences of money laundering, aggravated identity theft and passing fictitious obligations.Conspirators would obtain the telephone numbers and email addresses of computers belonging to various individuals throughout the US, the Department of Justice said in a statement.The conspirators established and operated various business entities such as World Tech Assistance and US Support Inc., in Mississippi and elsewhere in the US.They engaged telephone calling centers in India, which would place calls to the US numbers and appear to be coming from US-based toll-free numbers.They would call victims in the US, advising the victims that malware and ransomware were infecting the victims’ computers and devices and that the victims should contact the conspirators for assistance, federal prosecutors alleged.According to court documents, they misrepresented themselves as “Apple Support” or “Microsoft” or other legitimate and known technical support services and offered their assistance to remove the software in return for payment.“Victims responded to the conspirators’ phone calls and pop-up messages to send money and payments by wire, cheque, and other means. Victims also granted conspirators access to the victims’ bank accounts and to the victims’ computers, permitting the conspirators to further enrich themselves by fraudulent appropriation and taking of the money and property of the victims,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-truck-driver-jailed-in-us-for-money-laundering-firearms-offences-101627699473307.html
31-07-2021||World||World's first commercial fully re-programmable satellite lifts off. Here's all you need to know||Eutelsat Quantum, the world's first commercial fully re-programmable satellite lifted off from French Guiana on Friday on board an Ariane 5 rocket, with the hope of a new era of more flexible communications. The European Space Agency (ESA) posted from its official handle a photo of the Eutelsat Quantum satellite lifting off and said that it is the "first commercial fully flexible software-defined satellite in the world".The satellite was placed in orbit some 36 minutes after the launch."Eutelsat Quantum, developed under an ESA partnership project with satellite operator Eutelsat and prime manufacturer Airbus, is the first commercial fully flexible software-defined satellite in the world," the space agency said in an official release. "Because it can be reprogrammed in orbit, it can respond to changing demands for data transmission and secure communications during its 15-year lifetime. Its beams can be redirected to move in almost real-time to provide information to passengers onboard moving ships or planes."#EutelsatQuantum, the first commercial fully flexible software-defined satellite in the world, was launched this evening, 30 July 2021 👉 https://t.co/pawRsN5Juk pic.twitter.com/WwC5lcBRZdWhat is a fully re-programmable satellite?Unlike conventional models that are designed and "hard-wired" on Earth and cannot be repurposed once in orbit, the Eutelsat Quantum allows users to tailor the communications to their needs -- almost in real-time.Because it can be reprogrammed while orbiting in a fixed position 35,000 kilometers (22,000 miles) above the Earth, the Quantum can respond to changing demands for data transmission and secure communications during its 15-year lifetime, according to the European Space Agency.Eutelsat Quantum: 8 communication beams to provide mobile coverageThe 3.5-tonne Quantum model has eight communications beams, each of which can be modified to change its area of coverage and also the power of the telecommunications signal it emits.Using software made available to the customer, these changes can be made "in a matter of minutes", according to Eutelsat.This means the satellite can be used to provide mobile coverage for moving objects such as aircraft or oceangoing vessels or to provide coverage after a natural disaster or for one-off events.Satellite to monitor 'malicious intent'And at a time of growing concern over digital security -- as well as the possible weaponising of space -- Quantum is able to pinpoint the origin of signals emitted with or without malicious intent and take action to remedy the interference.The Quantum will cover a large geographical area from West Africa to Asia for a period of 15 years.(With inputs from AFP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worlds-first-commercial-fully-re-programmable-satellite-lifts-off-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101627694453032.html
31-07-2021||World||Indian American Rashad Hussain becomes first Muslim to be nominated by Biden as religious rights ambassador||US President Joe Biden has nominated an Indian American, Rashad Hussain, as the Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, who is likely to be the first Muslim to head US diplomacy for advancing religious liberties.Rashad Hussain is Director for Partnerships and Global Engagement at the National Security Council. He previously served as Senior Counsel at the Department of Justice's National Security Division, said a White House statement.During the Obama Administration, Rashad served as US Special Envoy to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), for Strategic Counterterrorism Communications, and Deputy Associate White House Counsel.As an envoy, Hussain worked with multilateral organizations such as the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and United Nations, foreign governments, and civil society organizations to expand partnerships in education, entrepreneurship, health, international security, science, and technology, and other areas.Rashad also spearheaded efforts on countering antisemitism and protecting religious minorities in Muslim-majority countries.Prior to joining the Obama administration, he served as a judicial law clerk to Damon Keith on the US Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and was also an associate counsel to the Obama-Biden Transition Project, the statement said further.Hussain holds a law degree from Yale Law School and has a master's degree in Arabic and Islamic Studies from Harvard University.Meanwhile, American Jewish Committee (AJC) praised the Biden Administration for appointing Hussain as United States Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom."Rashad Hussain is an impressive advocate of freedom of religion or belief in challenging diplomatic contexts," said AJC CEO David Harris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-rashad-hussain-becomes-first-muslim-to-be-nominated-by-biden-as-religious-rights-ambassador-101627690837057.html
31-07-2021||World||WHO urges action to suppress Covid-19 before deadlier variants emerge||The Delta variant of Covid-19 is a warning to the world to suppress the virus quickly before it mutates again into something even worse, the WHO said Friday.The highly-transmissible variant, first detected in India, has now surfaced in 132 countries and territories, the World Health Organization said."Delta is a warning: it's a warning that the virus is evolving but it is also a call to action that we need to move now before more dangerous variants emerge," the WHO's emergencies director Michael Ryan told a press conference.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus added: "So far, four variants of concern have emerged -- and there will be more as long as the virus continues to spread."Tedros said that on average, infections increased by 80 percent over the past four weeks in five of the six WHO regions.Though Delta has shaken many countries, Ryan said proven measures to bring transmission under control still worked -- notably physical distancing, wearing masks, hand hygiene and avoiding long periods indoors in poorly ventilated, busy places."They are stopping the Delta strain, especially when you add in vaccination," he said."The virus has got fitter, the virus has got faster. The game plan still works, but we need to implement and execute our game plan much more efficiently and much more effectively then we've ever done before."- Price of vaccine inequity -The UN health agency has consistently called for vaccines to be distributed evenly around the world and has branded the drastic imbalance a "moral outrage".More than four billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines have now been administered globally, according to an AFP count.In countries categorised as high income by the World Bank, 98 doses per 100 people have been injected.That figure drops to 1.6 per 100 in the 29 lowest-income countries.If the four billion doses had been administered equally to people aged over 60, "we basically could have gotten two doses into everybody at highest risk of severe consequences when we got to a strain like Delta", said Bruce Aylward, the WHO's frontman on the Covax scheme which aims to get donor-funded jabs to poorer countries.Instead, those nations, "in the face of the Delta variant -- they're going to pay a very, very different price as a result".- 'No magical solutions' -The WHO wants every country to have vaccinated at least 10 percent of its population by the end of September; at least 40 percent by the end of this year, and 70 percent by the middle of 2022."We are a long way off achieving those targets," Tedros lamented.He said that just over half of the 194 WHO member states have fully vaccinated 10 percent of their population; less than a quarter have vaccinated 40 percent; and only three countries have vaccinated 70 percent.Meanwhile the WHO says Burundi, Eritrea and North Korea are the only remaining member states yet to start Covid-19 vaccination campaigns.The novel coronavirus has killed at least 4.2 million people since the outbreak emerged in China in December 2019, while nearly 196.6 million cases have been registered, according to tallies from official sources compiled by AFP.Tedros said that on current rates of infection, the 200 million known infections mark will be surpassed within the next two weeks, although the true figure will be much higher."There are no magical solutions," said Ryan. "The only magic dust we have is vaccination. The problem is we're not sprinkling that evenly around the world and we are working against ourselves."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-urges-action-to-suppress-covid-19-before-deadlier-variants-emerge-101627690529098.html
31-07-2021||World||Joe Biden says US to see new Covid-19 restrictions 'in all probability'||US President Joe Biden said on Friday "in all probability" new guidelines or restrictions would be imposed in the United States in response to a resurgence of Covid-19 cases.Asked if Americans should expect new recommendations from health authorities or new restrictive measures, the president responded, "in all probability," before leaving the White House by helicopter for the weekend.He did not specify what steps could be taken.US federal authorities, local officials and businesses have boosted health protocols in recent days in the face of surging cases spurred by the spread of the highly contagious Delta variant.Biden added, however, that the country had had "a good day" on Thursday in terms of vaccinations."Almost a million people got vaccinated," he said, as his administration works to revive a sluggish inoculation campaign."I am hopeful people are beginning to realize how essential it is."US health authorities this week recommended that even vaccinated Americans again wear masks indoors in areas with high infection rates.The federal government has also tightened health regulations for its millions of employees, who must now either be vaccinated or wear masks and be tested regularly, even in areas with low case numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-us-to-see-new-covid-19-restrictions-in-all-probability-101627689624583.html
31-07-2021||World||UN warns hunger is expected to rise in 23 global hotspots||Hunger is expected to rise in 23 global hotspots in the next three months with the highest alerts for “catastrophic" situations in Ethiopia’s embattled Tigray region, southern Madagascar, Yemen, South Sudan and northern Nigeria, two U.N. agencies warned Friday.The Food and Agriculture Organization and World Food Program said in a new report on “Hunger Hotspots” between August and November that “acute food insecurity is likely to further deteriorate.”They put Ethiopia at the top of the list, saying the number of people facing starvation and death is expected to rise to 401,000 -- the highest number since the 2011 famine in Somalia -- if humanitarian aid isn’t provided quickly.In southern Madagascar, which has been hit by the worst drought in the past 40 years, pests affecting staple crops, and rising food prices -- 14,000 people are expected to be pushed into “catastrophic” acute food insecurity marked by starvation and death by September. And that number is expected to double by the end of the year with 28,000 people needing urgent help, the two agencies said.In a report in May, 16 organizations including FAO and WFP said at least 155 million people faced acute hunger in 2020, including 133,000 who needed urgent food to prevent widespread death from starvation, a 20 million increase from 2019.“Acute hunger is increasing not only in scale but also severity,” FAO and WFP said in Friday’s report. “Overall, over 41 million people worldwide are now at risk of falling into famine or famine-like conditions, unless they receive immediate life and livelihood-saving assistance.”The two Rome-based agencies called for urgent humanitarian action to save lives in the 23 hotspots, saying help is especially critical in the five highest alert places to prevent famine and death.“These deteriorating trends are mostly driven by conflict dynamics, as well as the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic,” they said. “These include food price spikes, movement restrictions that limit market and pastoralists activities alike, rising inflation, decreased purchasing power, and an early and prolonged lean season” for crops.FAO and WFP said South Sudan, Yemen and Nigeria remain at the highest alert level, joined for the first time by Ethiopia because of Tigray and southern Madagascar.In South Sudan, they said, “famine was most likely happening in parts of Pibor county between October and November 2020, and was expected to continue in the absence of sustained and timely humanitarian assistance” while two other areas remain at risk of famine.“In Yemen, the risk of more people facing famine-like conditions may have been contained, but gains remain extremely fragile,” the U.N. agencies said. “In Nigeria, populations in conflict-affected areas in the northeast may be at risk of reaching catastrophic food insecurity levels.”Nine other countries also have high numbers of people facing “critical food insecurity” coupled with worsening drivers of hunger -- Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Colombia, Congo, Haiti, Honduras, Sudan and Syria, the report said.Six countries have been added to the hotspot list since the agencies’ March report -- Chad, Colombia, North Korea, Myanmar, Kenya and Nicaragua, it said. Three other countries also facing acute food insecurity are Somalia, Guatemala and Niger, while Venezuela wasn’t included due to lack of recent data, it said.In Afghanistan, FAO and WFP said 3.5 million people are expected to face the second-highest level of food insecurity, characterized by acute malnutrition and deaths, from June to November. They said the withdrawal of U.S. and NATO forces as early as August could lead to escalating violence, additional displaced people and difficulties in distributing humanitarian assistance.In reclusive North Korea, which is under tough U.N. sanctions, the agencies said “concerns are mounting over the food security situation ... due to strained access and the potential impact of trade limitations, which may lead to food gaps.” While data is “extremely limited,” they said recent figures from the country’s Central Bureau o Stations and an FAO analysis “highlight a worrying cereal deficit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-warns-hunger-is-expected-to-rise-in-23-global-hotspots-101627689285109.html
31-07-2021||World||Israel launches Covid booster shot campaign||Israel launched a campaign on Friday to give the over-60s coronavirus booster shots, at a time when the rest of the world is still struggling to complete the standard course. Kicking off the campaign, Israel’s President Isaac Herzog, 60, received a third dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine at a hospital in Ramat Gan, near Tel Aviv.An Israeli epidemiologist of Jerusalem’s Hebrew University, Hagai Levine, acknowledged his country was going it alone with third shots. “This decision is based on experts’ opinion, on logic but not on solid scientific evidence, but that is okay,” Levine told AFP.About 55% of Israel’s nine million population has been double vaccinated, most with the Pfizer-BioNTech jab.Prime Minister Naftali Bennett announced the start of the booster campaign for over 60s on Thursday, as concern mounts over the fast-spreading Delta variant of the coronavirus.“Israel is a pioneer in going ahead with third doses for people of the age of 60 and above,” said the 49-year-old premier who accompanied Herzog to the hospital for the jab.“The fight against the Covid pandemic is a global fight. The only way we can defeat Covid is together,” he said.In the US, President Joe Biden stopped short of a vaccination mandate for federal workers but has asked all four million US federal workers and on-site contractors to attest to their vaccination status and those who do not declare they are fully vaccinated must wear masks and be tested.Japan expands Covid-19 emergency as cases surgeJapan expanded a coronavirus state of emergency to four more areas in addition to Tokyo on Friday following record spikes in infections as the capital hosts the Olympics.Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga declared an emergency in Saitama, Kanagawa and Chiba, near Tokyo, as well as in the western city of Osaka, effective Monday until August 31. However, Suga said that the surge in infections is unrelated to the ongoing Olympics.Hundreds of thousands of people have been locked down in China’s Jiangsu province, while 41,000 came under stay-at-home orders in Beijing’s Changping district to curb a virus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-launches-covid-booster-shot-campaign-101627678755774.html
31-07-2021||World||US evacuates first group of Afghan interpreters, their families||The first group of Afghan interpreters who had worked with US-led coalition forces and feared retaliation from the Taliban that have taken over a large part of the country, arrived in the United States on Friday.About 200 interpreters arrived with their families early morning and were taken to Fort Lee military base in Virginia, where they are expected to stay for a week to be processed and then they will be relocated to unspecified destinations.“Welcome home,” President Joe Biden said to them in a statement and called for an “immediate reduction” in violence in Afghanistan and “for all regional actors to encourage the parties to return to negotiations without delay so that the Afghan people can achieve a durable and just political settlement that brings the peace and security they deserve”.The Taliban have all but broken off peace talks and made significant military advances around the country as US-led coalition forces wrap up and leave much ahead of the self-imposed deadline of the September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.Afghan interpreters and others who worked with the coalition forces over the past two decades are being evacuated by the US under a special immigration visa programme.There is a sense of urgency about their evacuation as the Taliban expand areas under their control, with reports of the return of atrocities and brutality associated with their pre-2001 regime.No One Left Behind, a non-profit group, has said that at least 300 Afghans or their family members have been killed for working with the US.The United States plans to bring 700 of these interpreters with their immediate families - a combined total of about 2,500 people - under this programme, in addition to the 70,000 Afghans that have been relocated to America since 2008.Once they are processed, they will be resettled in cities across the country with assistance through the United States Refugee Admissions Program. Those with relatives here can join them if they choose to, officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-group-of-evacuated-afghan-interpreters-arrives-in-us-101627659971947.html
31-07-2021||World||NSO blocks several govt clients amid snooping row, says report||Israeli cyber-security firm NSO Group, at the centre of a global controversy over misuse of its Pegasus spyware to hack phones of journalists and politicians, has temporarily blocked several government clients from using its technology, according to a media report.An unidentified employee of NSO told America’s National Public Radio (NPR) on Thursday that the government clients were blocked as the company investigates the possible misuse of its technology. The employee didn’t identify the governments or give more details.The move came a day after Israeli authorities conducted an inspection of NSO Group’s office followings reports by an international consortium of journalists about the misuse of the Pegasus spyware around the world.“There is an investigation into some clients. Some of those clients have been temporarily suspended,” said the employee, who spoke to NPR on condition of anonymity because company policy states NSO will no longer respond to media inquiries on the issue.Also Watch | Cong protests against Kejriwal’s ‘Covid failure’; questions stand on Pegasus rowThe employee did not name or quantify the government agencies or their countries that NSO suspended from using its spyware, saying Israeli defence regulations prohibit the firm from identifying its clients.NSO’s internal investigation checked some phone numbers of people that the firm’s clients reportedly marked as potential targets. “Almost everything we checked, we found no connection to Pegasus,” the employee said, declining to elaborate on potential misuse that NSO may have uncovered.The Israeli defence ministry’s official Twitter account tweeted about the inspection of NSO’s office at Herzliya near Tel Aviv on Wednesday, saying representatives from several bodies went to the firm to examine the allegations made against the company.Israeli news website Calcalist, which first reported the inspection, described it as a “raid”. NSO Group, which has denied allegations of unauthorised surveillance of mobile phones using its spyware, confirmed the inspection in a statement and said it is “working in full transparency with the Israeli authorities”.An international media consortium last week began publishing reports based on what is believed to be a leaked list of 50,000 phone numbers worldwide that were targeted by NSO’s customers for surveillance. Evidence of the Pegasus spyware was found on 37 of 67 phones examined by forensic experts, including 10 in India. The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied that it used Pegasus, a military-grade spyware sold only to governments. It has repeatedly ruled out any illegal surveillance in India.Ministers, politicians, journalists, businesspeople, and civil society activists were among those allegedly targeted in the country. NSO says its software is sold only to government customers after vetting by Israeli authorities.The Israel government has faced pressure because it regulates the sale of all spyware technology to other countries.According to NPR, NSO says it has 60 customers in 40 countries, all of them intelligence agencies, law enforcement bodies and militaries. NSO also says that in recent years, before the media reports on the Pegasus spyware, it blocked its software from five governmental agencies, including two in the past year, after finding evidence of misuse.The Washington Post reported the clients suspended include Saudi Arabia, Dubai in the United Arab Emirates and some public agencies in Mexico.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israels-nso-group-blocks-government-clients-from-using-spyware-101627622888189.html
31-07-2021||India||Kerala asks people to avoid crowds, events during Onam due to Covid surge||Kerala health minister Veena George asked people to avoid crowds, events, celebrations and visits to relatives and friends as the Onam festival approaches -- in order to reduce the risk of spreading Covid-19.George said that people should strictly avoid crowds and follow Covid-19 protocols while organising, attending events and celebrations. She said that visits to relatives and family should be avoided especially if there are small children in the family. Her suggestions come at a time when Kerala recorded 20,000 fresh cases for five days in a row.The health minister also warned citizens against complacency saying that the state is not yet out of the woods as it continues to fight against the second wave. She asked people to remain extra vigilant in order to prevent a third wave. She highlighted that half of Kerala’s population is susceptible to the virus and warned that if the third wave hits before the vaccination reaches everyone the rate of hospitalisation would soar.Kerala’s test positivity rate fell to 12.31% but the state recorded 20,624 fresh cases. Kerala recorded more than 20,000 cases for the fifth day in a row. Kerala has recorded more than 3.39 million cases and 16,781 deaths. Among the districts, Malappuram was worst affected as it logged 3,474 cases followed by Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Ernakulam, all of whom have recorded more than 200 cases. Kerala currently has 164,500 active cases in the state and is one of the largest contributors to the national caseload. The health minister said that there are 678 areas in the state with a test positivity rate above 10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-asks-people-to-avoid-crowds-events-during-onam-due-to-covid-surge-101627751319043.html
31-07-2021||India||'Want Raghav, not free electricity,' Twitter user posts. Raghav Chadha replies||A Twitter user recently posted on the social media platform that she does not want free electricity, she wants Raghav Chadha. The tweet came to the AAP MLA's notice and he chose to reply to the tweet. "I'm not on the manifesto, but free electricity is," the AAP MLA quipped and said he can't commit the same about himself though. The reply has garnered several reactions on the social media platform.It all started when a Twitter user, going by the name Kirti Thakur, complained about power cuts. "Jab b ghar ayo light hi ni hoti," she wrote on July 29. To this, another Twitter user by the name Gurdeep Guru replied, saying, "Es bar AAP nu vote pao 24 ghnte light aau te free v hou". Kirti Thakur replied to this and wrote, "I want Raghav. Not electricity".I'm not on the manifesto, but free electricity is.Vote for Kejriwal and I promise you’ll get free electricty, 24x7. Can’t commit the same about myself though :) https://t.co/F0tqLLp1FL"I'm not on the manifesto, but free electricity is. Vote for Kejriwal and I promise you’ll get free electricity, 24x7. Can’t commit the same about myself though," Raghav Chadha wrote with a smiley emoji. He also shared the conversation on his Instagram hashtagging it with 'KejriwalDiGyarantee'.Several Twitter users joined the conversation praising Raghav Chadha's sense of humour and AAP's governance while some questioned AAP's "freebie politics".This is not the first time that Raghav Chadha is on demand. When he was campaigning as the Rajinder Nagar candidate during the Delhi assembly election, he used to get many marriage proposals, reports said.Sorry Kirti, it’s a bad time to get married considering the state of the economy. Let’s talk again after Acche Din arrive. https://t.co/ddxIhFL9l4Interestingly, this is also not the first time that Raghav Chadha interacted with this Twitter handle. In 2019, Kirti Thakur had asked Raghav Chadha for marriage on Twitter and that time too, Chadha came up with a prompt reply, saying, "Sorry Kirti, it’s a bad time to get married considering the state of the economy. Let’s talk again after Acche Din arrive. (sic)"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-raghav-not-free-electricity-twitter-user-posts-raghav-chadha-replies-101627749991535.html
31-07-2021||India||Presumed dead, Kerala man reunites with family after 45 years||It is a sweet homecoming for Sajjad Thangal (70) who was reported missing for the last 45 years and many of his family members also presumed him dead. When he returned home in Kollam (south Kerala) on Saturday evening, his 91-year-old mother was waiting for him with sweets. Both hugged and cried for a while as they lost words.Thangal’s life turned upside down in 1976 after the Indian Airlines plane crash in Mumbai which claimed 95 lives including famous south Indian actress Rani Chandra. Quite active in social circles those days, Thangal used to conduct cultural programmes in Gulf countries. Chandra and her troupe were invited to one of such programmes in Abu Dhabi in 1976.“He was planning to return with the troupe from Abu Dhabi on October 12, 1976. But due to some last-minute hitches with the organising committee he dropped his plan and survived the crash,” said Father KM Philip, founder of Social and Evangelical Association For Love, an NGO in Navi Mumbai which looked after Thangal.After surviving the crash, Thangal lived in Mumbai for many years. Philip said after the tragedy, in which Thangal lost some of his friends and business associates, he suffered a series of post-trauma bouts. He was moved to the NGO's shelter home after his mental ailments aggravated.“Those days insurance was not popular and I lost a good amount of money. I was also scared that police will hound me. Almost everyone thought I was among the dead in the crash. I started living in Mumbai doing odd jobs,” Thangal said.At the shelter home of the NGO, Thangal was undergoing treatment for mental ailments. Philip said Thangal remained an introvert most of the time and started sharing his story with one of the counsellors after a long time. Later, the NGO started making inquiries and found that his 91-year-old mother Fathima Beevi was alive. Later, both talked over the phone and he was brought to his ancestral home in Sathamkotta on Saturday.His relatives said after the crash, they checked the passengers’ list repeatedly and failed to find his name. But since there was no information after this, they presumed he was among the dead. Though they made some initial inquires, they also gave up later.“It is a dream come true for me. I never thought I will be able to meet my kin, especially my mother,” Thangal said. He has two brothers and three sisters. His village was all decked up to receive him and many local leaders also graced the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/presumed-dead-kerala-man-reunites-with-family-after-45-years-101627747877102.html
31-07-2021||India||'Clear gimmick': TMC says not giving any importance to Babul Supriyo||Former Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Babul Supriyo may have announced his departure from politics, but West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) dismissed Supriyo’s announcement as a “gimmick,” with party general secretary Kunal Ghosh remarking it is not giving "any importance" to the singer-turned-politician.Also Read | 'Alvida': Babul Supriyo quits politics, says his absence 'won't matter' in BJP“We’re not giving any importance to Babul Supriyo. It’s a clear gimmick. Lok Sabha is in session, he should tender his resignation to the Speaker. However, he is using Facebook only to attract the attention of his Delhi leaders as now he is a dissident leader,” Ghosh told news agency ANI.We're not giving any importance to him (Babul Supriyo) as it's a clear gimmick. Lok Sabha is in session, he must tender his resignation to the Speaker. Instead of it, he's using FB only to attract his Delhi leaders because he's now a dissident leader: TMC Gen Secy Kunal Ghosh pic.twitter.com/6FbFmGKpZASupriyo, who, through a Facebook post on Saturday, announced his decision to leave politics, initially mentioned he won’t be joining any political party. However, within hours, the Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal’s Asansol edited his post, deleting from it the “not joining any party” part, in which he specifically named the TMC, Congress and CPI(M). “I can confirm that no one has called me and neither I am going anywhere. I am a one-team player. Have only always supported one team Mohun Bagan, have supported only BJP. That’s it!!,” a rough translation of Supriyo’s original post, made in Bengali, read.Also Read | 'BJP was not expecting seat, didn't like it,' Babul Supriyo on joining politics in 2014Saturday’s announcement brings to an end an eventful last few months for the former minister who was dropped from the Union council of ministers in a major reshuffle which took place on July 7. The two-term parliamentarian from Asansol, who resigned as an MP as well, was also at the losing end in the West Bengal assembly elections, where he was among several MPs fielded by the BJP against a Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. In recent days, there have also been reports of issues between state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and Supriyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clear-gimmick-tmc-says-not-giving-any-importance-to-babul-supriyo-101627745922441.html
31-07-2021||India||2nd terrorist killed in J&K encounter is Sameer Dar, chargesheeted for Pulwama attack||The encounter in J&K on Saturday in which two top Jaish terrorists were gunned down brought a somewhat closure to 2019's Pulwama attack as both of them were involved in the 2019's attack on security forces. While one was identified as Abu Saifullah aka Adnan, Ismail and Lamboo, the other was later identified as Sameer Dar, the cousin of Pulwama attacker Adil Ahmad Dar. Both Sameer and Saifullah were chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency. IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar said there were 19 terrorists accused in the Pulwama terror attack. Out of them, eight have been killed in encounters, seven have been arrested and four are still absconding.According to sources, Sameer Ahmad Dar was Jaish's local recruit and was active since 2018. In 2018, Sameer left his home in Pulwama for Kashmir University following which his family also filed a missing report. His photo with "illegal weapons" also went viral on social media. He was operating in South Kashmir along with Saifullah.Apart from his involvement in the Pulwama attack in which 40 security personnel were killed, Sameer was part of "anti-national demonstrations" in the funeral of terrorists, and thereby "jeopardising national security and provoking youth for law and order in that area".The Jaish terrorist was active in recent months. In June, Sameer Dar and his associates attacked SPO Fayaz Ahmad at the Hariparigam area of Awantipora, killing Ahmad, his wife and daughter. On July 24, Sameer and his associates killed one Javaid Ahmed Malik, son of Ghulam Mohammad Malik at Lurgam Tral, sources said.Saifullah ail Alvi, the IED expert, was from the family of JeM chief Masood Azhar and had trained the suicide bomber, Adil Dar, who carried out the Pulwama attack.Saturday's encounter took place in the forest area of Namibian and Marsar and the general area of Dachigam in Pulwama. Security forces had inputs about the presence of terrorists there."Firstly, it brings closure to the Pulwama incident because he was one of the masterminds for having trained a local youth Adil (Dar) who eventually blew himself up in the IED attack. Ever since, he has been responsible to continue to train people in making IED and deployment of IEDs against the security forces," an Army officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-terrorist-killed-in-j-k-encounter-is-sameer-dar-chargesheeted-for-pulwama-attack-101627745670212.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Babul Supriyo edits resignation post and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Babul Supriyo edits resignation post, deletes 'won't join any party' partHours after posting the news of his exit from politics on Facebook, Babul Supriyo on Saturday edited the post a little bit, triggering speculation of whether his road to any other party remains open or not. Read more‘They can fast, not my business’: Bommai says will implement Mekedatu projectKarnataka’s new chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the state will get Centre’s approval regarding the Mekedatu drinking water project over the Cauvery river. Read moreTokyo Olympics 2020: PV Sindhu loses semi-final to Tai Tzu-Ying, to compete for bronze medalPV Sindhu lost to top-seed Tai Tzu-Ying 18-21, 12-21 in the semi-final of the women's singles badminton on Saturday but remains in contention of a podium finish. Read moreRicha Chadha backs Shilpa Shetty in Raj Kundra case, slams those ‘blaming women for mistakes of men'Richa Chadha, commenting on the negativity directed at Shilpa Shetty amid Raj Kundra’s arrest in a porn case, criticised the act of ‘blaming women for the mistakes of the men in their lives’. Read moreWhatsApp launches Billie Eilish animated sticker pack; Here’s how to download itLast month, WhatsApp rolled out an animated sticker pack to celebrate the Pride month. And now, the company has collaborated with US singing sensation Billie Eilish for a new animated sticker pack. Read moreWorse impact of Delta variant on pregnant women: Health expertsAmid rapid spread of the highly contagious Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2, several top UK health officials have urged expectant mothers to get vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as soon as possible. Read moreSBI's 'Monsoon Dhamaka' offer: Bank waives off processing fee on home loansState Bank of India (SBI) on Saturday announced a special "Monsoon Dhamaka" offer for its customers under which homebuyers will be able to avail loans without any processing fee till August 31. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-babul-supriyo-edits-resignation-post-and-all-the-latest-news-101627741811605.html
31-07-2021||India||Babul Supriyo edits resignation post, deletes 'won't join any party' part||Hours after posting the news of his exit from politics on Facebook, Babul Supriyo on Saturday edited the post a little bit, triggering speculation of whether his road to any other party remains open or not. In the original version of the post, the former Union minister specifically took the names of Trinamool, Congress and CPM and said he is not joining any other party. "I am confirming that no one has called me. Neither I am going anywhere. I am a one-team player. Have always supported one team Mohun Bagan, have done only BJP. That's it!!" he had written before taking this part out.On Saturday, Babul Supriyo resigned from BJP, from the MP post and also from politics through a Facebook post. In the long post, he made the reasons behind his exit clear. Removal from the Union cabinet is one of the reasons, Babul Supriyo acknowledged. Apart from that, there was disagreement with Bengal BJP leadership, he said, without naming Dilip Ghosh.'Clear gimmick': TMC says not giving any importance to Babul SupriyoThough he did not modify the rest of the post where he took retirement from politics, the deletion of the crucial part is triggering speculations.Bengal BJP leader Dilip Ghosh said he has not seen what someone writes on Facebook. "Has he resigned yet?" he asked.Trinamool general secretary Kunal Ghosh termed Babul Supriyo's Facebook announcement as a gimmick and said Trinamool is not giving any importance to this. "Lok Sabha is in session, he must tender his resignation to the Speaker. Instead of it, he's using FB only to attract his Delhi leaders because he's now a dissident leader," Ghosh said.On July 29, Babul Supriyo made a Facebook post in which he expressed the desire the leave politics. He wrote, "In 2018, I once tendered my resignation being disillusioned, but the party didn't accept it. At that time, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah encouraged me. But today, I am again thinking."In his Saturday's Facebook post, Babul Supriyo made it clear why he didn't approach the party leadership. He said he had already talked about this to Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda, but they have discouraged him from quitting politics. Babul Supriyo wrote he does not have the audacity to again approach them which might be misinterpreted as his persistent bargaining for some post. "This is not the case. I hope they will understand me and forgive me," Babul wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-edits-resignation-post-deletes-won-t-join-any-party-part-101627743170865.html
31-07-2021||India||Naqvi says triple talaq cases declined significantly after Govt banned practice||Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Saturday that there was a significant drop in the number of triple talaq cases after the Centre’s law criminalising it came into effect. He also said that Muslim women all over India have overwhelmingly welcomed the legislation.Naqvi’s remarks came on the eve of ‘Muslim Women's Rights Day’ an event observed across the country on August 1 to celebrate the enactment of the law against triple talaq. The Centre enacted the law on August 1 in 2019 which made the practice of instant triple talaq a criminal offense.“There is a significant decline in triple talaq cases after the law came into effect. Muslim women across the country have overwhelmingly welcomed this law,” Naqvi was quoted as saying in a statement, according to a report by news agency PTI.On Sunday, Naqvi along with fellow Union minister Smriti Irani and Bhupender Yadav will attend a programme in the Capital to observe ‘Muslim Women Rights Day’. Naqvi further added that the Centre strengthened the ‘self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence’ of Muslim women in India. He said that the enactment of the law against triple talaq protected the constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights of Muslim women in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naqvi-says-triple-talaq-cases-declined-significantly-after-govt-banned-practice-101627738753146.html
31-07-2021||India||Cong slams government for taking away power of states to identify OBCs||Congress on Saturday slammed the Union government for taking away the powers of states to identify and notify the Other Backward Classes. Party MP and spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said this was due to “lack of care to detail” by the government while granting constitutional status to National Commission for Backward Classes in 2018.“We are the ones who supported it… but (we told the government) that for God’s sake… it should not happen that established power of states to make their own state list (of OBCs) should go away,” Singhvi said while speaking to reporters at the AICC headquarters in Delhi.He added that then social justice minister Thawarchand Gehlot, along with other BJP members, agreed to this. “But due to the lack of care to detail, you (the government) did not add a two-line clarification that the creation of a national commission does not mean that the states will not have a list of inclusion or exclusion at the state level… How can that power go away at the state level?” Singhvi questioned.He added that the government’s “blunder” has cost the country much as the Supreme Court has interpreted the amendment in a way that “at the highest”, the list of states will be just one due to the “absence of a clarification” by the government.“Is it not a serious assault at the federalism of this country as nobody ever disputed that states had this power?” he said.Singhvi added that amid all this, it was funny as well as tragic that BJP today is “self-congratulating” itself for doing good for the OBCs. “… Should he (PM) be congratulated for making us reach a stage where no state can make a list of OBCs?” Singhvi said.The BJP leaders had been lauding PM Modi for the recent increase in the All India Medical education quota for the OBCs.Singhvi added that BJP “bungled” the amendment which is now used and interpreted to suggest that “states have lost a vital power which is at the bedrock of federalism.”Meanwhile, the government is mulling to bring another amendment to repower the states regarding identifying and notifying the OBCs. The government on Thursday said that the apex court had not taken into account the “legislative intent” of Parliament.“Government is in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and is examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the state list of OBCs…” Ministry of Social Justice said in a press release.The government had also filed a review petition in the apex court to reconsider its interpretation which was dismissed. The court had upheld that list specified by the President shall be the only list of the OBCs for all purposes of the Constitution.Earlier in the day, Union minister Bhupendra Yadav lauded the government’s efforts in setting up this commission. He also listed other minority welfare efforts of the government.Yadav also slammed Congress saying that they never tried to bring in any schemes so that minorities can be uplifted. “It is a blot on the tradition of Congress in the parliament that when a large number OBCs, tribals, women and Dalits were inducted into the cabinet… the Congress did not even let (the PM) introduce them,” he said during a presser at the BJP headquarters in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-slams-government-for-taking-away-power-of-states-to-identify-obcs-101627740256672.html
31-07-2021||India||'BJP was not expecting seat, didn't like it,' Babul Supriyo on joining politics in 2014||As singer-turned-politician Babul Supriyo announced his exit from BJP and politics on Saturday, he reminisced his entry into the politics which was through Yoga guru Ramdev. In his Facebook post where he clarified the reasons behind his exit, he recounted that when he met Ramdev on a flight, which sealed his entry into politics, he felt bad when he understood that BJP was not expecting any seat from Bengal in Lok Sabha Election 2014."There was a brief conversation with Swami Ramdevji. Didn't like the fact at all that BJP was taking Bengal seriously but at the same time was not expecting any seat. I felt how can this happen that the same Bengal which respects Syama Prasad Mukherjee, Atal Bihari Vajpayee so much can deny BJP even one seat. Especially while entire India had decided before the elections that Narendra Modi will become the Prime Minister, why West Bengal would think differently. Then, I took up the challenge as a Bengali. Listened to everyone, but did what my heart said, without fearing tomorrow," Babul Supriyo added in his post.'Alvida': Babul Supriyo quits politics, says his absence 'won't matter' in BJPIn 2014 Lok Sabha election, BJP won two seats in West Bengal -- Babul Supriyo from Asansol and SS Ahluwalia from Darjeeling.The former Union minister on Saturday said the decision is not sudden as he has expressed his desire to quit politics to JP Nadda and Amit Shah, but somehow they have managed to stop him, he wrote."I will never forget this love. But I do not have the audacity to again go to them and say the same thing. They may think I am bargaining for any post. But this is not true," he added.Babul Supriyo also said that he will leave the government accommodation as soon as possible as many new ministers have not got government accommodation. He won't accept MP salary too, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-was-not-expecting-seat-didn-t-like-it-babul-supriyo-on-joining-politics-in-2014-101627737940699.html
31-07-2021||India||'Muslim Women Rights Day' on August 1 to commemorate 2 years of triple talaq law||The ministry of minority affairs announced on Saturday that "Muslim Women Rights Day" will be observed across the country on August 1. It will celebrate the second anniversary of the enactment of the law against triple talaq.The practice of granting instant divorce was classified as a criminal offence through a law enforced by the government on August 1, 2019. Though the Centre faced issues in clearing the bill through the Rajya Sabha, it finally succeeded in achieving the goal on July 31, 2019.Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today credited the Bharatiya Janata (BJP) of bringing a law against the malpractice of triple talaq.He also said that there is a significant decline in triple talaq cases after the law came into effect. "Muslim women across the country have overwhelmingly welcomed this law," said Naqvi.The minister added that the Centre has strengthened "self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence" of the Muslim women of the country and protected their constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights by bringing the law against the triple talaq.Naqvi, along with women and child development minister Smriti Irani and environment minister Bhupender Yadav will attend a programme in New Delhi on Sunday to observe the "Muslim Women Rights Day".Formally called the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, it was the first bill introduced in Parliament after the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was re-elected to power in 2019.The legislation, which outlaws instant triple talaq, stipulates three years jail for violations and also make him liable to pay a fine. The law has made the practice of triple talaq a cognizable offence - one in which the police may carry out an arrest without a warrant.The opposition parties had targeted the government over the law, stating that it targeted the Muslim community. But the Centre asserted that it helps achieve gender justice for Muslim women.The Supreme Court had in August 2017 declared the practice of talaq-e-biddat or a form of divorce based on a husband pronouncing divorce thrice in quick succession as unconstitutional. It is banned in most Muslim countries including Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-women-rights-day-on-august-1-to-commemorate-2-years-of-triple-talaq-law-101627736043258.html
31-07-2021||India||Sputnik V production in India to go 'fully on stream' in September, announces RDIF||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) informed on Saturday that the production in India of Sputnik V, the Russia-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is expected to come "fully on stream" in September."Production in India is expected to come fully on stream in September. RDIF expects India to become a major production hub of Sputnik V," a statement from RDIF, Russia's sovereign wealth fund, that markets the vaccine globally, said. The statement also mentioned various Indian pharmaceutical firms with which RDIF has tied up to manufacture the shot in India. These are the Serum Institute of India (SII), Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen Laboratories.The September timeline mentioned in the statement is line with an announcement from earlier this month that the Pune-based SII will begin producing Sputnik V in September. SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, will produce more than 300 million doses annually, beginning this year itself.Also Read | Serum Institute to begin Sputnik V vaccine production in SeptemberThe fund also dismissed speculations in sections of media that the manufacturing of the second component of batches will be delayed. "Such reports, based on anonymous sources, are incorrect. A number of our partners in India have already produced the second component batches, which are being verified at the Gamaleya Center in Russia. Transfer of technology to our partners in India is also in process, and there is an active exchange between vaccine production specialists from the two countries," it said. The Gamaleya Institute, which comes under Russia's ministry of health, developed the vaccine with assistance from RDIF. Sputnik V, which has a two-dose regimen, was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in April, when the country was in the grip of a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The first 250 million doses of the vaccine will be marketed by the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories.Also Read | Sputnik vaccine to be launched commercially ‘in the coming week’: Dr Reddy’sVaccination with Sputnik V in India began in Hyderabad in May in what was a soft launch roll-out. Since then, the jab, found 91.6% effective against Covid-19, has been launched to at least 50 cities or towns across the country.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-production-in-india-to-go-fully-on-stream-in-september-announces-rdif-101627731302202.html
31-07-2021||India||'Alvida': Babul Supriyo announces retirement from politics on Facebook, says his absence 'won't matter' for BJP||Former Union minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who has recently been dropped from the Union cabinet after his defeat in the West Bengal Assembly election, on Saturday announced that he will be quitting politics as he needs some time. In a long Facebook post, the singer-turned-politician wrote social work can be done even without being associated with politics. " He explained that losing the ministry has played some role in his decision. "Have listened to what my father, wife, daughter and a few close friends had to say. After listening to everything, I am saying that I am not going to any other party. I am confirming that I am not joining the Congress, not the CPM. Neither they have called me, nor I am going. I am a one-team player. Have always supported Mohun Bagan.. have done only party BJP West Bengal.. That's it!" the former minister wrote.'Without a spot of corruption': Babul Supriyo says he is sad but he was 'not asked to quit'Babul's political career received two major blows in the recent days after he lost in the West Bengal Assembly election followed by the loss of Cabinet berth. In his post, he has elaborately answered the reason behind his decision and said that the loss of ministry is certainly responsible for the decision. "I don't want to play unfair, So it will be better if I clarify this. It will also give me some peace," Babul wrote,"There was a difference between 2014 and 2019. In 214, I was alone in Bengal BJP (with due respect to GJM's Ahluwaliaji), But today there are many new and bright leaders in the party. Some of them are young, some of them are veterans. Needless to say, under their guidance the party will go far in Bengal. I have no qualms to admit that today one individual does not matter a lot in the party and it is quite clear. And I think admitting this would be the right decision," his Facebook post written in Bengal read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-quits-politics-says-not-joining-any-party-101627731785125.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt issues guidelines to states with districts with high positivity rate and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bring back restrictions in districts with over 10% Covid positivity rate: Centre's 4-point guideline to these 10 statesAround 46 districts in India are reporting more than a 10 per cent positivity rate and 53 districts are proceeding towards the danger zone as their positivity rate is between 5 per cent and 10 per cent. Read more here. HT Spotlight: The thick tail of Maharashtra’s second waveLong after April’s peak, six districts continued to drive the state’s Covid-19 caseload. Ground reports indicate that a confluence of factors led to this. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Sangli, monitoring system vs lockdown fatigueSangli, which lies south of Pune and shares a border with Karnataka, recorded its highest daily caseload of 2,328 cases on May 6. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Kolhapur, young adults await a jabKolhapur has emerged as a district of concern for Maharashtra contributing the highest daily caseload in the state since June 23. And while it tops in vaccinations of those above 45 years, it has also vaccinated the least number of people between 18 to 44 years. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Satara, superspreader events drive up caseloadAs of July 23, Satara district reported 210,000 cases and 5076 deaths due to the Covid pandemic. District officials peg the start of the second wave in April, after neighbouring Pune began to record a meteroic spike in cases. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Pune, rural areas drove surgePune has been the worst-hit district in the state in both waves of the pandemic. In August 2020, Pune district crossed other districts in the country with the highest active caseload. Read more here. Richa Chadha backs Shilpa Shetty in Raj Kundra case, slams those ‘blaming women for mistakes of men'Richa Chadha came out in support of Shilpa Shetty, amid the negativity directed at her in the Raj Kundra case. She also slammed those who are ‘blaming women for mistakes of men in their lives’. Read more here.Birthday girl Kiara Advani in nude crop top and bodycon skirt is a style iconHappy birthday, Kiara Advani: Kiara Advani recently starred in an ad, for which she wore a nude crop top and bodycon cut-out skirt. She is a literal style icon in the outfit. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-issues-four-point-guideline-to-states-with-district-101627730273224.html
31-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Delta variant, vaccines and other important developments from this week||India’s daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (covid-19) were mostly in a state of plateau this week, being recorded at more than 40,000 for four straight days (including in the last 24 hours) and just under the 40,000-mark on July 26. However, also this week, the country logged less than 30,000 daily Covid-19 infections for the first time in more than four months: 29,689 people tested positive in the 24-hour period leading to July 27.Here’s a round-up of important Covid-19 related developments from this week:(1.) Delta variant responsible for more than 80% cases from May to July: The highly infectious Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2, which was first found in India, accounted for nearly 8 out of every 10 cases of the coronavirus disease in the country from May to July, data released by the Indian SARS CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) showed. The variant, which led to 82% of infections during this period, is also behind the pandemic’s recent surge in the United States, the study reported.(2.) 10% of all adults in India fully vaccinated: Nearly 10% of the country’s population, eligible for anti-Covid shots, is fully vaccinated against the viral disease, data from the government’s CoWIN platform showed on Monday. Also, nearly 27% (26.5%) of the 940 million adults eligible for vaccination, have received at least one dose, as per the dashboard. Every citizen aged 18 or above is eligible for the nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16.(3.) Vaccination of kids likely to begin in August: Vaccination of children against Covid-19 is likely to begin in August, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. On July 1, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadilla applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission for its vaccine to be administered to everyone above the age of 12. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, too, is conducting trials of its shot, Covaxin, on children.Also Read | Covid-19: Vaccination for kids likely to begin next month, says health minister Mandaviya(4.) US secretary of state backs Covid-19 origins probe: Antony Blinken met World Health Organization (WHO) chief, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, in Kuwait on July 28, and pledged the US’ support for the UN agency-led probe into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic. Though China has rejected plans calling for more checks on laboratories and markets in its territory, the WHO, earlier this month, urged all countries to work together to probe the origins of the pandemic.(5.) Japan sees record Covid-19 cases amid Tokyo Olympics: Japan, where Olympic games are currently underway in the Capital city of Tokyo, logged a record number of Covid-19 cases, some of which are linked to the global sporting event. On July 29, the country reported more than 10,000 daily infections for the first time, the state media reported. According to the organisers of the Olympics, 193 athletes have tested positive thus far, of which 24 cases are new. International Olympic Committee spokesperson, Mark Adams, has, however, denied any link between the Games and the fresh outbreak in Japan.(6.) US CDC reverses guidelines on masks: The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued tighter guidelines for the use of Covid-19 masks, asking even fully vaccinated citizens to resume wearing facemasks indoors, especially if they live in areas with high virus transmission rates. Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, too, has warned that the country is moving in a “wrong” direction in combating a fresh wave, spurred by the Delta variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-delta-variant-vaccines-and-other-important-developments-from-this-week-101627729905143.html
31-07-2021||India||Bring back restrictions in districts with over 10% Covid positivity rate: Centre's 4-point guideline to these 10 states||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday chaired a high-level meeting with 10 states which are either reporting a rise in new daily Covid cases or a rise in the positivity rate. All districts that have been reporting a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the past few weeks need to consider strict restrictions, the health secretary said to the representatives of Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur. Any laxity at this stage will result in the deterioration of the situation in these districts, the ministry noted. Director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava, who was also present in the meeting, said 40,000 daily cases is not any reason for complacency. Around 46 districts in India are reporting more than a 10 per cent positivity rate and 53 districts are proceeding towards the danger zone as their positivity rate is between 5 per cent and 10 per cent.Numbers Matter | Kerala’s Covid numbers concerning, but it managed crisis betterThe states have been given a four-point guideline which includes: 1. Intensive containment and surveillance in clusters that are reporting higher cases, 2. Mapping cases, tracing contacts and defining containment zones based on these, 3. Ramping up health infrastructure in rural areas with a focus on paediatric care, 4. Reporting death count as per ICMR guideline.Dr Bhagrava also advised these states to avoid all non-essential travel and to discourage all large gatherings of a crowd.Covid 3rd wave? Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu on alert as infections increaseIn these 10 states, the ministry noted, over 80 per cent of active cases are in home isolation. Stressing the need to monitor these people, the ministry said that there should be local surveillance, at the levels of community, village mohalla, ward etc., to monitor these patients and whether they need hospitalisation.Use vaccination to arrest the rise in cases: CentreDistricts which have a case positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent should also be careful and what they can do is to focus on the saturation of vaccination, the ministry said. Since the Centre now informs the states how much vaccine doses they are going do get, states can concentrate on these districts, the ministry advised these states.Dr Bhargava reiterated that states should also focus on vaccinating senior citizens as this age group reports nearly 80 per cent of the mortality.Kerala, Maharashtra, Northeast statesThe Centre has flagged the Covid-19 situation of Kerala, Maharashtra and the northeast states as not positive like the other states in the country. While Maharashtra has hit a plateau of daily 8,000 new infections, the situation in Kerala has turned into worrying. A central team has been sent to Kerala which will visit the worst-hit districts and will probe into the sudden spike. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have reported a small spike in the number of cases following which both the states have tightened restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-back-restrictions-in-districts-with-over-10-covid-positivity-rate-centre-s-4-point-guideline-to-these-10-states-101627728757858.html
31-07-2021||India||Jaish commander involved in Pulwama attack killed: J&K Police||A Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander allegedly involved in the planning of the 2019 Pulwama attack, which left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers dead, was among two terrorists killed in an exchange of fire with security forces on Saturday, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said.The attack brought India and Pakistan on the verge of another war as it prompted New Delhi to launch an air strike on a JeM camp deep inside the Pakistani territory. The Pakistani air force carried out a retaliatory attack and captured an Indian pilot before releasing him days later.Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar identified the commander as Ismal Alvi alias Lamboo alias Adnan and said he was a relative of Masood Azhar, who founded JeM after his release from an Indian prison in exchange of passengers of a hijacked plane in 1999.The National Investigation Agency last year charged Pakistan-based Azhar, his two brothers, nephew and 15 others for their role in the February 2019 attack. At least six of the 19 accused were earlier killed in counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir while many have been arrested. India in late February 2019 handed over to dossier to Pakistan with specific details of JeM complicity in the attack. Kumar said Alvi was killed along with another unidentified JeM operative in the exchange of fire in Pulwama district triggered during a cordon and search operation in a forest. He added Alvi was involved in conspiracy and planning of Pulwama attack and stayed with Adil Dar, the suicide bombers who rammed his explosives laden car into a CRPF convoy, till the day of assault. He added Dar’s video on the attack also featured Alvi’s voice. “The Identification of the second terrorist is being ascertained,” said Kumar.Jammu and Kashmir Police called the commander’s killing a big sucess and a setback to Jaish. The killing comes as security forces have intensified the counter-insurgency operations in the Valley.At least 87 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year. They include top commanders of groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-commander-involved-in-pulwama-attack-killed-j-k-police-101627728196149.html
31-07-2021||India||'Happy to join probe but...': Himanta Sarma raises a question on Mizoram FIR||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, against whom the Mizoram Police registered an FIR, on Saturday said he will be very happy to join investigation. But at the same time, he also questioned the motive behind not handing over the case to a neutral agency.The case against Sarma is in connection with border clashes earlier this week in which seven people were killed."Will be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam? Have already conveyed this to @ZoramthangaCM ji," Sarma said on Twitter.will be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam? Have already conveyed this to @ZoramthangaCM ji https://t.co/v4eDi84isLThe chief minister, along with six top Assam officials, have been booked on charges of attempt to murder and assault. The clashes took place on the outskirts of Vairengte town in Mizoram's Kolasib district.The senior Assam Police officers named in the FIR include Inspector General of Police (IGP) Anurag Aggarwal, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Cachar Devojyoti Mukherjee, Cachar Superintendent of Police Cahndrakant Nimbalkar, and officer in-charge of Dholai police station, Sahab Uddin, according to Mizoram Inspector General of Police (Headquarter) John Neihlaia.Sarma, four police officers and two other administrative officials have been summoned for questioning on Sunday, he added.The FIR was filed for allegedly entering Mizoram’s Vairengte district and violating Covid protocols and under the Mizoram Containment and Prevention of Covid-19 Act 2020 along with the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga, meanwhile, condemned Assam’s decision to ask its citizens to not travel to the neighbouring state. “Public notice to all. Northeast India will always be one,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.The Assam government has issued a travel advisory, asking its residents not to travel to Mizoram and those staying there to exercise utmost caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-to-join-probe-but-himanta-sarma-raises-a-question-on-mizoram-fir-101627727014710.html
31-07-2021||India||Covid 3rd wave? Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu on alert as infections increase||With Kerala again turning into a hotbed of Covid-19 infection, bordering states Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have tightened restrictions as these two states too have reported a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, albeit not as much as Kerala. A central team has reached Thiruvananthapuram on Friday night. The team will visit the 10 worst-hit districts of the state.Is it the beginning of the third wave?According to the health ministry, the second wave of the pandemic which reached its peak in May is not yet over as Kerala, Maharashtra and some northeastern states have been reporting a sustained number of daily infections, though the situation is improving in other states. Government experts earlier said that the situation is still under control and whether it is a new wave or a long 2nd wave will be understood after monitoring the situation for some more weeks. Minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar on Friday informed the Lok Sabha that the overall trajectory of Covid-19 is registering a sustained and considerable decline.Also Read: Why are Kerala Covid cases increasing? Study says every 100 people spreading infection to 111KeralaData reveals that Kerala was never out of the second wave but around June last week, Kerala's test positivity rate dropped to 9.44 per cent. Daily infections dropped to 8,000. In July, there has been a steady increase in the number of daily infections. On July 28, Kerala reported 22,129 new infections. On July 29, the number rose to 24,064; on July 30, around 20,772 new cases were reported. The state government has announced a weekend lockdown in Kerala.KarnatakaThe positivity rate is rising in Bengaluru Urban, Shivamogga, Kodagu and Chikmagalur. On July 29, Karnataka reported 2,052 new infections, which was a 34 per cent rise from the daily tally of July 28 (1,531). On July 30, the state reported 1,890 new infections.The positivity rate (1.30 per cent) is far below the alarming rate, the state is already on alert as there is a high chance of cases spilling into Karnataka from Kerala.The government has asked district authorities to impose restrictions as and when required. "...it has been observed that there has been a spike in the number of new cases in the bordering states as well as in few places in the state, which entails close monitoring and stringent micro-containment measures..." an order signed by principal secretary N Manjunatha Prasad said. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has been asked to strictly monitor Bengaluru cases.Tamil NaduTamil Nadi government has reported a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and extended some existing restrictions so that there is no crowding at a time when bordering Kerala is again fighting a fresh challenge. On Friday, Tamil Nadu reported 1,947 infections. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu reported 1,859 fresh cases.The state government has also asked health officials to not recommend home quarantine now so that the authorities can identify if there is a remarkable increase through hospitalisation figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-kerala-karnataka-tamil-nadu-on-alert-as-infections-increase-101627726433820.html
31-07-2021||India||'Major breakthrough': Assam CM hails agreement with Nagaland on border issue||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday announced de-escalation of tension of the state's border with Nagaland. He said that an understanding has been reached to immediately withdraw states' forces from border locations."In a major breakthrough towards de-escalating tensions at Assam-Nagaland border, the two Chief Secretaries have arrived at an understanding to immediately withdraw states' forces from border locations to their respective base camps," Sarma said on Twitter."This is a historic step in our relations. My gratitude to HCM Sri @Neiphiu_Rio for working with #Assam in restoring peace on the border. Assam is committed to ensuring peace along all its borders & strives for social & economic prosperity of #NorthEast region," Sarma said in subsequent tweet.In a major breakthrough towards de-escalating tensions at Assam-Nagaland border, the two Chief Secretaries have arrived at an understanding to immediately withdraw states' forces from border locations to their respective base camps. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/mFbz1YCnoXHe also attached the minutes of the meeting held between the chief secretaries of the two states on Saturday.Nagaland protested after the Assam Police allegedly tried to set up a camp close to Vikuto village under Tzurangkong range in Mokokchung district of Nagaland on June 29. The area is near Mariani in Assam's Jorhat district.Several rounds of negotiations were held to find a solution to the issue. Nagaland’s Deputy CM Y Patton a meeting with various organisations of the Tzurangkong area on Friday.He assured that the border issue is being taken up at the highest level for a peaceful resolution, but Nagaland did not withdraw its forces. Patton claimed that in the past agreements between the two Northeastern states, both police forces had agreed to withdraw from the border areas, but Assam did not do it and has in fact increased its strength while Nagaland withdrew its forces."We will not make the mistake again," he said before today's agreement was reached. Assam and Nagaland share a 512.1 km long border.The border dispute between Assam and Nagaland began soon after Nagaland became a state in 1963. The Nagaland State Act of 1962 had defined the state's borders according to a 1925 notification when Naga Hills and Tuensang Area were integrated into a new administrative unit.Nagaland, however, did not accept the boundary delineation and demanded that the new state should also have all Naga-dominated area in North Cachar and Nagaon districts of Assam. Major clashes on the inter-state border took place several times since 1965.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-breakthrough-assam-cm-hails-agreement-with-nagaland-on-border-issues-101627725882507.html
31-07-2021||India||Pak JeM Masood Azhar kin and Kashmir chief killed in Tral||A top Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist, operating in the Kashmir Valley since 2018, was killed during a very close coordinated operation by the Victor Force of the Indian Army headed by General Rashim Bali, Jammu and Kashmir police and intelligence on Saturday.Mohammad Ismail Alvi, also known as Ibrahim, Lamba, Lala, Lambu and Adnan, was the bodyguard of Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar, the de-facto chief of Jaish-e-Mohammed with Masood Azhar Alvi bed-ridden in Pakistan's Bahawalpur. According to intelligence inputs, Ismail entered the valley through the Shakargarh sector in the first week of May 2018 and was involved in a series of terror attacks since then. He also recruited several local men to the JeM fold in the valley.Before infiltrating into India, he visited the JeM training centre at Jaba-Balakot, Manshera in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, apart from JeM Markaz at Bahawalpur in Pakistan. An expert on vehicle-borne IEDs, which are routinely used in Afghanistan and was also used in the Pulwama attack, Ismail trained with the Taliban, according to senior officials.The resident of Pakistan's Bahawalpur, the global headquarters of the JeM, was also involved in the Pulwama attack in February 2019. His main handlers included Yousuf Azhar, the brother of Maulana Masood Azhar and the head of Balakot training centre and Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar. As the chief operational commander of JeM in Jammu and Kashmir, he was in constant contact with Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar as well as several other members of Maulana Masood Azhar's 'Maktoob-ul-Amir' operations for carrying out terror attacks.His contacts also included Talha Saif, the brother of Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar, Hafeez Al Rehman the facilitator of the Pulwama attack, the son of Ibrahim Azhar Mohd Umar and other JeM commanders like Qari Zarrar, Shahid Lateef, Gazi Khan, Hammad and others.He was instrumental in training Adil Ahmed Dar, who carried out the suicide attack in Pulwama, which killed 40 security force personnel. He also trained Sameer Dar, the local JeM cadre and the cousin of Pulwama attacker Adil Ahmed Dar, in fabrication and handling shaped vehicle-borne IEDs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-jem-masood-azhar-kin-and-kashmir-chief-killed-in-tral-101627723236456.html
31-07-2021||India||Orissa HC rejects govt affidavit on Covid deaths citing discrepancies||Unimpressed by the Odisha government’s affidavit on Covid deaths during the first and second wave, the Orissa high court has asked for a comprehensive and up to date account before the next hearing on September 7.The HC said the state government’s figures on Covid deaths had discrepancies and rejected its affidavit made up of just three paragraphs and called for a detailed affidavit.The Odisha government on July 15 submitted an affidavit saying 4,925 persons had died due to Covid-19 in the state with the most 849 deaths taking place in Khurda district, followed by Sundargarh (427), Ganjam (400), Cuttack (311) and Nayagarh (132). It also claimed that a total 949,929 positive Covid-19 cases were registered in the state by July 15 and the maximum 167,913 were reported from Khurda, followed by 82,826 in Cuttack, 60,132 in Sundargarh, 41,825 in Puri and 41, 442 in Angul.The HC bench said the chief district medical officer of Nayagarh district had submitted that 117 Covid deaths had taken place in just 2 months of May and June this year, which was much higher than the state government’s statistics, which claimed the total number of Covid deaths due to the first and the second wave in the district was 132 and wanted to know the reason for the discrepancy.“What was the extent of under-reported deaths in each of the other districts is not known. The modality of conducting the audit of quality of care and death review has also not been explained,” the bench said, referring to the government’s claim that district level committees had audited Covid deaths.Refusing to accept the affidavit, the bench said, “The court directs that a far more detailed affidavit be filed by the additional chief secretary on this aspect before the next date (September 7), indicating whether in fact [and] the figures now disclosed can be accepted as reliable figures of the actual number of Covid deaths in the district”. The bench also directed that the affidavit should have updated statistics as on August 31.Early this month, vice-president of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and a member of legislative assembly (MLA) Soumya Ranjan Patnaik kicked up a storm alleging the government statistics on Covid-19 were fudged. In a front page editorial of leading Odia daily Sambad, Patnaik said a desperate race to be on the top and the attempt to cling onto past glory, seems to have resulted in such manipulation.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also demanded a white paper on Covid deaths alleging massive under-reporting.Till July 31, Odisha has officially reported 5,902 Covid deaths including 68 deaths in the last 24 hours. Though the daily Covid cases have come down to about 1,500 from a peak of 12,852 on May 22, the deaths have been hovering between 65 and 70 since the last 20 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-hc-rejects-govt-affidavit-on-covid-deaths-citing-discrepancies-101627718415465.html
31-07-2021||India||Top Jaish terrorist involved in Pulwama attack gunned down in Kashmir||A top Pakistani terrorist affiliated with proscribed terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) involved in the Pulwama attack was gunned down in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, a senior police official said on Saturday. Abu Saifullah, who was also known as Adnan, Ismail and Lamboo and had been operating in the valley since 2017, was killed along with another terrorist at Hangalmarg in Tral of the Pulwama district, the official added."He was involved in a series of terror attacks, including the Pulwama attack of February 14, 2019, along with others. Adnan was a very strong associate of Pakistan-based top JeM hierarchy of Rauf Azhar, Maulana Masood Azhar and Ammar," the senior official said.Saifullah trained with the Taliban and was an expert on vehicle-borne IED, which is routinely used in Afghanistan and also in the Pulwama attack of 2019. He remained close to Talha Saif and Umer, who of whom have been killed. A security dossier said that the resident of Pakistan's Bahawalpur, the global headquarters of the JeM, tried to re-establish and strengthen the JeM outfit and utilise Awantipora, especially the Kakpora and Pampore areas of Pulwama, as a hotbed for recruiting new terrorist groups and transporting them to other parts for carrying out attacks.He escaped in during the encounter as a cordon and a search operation was launched at Zinpora at Chadoora Budgam in March 2020 during which one soldier was injured. He was booked under several sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with other acts between 2018 and 2020 across police stations in the region.The official also said that details on the identity of the second terrorist are awaited. adding that an M-4 rife, AK-47 rifle, a Glock pistol as well as another pistol was recovered from the dead terrorists among others.Security forces launched the joint operation in the morning and an exchange of fire was triggered during a cordon and search operation, police said.Security forces have killed at least 87 terrorists, including some top commanders, in Kashmir since January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-jaish-terrorist-involved-in-pulwama-attack-gunned-down-in-kashmir-101627716590991.html
31-07-2021||India||Over ₹1,800 crore sent to states, UTs to fight Covid-19: Mandaviya||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Saturday said that the Centre has disbursed ₹1827.8 crore to states and Union territories (UTs) to fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He said this is 15 per cent of the 'Emergency Covid Response Package' sanctioned by the central government." ₹1,827.80 crore (15 per cent of the total amount of 'Emergency Covid Response Package') fixed by the Central Government to fight against Covid-19 has been sent to the states and UTs," the Union health minister said on Twitter.According to the Union health ministry, more than 31.4 million unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered.The ministry said that over 487.8 million vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and further 68,57,590 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 45,82,60,052 doses.With a single-day rise of 41,649 new cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,16,13,993 on Saturday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,810 with 593 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), meanwhile, said that 17,76,315 tests were conducted on Friday to detect the infection, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the nation to 46,64,27,038The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination started from June 21 this year. The nationwide vaccination drive started on January 16 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-rs-1-800-crore-sent-to-states-uts-to-fight-covid-19-mandaviya-101627714294149.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Centre to review Covid situation in 10 states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre to review Covid situation in 10 states as Kerala, northeast remain areas of concernUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan will on Saturday review the situation in 10 states, including Kerala, where cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise even as the rest of the country has reported fewer infections, officials said. Read moreMost wanted gangster in Delhi arrestedSandeep alias Kala Jatheri, the most wanted gangster in Delhi, has been arrested along with “woman don” Anuradha from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, a police officer said on Saturday. Read moreMumbai Police uses Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara scene featuring Hrithik Roshan in their latest advisoryIf you regularly follow Mumbai Police on social media, you may be aware that they are among the best when it comes to sharing advisories with a touch of creativity. Read moreWhen Shilpa Shetty rejected the idea to launch husband Raj Kundra as an actor in her moviesShilpa Shetty Kundra had once said that she wouldn't give her husband Raj Kundra a 'break' in her movies. The actor has been married to the businessman for close to 12 years now. Raj is currently in judicial custody in connection with a case regarding the production and circulation of pornography. Read more'Virat and Surya will follow them': Zaheer Khan picks India's 15 for T20 WC, omits star batsmanThe T20 World Cup is less than three months away but discussion regarding what India’s composition is going to be for the ICC global event has already gained momentum. With India having played its last set of T20I matches before the World Cup, the IPL is all that remains between now and the selection of their World Cup squad. Read moreDecoding Kerala's Covid Battle and how Centre and state can combat surgeKerala continues to show high number of Covid-19 cases in India while the second wave is abating in the country. In fact, Kerala is reporting 50% of the cases in India. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-centre-to-review-covid-situation-in-10-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101627714837746.html
31-07-2021||India||'Windshield crack': Air India Express flight makes emergency landing in Kerala||An Air India Express flight from Kerala to Saudi Arabia made an emergency landing at Thiruvananthapuram airport on Saturday morning. According to an airport official, as quoted by news agency PTI, the pilots noticed a crack in the windshield.The plane took off from Thiruvananthapuram international airport at 7.52am and just about an hour later the pilots detected a crack in the windshield, the official said. They then turned back the flight and landed in Thiruvananthapuram at 8.50am.The plane was without any passenger due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions in place. It was carrying some cargo along with eight-member crew."All the crew members, including the pilots, are safe," said CV Ravindran, director of Thiruvananthapuram airport.The flight was going to bring back Indian passengers from Damman in Saudi Arabia as part of the 'Vande Bharat Mission', according to Ravindran.In June, Air India Express, the budget wing of national carrier Air India, operated the country's first international flight with the crew fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The flight, IX 191, operated from Delhi to Dubai.Normal flight operations came to a halt in March last year after a nationwide lockdown was imposed. Flight movements resumed in the form of rescue operation as the Centre started Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded in other countries. Air India Express has been a part of the mission.Air India Express had operated India's first-ever Vande Bharat Mission flight which brought back passengers from Abu Dhabi on May 7.In Auguat last year, an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including its six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala amid heavy rains.The narrow-body B-737 plane fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 21 people, including both pilots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/windshield-crack-air-india-express-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-kerala-101627715420150.html
31-07-2021||India||At meet with IPS probationers, PM Modi says ensure negative image changes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers they are on a 25-year "special mission" to make policing in the country socially responsible so that an accountable framework is laid by the time India celebrates 100 years of Independence in 2047.Highlighting that there is a "negative connotation" associated with the police force in India, Prime Minister Modi said that officials should work hard to improve the image. "This perception changed temporarily when the Covid-19 crisis first arrived," the Prime Minister said while virtually interacting with the IPS probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. "But things are back to where they were once again," he said.https://t.co/1IzYrgZRAAAs an example, Prime Minister Modi pointed out to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and said that much trust is associated with the personnel involved in rescue and relief operations. The police should strive to improve its public image, too, he said, especially since the country is currently going through one of the most significant phases in its history."Over the past 75 years, India has strived to improve police training," PM Modi said. "Now we can look forward to laying out a better framework for the same in the future."Announcing his schedule a day prior, the Prime Minister had expressed his confidence in the academy probationers, saying that they will go on to hold important police responsibilities in the years to come.The Prime Minister reiterated his "Nation first, always first" mantra to the IPS trainees and said that they should always prioritise India's interests, no matter how local their issues might normally be. He said that to establish a responsible policing framework, the officials will have to confront decades of malpractice and conventional customs every single day during work."Whether you will change the 'system' or it will change you depends on your mindset," Prime Minister Narendra Modi remarked. "In many ways, this will be yet another test laid out before you."The IPS trainees, already allocated to cadres across the country, shared their experiences with the Prime Minister regarding their journey in the police academy.Prime Minister Modi asked many of the IPS probationers regarding their hobbies and how they hoped to tackle the security situation in areas that will eventually be under their jurisdiction using their unique personality traits and experience that they brought with their backgrounds before joining the academy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meet-with-ips-probationers-pm-modi-lays-out-25-year-special-mission-101627710027168.html
31-07-2021||India||Orissa HC Bar Association opposes live streaming of court proceedings||The Orissa High Court Bar Association has opposed the live streaming of court proceedings scheduled to begin from August 2, saying it would lower the dignity of the institution.On Wednesday, the Orissa Livestreaming of Court Proceedings Rules were notified for broadening the implementation of the open court concept.The live streaming will not cover matrimonial matters and those involving children and juveniles and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act cases. Cases related to sexual offences, gender-based violence against women, Official Secrets Act, national security, Habeas Corpus petitions will also continue to be heard in camera.The Association, in a letter to Chief Justice S Muralidhar, said the order for live streaming should be rescinded to protect the dignity and majesty of courts. It added its views and suggestion were not considered while taking the decision.“The live streaming of court proceedings has its implicit hazards as this is amenable to public access even at all odd places/locations unless reasonable and proper care is taken after taking into confidence the members of the Bar for protecting the dignity and majesty of Courts and institution at large,” the Association wrote.The Association has asked the Chief Justice to keep the live streaming rules in abeyance.The court will also start from Monday hearing of cases through both virtual and physical modes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-hc-bar-association-opposes-live-streaming-of-court-proceedings-101627712295139.html
31-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border row heats up, Barak Valley MLAs extend support to CM||The Assam-Mizoram border conflict is picking up steam with each passing day following a fierce gun battle that resulted in the deaths of six police personnel and one civilian earlier this week. In the midst of these tensions, a joint all-party meeting in Assam's Barak Valley on Friday saw almost all the MLAs of the region extending their support across party lines to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma."It was unanimously decided that the initiative taken by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the government will be supported wholeheartedly," said Ashok Singhal, guardian minister for Cachar, while speaking to reporters about the all-party meeting. "We are united at the moment of this Mizo-Assam border crisis."Attended a joint meeting of the Hon'ble MLAs from BJP, INC, AIUDF of Barak Valley at Circuit House, Cachar held today to support Hon’ble CM @himantabiswa & Govt of Assam on the present Assam-Mizoram border situation.I appreciate their support for our Govt on this issue. pic.twitter.com/hKkaOhJmEoSinghal presided over the meeting in which 11 out of 15 MLAs of three districts of Assam's Barak Valley were present.The development came on a day when the Mizoram police filed an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and four other police officers of the state. Two other Assam officials were also booked in connection with the clashes at the inter-state border. The charges include 'attempt to murder', 'criminal conspiracy', and 'assault', according to people aware of the developments.The FIR was filed against Assam officials for allegedly entering Mizoram’s Vairengte district and violating Covid-19 protocols and other rules under the Mizoram Containment and Prevention of Covid-19 Act, 2020. The chief minister and the others have been asked to appear at the police station on August 1.Mizoram has also condemned Assam’s decision to ask its citizens to not travel to the neighbouring state and a key government committee appeared to harden its stance on the border dispute.On the other hand, Assam police on Friday summoned K Vanlalvena, a Rajya Sabha member from Mizoram, in connection with the inter-state border clash and asked him to appear before them at the police station at 11am on August 1. A team from the Assam police, including officers of CID, has reached Delhi to serve a notice to the MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-row-heats-up-barak-valley-mlas-extend-support-to-cm-101627707643044.html
31-07-2021||India||Centre to review Covid situation in 10 states as Kerala, northeast remain areas of concern||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan will on Saturday review the situation in 10 states, including Kerala, where cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise even as the rest of the country has reported fewer infections, officials said. Bhushan will review the situation in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Manipur.The Centre has already rushed a six-member multi-disciplinary team to Kerala which will monitor the Covid-19 pandemic situation there and suggest measures to control the spread of infection in the southern state. The team of experts headed by Dr Sujeet Singh, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), reached Thiruvananthapuram on Friday night."There are many concerns, rise in positivity rate is one. Cases are declining everywhere and transmission is continuing in Kerala," Singh, Director, who is a part of the team, said earlier, according to news agency PTI. "Let us discuss this with the state. It is a comprehensive situation, let us see how things unfold," he said.Kerala reported more than 20,000 fresh infections on Friday, which is 50 per cent of India's total single-day Covid-19 tally, for the fourth consecutive day. The state's test positivity rate has risen to 13.61 per cent.Also read | Rahul Gandhi expresses concern over rising Covid cases in KeralaAccording to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai, Kerala and northeastern states are among the regions where R-value, which indicates the rate at which Covid-19 infection is spreading in the nation, is on the rise. Kerala continues to have an R-value around 1.11.Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences said controlling an outbreak is much easier when the R-value is near one and the number of active cases of Covid-19 remains in the range of a few hundred. "India's overall active cases are fluctuating too much to get a reliable estimate, but data is pointing at a value close to one. It may tip over either way in the coming few days," Sinha told PTI.Also read | Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: DataIn Maharashtra, there were 6,600 new Covid-19 cases and 231 deaths on Friday pushing the caseload in the state to 62,96,756 and the death toll to 132,566.Union minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar said earlier this month that the Centre has sent teams to the states and Union territories (UTs) that are reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases. Pawar also said that the Centre will take more steps to check the spread of Covid-19 in these regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-review-covid-situation-in-10-states-as-cases-rise-in-kerala-northeast-101627709402612.html
31-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown for another week without any relaxation||The Tamil Nadu government has announced that the Covid-19 lockdown will continue in the state for another week, till August 9, without any further relaxations. The decision was taken at the meeting chaired by chief minister MK Stalin on Friday.The state government said that relaxations were provided earlier with a view that the livelihood of the people should not be affected, but if people fail to follow the Covid-19 protocol, they will face serious issues. The district collectors and police have been instructed to strictly implement the protocols and close the areas where large gathering is witnessed in view of the welfare of the public, news agency PTI reported, quoting government statement.In accordance with the government order, the Greater Chennai Corporation has announced closure of commercial complexes and retail outlets in crowded market places located in nine areas in the metropolis from July 31 to August 9.Following the high-level meeting at state secretariat, Stalin extended curbs that are currently in place which includes closure of schools, colleges, cinemas and bars.Stalin advising officials to strictly enforce coronavirus guidelines comes against the backdrop of Tamil Nadu reporting a marginal increase in fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time on July 29 after a decline that began in the last week of May.While 1,859 new cases were reported on Thursday, the state recorded 1,947 fresh infections on Friday, the second day of spike. On July 28, Tamil Nadu registered 1,756 new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-for-another-week-without-any-relaxation-101627706716026.html
31-07-2021||India||PM Modi calls for need to do away with the negative perception of police||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for the need to do away with the negative perception of police among the people while highlighting their role including in the fight against terrorism and underlining the need for better conduct.“Why is not the public trust increasing (in police) despite its officers … laying down their lives to fight terrorism and to maintain law and order?” he asked while virtually interacting with 144 probationary Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, who have completed their training at Hyderabad’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy.Modi said India has strived for better police service for 75 years now. “There should be a new beginning to it now,” he said. “What matters are your principles and intentions… and this should reflect through your conduct.” He asked the officers to be friendly with masses and always prioritise nation first.Modi sought the views of the officers about how they could use their academic knowledge in policing. He said the job of a police officer is very demanding… I wish that you will use your strength to be better leaders in the police service,” he said. Modi emphasised that fitness and professionalism are pivotal to the work of a police officer. He added police should promote the fitness culture. “This will also motivate the youth of the country to be fit.”Interacting with an officer, who has been allotted the Chhattisgarh cadre, Modi said: “The role of a police officer becomes very important in conflict torn areas…. (Apart from conflict management) police officers also have to promote development and a social connect among the people.”Modi advised a woman officer, who secured the first rank in training, that she should pay regular visits to local schools and interact with woman students. “The (motivating) impact of these things is very high,” he said.Modi also interacted with an officer from the Maldives trained at the academy. The Maldivian officer thanked the Indian government for the training.Modi said every year he seeks to know the thoughts of young officers. Hereferred to Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi March and advised the officers to adhere to the notion of Satyagraha. He added in the past, Indians were ready to die for independence. “Now, you should go ahead and live for this nation.”He the service of the officers to the country would be crucial for its development. “Therefore, you should remember that … you are chosen by India for this crucial mission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-and-interact-with-ips-officers-101627707674926.html
31-07-2021||India||Sirmaur landslide 'took a bus' along with portion of mountain; video viral||A landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Sirmaur district took away a huge portion of the mountain on Friday. The incident also took away a section of the road, which connected Paonta Sahib.The video of the landslide went viral on social media on Friday. It shows rocks and debris falling down the mountain as the landslide starts.Watch the video below:An eyewitness is heard telling those standing on the highway, which later caved in, to back their vehicles. Another man says that the landslide has "taken a bus".No casualties were reported in the landslide, which carried away a portion of National Highway 707. The site was less than 30 kilometres from Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district.Sirmaur deputy commissioner Ram Kumar Gautam said travellers were alerted when they saw a minor landslide first and stopped their vehicles.Paonta Sahib, which houses a Sikh shrine, is still accessible. Traffic has been diverted to a road passing through Uttarakhand's Vikasnagar from Kaffota.It will take at least a fortnight to reconstruct the road, Gautam said. A Geological Survey of India (GSI) team has visited the spot to study the situation.Heavy rainfall this week in Himachal Pradesh has triggered other, smaller landslides as well along with cloudburst.In Lahaul-Spiti, at least nine people were killed and seven others missing after a cloudburst. According to authorities, 168 tourists are still trapped in the upper reaches.On Friday, officials also reported that three trekkers are missing in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sirmaur-landslide-took-a-bus-along-with-portion-of-mountain-video-viral-101627707204958.html
31-07-2021||India||Maoists take over railway station in Bihar for 2 hrs, disrupt rail services||Heavily armed Maoist insurgents took control of Chaura railway station in Bihar’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Jamui district on Saturday morning and disrupted railway services on the Delhi-Howrah mainline for over two hours.Jamui police superintendent Pramod Kumar Mandal said a contingent of paramilitary forces rushed to the spot. But the Maoists had fled by then taking advantage of the hilly and forested terrain in the remote area, over 50 kilometres from the district headquarters.A railway official said the siege forced them to halt a dozen long route express trains at separate railway stations along the railway line. He added the train services were affected between 3.20 am to 5.30 am.Chief public relations officer (railways) Rajesh Kumar said the movement of trains on the Delhi-Howrah mainline resumed at 5.30 am after the tracks were examined for detection of sabotage or explosives.Officials said the insurgents first surrounded the station before one of them in police uniform entered station master Binay Kumar’s office and forced him to turn the track signals red to halt trains. They threatened to blow up the railway station if Kumar refused to do so.The insurgents asked other railway staffers to pass on a message to their seniors about their siege. They also addressed passengers on public address system and asked them to remain seated. The siege came on the fourth day of a weeklong bandh Maoists have called in memory of their slain comrades.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said it took the security forces over two hours to rush to the station as operations in remote Maoist insurgency hit areas require some preparation. He added there is always fear of ambush or trap and landmines. “Police go to Maoist areas in adequate numbers. Jamui is the worst affected area and going there needs utmost precaution. The police got information after the Maoists left the station and despite moving fast, the extremists took advantage of the jungle and hilly terrain.”Central Reserve Police Force officers said the Maoists intended to lure security forces to the area and ambush them.Jamui is among the Left-wing insurgency-hit areas of Bihar, where two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel were killed and five injured when Maoists attacked a Howrah-Mokama passenger train near at Narganjo railway station on April 8, 2007. The Maoists also took away weapons of the slain and injured RPF personnel.On June 14, 2013, over 150 armed Maoists attacked a Patna-bound train and killed three people including a RPF personal in the district. Five people were injured, and Maoists looted passengers and fled the scene carrying away weapons of the security forces they targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-take-control-of-railway-station-in-bihar-for-2-hrs-disrupt-rail-services-101627706894940.html
31-07-2021||India||Kishtwar cloudburst: Community kitchen, tents for Honzar flash flood victims||Jammu and Kashmir Police started a community kitchen on Friday for residents of flood-hit Honzar village in Dachhan area of Kishtwar district. The police are also pitching tents to provide temporary shelter to those whose homes were washed away or damaged in the flash flood triggered by a cloudburst on Wednesday morning that took at least 7 lives and injured another 17. At least 19 residents of the village are still missing, police said.Additional director general of Jammu and Kashmir police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh camped for two days at Honzar village to review the ongoing rescue operations, a police spokesman said.Kishtwar’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shafqat Hussain too is camping at the flood hit site to supervise the ongoing rescue and relief operations out by police, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), army and Kishtwar district civil administration.“Search for the missing persons continues as intensified rescue operations enter the fourth day on Saturday,” the police spokesperson quoted above said.Jammu and Kashmir’s director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said that though chances of finding any survivor looked difficult, the search operations were still continuing.The search operation was interrupted by heavy rains late Thursday night and resumed around noon on Friday after slight improvement in the weather conditions. Honzar village has no road connectivity and it takes five hours of trek to reach the village from the nearest road. There is also no mobile phone connectivity in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-community-kitchen-tents-for-honzar-flash-flood-victims-101627706294943.html
31-07-2021||India||Kishtwar cloudburst: Rescue ops resume, cops trek long road to flood-hit village||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is continuing its rescue and relief operations in the Honzar village of Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district, where a cloudburst triggered heavy rains and subsequent floods. At least 20 people are still missing in the region, according to officials.The IAF rescued 74 of its personnel, who were stranded in different parts of Kishtwar, as well as five critically injured patients on Friday, ANI reported on Saturday morning. The IAF also lifted 3,150kg of the National Disaster Response Force's (NDRF's) relief material to the people in the area, ANI said.J&K | Indian Air Force (IAF) rescued 74 stranded personnel from different parts of Kishtwar including five critically injured patients yesterday IAF also lifted 3150 kg of relief material of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) #KishtwarCloudBurst pic.twitter.com/q8XJqw3zDxThe Kishtwar rescue operation is being conducted by teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the NDRF, the police, military, district administration, and locals. The operation took a hit on late Thursday night due to heavy rains but resumed around noon on Friday after a slight improvement in weather conditions.The locals are demanding the constitution of a rehabilitation committee to facilitate the provision of relief and rehabilitation of the affected people, the police said. The people have also demanded government jobs to the next of kin of the deceased on an immediate basis, besides restoration of essential services like electricity, water supply, and other relief measures.Two senior officers of the Jammu and Kashmir police, additional director general of police Mukesh Singh and Raghav Langer, the divisional commissioner, Jammu, trekked on foot for a total of 34km to get first-hand information amid difficult terrain and continuous rainfall, PTI reported. The officials personally supervised the rescue and relief operation in the remote village of Dacchan tehsil during their two-day visit to the area, the agency cited an official spokesperson as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-rescue-ops-resume-cops-trek-long-road-to-flood-hit-village-101627702409953.html
31-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in Kashmir||Two unidentified militants were killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday in an exchange of fire with a joint army, police and paramilitary team. The gun battle was triggered during a cordon and search operation, police said.“Two militants were killed in the encounter and searches are going on,” the police said in a statement. It added that the identities of the two were immediately unclear.At least 87 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year. They include some top commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militants-killed-in-kashmir-101627704374877.html
31-07-2021||India||India logs 41,649 new Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than yesterday; 593 new deaths take toll to 423,810||India recorded 41,649 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,613,993, and its death toll climbed to 4,23,810 with 593 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.Active cases of Covid-19 rose to 4,08,920 in the said time period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 1.29 per cent, it stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,07,81,263, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.The Centre has sent a six-member expert team to Kerala, which has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, for observation. Kerala on Friday reported 20,772 new Covid-9 cases, 14,651 recoveries and 116 deaths over a span of 24 hours."There are many concerns, rise in positivity rate is one. Cases are declining everywhere and transmission is continuing in Kerala. Let us discuss this with the state. It is a comprehensive situation, let us see how things unfold," said Dr SK Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) who is a part of the central team, according to news agency PTI.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the state has the capacity to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to one crore people every month and will urge the Centre to provide more vaccines.The health ministry informed that 45,60,33,754 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far.The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination had commenced on June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines. The government has been supporting the states and Union territories by providing them Covid-19 vaccines for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-41-649-new-covid-19-cases-slightly-lower-than-yesterday-593-new-deaths-take-toll-to-423810-101627691810798.html
31-07-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with IPS probationers today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address probationers of the Indian Police Service (IPS) at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy on Saturday. The interaction between PM Modi and the IPS probationers will be held virtually.PM Modi will also interact with the probationers during the event, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. It added that Union home minister Amit Shah will also be present on the occasion.The Prime Minister interacted with IPS probationers in September last year and asked them to respect their job and uniform. He said the human face of the khaki uniform in people's minds because of the good work performed by police specifically throughout the coronavirus pandemic.“Yours is a profession where the factor of encountering something unexpected is very high and all of you must be alert and prepared for this. There is a higher degree of stress and which is why it is important to keep speaking with your near and dear ones. From time to time, maybe on a day off, meet someone like a teacher or someone whose advice you value,” PM Modi also said while addressing the IPS probationers last year.The Hyderabad-based Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy is the premier police training institution in the nation. It trains officers of the IPS at the induction level and conducts various in-service courses for the serving IPS officers.On July 2, Shah advised IPS probationers to avoid social media and not chase after publicity. Shah asked them to be sensitive towards the concerns of the poor, Dalits and tribal people, a home ministry statement said. “There are allegations of no action and extreme action against the police. … the police should avoid these and move towards just action… Just action means natural action and the police should understand the law and do the right thing,” the statement quoted Shah as saying during a virtual address to the probationary officers of the 72nd IPS batch.According to the statement, Shah said, “Communication and sensitivity are necessary to improve the image of the police, and so there is a need to sensitise all police personnel and increase contact with the people."Shah asked officers of All India Services, especially from IPS, to stay away from publicity. “The urge to seek publicity hinders work… Although it is difficult to stay away from social media in the present times, police officers should stay away from it and focus on their duties. Before leaving the police academy, all of you should take a vow that every day you will make a note in your diary whether the work you have done was done only for the sake of publicity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ips-probationers-today-101627692955911.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Red alert in MP, Rajasthan; heavy rains in Bihar, Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Red alert in MP, Rajasthan; heavy rains to lash Bengal, Bihar over weekendThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for east and west Madhya Pradesh and eastern Rajasthan, predicting heavy rains over the weekend. With monsoon wading in the eastern part of India, a well-marked low-pressure area hangs over the state of West Bengal and is expected to move westwards towards Jharkhand and Bihar, bringing heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning this weekend.Read more.India, China to hold 12th round of talks today on LAC standoffTop Indian and Chinese commanders will hold the 12th round of military talks in the Ladakh sector on Saturday to cool tensions between the two countries that have been locked in a border row for almost 14 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.Read more.Mizoram police file FIR against Assam CM HimantaMizoram Police registered an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six top state officials on charges of attempt to murder and assault, people aware of developments said on Friday, marking an escalation in tensions simmering between the northeastern neighbours days after violent border clashes killed seven people.Read more. As ruckus continues in House, govt says Oppn raking up a ‘non issue’Opposition leaders, who have disrupted proceedings in Parliament over the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens through Israeli Pegasus spyware, should not focus on “non-serious issues” but raise “important people-related issues”, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said in Lok Sabha on Friday.Read more. Covid-19 origin probe ‘driven by science, without taking sides’, says WHOThe World Health Organization (WHO) Emergencies expert Dr. Michael Ryan spoke on the probe into Covid-19 origin. Speaking during a briefing, Dr. Ryan said that WHO’s investigation into the origins of the virus “has always been driven by science”. Dr. Ryan also asked not to politicise the probe. “We are trying to control Covid-19 and to establish the origins of the virus,” Dr. Ryan said. Watch the full video for more details.Pakistan's Kamran Akmal reacts to India batsman Sanju Samson's poor show in Sri LankaVeteran Pakistan cricketer Kamran Akmal has expressed his disappointment over Sanju Samson’s dismal batting show in the three-match T20I series that Sri Lanka won 2-1 on Thursday. A depleted Indian team had only five batters available for the final two games but none of them could stand against the host bowling attack.Read more. Malaika Arora in one-shoulder gold gown with thigh-baring slit is a fashion goddessActor and television personality Malaika Arora's past sartorial choices have proved one thing: her style is anything but boring. And testimony to this statement is her latest look from the sets of the reality TV show Supermodel of the Year 2, where she is appearing as a judge. Malaika slipped into a red-carpet-ready golden dress to shoot for a promo of the show, and the pictures are just mind-blowing.Read more. Bigg Boss OTT’s first confirmed contestant is Neha Bhasin, says ‘yeh awaaz kisi se darti nahi’. Watch promoSinger Neha Bhasin has been revealed as the first confirmed contestant of Bigg Boss OTT, a six-week digital series hosted by filmmaker Karan Johar that will air on Voot ahead of the televised version of the show, Bigg Boss 15. On Friday night, Neha’s participation in the show was announced with a short promo.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-red-alert-in-mp-rajasthan-heavy-rains-in-bihar-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news-101627699747699.html
31-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, misses Parliament session||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has taken the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) three days ago, according to several reports. News agency ANI cited people familiar with the matter that he did not attend Parliament on Thursday and Friday after receiving the jab against Covid-19. However, it was not clear whether he got Covaxin or Covishield.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has in the past questioned Rahul Gandhi over the delay in getting vaccinated against Covid-19 and accused him and his family of creating vaccine hesitancy.In June, the Congress party said party president Sonia Gandhi has taken both doses of the Covishield vaccine and that her daughter and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has taken her first dose. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Rahul Gandhi will take his shot after he recovers from Covid-18 as advised by doctors.Also read | Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: Data"Instead of beating around the bush and creating non-issues, the Modi government should concentrate on vaccinating 80 lakh to one crore people daily in order to meet the target of 100 crore Indians by December 31, 2021," Surjewala told PTI. "This is the only 'raj dharma' they need to follow after failing the people of India during the second wave of Covid-19," he added.The Wayanad MP tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20.Also read | Concerns rise as 46% of senior citizens yet to get first vaccine doseThe Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination strategy and asked them to make its policy public on how to vaccinate all Indians and protect them from Covid-19 in future.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday that the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 460 million. The health ministry said that 20,96,446 first doses and 3,41,500 second doses were administered in the 18-44 age group on Friday. It added that 15,17,27,430 people in the 18-44 age category cumulatively have received their first dose across all states and Union territories and 80,31,011 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-misses-parliament-session-101627699426156.html
31-07-2021||India||Red alert in MP, Rajasthan; heavy rains to lash Bengal, Bihar over weekend||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for east and west Madhya Pradesh and eastern Rajasthan, predicting heavy rains over the weekend.With monsoon wading in the eastern part of India, a well-marked low-pressure area hangs over the state of West Bengal and is expected to move westwards towards Jharkhand and Bihar, bringing heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning this weekend. According to the Skymet weather report, another low-pressure area is also forming over eastern Uttar Pradesh, and it will usher in heavy rainfall across the region over the next three days.Also Read | Rains likely to intensify in next 5 days, says IMDDuring the past 24 hours, heavy rains lashed the Gangetic plains of West Bengal, leading to inundation in several key parts of the state. Two labourers were killed, at least two others injured, and another four were missing after being swept by the Mamkhola, a rivulet in the Kalimpong hills of north Bengal, as the water level rose due to heavy overnight rains.Kolkata recorded over 150mm rainfall, with major sections of the city waterlogged throughout the past day. Moderate to heavy rainfall was also witnessed in the northern parts of Odisha, as well as in Jharkhand.West Bengal will have no respite yet from the rains, according to the Skymet projections. Moderate to heavy rainfall will occur over south Bihar, Jharkhand, north Chhattisgarh, north Madhya Pradesh, and the southern parts of Uttar Pradesh over the next two days. Rainfall activity is also likely to occur across several parts of northeast and eastern Rajasthan, according to the weather forecasting service.The deep low-pressure area, Skymet predicted, will eventually progress towards the western part of Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 to 48 hours, spreading out the rainfall activity.Light to moderate rainfall has also been predicted to continue over Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand. The southern part of the country, however, is currently looking weak in terms of monsoon projections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-in-mp-rajasthan-heavy-rains-to-lash-bengal-bihar-over-weekend-101627696328732.html
31-07-2021||India||Mahatma Gandhi left Sabarmati Ashram on July 31: Know its significance||July 31 has a special significance in the history freedom struggle of the nation. On this day in 1933, Mahatma Gandhi left the Sabarmati Ashram forever. Sabarmati Ashram, also known as Gandhi Ashram and Harijan Ashram, is located in the Sabarmati suburb of Gujarat's Ahmedabad. It was one of the many residences of Mahatma Gandhi who lived at Sabarmati and Sevagram in Wardha of Maharashtra when he was not travelling across India or was not in prison.It was from Sabarmati that Gandhi led the Dandi March, also known as the Salt Satyagraha, on March 12, 1930. The government has established the ashram as a national monument in recognition of the influence that Dandi March had on the Indian independence movement.The Sabarmati Ashram was home to Gandhi from 1917 until 1930 and served as one of the main centres of the Indian freedom struggle. It was originally called the Satyagraha Ashram and became home to the ideology that set India free. Sabarmati Ashram is named after the river on which it sits and was created with a dual mission -- to serve as an institution that would carry on a search for truth and as a platform to bring together a group of workers committed to non-violence who would help secure freedom for India.During his stay at the ashram, Gandhi formed a school that focused on manual labour, agriculture and literacy to advance his efforts for self-sufficiency.Today, the Sabarmati Ashram serves as a source of inspiration and guidance and stands as a monument to Gandhi’s life mission and evidence to others who have fought a similar struggle.The ashram was a major tourist attraction, both with domestic and foreign travellers, before the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On average, around 2,000 people used to visit this place every day, ashram’s director Atul Pandya said, adding that the footfalls are now going to be much less in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, reports news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahatma-gandhi-left-sabarmati-ashram-on-july-31-know-its-significance-101627693667578.html
31-07-2021||India||Last day to implement One Nation One Ration Card scheme. Here's how states fare||The Supreme Court last month set July 31, 2021, as the last date for the states and Union territories across India to implement the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme. As the deadline nears its completion, the Centre said on Friday that state governments have completed the Aadhaar seeding of nearly 95 per cent of ration cards in their respective administrative regions."States/UTs have completed the Aadhaar seeding of about 21.91 crore (92.8 per cent) ration cards and 70.94 crore (90 per cent) NFSA (National Food Security Act) beneficiaries at the national level," informed Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, the Union minister of state (MoS) for food and consumer affairs, in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha.Also Read | One nation, one ration card possible because of Digital India: PM ModiThe One Nation One Ration Card scheme is one of the several plans being implemented under the NFSA to enable nationwide portability of ration cards. Under this scheme, all eligible ration card holders and beneficiaries covered under the NFSA can access their benefits from fair price shops (FPS) anywhere in the country. The beneficiaries (or their family members back home) would simply need their existing ration card(s) to claim their fair share of foodgrains. The authentication will be based on a biometric system or Aadhaar.The One Nation One Ration Card scheme was initially started in four states in August 2019. Now, two years later, it is enabled in 33 states and UTs covering almost 86.7 per cent of the NFSA population (about 690 million NFSA beneficiaries) in the country, according to the Union minister.Delhi is the latest territory to enable the ONORC plan from July 2021, the minister said, adding that the central government has been urging the remaining three states of Chhattisgarh, Assam, and West Bengal to enable the scheme at the earliest "depending upon their technical readiness to implement the portability of ration cards."Also Read | Uptick in use of ration card scheme in Delhi, days after roll-outUnder the NFSA, households covered under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) are entitled to receive 35kg of foodgrains per household per month at ₹1-3 per kg. The Priority Households are entitled to receive 5kg of foodgrains per person per month at ₹1-3 per kg. More than 800 million people are covered under the food law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-day-to-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-here-s-how-states-fare-101627688548120.html
31-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: 50-year-old woman first case of Zika virus in Maharashtra||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India reported 41,649 new Covid-19 cases and 593 deaths, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Sunday. This is the fourth straight day when there were more than 40,000 fresh Covid-19 cases; however, the latest daily caseload was lower than the corresponding figures on the three previous days.Follow all the updates here:Haryana govt extends lockdown till August 9Haryana government extends lockdown for one more week till 5 am on August 9. Night curfew will come into force from 11 pm to 5 am on all days of the week in the State. pic.twitter.com/XM2emRmAUZHaryana govt extends Covid-19 lockdown for one more week till 5am on August 9. Night curfew will come into force from 11pm to 5am on all days of the week in the state.Maharashtra reports first case of Zika virusThe first case of Zika virus reported in Maharashtra. A 50-year-old woman patient was found in Purandar tehsil in Pune district. The patient is doing fine: Maharashtra health departmentUK PM Johnson, wife expecting second childUK PM Boris Johnson and wife Carrie Symonds are expecting a second child, just months she suffered a miscarriage, reports BBC.India, China conclude 12th round of crops commander level talks12th round of Corps Commander level talks between India and China concluded at 7:30pm in Moldo on Chinese side of Line of Actual Control. In the nine hour-long meeting, both sides discussed issues to resolve ongoing military standoff along Eastern Ladakh: Army sourcesJharkhand recommends CBI probe into judge's deathJharkhand govt recommends CBI probe into the alleged killing of a district judge in Dhanbad.Covid-19: Central team visits Kollam district in KeralaIn view of high test positivity rate of state, central team visited our district as well. We discussed current status of the district and strategies devised by the health department and district administration to contain the pandemic: Dr Arun S Nair, deputy collector, Kollam, KeralaUttarakhand issues SOP for reopening of schoolsUttarkhand Education Department issues SOP for reopening of schools in the state from 2nd August for students of classes 9-12 and from 16th August for classes 6-8. pic.twitter.com/VMHiaKhm0qUttarkhand education department issues SOP for reopening of schools in the state from 2nd August for students of classes 9-12 and from 16th August for classes 6-8.Kerala reports over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases for fifth straight dayKerala reports 20,624 new Covid-19 cases, 16,865 recoveries and 80 deaths in the last 24 hours. Positivity rate at 12.31%.Delhi reports 58 new Covid-19 cases and 1 deathDelhi reports 58 new #COVID19 cases, 56 recoveries and one death today.Total cases 14,36,265Total recoveries 14,10,631Death toll 25,053Active cases 581 pic.twitter.com/YxiVVrlLiSDelhi's daily Covid-19 cases and deaths fall to 58 and one respectively from 63 and three on July 30. Daily recoveries rise to 56 from 34 from the day before.Over 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in Delhi: KejriwalA little over 10 million (1 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered to people in Delhi so far. The milestone was reached today. These have been administered to around 7.4 million people, of whom 2.6 million have received both doses while the remaining received single dose: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalBabul Supriyo 'retires' from politics"Goodbye. I'm not going to any political party. TMC, Congress, CPI(M) nobody has called me, I'm not going anywhere...One need not be in politics to do social work," BJP MP and former Union minister Babul Supriyo posts on Facebook.Andhra Pradesh reports 2053 new Covid-19 cases and three deathsAndhra Pradesh reports 2,058 fresh #COVID cases, 2,053 recoveries, and 23 deaths in the past 24 hours. Active cases: 21,180Total recoveries: 19,31,618Death toll: 13,377 pic.twitter.com/QuzBQeegtOAndhra Pradesh reports 2058 fresh Covid-19 cases, 2,053 recoveries, and 23 deaths in the past 24 hours.'Importance of Jaish terrorist's killing is two-fold'The importance of killing Saifulla alias Lambu is two-fold. It brings closure to Feb 2019 Pulwama incident. He was one of the masterminds who trained a local, Adil, who blew himself up in an IED attack. Since then, Lambu was responsible to train people in making and deploying IEDs against security forces. He was also responsible to recruit young locals by brainwashing them, carrying out selective identification, radicalising them and giving them weapons: Lt Gen DP Pandey, Chinar Corps CommanderDelhi Police chief Rakesh Asthana holds crucial meetDelhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana chairs important security review meeting ahead of Independence Day. Special Cell DCPs, special police commissioner of Special Cell, all joint police commissioners and all deputy police commissioners present at the meeting.SAD MP leads delegation to meet President on farm lawsHarsimrat Kaur Badal leads delegation of SAD, BSP, NC and NCP to meet President Ram Nath Kovind over farm laws. "500 farmers have lost their lives during ongoing protests against the Centre's farm laws. A joint committee should be formed to sort out this issue," says Badal.Happy to join any investigation, tweets Assam CM Sarmawill be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam? Have already conveyed this to @ZoramthangaCM ji https://t.co/v4eDi84isL"Will be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam?," tweets Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma on FIR over Mizoram border dispute.Russia reports 23,807 new Covid-19 cases, 792 deathsRussia reported 23,807 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, including 3,514 in Moscow, taking the national tally of infections to 6,265,873.Punjab allows reopening of schools for all classes from August 2Punjab government allows reopening of schools for all classes from August 2, with proper protocols to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour.Basavaraj Bommai met Union Finance Minister Nirmala SitharamanKarnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi today.They discussed GST compensation, Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), and other important matters pertaining to the state: Karnataka CMOBRO restores connectivity at Yarlung-Lamang roadBorder Roads Organisation (BRO) restores connectivity at Yarlung-Lamang road in Shi Yomi district of Arunachal Pradesh.On July 26, the road was breached at multiple locations due to incessant rain and cloudburst.Gangster Chhota Rajan discharged from AIIMS, returns to Tihar jailGangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted to AIIMS on Tuesday due to stomach ache, was discharged from the hospital and taken back to Tihar jail, officials said on Saturday.Special Cell of Delhi Police arrests Lady Don AnuradhaSpecial Cell of Delhi Police arrested Lady Don Anuradha, an associate of gangster Kala Jathedi. Cases like murder, abduction, etc. were registered against Anuradha in Rajasthan. She was carrying reward of ₹10,000 on her head.Uttarakhand Board of Secondary Education (UBSE) declares Class 10 and 12 results today99.56% students have been passed Class 12 and 99.09 percent cleared Class 10 exams.Over 3.14 crore balance Covid-19 doses available with states, pvt hospitals: CentreMore than 3.14 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.12th round of Corps Commander level talks between India, China started today at 10:30am12th round of Corps Commander level talks between India and China started today at 10:30am in Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control.India & China discussing disengagement of troops from friction points incl Gogra Heights and Hot Springs area: Indian Army sources, reports ANI.China reports 55 new Covid-19 cases as Delta variant spreads from NanjingChina reported on Saturday 55 new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 30, compared with 64 cases a day earlier, the health authority said.PM Modi interacts with IPS probationersPrime Minister Narendra Modi interacts virtually with Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy.BMC launches drive as Dengue cases reach 500 in BhubaneswarThere are 2-3 areas of concern where we are holding special drives. We have assigned senior officers to each ward to monitor sanitation drives: Anshuman Rath, BMC Zonal Deputy Commissioner (south east).Basavaraj Bommai pays floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj GhatKarnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai pays floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat.CM also visited 'Sadaiv Atal' to pay floral tributes to the former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.22 inmates injured as barrack wall of MP's Bhind jail collapsesBarrack wall of Bhind jail collapsed; 22 inmates injured. This jail is around 150 years old. Barrack 6 was completely destroyed after its wall collapsed. 22 critically injured inmates rescued & sent to hospital. No casualty reported: Manoj Kumar Singh, SP Bhind.NIA starts probe in explosive case of MizoramNational Investigation Agency (NIA) starts a probe in the explosives case of Mizoram. The agency took over the case from State Police on July 29. Explosives were found on July 26: NIAIndia logs 41,649 new Covid-19 casesIndia recorded 41,649 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,613,993, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.BSF guns down 2 Pakistani intrudersBSF guns down 2 Pakistani intruders near Khara village in Punjab's Bhikhiwind.NIA conducts raids at 14 places in J-KNational Investigation Agency conducting raids at 14 places including Jammu, Ramban, and Kashmir in connection with the arrest of LeM top commander Hidayatullah Malik and recovery of a 5kg IED in Jammu: Sources, reports news agency ANI.2 terrorists neutralised in Dachigam forest area: J-K PoliceTwo unidentified terrorists were neutralized. Search operation underway: Kashmir Zone Police.The exact location of the encounter is between Namibian and Marsar, general area of Dachigam forest, Kashmir Zone Police said.WHO urges action to suppress Covid-19 before deadlier variants emergeThe Delta variant of Covid-19 is a warning to the world to suppress the virus quickly before it mutates again into something even worse, the WHO said Friday.Encounter underway at Nagberan-Tarsar forest area of PulwamaEncounter has started at Nagberan-Tarsar forest area of Pulwama. Police and security forces are on the job. More Details awaited: Kashmir Zone Police.Amit Panghal bows out of Olympics boxing competition,World No.1 Amit Panghal (52kg) bows out of Olympics boxing competition, loses 1-4 to Colombia's Yuberjen Martinez in pre-quarters.Indian jailed for 15 months in US for money launderingAn Indian truck driver in the US has been sentenced to 15 months in prison and fined USD 4,710 for money laundering and firearm offences, according to the Department of Justice.Two more parts of China report Covid outbreaks: authoritiesChina's worst coronavirus outbreak in months has spread to two more areas, health authorities said Saturday, including a sprawling megacity of 31 million people.PM Modi to interact with IPS probationers todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy on Saturday via video conferencing.Australia's third-largest city of Brisbane to enter Covid lockdownAustralia's third-largest city of Brisbane and other parts of Queensland state will enter a snap Covid lockdown from Saturday as authorities race to contain an emerging outbreak of the Delta strain.6.1 magnitude quake hits Peru's SullanaA 6.1 magnitude earthquake jolted eight kilometres east of Sullana, Peru at 17.10.19 GMT on Friday, the US Geological Survey said.Sputnik V 2nd dose to be given from Saturday in GurugramThe second dose of the Sputnik V vaccine will be available at a government session site in Gurugram from Saturday.Joe Biden says US to see new Covid-19 restrictions 'in all probability'US President Joe Biden said on Friday "in all probability" new guidelines or restrictions would be imposed in the United States in response to a resurgence of Covid-19 cases.Delhi zoo to reopen from August; online tickets available from todayThe National Zoological Park in Delhi is all set to re-open from August 1 with Covid-19 safety protocols in place and online tickets will be available from Saturday, zoo officials said on Monday.India, China to hold 12th round of talks today on LAC standoffTop Indian and Chinese commanders will hold the 12th round of military talks in the Ladakh sector on Saturday to cool tensions between the two countries that have been locked in a border row for almost 14 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-31-2021-101627688038900.html
31-07-2021||India||As ruckus continues in House, govt says Oppn raking up a ‘non issue’||Opposition leaders, who have disrupted proceedings in Parliament over the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens through Israeli Pegasus spyware, should not focus on “non-serious issues” but raise “important people-related issues”, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said in Lok Sabha on Friday.Joshi’s statement came as the logjam in Parliament continued on Friday, prompting the Opposition and the Centre to blame each other for disruptions due to protests over the Pegasus snooping row and the three farm laws.“I want to appeal again that IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has given a detailed statement in both Houses. Unfortunately, they (the opposition members) are making an issue out of a non-issue and have been not been allowing to run the parliament since 7 or 8 days,” Joshi said.He added that there are many other “important people-related issues” for which the government is ready for discussion. “Bills are also an important issue. The government also does not want them to be passed without a discussion… our stand (on this) is very clear,” Joshi said.Hitting back, Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien tweeted: “The Opposition wants a structured discussion on Pegasus espionage, national security, with the Prime Minister present in the House. (The Govt is RUNNING AWAY from this discussion).”The government has been able to clear just a fraction of its legislative agenda due to the disruptions. On Friday, four key bills were introduced and one legislation, the Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed before the Houses were adjourned for the day. The LS was scheduled to take up discussion on Covid-19 but it could not be taken up.The DICGC (Amendment) Bill, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, The LLP (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill were introduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-ruckus-continues-in-house-govt-says-oppn-raking-up-a-non-issue-101627687307657.html
31-07-2021||India||India, China to hold 12th round of talks today on LAC standoff||Top Indian and Chinese commanders will hold the 12th round of military talks in the Ladakh sector on Saturday to cool tensions between the two countries that have been locked in a border row for almost 14 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.The talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will begin at 10.30 am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), one of the officials cited above said on the condition of anonymity.The previous round of military talks between the two sides was held on April 9 when the Indian Army told the PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for de-escalation of the conflict.“We are expecting forward movement in hammering out a disengagement agreement at Hot Springs and Gogra,” a second official said, asking not to be named.The Indian Army and the PLA have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6 last year to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh, but the two sides have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers deployed at friction points on the contested LAC.The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry in Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. The focus of the next round of talks will be on resolving problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector.On May 28, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said his soldiers were on high alert as the PLA continued to base its troops and mechanised elements, including tanks, in its “immediate depth” across the LAC from where they could be deployed to forward areas at short notice. The immediate depth in the context of the Ladakh sector refers to a distance of 150km to 200km from the LAC.Naravane had also said that results should not be expected after every round of talks, citing the case of Pangong Tso where disengagement took place after nine rounds.PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops and restore the status quo ante of April 2020 has hampered the disengagement process, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated. The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes, including the ones leading to Patrolling Points 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff.While the first round of military talks between the two armies was held on June 6 last year, the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15, 2020, created severe complications and dashed hopes of any significant breakthrough. The brutal clash that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead created a huge trust deficit between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-12th-round-of-talks-today-on-lac-standoff-101627687056236.html
31-07-2021||India||Girl fights odds to score a perfect 100||Ansuiya, a labour worker’s daughter, from Uttar Pradesh’s Badera village, overcame a series of seemingly insurmountable odds to score 100% in the Central Board of Secondary Education Class 12 exams, the results of which were declared on Friday.A student of Vidyagyan Bulandshahr, a free residential school for economically backward meritorious students from rural Uttar Pradesh run by the Shiv Nadar Foundation, Ansuiya said she is grateful for the opportunity to complete school, which is often a privilege in her village.“None of the girls in our village study beyond Class 8,” said the 17-year-old.“After school, they are groomed to become someone’s wife and await marriage. I have always been interested in studying, because I thought that it is something that will help me stand apart from others. That is how I cleared the application process for Vidyagyan as well,” she said.One of seven siblings, Ansuiya joined the school in 2014 when she was in Class 6.“Even boys in our village study till Class 8. After that, they are supposed to help their fathers in factories or work as labourer at farms in the village. When I got an opportunity to leave the village to study, my parents supported me. However, there were many in the village who taunted my parents saying that their daughter will go ‘out of their hands’. But my parents never let these taunts get the better of them,” she said.Ansuiya, a humanities student, wants to be an officer in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).“I want to work for my village, which I think is very underdeveloped compared to other parts of the state. Here health, education are neglected and even the soil is not fertile,” she said.Ansuiya’s father works as a labourer at the village farms but when the monsoon is not kind, he has to look for work as a daily wage earner in industrial areas in the Mahoba district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-fights-odds-to-score-a-perfect-100-101627686855097.html
31-07-2021||India||Four questions about economic data in Aug ’21||In its July update to the World Economic Outlook (WEO), the International Monetary Fund downgraded India’s 2021-22 growth to 9.5% from its April projection of 12.5%. The main reason for the downgrade was the severe second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country. Gita Gopinath, the IMF chief economist, said that a (potential) third wave could further damage India’s growth prospects. To be sure, there is still a lot of time left for this fiscal year to end. And, if there is one thing which the pandemic has done to economic forecasts, it is that long-term projections have never been less reliable. Here are four questions, rooted in economic data to be released in August, which will shape the economic narrative going forward.1) Will NIBRI cross 100 and stay there?The pandemic has moved economy tracking from a quarterly affair to a monthly, even weekly affair. One of the most popular post-pandemic indicators has been the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI). A NIBRI value of 100 refers to pre-pandemic levels of economic activity. After falling to 45.4 on May 3, 2020, NIBRI gradually recovered to 99.3 in the week ending February 23, 2021. It started falling gradually thereafter, reaching 94.6 in the week ending March 28. As infections surged in April, it fell even more sharply. It reached 75.9 in the week ending April 25 and then to 60.3 in the week ending Mar 23. The second wave of Covid-19 infections peaked on May 9, in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases. Unlike during the first wave, NIBRI has seen a V-shaped recovery after the second wave to reach 96.4 in the week ending July 18. There was a marginal fall in NIBRI value in the week ending July 25, when it was at 95.3. The latest fall in NIBRI could well be a result of high rainfall in large parts of the country rather than fresh restrictions due to the pandemic, as no such restrictions have been imposed. The question to ask going forward is how soon NIBRI will reach 100 for the first time since the pandemic began.2) Will PMI cross 50 in July and August?Easing or removal of restrictions is only a necessary, not a sufficient condition for economic recovery. Two additional factors matter. The first is demand. If income shocks during the lockdown are significant enough, demand side headwinds can stall economic recovery even after restrictions are removed. The other important factor, especially as far as the contact intensive services economy is concerned, is the progress of vaccination. Unless a critical mass of people is vaccinated and the threat of getting infected comes down significantly, a full-scale recovery will continue to elude the services economy. As of now, 37% of the eligible population has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. There was a reflection of both these factors in the June Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) numbers for manufacturing and services. Both were lower in June than in May, even though the infection curve was more severe in May than in June. These numbers were also below the critical threshold of 50 . A PMI value below 50 signifies contraction in economic activity compared to previous month. It remains to be seen whether PMI numbers for July jump back above the 50-mark.3) Will retail inflation come below 6%?This is perhaps the most important question confronting policymakers. Retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index has been above 6%, the upper limit of RBI’s tolerance level in May and June. Prices of fuel and edible oil have been the major drivers of inflation so far. While prices of petrol and diesel have not increased since July 17 and July 15, they have not come down either. As of now it also appears that the deal among Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to gradually increase crude oil production has not had a major effect on prices. The price of India’s crude oil basket, as per data from the ministry of petroleum, was $74.2 per barrel on July 29. “Commodities as a whole have risen more than 20% this year, and around 50% in the case of crude oil. The Bloomberg Commodity Spot Index is at a decade high and heading for its fourth-straight monthly increase. Big Oil companies and miners, awash with cash, are returning billions of dollars to shareholders through dividends and buybacks. Few analysts expect the gains to reverse soon and many think they’ve got further to run”, a Bloomberg story published on July 30 said. To be sure, even core-inflation, the non-food non-fuel component of the CPI basket has been high in India, which makes inflation a broad-based problem at the moment. While officials at both RBI and government continue to maintain a brave face on inflation, terming it as a transient problem, if the headline number does not come down, pressure will increase towards rolling back the accommodative stance of monetary policy in the near future.4) Will June GDP growth meet the RBI’s forecast of 18.5%?The most important economic statistic of the fiscal year 2021-22 will come on August 31 when the GDP growth numbers for the quarter ending June are released. The Indian economy suffered its highest ever contraction of 24.4% in the quarter ending June 2020. This was a result of the 68-day long lockdown which was imposed from March 25. The gradual sequential recovery – the economy contracted by 7.4% in the quarter ending September 2020 before growing at 0.46% and 1.64% in the quarters ending December 2020 and March 2021 – was interrupted by the second wave in April and May. Most economists, both within the government and outside, have maintained that the second wave’s economic disruption was not as big as that of the first wave. The June resolution of RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee has predicted a growth rate of 18.5% in the first quarter of 2021-22. This means that the economy is not expected to regain the pre-pandemic levels even after two years. If the actual growth falls short of even this number, economic confidence could take further beating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-questions-about-economic-data-in-aug-21-101627685472225.html
31-07-2021||India||Mizoram police file FIR against Assam CM Himanta||Mizoram Police registered an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six top state officials on charges of attempt to murder and assault, people aware of developments said on Friday, marking an escalation in tensions simmering between the northeastern neighbours days after violent border clashes killed seven people.The developments came on a day Mizoram condemned Assam’s decision to ask its citizens to not travel to the neighbouring state and a key government committee appeared to harden its stance on the border dispute.“Public notice to all. Northeast India will always be one,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted. “I still hope for an amicable solution to the Assam-Mizoram border tension from the central government,” he added.Inspector of Vairengte police station, H Lalchawimawia, filed the case against Sarma, Assam police inspector general Anurag Aggarwal, deputy inspector general Devojyoti Mukherjee, Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli, Cachar superintendent of police (former) Vaibhav Chandrakant Nimbalkar, forest officer Sunnydeo Choudhury, officer incharge of Dholai police station, Sahab Uddin, and 200 unidentified Assam Police personnel, said the people quoted in the first instance.The FIR was filed for allegedly entering Mizoram’s Vairengte district and violating Covid protocols and under the Mizoram Containment and Prevention of Covid-19 Act 2020 along with the Indian Penal Code. Sarma and the officials were booked for attempt to murder, concealing design to commit offence, grievous hurt, assault and using criminal force against public servants, said the people.The CM and others were asked to appear in the police station on August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-police-file-fir-against-assam-cm-himanta-101627674892363.html
31-07-2021||India||Two MLAs join BJP, Congress ahead of 2023 Karnataka elections||Bengaluru With under two years to go before assembly elections in Karnataka, it seems the two national outfits--Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress-- are trying to muster up all the support they can as they continue to rope in potential candidates to take each other head on.Former Karnataka chief minister S Bangarappa’s son, Madhu Bangarappa who was formerly with the Janata Dal (Secular) joined the Congress while the lone Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislator, who was expelled in 2019, joined the BJP on Friday.Madhu is from Soraba constituency in Shivamogga district which he lost to his brother, Kumar Bangarappa from the BJP in 2018.The inductions are taking place in the presence of the national leadership. Madhu Bangarappa joined the Congress in the presence of party president DK Shivakumar, former chief minister Siddaramaiah and national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala.“I promise to the Congress leadership that I will try my best to live up to the expectations that they have in me as Bangarappa’s son and work day and night to bring the party back to power,” Madhu said after his induction.“A New Beginning, A New Start…. Yet the same old legacy continues… Our tall leader,Late Sh. S. Bangarappa……TO Our young & dynamic, Madhu Bangarappa ! @INCKarnataka is proud to have you! Welcome to the Family!!!,” Surjewala said in a post on Twitter.Likewise, Mahesh who served as a minister in the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in 2018, joined the BJP.“For the sake of my future in politics, I’ve decided to join the BJP. The president of the Karnataka unit of the party and other leaders will discuss and give the date, and I will join then,” Mahesh, who was ousted from the BSP in 2019, told PTI.Mahesh had been elected from Kollegal and Chamarajanagar district and was expelled by BSP supremo Mayawati for allegedly violating the party’s decision to back Kumaraswamy in the contentious trust vote in which the latter’s government collapsed after at least 17 members defected to the BJP.The 17 turncoats, most of whom became cabinet ministers, are now at a crossroads after BS Yediyurappa stepped down as chief minister earlier this week.There remains little clarity on if they will be placed in the cabinet under Basavaraj Bommai or be dropped since their connection, people aware of the developments said, was more with power than the ideology of the BJP.The Congress are leaving little to chance and Shivakumar has offered to take them back, adding more friction between him and Siddaramaiah, who has so far opposed any such move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-mlas-join-bjp-congress-ahead-of-2023-karnataka-elections-101627674191636.html
31-07-2021||India||Bommai seeks Centre nod to set up AIIMS||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday sought the approval of the union government to set up an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Hubbali-Dharwad, about 450 kms from Bengaluru.“Chief minister sought (the) Prime Minister to approve AIIMS for Hubballi-Dharwad and AIIMS like institute for Raichur, which is identified as (an) aspirational district by NITI Aayog. He also appealed to the Prime Minister to upgrade ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Kalaburagi to Regional AIIMS like Institute,” a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated.The chief minister who is in Delhi, also held a meeting with the Union ministers and MPs from the state. “He requested them to persuade the Union government to avail assistance for the development of the state and also to co-operate in making the best use of the central schemes. He said that all ministers would be taken into confidence in the implementation of these programmes. He requested the MPs to fight for the protection of state’s interests,” the statement from CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-seeks-centre-nod-to-set-up-aiims-101627674131627.html
31-07-2021||India||Stalker shoots dental student, kills self: police||Thiruvananthapuram: A 32-year-old man allegedly shot dead a final-year dental student before killing himself at Kothamangalam in Ernakulam district of Kerala on Friday, police said, adding that the woman had earlier complained of stalking and harassment against the man. K Karthick, superintendent of police, Ernakulam rural, who identified the stalker as A Rakhil (32), said both stalker and the 24-year-old woman were from Kannur district in north Kerala. Karthick, who visited the spot, told the reporters that the incident took place around 3.30 pm, adding that ballistic experts have been called to examine the revolver used by the stalker. “We have sought the help of ballistic experts to find out details of revolver. We are also in touch with relatives of both,” the SP said. The woman was a final-year student of Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) in Kothamangalam. Local residents said Rakhil was staying near the paying guest accommodation of the victim in the guise of a businessman for more than a month. “While we were having lunch, he barged into the dining room and entered into an argument with her. He later dragged her to a nearby room and bolted it. When we cried for help, we heard two sounds. Later these sounds repeated,” said one of her roommates. Later both were found in the pool of blood, she added. Police said both were declared brought dead at a hospital. The woman was staying with two other students on the first floor of the rented property near the college. Relatives of the victim said earlier a complain was registered in Kannur district after Rakhil stalked and harassed her. They further said that he was warned by officials who called him to the police station, where he had given an undertaking that he will not harass her. They said they have no idea about the immediate provocation behind the murder. Police said they have started an investigation on how he got the revolver and whether he got help from any other person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalker-shoots-dental-student-kills-self-police-101627674073262.html
31-07-2021||India||Cabinet buzz echoes in Delhi||Bengaluru Amid growing speculations over cabinet expansion in the newly formed government in Karnataka, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders in the union government. “I have spoken to our national president JP Nadda on flood and Covid and also told him that cabinet expansion should be done at the earliest,” Bommai said, adding that Nadda assured to finalise the process soon. The chief minister said that he would like to have a ‘creative cabinet’ that would comprise leaders who are ‘experienced’ and have a ‘new mindset’. Bommai said he is confident that of getting a ‘green signal’ within a week and that there is a possibility he would have to visit the national capital once again. The CM, however, said that he did not discuss any names yet with the national leaders. Expanding the ministry will be the first big challenge before Bommai as he will have to navigate through the cabinet formation exercise by maintaining balance between factions within the ruling BJP. There are several aspirants among the party old guard, and legislators who had joined the BJP after quitting the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019. Apart from cabinet expansion, the chief minister also apprised the leaders of the flood situation in the state and sought some relief from the Centre. He also discussed the state’s deteriorating financial condition. The southern state has been at the receiving end of nature’s fury as floods ravaged the coastal districts of Karnataka, dealing a double whammy to the population who have had more than a year of mounting losses due to Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. “This is a testing time for you, you have to rise to the occasion,” Bommai said, quoting what Amit Shah told him on Friday. Bommai said that he spent around 35-45 minutes with the Prime Minister who, the former said, gave him a lot of guidance. “JP Nadda said that along with politics, you have to build the party and make coordinated efforts in facing upcoming challenges and elections like local body, taluk and byelections,” Bommai said. The chief minister said that he also discussed contentious projects like Mekedatu, Upper Krishna, Upper Bhadra, Mahadayi and even Yettinahole with the central leadership and sought their cooperation for the same. Bommai said that he would like to bring in some changes to make the administration efficient so that programmes and schemes would reach the sections it is intended for. The CM also said that in the long term, he would like to improve the per-capita income of farmers, women, scheduled caste, scheduled tribes and other backward classes who account for more than 55% of the state’s population. “If their income increases, it would mean that the state’s economy is better and we will make a special programme for this,” he added. Lashing out at the state BJP government, former chief minister and the Congress party’s leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday said that legislators of the BJP are busy trying to get cabinet berths than protecting the calamity-stricken population. “Corona and the floods have put the people of the state in despair and instead of resolving their problems and standing with them, BJP leaders are sitting in Delhi aspiring for power and position,” Siddaramaiah said, adding that all legislators are “lobbying” for ministerial berths. He even called Bommai a “rubber stamp”, in reply to which the CM said that the “stamp” of his government would be that of the BJP, the prime minister, Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and of Yediyurappa which would be towards better governance. Bommai said that Siddaramaiah’s administration was “drowned in corruption” and said that the new government will ensure speedy and efficient delivery of services to bring down corruption. The statements come at a time when several BJP legislators have been accused of corruption, sex-scandals and even running a parallel administration in the previous government. Bommai is scheduled to meet union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday before returning to Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-buzz-echoes-in-delhi-101627671800277.html
31-07-2021||India||Covid curbs may return in K’taka||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Friday empowered district officials to assess and impose any additional restrictions and containment measures to control the resurgence of the Covid-19 pandemic in the southern state.The possibilities of reviving the restrictions comes at a time when Karnataka and some of its 30 districts, including Bengaluru, are witnessing a sudden surge in new infections.“In the last few days there were some relaxations to the restrictions but now we will make it more strict,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday.The chief minister said that he has already spoken with the district officials of Kodagu, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada and other places and will hold another round of talks with officials from other parts of the state on controlling the spike in new infections. He also said that there is a need to tighten the borders and asserted on compulsory testing to stop the spread of the virus. “We have to tighten our borders. Conduct compulsory testing, contact tracing of outsiders and strengthen our health infrastructure,” Bommai said.Karnataka on Wednesday saw cases go beyond the 2,000 mark from 1,531 a day before, registering an over 30% spike and adding to fears of a new round of infections. On Friday, the state reported 1,890 new infections, the state health department stated.In July, there were over 56,000 new infections reported in Karnataka, data from the state health department shows.During the same time, Bengaluru has seen over 12,654 new infections, indicating that India’s IT capital continues to be the top contributor of new Covid-19 cases in the state.“Daily, there are over 400-500 new infections being reported (in Bengaluru). When compared to the previous wave it is lower but even then the virus is between us and in the society,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said on Friday.The vaccination drive in Karnataka is also lagging behind even though it remains one of the top most states in the country to inoculate its citizens, data shows. The state has administered 3,00,12,137 doses so far with an average of just 200,000 to 300,000 lakh per day so far, according to information on cowin portal.Out of this, the first dose accounts for 2,36,10,569 while the number of second dose is 64,01,568, according to data on CoWin on Friday till 9.30 pm.Bommai said that he conveyed concerns of vaccine shortage to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The chief minister also said that the Prime Minister has asked for Karnataka’s requirement and shortages and assured to set right the process in order to increase vaccination drive in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-may-return-in-ktaka-101627671794565.html
31-07-2021||India||Kerala rolls out ₹5,650 crore relief as Covid rages on||Thiruvananthapuram: Amid a high Covid-19 caseload and lockdowns, the Kerala government on Friday announced a financial package of ₹5,650 crore to revive the economy that is reeling under the impact of the pandemic. The state reported over 20,000 Covid cases on Friday, according to the state health ministry. When 1,52,639 samples were tested, 20,772 turned positive with a test positivity rate of 13.61%. For the last four days the state has been reporting over 20,000 cases and contributing more than half of total Covid count in the country. Announcing the bailout package in the assembly, finance minister KN Balagopal said the government is committed to helping people hit hard by the pandemic. He said the government will subsidise loans, announcing two new schemes under the state-run Kerala Financial Corporation and Kerala State Financial Enterprises. “We will give loans to small-scale traders, entrepreneurs and framers. The government will bear interest of four per cent for six months for loans up to ₹2 lakh. This will be a big boost to farmers, small-scale traders and others,” he said, adding that the government will also give concession in rent and power charges to tide over the crisis. The state has witnessed suicides last week due to the financial burden incurred due to the Covid lockdown. “We have requested banks also to provide loans at a cheaper rate and not to insist for dues in the prevailing situation,” Balagopal said, adding that the government will give loans up to ₹1 crore at five per cent interest to 500 small enterprises this year. This is the third package announced by the LDF government, he said. But the Opposition called it a gimmick and asked the government to give details of the earlier packages. “We know the fate of earlier packages. This will remain only in announcements,” said opposition leader VD Satheesan. As cases gallop, experts and medical bodies have asked the state government to conduct more genetic studies and seroprevalence surveys to confirm the presence and depth of various strains in the state. “We are depending heavily on the Indian Council of Medical Research for sero survey and other tests. We all know that the ICMR is taking a small amount of samples and doing it randomly. The state can do such things elaborately to get a clear picture,” said Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter secretary Dr P Gopikumar. Meanwhile, the 6-member central experts’ team, headed by director of the National Centre for Disease Control Dr SK Singh, was to arrive in the state later in the night. The Union health ministry sent the six-member multi-disciplinary team to Kerala on Thursday to monitor the on-ground Covid-19 situation there and suggest measures to control the spread of infection, as the state remains the country’s biggest hot spot region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rolls-out-5-650-crore-relief-as-covid-rages-on-101627671312035.html
31-07-2021||India||Elgar parishad case: Gadling gets 9-day bail||The Bombay high court on Friday granted temporary bail to Surendra Gadling, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, from August 13 to 21, allowing him to perform the last rites of his mother who died last year. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by senior counsel Indira Jaising that the final rites of Gadling’s mother, who died in Nagpur on August 15 last year, could not be performed as Gadling’s brother and other family members were suffering from Covid-19 and were hospitalised. The family decided to perform these rites on her first death anniversary on August 15, advocate Jaising told the court, seeking temporary bail for him.In September 2020, a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court rejected Gadling’s temporary bail . Earlier this year, he moved the high court. The high court, while allowing temporary bail on Friday, put strict conditions which include surrendering his passport, reporting to the police station in his area of residence on August 16 and 19 at 10 am, submit his itinerary during his release to the special NIA court and go out to Bina river on August 19 only for immersing the ashes. The high court also asked Gadling to furnish sureties in the sum of ₹50,000 to the satisfaction of the special NIA court. Gadling was arrested in 2018 on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018, He was lodged at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. The NIA is probing the case. Gadling and several other activists were arrested for alleged links with the Maoists and booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-gadling-gets-9-day-bail-101627671011368.html
31-07-2021||India||Mizoram MP summoned by Assam cops amid row||Assam Police summoned Mizoram’s Rajya Sabha member K Vanlalvena and six top officials over their alleged role in fanning tensions, people aware of developments said on Friday, as a standoff between the northeastern neighbours who clashed at a disputed border earlier this week refused to abate.The notice, under section 41A of the code of criminal procedure (which deals with appearance before a police officer], was issued on July 28 -- two days after seven people were killed at the interstate border in an unprecedented gunbattle. Police asked the MP to appear for investigation and questioning on August 1.A four-member team of Assam Police reached Delhi on Thursday to meet Vanlalvena and reached his residence and his office but could not find him, officials familiar with the matter said. The team pasted the notice on his residence.“It has come to light that you have given a threatening statement in media targeting civil and police officials in connection with the incident which is a subject matter of investigation.Therefore, there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain facts and circumstances from you,” the notice read.Assam Police have also filed an FIR against Vanlalvena, who told reporters on Wednesday, “More than 200 policemen entered our territory and they pushed back our policemen from our own posts and they gave firing orders first, before we fired. They are lucky that we didn’t kill them all. If they come again, we shall kill them all.”The MP couldn’t be reached for comment.The police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at a disputed border in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it.Since then, tensions have simmered between the two states.Mizoram Police said it fired in self-defence after being attacked by Assam Police, who allege that post-mortem reports of the deceased showed that sophisticated weapons were used. It has registered a case of murder, attempt to murder, conspiracy, voluntary causing grievous hurt and under the Arms Act.Assam’s Cachar district deputy superintedent of police, Kalyan Kumar Das, also issued summons to Mizoram’s Kolasib district deputy commissioner Dr H Lalthlangliana and asked him to appear at Dholai Police station on August 2. Similar notices were sent to five other senior officials, said people aware of developments.“You are hereby directed to appear before the investigating Officer (the undersigned) at Dholai Police Station on the 02nd August, 2021 at 11 AM for your examination in connection with Dholai Police Station case No. 236 of 2021 under sections 153A/ 447/ 336/ 379/ 333/ 307/302/ 427/ 147 148/ 149/ 120(B)/ 34 of Indian Penal Code read with Section 25(1-A)/ 27 Arms Act read with section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, as a reasonable and credible information has been received that you have committed the alleged cognizable offence. This direction is issued in exercise of powers conferred u/s 41A of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,” the notice read.The deputy commissioner is yet to respond to the notice, said the people quoted above,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-mp-summoned-by-assam-cops-amid-row-101627671011945.html
31-07-2021||India||Rains likely to intensify in next 5 days, says IMD||With monsoon entering an active phase “, an intense spell of rain is expected over parts of central India and adjoining northwest India” in the next 4-5 days, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.“There are two low pressure systems one over Uttar Pradesh and another over Jharkhand. They have intensified rain. Also, both winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal are strong making monsoon very active. The monsoon trough is roughly passing along Ganganagar and Delhi which is why Delhi is also seeing some intense spells. But rains will be very intense over central India in the next 4-5 days particularly east Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.IMD warned that widespread and extremely heavy (over 20 cm) rain is expected over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till August 4 with peak activity during July 31 and August 3. Widespread rain will also continue over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana till August 4.Widespread rain with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Uttar Pradesh during next five days while scattered, moderate rainfall is likely over Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab during next five days, IMD warned. There are likely to be intense rainfall spells intermittently over Delhi also during the period, according to the weather agency..The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift north of its normal position during next 48 hours. Its western end is very likely to remain to the south of its normal position and active during next 5-6 days.A fresh low-pressure area is lying over southern parts of central Uttar Pradesh and the associated cyclonic circulation extends upto 7.6 km above mean sea level. Another well marked low pressure area is lying over Gangetic West Bengal & adjoining Jharkhand. It is likely to move west-northwestwards across south Bihar and southern parts of Uttar Pradesh during next 2-3 days.Widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar on Saturday and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh till August 2. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over Jharkhand and over East Madhya Pradesh on Saturday.Very heavy rain is likely to continue over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till August 4 with peak activity during July 31 to August 3. Isolated extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) are likely over East Rajasthan during July 31 to August 3 and over West Madhya Pradesh from July 31– August 2 .There is a 1% rain deficiency over the country since June 1 with 3% deficiency over northwest India; 1% excess over central India; 18% excess over peninsular India and 15% deficiency over north and northwest India. Despite extreme rains over the west coast and in parts of northwest India, rain deficiency is yet to be covered.“The deficiency remained in July despite monsoon resuming after a break spell of 10 days earlier this month. This is because the distribution of rains was slightly skewed this month with most rain activity happening over the west coast. But now Punjab to West Bengal entire area will see an active spell. There will be intense spells of rain over Delhi and other parts of northwest India. Central India may see some flooding because very heavy rain is expected over east Rajasthan and parts of Madhya Pradesh,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-likely-to-intensify-in-next-5-days-says-imd-101627670959533.html
31-07-2021||India||Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: Data||Nearly 8 of every 10 (82%) of Covid-19 infections in the past three months (May, June and July) were caused by the highly infectious Delta variant of the SARS-Cov-2 virus according to data from the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium or INSACOG dashboard -- highlighting that most cases in India are now being caused by this variant of concern which is also behind the recent surge of cases in the US.In March, the Alpha variant was the dominant strain of the virus; in the past three months, only 0,54% of the cases were of this variant.To be sure, this data pertains to infections where the viral genome was sequenced. This sampling can be considered to be representative, though.Over all, nearly two in three coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country so far have been caused by mutated variants, according to data from INSACOG. The consortium of 28 laboratories across the country sequenced 46,124 samples till July 22 (from the time the body started sequencing viral genomes), according to data provided by the minister for state of science and technology Dr Jitendra Singh on Friday.Of these, 26,957 or 58.4% were found to be either variants of concern or variants of interest.Of the total samples sequenced, 37.2% were of delta variant. In recent months, that proportion increased sharply.“This is not unexpected because it is the fastest spreading virus and has replaced almost all other variants across the world. Almost 80% of the cases in Indonesia, US, UK at the moment are caused by the Delta variant. South Africa also has Delta now; the second wave there was driven by Beta and the third by Delta ,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.The fact that the variant was behind India’s bruising second wave of infections may help the country now.“The Delta plus variant, which is essentially same as Delta, is unlikely to drive a surge in India,” added Dr John.Interestingly, the proportion of Delta, reduced in July with only 73% of the samples being of the variant. But this was not because the variant was being replaced.“There were very few samples (in July, including) some that were not of good quality so it becomes difficult to assign lineage,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, one of the 28 labs of INSACOG.There were 4,172 samples of the Alpha variant that was dominant in Northern India, especially Punjab, at the beginning of the year and was then replaced by the Delta variant. INSACOG has so far detected 217 cases of Beta variant that was first reported in South Africa and 1 of Gamma variant first detected in Brazil. Of the total samples, 5,398 were that of variants of interest such as the Kappa variant, close relative of the delta variant.The consortium has so far sequenced 70 samples of Delta plus variant, which is also considered to be variant of concern.The highest number of Delta plus cases has been reported from Maharashtra, which accounts for 23 of the 70 cases. This was followed by Madhya Pradesh with 11, and Tamil Nadu with 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-caused-82-covid-cases-in-3-months-data-101627670776015.html
31-07-2021||India||SC seeks probe report on judge’s death case||Emphasising that it is the State’s obligation to protect judges to ensure they can discharge their duties fearlessly, the Supreme Court on Friday registered on its own a public interest litigation over the death of an additional district and sessions judge in Jharkhand who was fatally knocked down by a vehicle on Wednesday morning.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana took suo motu (on its own motion) cognisance of the death of judicial officer Uttam Anand, and sought explanations from Jharkhand’s chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) within a week.Registering the suo motu case as ‘In Re: Safeguarding Courts and Protecting Judges (Death of Additional Sessions Judge, Dhanbad)’, the court termed the incident “unfortunate”, adding: “This gruesome incident has been widely reported in newspapers, and video clippings of the incident are also being circulated on social media platforms, suggesting that it was not a case of simplicitor road accident.”The court said in its order: “Having regard to the seriousness of the issue and its larger ramifications, we direct the chief secretary and director general of police, state of Jharkhand to jointly submit a status report of inquiry vis-a-vis the sad demise of the judicial officer, Shri Uttam Anand, with the registry of this court within a week’s time.”The bench added it was aware of the suo motu proceedings already initiated by the Jharkhand high court a day ago into the incident and clarified that the high court should continue monitoring the matter there. “However, we want to be appraised of the status of investigation,” added the bench, which also sought appearance of Jharkhand’s advocate general before it on August 6 when the matter will be heard next. The court has further requested attorney general KK Venugopal to assist it on the next date.In addition to the incident in Jharkhand, the court said, it was concerned with the larger issues pertaining to safety and security of judicial officers.“It has been brought to the notice of this court that similar incidents are happening across the country. Taking into consideration the duty and obligation of the State to create an environment and accord full protection to judicial officers as well as the legal fraternity so that they can perform their duties fearlessly, we deem it appropriate to take up this matter suo motu,” said the bench, which also included justice Surya Kant.“As there is an urgent need for wider consideration and consequential detailed explanation(s) by all concerned, we will consider the desirability of issuing notice to all other states and Union Territories on the next date of hearing,” underscored the bench in its order.On Thursday, the Supreme Court Bar Association’s President and senior advocate Vikas Singh had requested the CJI to order an independent probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into Anand’s death.Mentioning the matter before justice Ramana, Singh had called the incident an attack on independence of judiciary, demanding an intervention by the Supreme Court. To this, the CJI had told Singh that he has spoken to chief justice Ravi Ranjan of Jharkhand high court, who assured him that the matter will be taken up by them on the judicial side. “If there is any need for us to be involved, we will take it up,” justice Ramana had further said.Later on Thursday, the high court took suo motu cognisance of Anand’s death and it was informed that the police had formed a 14-member special investigation team (SIT), headed by an additional director general of police, to investigate into the FIR registered under murder charges.Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan told the high court that prima facie, it appeared that Anand was killed deliberately. Ranjan said two people, who were riding the offending vehicle, have been arrested and the auto rickshaw had also been recovered.Responding to the high court’s remark that it would transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) if the investigation was not done professionally, the state’s law officer said while it was the prerogative of the court to do this, the progress in investigation after the incident has been satisfactory.The police filed a murder case in the incident after CCTV footage of the incident showed a vehicle deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge on Wednesday morning while he was out for a morning jog. The auto rickshaw used in the incident, which was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district on Wednesday night.Local police are yet to attribute motive to the alleged killers but the relatives of the judge, who was cremated in his hometown Hazaribag, have demanded a CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-probe-report-on-judge-s-death-case-101627670531336.html
31-07-2021||India||Mixed dosing of Covaxin, nasal vaccine trials get panel nod||The subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 under the country’s apex drug regulator approved vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s plan to experiment a mixed-dosing of two of its vaccines – the intramuscularly administered Covaxin and an nasal inoculation based on a different vector.Covaxin, based on an inactivated virus platform, is widely in use in India’s coronavirus immunisation while the second vaccine, based on an adenovirus vector, is in phase II clinical trials.“The committee recommended for grant of permission for conduct of the proposed clinical trial removing the word “interchageability” from the study title. Accordingly, the firm should submit revised clinical trial protocol to CDSCO for approval,” the minutes of the meeting read.After the SEC makes its recommendations, the final nod is given by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).The decision was taken by the committee in its meeting on Thursday when it also approved another mixed-dose trial for two of the vaccines already in use in India: Covaxin and Covishield. This will be carried out by a team from Christian Medical College-Vellore.The meeting also discussed the decision by another coronavirus vaccine maker, Johnson and Johnson, to withdraw its proposal for a phase III bridging trial in India. “The firm has informed that they are withdrawing their proposal,” the minutes of the meeting read. The vaccine may still be brought to India since the drug regulator in April opened another route for foreign vaccine makers such as J&J, which have been approved by some western medical regulators, to be eligible for approval in India without the need for a bridging study.The application for emergency use authorisation by Gujarat-based Cadila healthcare for its vaccine was not reviewed in Thursday’s meeting. It is the world’s first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 in large scale trials. The company has already submitted interim results of its three-dose vaccine to the drug regulator.The protein subunit vaccine by BiologicalE also applied for a phase II/III clinical trial in children between the ages of 5 and 17 years. The proposal has been put on hold by the SEC stating that the decision will be taken only after complete safety and immunogenicity data from Phase II in adults is submitted.The CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute also submitted phase III clinical trial data for antiviral medicine Umifenovir. The committee noted that the results in moderate Covid-19 patients was not statistically significant and recommended that a phase III trial with mild Covid-19 patients be conducted.“The committee observed that results in moderate Covid-19 cases were not statistically significant. But, the sample size of mild patients was not adequate for considering emergency approval of the drug… the committee recommended that the applicant should conduct a large Phase III Clinical trial in statistically significant number of mild Covid-19 patients,” the minutes read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixed-dosing-of-covaxin-nasal-vaccine-trials-get-panel-nod-101627670172650.html
31-07-2021||India||UP polls: Blunting public anger over Covid handling on top of BJP’s agenda||The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership’s instruction to its lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh is to find ways to mitigate possible public anger over the state government’s handling of the second wave of the Covid pandemic that could cast a shadow over next year’s assembly elections.According to people familiar with the matter, the party‘s top brass has asked the lawmakers to reach out to the masses with the message that the government took timely steps to address systemic failures that resulted in shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and essential medicines causing loss of lives.At a two-day meeting of lawmakers from the election bound state that concluded on Thursday, the message was to undo the damage to the government’s credibility by ensuring a hassle-free vaccination drive and provision of essential supplies in case of an anticipated third wave.UP CM Yogi Adityanath was also present at the meetings that were chaired by BJP president JP Nadda.“There is a lot of work that has been accomplished in the state vis-a-vis development, crackdown on criminals, making arrangements to invite investors to the state but the second wave made a dent in the government’s track record. No state including UP was prepared for the scale of the pandemic and the challenges it brought with it. But since we are in power we cannot escape public anger,” said a party functionary aware of the details who asked not to be named.The party’s instruction to lawmakers is based on feedback from the ground and from its ideological mentor the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh indicating that the Covid crisis will play a decisive role in shaping the electoral outcome.“The Prime Minister has also repeatedly urged MPs and the MLAs to monitor the vaccination drive that is being carried out and to motivate those who are hesitant to take the vaccines. He has also asked us to make sure that hospitals and other arrangements are in place in case a third wave hits us,” said a second party functionary who too spoke on condition of anonymity.The two-day meeting which was described as a “routine interaction” between the party’s leadership and the lawmakers set the stage for preparing the blueprint for the upcoming election in 2022.Apart from focusing on the pandemic and how to prepare for a third wave the lawmakers were also asked to create awareness about the social welfare schemes and the sops that the government announced during the lockdown, such as free ration and monetary aid.The lawmakers have also been instructed to cover their respective constituencies, organising programmes on a small scale to ensure that Covid protocol is not breached. They have also been asked to address the issue of the ongoing protests against three reformist farm laws the government passed last year.“There is a very small percentage of farmers in western UP who are protesting against the farm laws so a concerted effort is being made to ensure that farmers across the state a made aware of the benefits that they stand to gain. Similarly, the union Government has been taking steps for the empowerment of the socially and economically backward communities, we will create awareness about these issues as well,” said the first functionary.In the run up to the election, the party will also be begun preparing a schedule for senior leaders to tour the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-polls-blunting-public-anger-over-covid-handling-on-top-of-bjp-s-agenda-101627669997782.html
31-07-2021||India||Concerns rise as 46% of senior citizens yet to get first vaccine dose||The slow pace of Covid-19 vaccines coverage among Indians over the age of 60 years is becoming a cause for concern, experts warned as more than 46% of the population group most vulnerable to the disease are yet to receive even a single shot.Till 7pm on Friday, a total of over 460 million doses had been administered across the country, with over 5.1 million jabs being given on Friday alone, to over 356 million people. Of these, 256 million people have been partially vaccinated, while more than 100 million people have received both shots of the vaccine.However, it is coverage among the elderly that is a cause for concern, according to experts.Till Friday morning (latest data released by the health ministry), just over 74.6 million people above the age of 60 had received a Covid-19 shot (39 million partially vaccinated, 35.6 million fully). This translates to around 54% of the 138 million people in this age group in the country, as per the population projection for 2021 based on the 2011 Census.Experts say those over 60 are at a higher risk of developing severe disease due to Covid-19 and also death. When the first wave of the pandemic had struck, 80% of the deaths happened among those over the age of 50 years, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul had said while explaining the process of identification of the vulnerable groups for the second phase of the vaccination drive.“With the limited number of vaccines available, it is really important to prioritise who gets it. First, there is a need to cover the gap between the number of people who have received the first dose and those who have received the second. This is because the efficacy of just one dose of Covishield is only about 30% against the Delta variant,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi.She said there is the need to prioritise the vaccine for pregnant women who could develop complications if they get the disease and also those who travel by public transport or interact with a lot of people in a day, like shopkeepers.“Those who have had the infection can wait. The government policy currently says they can wait for three months, but they can wait up to eight because they have protection against a second infection,” said Dr Garg who is a member of the Lancet Commission Covid-19 India Task Force. It has been set up by Lancet journal to independently monitor Covid-related interventions and give suggestions.The vaccine coverage seems to be better when it comes to healthcare workers and frontline workers.According to the data, over 10.2 million first doses have been administered to healthcare workers so far, which is higher than the government’s own estimate of there being about 10 million such workers in the country in total at the start of the vaccine programme. Over 75% of them have also received the second dose.As for the frontline workers, 89.5% of the estimated 20 million have received one jab and nearly 62% of them have received their second jab as well.The immunisation drive is likely pick up pace over the next three months, with more vaccine doses becoming available. There would be 150 to 180 million doses available in August, 200 million in September, and 300 million by October as HT reported on Thursday. In comparison, 120 million doses were administered across India until July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerns-rise-as-46-of-senior-citizens-yet-to-get-first-vaccine-dose-101627669995355.html
31-07-2021||India||No deaths due to shortage of oxygen: Goa minister in assembly||No one died at the Goa Medical College (GMC) due to oxygen shortage and the hospital never ran out of supplies, state health minister Vishwajit Rane told the assembly on Friday, contradicting his previous comments and the administration’s submissions in the high court.Rane’s statement came in a written reply to Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat who sought to know the details of the total number of deaths of Covid patients who died in GMC due to shortage of oxygen.“At no point in time, the oxygen supplies at GMC ran out of stock and thus, no death has been reported to have caused due to non supply of oxygen,” Rane said in a written reply.The response comes days after the central government told Parliament that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were “specifically reported” by states or Union territories, triggering an uproar.At the height of the second wave of Covid in May, at least 83 people died over five days at the premier hospital due to a drop in oxygen pressure between 2 am and 6 am every day – a period later referred to by the high court as the “dark hours”. At the time, every second person being tested for the virus in Goa was returning a positive result.The deaths prompted the Bombay high court at Goa to take up the case and sharply criticise the government’s handling of the crisis at the hospital.In its submissions, the government had pointed to logistical problems in the supply of oxygen to some Covid wards, and said on May 13,“some deaths may have taken place due to fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients.”“There were logistical issues involved in maneuvering the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold. During this process there was some interruption, which resulted in a fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. It is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place,” the state government said in anaffidavit filed by health secretary Ravi Dhawanon May 13.GMC dean Shivanand Bandekar also told the court on May 12 that the hospital was facing a shortage of 6.5 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day, and that supply was not being augmented.At the time, GMC was handling more patients than its bed capacity. Authorities delivered oxygen in two ways – 700 regular beds through a central pipeline, and 250 additional beds set up during the pandemic by loose cylinders that needed to be replaced and refilled.On May 11, health minister Rane first flagged the issue of dropping oxygen pressure levels and called for a probe into the deaths.Rane said that on the night of May 10 and May 11, 26 and 21 people, respectively, died due to oxygen shortage. The following three nights, 15, 13 and eight more people died before the government shifted from using oxygen cylinders to a liquid medical oxygen tank.On May 12, the high court rejected the government’s submission that logistical problems with tractors caused the crisis.“We have long passed the stage of determining whether patients are suffering from the lack of oxygen or not. The material placed before us establishes that patients are indeed suffering and even in some cases, succumbing for want of the supply of oxygen, in the state of Goa,” the high court said.The Goa Association of Resident Doctors (GARD) flagged oxygen problems at GMC as early as May 3.Opposition parties on Friday were quick to pick on the Goa government for its claim.“Whether it’s rape victims or #COVID19 victims, the trauma never ends from this @DrPramodPSawant’s @GovtofGoa. Real #Goemkars (Goans) died, @visrane (Vishwajit Rane)! In #Goa. If you don’t feel any respect or sympathy towards their grieving families, at least pretend!” Goa Forward president Vijai Sardesai tweeted.HT reached out to Rane for a comment but did not get any response immediately.A resident doctor posted at a Covid ward said on condition of anonymity: “We also faced shortages of oxygen masks, faulty and non functioning NIV ventilators, faulty oximeters and other consumables during the entire duration of the peak.”The residents had initially complained that “higher authorities” were misleading the state over the real picture within the Covid wards.“On a daily basis, we saw all higher authorities giving statements that there is no issue of oxygen and beds. In the middle of the night when oxygen gets over, and patients’ situations worsen and sometimes die, it’s the junior doctor on duty who has to face angry relatives,” GARD had said in an earlier letter to the dean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deaths-due-to-shortage-of-oxygen-goa-minister-in-assembly-101627669994131.html
31-07-2021||India||Not getting time in Rajya Sabha: Oppn to Naidu||Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, has written to the chairman of the House, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, complaining that opposition parties are not being given time to speak, as protests over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws continued to cause a logjam in Parliament.The rare letter -- leaders of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, the House of elders aren’t given to complaining of how the House is being run to the chairman -- came even as two senior leaders said the Opposition is exploring more ways to register their protest with Naidu on the situation in the Rajya Sabha. While a section of the Opposition is toying with the idea of a motion against the chairman, others are of the view that PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah should be targeted for the logjam in Parliament.A top government functionary said on condition of anonymity that Naidu will not compromise on the issue of maintaining the decorum of the House. On Friday, as protests erupted in the House over the Pegasus snooping row and the farm laws, Naidu said it has been brought to his notice that “some members were blowing whistles in the house, placing their hands on the shoulders of marshals while proceedings were on and taking placards and standing in front of ministers”.Such actions were a new low, he added. “There are two ways to deal with this. Allow the House to become a bazaar or take action (against those behaving badly),” Naidu said. “I feel sorry to say this from the podium…I never expected my members to go that level.” He also cautioned that no one should “exhaust the patience of the House”.A Congress leader confirmed on condition of anonymity that Kharge “has written to the chairman expressing anguish at the manner in which the Opposition is being treated”.Congress functionaries added that Kharge has mentioned that even during former vice president Hamid Ansari’s tenure as the chairman, the leader of the Opposition enjoyed freedom in speaking in the House, and no one was allowed to disrupt or stop his speeches, but that this is happening now. He has also said that opposition parties are not getting time to raise their issues.The situation in the Rajya Sabha, where the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance is still in minority, was discussed among opposition parties in their meeting on Friday morning. According to a leader from a non-Congress opposition party , the general consensus was that the Opposition was being muzzled in the Rajya Sabha.Opposition-led protests have rocked both Houses of Parliament from the beginning of the monsoon session on July 19. The Opposition is demanding a debate on the Pegasus snooping row with either the PM or the HM participating in it. The government has, so far, not agreed to that demand.Senior government managers are expected to meet with opposition parties in an attempt to salvage the remaining 10 days of the current session.Another opposition leader who asked not to be named argued that no “calling attention motion” or short duration discussion was allowed in the previous two sessions and no debate under Rule 267 — or suspension of other business to take up a debate — has been allowed in this session so far.The government functionary cited above pointed out that Naidu has consideration for the Opposition having been an opposition member of the Rajya Sabha.“In the all-party meeting on July 17, Naidu urged the government to sit with opposition leaders to arrive at an agreement on legislative business and other issues. Later in the Business Advisory Committee meeting, he again urged the government to regularly consult with the Opposition on major bills and other issues to be taken up in the House.”According to this person Naidu “was upset over media reports that the Opposition has decided not to allow the House to function during this session”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-getting-time-in-rs-oppn-to-naidu-101627669871934.html
31-07-2021||India||Best-ever pass percentage in CBSE Class 12 this year||A record 99.37% of twelfth graders enrolled with the Central Board of the Secondary Education (CBSE) passed their finals, capping an unprecedented pandemic-stricken academic year in which schoolchildren learned from home before their assessments were eventually drawn up using their performance from past years.The pass rate was more than 10 percentage point higher than the 88.78% recorded in 2020, and close to 16 percentage more than in 2019, the last time normal board examinations were conducted.Of 1,369,745 candidates, 1,296,318 passed and results for 65,184 were under process. “The results of about 1,060 new schools is still under process as there was no reference year hence, looking into the interest of candidates the result of these schools will also be declared within a weeks’ time,” said Controller of Examinations, Sanyam Bhardwaj.In 2020, when India went into a lockdown in March end, exams for several subjects were pending. This year, none of the theory examinations – also known as externals – were held as the country entered the second wave of infections.“Batch which appeared for the Class 12 boards this year did so under unprecedented circumstances. The education world witnessed many changes through the year gone by. Yet, they adapted to the new normal and gave their best. Proud of them! To those who feel they could have worked harder or performed better, I want to say - learn from your experience and hold your head high. A bright and opportunity-filled future awaits you...” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet on Friday.The number of students scoring 95% and above almost doubled to 70,004 this year from last year’s 38,686, while the number of students scoring between 90-95% marks decreased from 157,934 last year to 150,152 this year.In region-wise performance, Trivandrum performed the best with overall pass percentage of 99.89%, followed by Delhi at 99.84%, Bengaluru at 99.83%, Chennai at 99.77%, and Bhubaneswar at 99.55%.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was a historic performance. “Congratulations to Delhi government schools students, teachers and parents. Congrats Team Delhi Education. Overall pass percentage is 99.96% up from 97.92% last year. 875 Schools have 100% result (396 last year) 885 students score above 95% (442 students last year) Its historic!” he tweeted.Students were evaluated on the basis of their finals in classes 10 and 11, and their mid-year tests in 12th. The final score was drawn up by their schools using a 30-30-40 formula set by the CBSE and experts said the better performance is likely to be an outcome of a more lenient approach by schools in a year when learning has been difficult.The formula was used to decide the theory component of the finals, which accounts for 70-80% of the total score. The 30-30-40 split meant that the theory marks were 60% based on past performance. From Class 10, a student’s average score from the three best subjects was chosen. From Class 11, the score of the final exam for that subject was taken into account. And from Class 12, the marks were calculated on the basis of their unit-tests, mid-terms or pre-boards.Several principals said that the 60% weight to previous years’ scores led to a jump in pass percentage across states this year.Malini Narayanan, principal of Army Public School in Shankar Vihar and chairperson of National Progressive, said: “Due to the moderation policy, children who may have scored below the passing limit of 33 marks may have been granted 34 or 35 marks. Only 40% weightage was given for Class 12 scores so there is no way children could have failed, because students score well in Class 10 board exams and keeping pandemic in mind they were promoted in Class 11 as well.”Narayanan added that while schools would have had some students in previous years who failed to clear some subjects, administrators “would have done positive moderation in the interest of the students”.Out of 3,925 children with special needs, 3,909 passed. Like in previous years, more girls passed the finals than boys but the difference in their pass percentage shrank from 6 last year to 0.54. The pass percentage of transgender students was recorded at 100% -- from last year’s 66.67%.Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) and Central Tibetan School Administration (CTSA) schools performed the best with 100% pass percentage following by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JKV), which had 99.94% pass percentage.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said, “It has been an extremely tough year for everyone and I am sure getting the results has brought on a sigh of relief for all parents and students. By and large the results appear to be as per expectations. However, in case a child is unhappy with the marks in any of the subjects, CBSE has the option for them to appear for the board in the month of August.”Board officials said they would conduct Class 12 exams between August 16 and September 15. “Students who are not satisfied with their assessment done based on the policy, private and patrachar candidates, those registered for improving their papers, and first chance compartment candidates will be allowed to appear for these exams,” Bhardwaj said.Only 6,149 students have been placed under compartment as against 87,651 students last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bestever-pass-percentage-in-cbse-class-12-this-year-101627669451333.html
31-07-2021||India||Contempt plea in SC over Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police top cop||A lawyer on Friday moved the Supreme Court seeking contempt action against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the Centre’s decision to appoint Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner days before his retirement date.Manohar Lal Sharma, the petitioner, who is a serial litigator with a penchant for filing public interest litigations or PILs, argued that the decision is contrary to the Supreme Court’s July 3, 2018, judgment in the Prakash Singh case which said the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) should, as far as practicable, consider officers with two years of service for such appointments.The court held merit and seniority should be given due weightage.A Union home ministry spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.The 2018 order came up for reconsideration after several officers lost their chances as the UPSC insisted upon the “two-year residual tenure” rule.On March 13, 2019, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court took up the matter and observed the respective Police Acts of states do not provide for any fixed residual tenures for officers to be recommended as police chiefs. “The object in issuing directions in Prakash Singh case in our considered view, can best be achieved if the residual tenure of an officer, i.e. remaining period of service till normal retirement, is fixed on a reasonable basis, which, in our considered view, should be a period of six months,” the bench said.In May, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana alluded to the judgment when candidates, including Asthana, were being considered for the post of director of the Central Bureau of Investigation.Sharma has urged the court to declare the notification appointing Asthana “illegal”. He argued the appointment of Asthana, a 1984 batch Indian Police Service officer from the Gujarat cadre, “fell afoul of the rule laid down by the apex court”.The Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) on Tuesday announced Asthana’s appointment three days before his retirement. “The respondent no.1 (PM Modi) is the head of the ACC and respondent no.2 (Amit Shah) is the Minister of Home Affairs who jointly decided and done impugned appointment against the judgment of the Supreme Court. Hence, they are party to this for contempt of court,” Sharma said in his plea.He filed the plea a day after the Delhi assembly on Thursday passed a resolution directing the Delhi government to write to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) seeking immediate withdrawal of the appointment of Asthana and initiate a fresh selection process. The resolution referred to the legal precedent on the appointment of police chiefs and said Asthana’s appointment flouted that.It said the appointment is in complete violation of the Supreme Court judgment in the Prakash Singh case, which “clearly lays down that no individual who has less than six months of service left, can be considered for appointment as head of a police force anywhere in the country”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-petition-against-pm-shah-over-asthana-appointment-as-delhi-top-cop-101627645810868.html
31-07-2021||India||Tharoor, Dubey spar amid row over officials missing IT panel meet||Congress lawmaker and chairperson of the parliamentary panel on information technology Shashi Tharoor on Friday told Hindustan Times that the Bharatiya Janata Party, members of which boycotted a committee meeting on Pegasus and the cinematograph act amendments, may need the same institutions to stand for them at some point, before fellow panel member and BJP’s Nishikant Dubey hit out afresh calling for his sacking.The spat escalated late on Friday when Tharoor posted a George Bernard Shaw quote in response to what he said were “certain uncouth & obnoxious comments”, without naming anyone. The quote read: “I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig. You get dirty and besides, the pig likes it”.Dubey quoted Tharoor’s tweet and wrote in Hindi: “Yes, I am a pig.”The exchange traces back to Tharoor and opposition MPs’ insistence on pursuing the Pegasus controversy. The panel summoned officials of the Union home ministry, department of telecommunications, and electronics and IT on Thursday, before each of them conveyed at the last moment they could not attend it.Tharoor, who wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking action against these officials, told HT on Friday that the developments set a dangerous precedent for Parliamentary accountability and democracy. “This is unprecedented and extremely dangerous,” said Tharoor.The meeting was eventually called off as the BJP members boycotted it, leaving it without the quorum of adequate presence for the meeting to proceed. “Tomorrow, the BJP can find itself in need of the institutions it is undermining,” Tharoor said.Dubey on Friday separately wrote to the Speaker for a second time in recent days, reiterating Tharoor should be sacked as the panel head. “For achieving their(Congress) nefarious objectives of maligning the smooth functioning of the Government as well as the Parliament, my learned Chairperson has now become a harbinger of all vicious activities which is not expected from an experienced individual, who had also occupied various positions in the government,” Dubey said.Opposition leader, journalists, activists, and a former election commissioner are believed to have been selected for targeting with Pegasus, a military-grade mobile device surveillance tool.The allegations have triggered protests in Parliament, triggering disruptions. The government has called allegations of snooping baseless and devoid of facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tharoor-says-absence-of-officials-from-parl-panel-meet-sets-dangerous-precedent-101627642150548.html
31-07-2021||India||No adverse effects by mixing Sputnik Light, Aztrazeneca jabs: Study||The world’s first study on using a cocktail of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and Russia’s Sputnik Light vaccine has shown “no serious adverse events or cases of coronavirus after vaccination”.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the main backer of the Sputnik V vaccine, on Friday announced the initial safety results of the first study on using a combination of the two vaccines that was done in Azerbaijan.“Studies on safety and immunogenicity of the combination of the AstraZeneca vaccine and the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine in Azerbaijan began in February 2021,” RDIF said in a statement.“To date 50 volunteers have been vaccinated and new participants are invited to join the trial. Interim analysis of the data demonstrates a high safety profile for the combined use of the vaccines with no serious adverse events or cases of coronavirus after vaccination,” it said.RDIF and its partners will publish initial data on the immunogenicity of the combined use of the AstraZeneca vaccine and the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine in Azerbaijan In August.Covishield, the version of the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, is one of the two main jabs being used for the national immunisation programme. RDIF has concluded agreements with several Indian pharmaceutical firms, including the Serum Institute of India (SII), to manufacture more than 300 million doses of the jab in India, with production set to start in September.RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev recently told a virtual news briefing that the developers of Sputnik V are looking at using the vaccine along with the AstraZeneca dose in a “mix and match” format. To be sure, India is yet to approve any mixing of vaccines although the Subject Expert Committee of the drugs regulator is said to be evaluating this. Sputnik V has an emergency use approval in India. The study in Azerbaijan used Sputnik Light or the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine based on human adenovirus serotype 26.“The heterogeneous boosting approach (‘vaccine cocktail’ using human adenovirus serotype 26 as the first component and human adenovirus serotype 5 as the second component) was at the core of Sputnik V,” RDIF said.“With this approach proving successful in creating a longer and more durable immunity against the coronavirus, RDIF took the lead in initiating partnerships with other vaccine producers to conduct joint studies of a combination of the first component of Sputnik V with foreign vaccines,” it added.RDIF, the Gamaleya Center, AstraZeneca and R-Pharm concluded the first such partnership in December 2020.Clinical trials of a combination of vaccines are also being carried out in several other countries. Volunteers are being vaccinated in UAE, and regulatory approval to conduct such trials has been granted in Russia and Belarus.Referring to the study in Azerbaijan, Dmitriev said: “As new strains of coronavirus emerge, partnerships between vaccine manufacturers and combining different vaccines are key to successfully fighting the pandemic. Based on the high efficacy of the heterogeneous boosting or vaccine cocktail approach, RDIF was the first in the world to initiate partnerships with other coronavirus vaccine manufacturers…We look forward to its success in Azerbaijan and other countries, which will allow a more effective implementation of vaccination programmes and protect people around the world.”Irina Panarina, general manager of AstraZeneca Russia and Eurasia, said, “A heterogeneous prime-boosting involving administering components of different vaccines to a patient…is becoming especially relevant now, when the issue of preventing the spread of new strains of coronavirus infection is acute, and the need for revaccination of the population is also coming to a head. That is why the results of the study can be of great importance for those countries where both the vaccine by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford and the Sputnik V vaccine are registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-on-sputnik-astrazeneca-vaccine-cocktail-shows-no-serious-adverse-effect-101627636329769.html
31-07-2021||India||French agency confirms hacking of two journalists’ mobile phones||France’s cybersecurity agency has confirmed the mobile phones of two French journalists from the investigative news outlet Mediapart were hacked with the Pegasus spyware, the first instance of such surveillance being detected by a government agency. The hacking of the phones of Lénaïg Bredoux and Edwy Plenel, the two journalists from Mediapart, was earlier detected by Amnesty International’s security lab as part of the reporting by an international consortium of journalists on the targeting of 50,000 phone numbers around the world by clients of the Isreali firm NSO Group, which developed Pegasus. Mediapart has published a series of reports on alleged corruption, influence peddling, money laundering and favouritism in the ₹59,000 crore (7.8 billion euro) deal between France’s Dassault Aviation and India for 36 Rafale combat jets. Last month, a French judge was tasked with investigating suspicions of corruption in the defence deal. The hacking of their phones with Pegasus was confirmed by IT specialists from the Agence Nationale de la Securite des Systemes d’Information (ANSSI) on Thursday, Mediapart reported. In both cases, the specialists reached the same conclusions as Amnesty International’s security lab regarding the “Pegasus infection, its modalities, dates and duration”, the report said. Also Read | SC may take up journalists’ PIL against Pegasus snooping next weekThe phones of the two journalists were checked at the Paris headquarters of ANSSI by specialists from the central office for the fight against crime related to information and communication technologies (OCLCTIC). This was part of a preliminary investigation launched on July 20 by the public prosecutor of Paris, Rémy Heitz, a day after Mediapart filed a formal complaint. “This confirmation was recorded during the hearings, during which our two journalists explained why both the technical evidence and the chronological contexts designated the Moroccan intelligence services as the operators of this espionage,” Mediapart said in its report in French. France opened a probe into the matter after it emerged that French President Emmanuel Macron was among those targeted for surveillance, apparently at the behest of Moroccan government agencies. NSO Group, currently at the centre of a global controversy over misuse of its Pegasus spyware to hack phones of journalists and politicians, has temporarily blocked several government clients from using its technology, an unnamed company employee told NPR on Thursday.The move came a day after Israeli authorities conducted an inspection of NSO Group’s office over the reports of misuse of Pegasus around the world. An international media consortium last week began publishing reports based on what is believed to be a leaked list of 50,000 phone numbers worldwide that were targeted by NSO’s customers for surveillance. Evidence of the Pegasus spyware was found on 37 of 67 phones examined by forensic experts, including in India. NSO says its software is sold only to government customers after vetting by Israeli authorities. The Indian government has denied all wrong-doing and has also not confirmed or denied acquiring the Pegasus spyware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frances-cybersecurity-agency-confirms-phones-of-2-journalists-hacked-with-pegasus-101627634228952.html
31-07-2021||India||SC to hear journalists’ plea for probe into Pegasus next week||The Supreme Court will hear next week a petition filed by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar seeking a judicial inquiry into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware and to identify the entities responsible for this.Mentioning the petition before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said, “This matter has huge ramifications on civil liberties as it involves surveillance of opposition leaders, journalists and activists. It is creating waves not just in India but abroad as well.”The bench, also comprising justice Surya Kant, agreed to Sibal’s request of taking up the matter next week without specifying a date.The journalists demanded an inquiry into the alleged snooping by a retired or sitting judge of the top court to ascertain the extent of surveillance on Indian citizens and identify the entities responsible for it.In their plea, the two journalists said the government has not categorically denied obtaining Pegasus licences to conduct surveillance in the response given in Parliament by minister of electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw, and sought an exact response from the Centre in this regard. It also noted that no steps have been taken by the Centre to ensure a credible and independent investigation.Pegasus, developed by Israeli firm NSO Group, is an extremely sophisticated military software, the petition said, adding that “such mass surveillance using a military-grade spyware abridges several fundamental rights and appears to represent an attempt to infiltrate, attack and destabilise independent institutions that act as critical pillars of our democratic set-up.”The petition also stated that the snooping allegations must be viewed with seriousness as they impact the right to privacy and free speech protected under Articles 21 and 19(1)(a). Besides, the hacking of mobile phones using Pegasus spyware constitutes an offence punishable under various provisions of the Information Technology Act.The petition claimed that surveillance has been done bypassing the legal regime provided under Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act which provides that surveillance can be done on grounds of public emergency or in the interest of public safety.This is the third petition to be filed in the top court seeking a probe into the controversy over Pegasus software that erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that phone numbers of many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted worldwide by the NSO Group’s phone hacking software. A forensic analysis of phones of 10 of the targets in India proved they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.Communist Party of India (Marxist) member in the Rajya Sabha John Brittas and lawyer ML Sharma filed the other two petitions. The Court did not indicate whether these petitions will also be listed next week.On Monday, the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal was the first to appoint a commission of inquiry comprising former Supreme Court judge, justice MB Lokur and retired chief justice of Calcutta high court, justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya to look into the Pegasus issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-likely-to-take-up-journalists-pil-against-pegasus-snooping-next-week-101627625348688.html
31-07-2021||NA||News highlights: Kerala vaccinates nearly 500,000 beneficiaries in a single day||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi to address IPS probationers on SaturdayAt 11 AM tomorrow, 31st July, will interact with IPS probationers from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. These probationers will go on to hold important police responsibilities in the years to come.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address Indian Police Service (IPS) at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy on Saturday via video conferencing."At 11 AM tomorrow, 31st July, will interact with IPS probationers from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. These probationers will go on to hold important police responsibilities in the years to come," Modi tweeted.Covid-19: Punjab reports 49 new cases, zero deaths, 55 recoveriesPunjab on Friday reported 49 new Covid cases, taking the total count to 5,99,053, officials said. No Covid-related death was reported on Friday, they said. Read moreKerala vaccinates nearly 500,000 beneficiaries in a single dayKerala on Friday administered vaccine doses to record 496,619 eligible beneficiaries, state health minister Veena George said, adding such record vaccination is only possible if the state gets enough supply of vaccines.Can’t afford to invite 3rd wave: VP Naidu urges people to follow Covid protocolVice President Venkaiah Naidu said on Friday the temporary decline in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country should not make citizens complacent, adding the decline should be considered as a “breathing space” to get their act together in order to ensure that any subsequent health challenges can be faced with greater confidence and commitment. Read moreMaharashtra records 6,600 new Covid cases, 231 more deathsMaharashtra's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 6,296,756 on Friday after 6,600 new cases were logged in the last 24 hours. As many as 7,431 patients recovered while 231 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the the total recoveries and deaths to 6,083,319 and 132,566 respectively.Trajectory of Covid cases seeing considerable decline after May: GovtThe Centre said on Friday that the trajectory of Covid-19 cases is now recording a sustained and considerable decline after the peak in May this year. However, the Centre pointed out that Maharashtra and Kerala were still recording a high number of cases and certain northeastern states were showing an upward Covid-19 trend.ED issues fresh summons to ex-Maharashtra home minister, his sonThe Enforcement Directorate on Friday issued fresh summons to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh, for questioning in connection with an alleged money laundering case. The ED has asked them to appear before it on Monday.Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai meets PM Modi in DelhiMet CM of Karnataka Shri @BSBommai ji today. Conveyed best wishes as he begins a new journey for Karnataka’s progress. Assured full support for the development of Karnataka. pic.twitter.com/C0pgJERPdxKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi. The CM is on a two-day visit to Delhi to meet with the BJP's central leadership, his first such visit after assuming office.Bommai is expected to discuss some key issues with the leaders including the state cabinet expansion.Earlier he met with party president JP Nadda, Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh.12th round of India-China corps commander-level talks to be held on July 31The twelfth round of corps commander-level talks between India and China would be held in Ladakh sector on Saturday (July 31). The talks would focus on disengagement in Hot Springs-Gogra sector.The talks have been scheduled for 10.30am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Defexpo-2022 to be held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat in March 2022The Defexpo-2022 is scheduled to be held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat in March next year. The show is organised by the Ministry of Defence every two years. The last edition was held in Lucknow: Defence Ministry officialsThe Defexpo-2022 has been scheduled to be held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat, in March 2022, reports ANI citing officials from the ministry of defence.'Proud of them': PM Modi congratulates class 12 students for CBSE resultsThe Batch which appeared for the Class XII Boards this year did so under unprecedented circumstances. The education world witnessed many changes through the year gone by. Yet, they adapted to the new normal and gave their best. Proud of them!Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed his wishes to class 12 students for the CBSE results today. "They adopted to the new normal and gave their best. Proud of them!" he tweeted.'Save democracy save country': Mamata Banerjee says after 'successful' meeting with Sharad PawarI talked to Sharad Pawar.Visit was successful. We met for political purpose. Democracy must go on. Our slogan is 'save democracy save country'. We support farmers' issues too. We'll come here every 2 months: WB CM Mamata Banerjee after leaving TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's residence pic.twitter.com/rQ1h4V5OByWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that her meeting with Sharad Pawar for political purpose was successful. "Democracy must go on. Our slogan is 'save democracy save country'. We support farmers' issues too. We'll come here every 2 months," she said, reports ANI.Delhi reports 63 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 63 new #COVID19 cases, 34 recoveries, and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 580Total recoveries: 14,10,575Death toll: 25,052 pic.twitter.com/2hLbCcJsjZWith 63 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's cases tally reached 1,436,207 and the death toll climbed to 25,052, reports ANI.2 CRPF jawans, policeman injured in grenade attack in J-K'S BaramulaTwo CRPF jawans and a policeman were injured in a grenade attack in Baramulla town. Details awaited: Jammu and Kashmir Police.India extends curbs on international flights till August 31India has extended curbs on international flights till August 31, cargo operations have been exempted.Combination between Astrazeneca vaccine, first component f Sputnik V vaccine shows no serious events of Covid-19The world’s first study of a combination between the AstraZeneca vaccine and the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine (Sputnik Light) in Azerbaijan shows no serious adverse events or Covid-19 infection cases following the vaccination, says Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF)Rescue operation resume in cloudburst-hit Kishtwar after suspension due to rainThe rescue operation to locate 20 people missing after a cloudburst in a village in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar resumed Friday after remaining suspended for hours together owing to inclement weather, officials said.Puducherry reports 90 new Covid-19 cases, overall tallyPuducherry logged 90 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours pushing the overall tally to 1,20,815, a senior official of the Department of Health said on Friday.Hong Kong man gets 9 years in jail in first trial under China-imposed national security lawHong Kong man gets 9 years in jail in first trial under China-imposed national security law, reports AFP.Fire erupts at warehouse of Brazil's national film instituteA government warehouse storing movies, documents and antique projectors from Brazil's film industry caught fire Thursday night in Sao Paulo.Thailand bans false messages amid criticism of handling of coronavirusThailand banned on Friday the dissemination of "false messages" that affect security, drawing accusations from media groups that it is trying to crack down on criticism of its handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Supreme Court takes suo motu cognisance of Dhanbad judge's death, seeks info from state policeSupreme Court takes suo motu cognizance of the alleged killing of Additional District Judge from Dhanbad, Jharkhand.CDC internal report says Delta variant as contagious as chickenpoxThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has described the Delta variant of the coronavirus to be as contagious as chickenpox and could cause severe illness, the New York Times reported, citing an internal CDC document.Thunderstorms, moderate rain likely in Delhi, says IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday predicted thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain over some parts of Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next two hours.SC to hear next week plea of senior journalist N Ram on Pegasus issueThe Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear next week the plea of senior journalist N Ram seeking an independent probe by a sitting or a retired judge into the Pegasus snooping matter.Vedanta moves SC over Tuticorim plant issueVedanta moves Supreme Court seeking its direction to continue operating the Tuticorin plant in Tamil Nadu for producing Medical Oxygen.South African sets world swim record; Aussies add 6th goldSouth Africa's Tatjana Schoenmaker was the star of the day, setting the first individual swimming world record at the Tokyo Olympics.4 militants belonging to Niki Sumi faction of NSCN (K) arrested in NagalandFour militants belonging to Niki Sumi faction of NSCN (K) arrested in Nagaland's Phek district. Arms, ammunition seized from their possession: Assam Rifles.CBSE to announce Class 12 result today at 2pmCentral Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to announce Class XII result today, at 2pm.Activists allege Myanmar leaders are 'weaponizing' Covid-19With coronavirus deaths rising in Myanmar, allegations are growing from residents and human rights activists that the military government, which seized control in February, is using the pandemic to consolidate power and crush opposition.National Highway 707 blocked due to landslideNational Highway 707 blocked near Himachal Pradesh's Barwas due to landslide in Sirmaur District's Kamrau tehsil.India reports 44,230 new Covid-19 casesIndia reports 44,230 new Covid-19 cases, 42,360 recoveries, and 555 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health MinistryTotal cases: 3,15,72,344Active cases: 4,05,155Total recoveries: 3,07,43,972Death toll: 4,23,217Total vaccination: 45,60,33,754Sensex drops 10.56 points to 52,642.51 in opening sessionSensex drops 10.56 points to 52,642.51 in opening session; Nifty down 8.90 poits at 15,769.55.ovlina Borgohain beats Chinese Taipei's Chin-Chen NienBoxing, Women's Welterweight (64-69kg), Quarterfinal 2: Lovlina Borgohain beats Chinese Taipei's Chin-Chen Nien 4-1, assured of a medal.Fourth wave of Covid-19 hits Middle East, WHO sounds alarm over delta variantThe delta variant of the coronavirus has now triggered a fourth wave of the pandemic in the Middle East, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Thursday, adding that the surge in Covid-19 infections and deaths is primarily being reported among people who are yet to be vaccinated.A total of 204 locals and tourists stranded in Lahaul-Spiti districtA total of 204 people including locals and tourists stranded in different locations in the Lahaul-Spiti district: Himachal Pradesh Disaster Management Authority.3 killed, 4 hurt as roof of house collapses in UP's Muzaffarnagar: PoliceThree persons, including a minor, were killed and four injured when the roof of a house collapsed on them due to heavy rains in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Friday.Sydney Covid-19 cases ease amid tightening of lockdown rulesAustralia's largest city, Sydney, on Friday reported a slight easing in locally acquired cases of Covid-19 amid a further tightening of restrictions in the worst-affected suburbs, with the military summoned to help enforce lockdown rules.ISS thrown out of control by misfire of Russian module: NASAThe International Space Station (ISS) was thrown briefly out of control on Thursday when jet thrusters of a newly arrived Russian research module inadvertently fired a few hours after it was docked to the orbiting outpost, NASA officials said.Basavaraj Bommai to meet PM Modi in Delhi todayKarnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai to meet PM Narendra Modi in Delhi today. He will also be meeting Union Ministers during his visit to the national capitalFlawed scientific papers fueling Covid-19 misinformationScientific studies with poor methodology and inaccurate findings are exacerbating a Covid-19 misinformation crisis that is discouraging vaccination and putting lives at risk.Saudi Arabia to reopen to vaccinated tourists after 17-month Covid closureSaudi Arabia announced Friday it would reopen its borders to fully vaccinated foreign tourists after a 17-month closure due to the coronavirus pandemic, the state news agency said.SC to hear ex-Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh's plea seeking protection in money laundering case todayThe Supreme Court is on Friday set to hear a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, seeking protection from any "coercive action", in the money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).WHO says delta variant driving 'fourth wave' in Middle EastThe delta variant has led to a surge in coronavirus outbreaks triggering a "fourth wave" in the Middle East, where vaccination rates remain low, said the World Health Organization (WHO).Hearing on Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit to resume todayA court in Uttar Pradesh will on Friday resume the hearing of Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit.Expert panel recommends trials on mixing Covaxin and CovishieldThe Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Thursday recommended granting permission for trials of mixing Covid-19 vaccines--Covaxin and Covishield--said sources, reports news agency ANI.US President calls on states to offer 100 dollars vaccine incentiveUS president Joe Biden on Thursday (local time) called on all states and local governments to use aid funding they have received to give 100 dollars to anyone who gets fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-30-2021-101627601489309.html
