01-09-2020||Jalandhar||Teenager gives snatchers a tough fight in Jalandhar||Exhibiting bravery, a 15-year-old girl fought miscreants, who tried to snatch her phone at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar near the Jalandhar-Kapurthala Road on Sunday.Despite being attacked with a sharp-edged weapon, she managed to catch hold of one of the snatchers. While she fought with the snatcher for a few minutes, commuters soon jumped in to her rescue and caught him. The entire incident that occurred around 2 pm was recorded in a nearby CCTV camera.Commissioner of Police to recommend her name for bravery awardsCommissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Monday said the Police Commissionerate would send her name for the national and state bravery awards for displaying immense courage. He assured that the other accused, identified as Vinod Kumar of Railway Quarters, would also be nabbed as teams have started searching for him.Kusum Kumari (15), a resident of Fatehpuri Mohalla, while narrating the incident to the police, said: “I was going to my home, when two bike-borne men attempted to snatch my mobile phone. The accused riding pillion grabbed my hand and took my phone away. However, I resisted and held his hand, following which I followed them on their moving bike and grabbed the pillion rider’s t-shirt. He later hit me and attacked me on the wrist with a datar. But I continued following him and later dragged him from his bike. Moments later, passersby rescued me and held the snatcher. I got my phone later.”She has been admitted to Joshi hospital. The accused was later handed over to the police.While speaking to The Tribune, she said: “I was heading home after tuition, when the accused came close to me. They started eve-teasing, which alerted me of their subsequent actions. I followed them till they returned my phone that I need for my studies. After grabbing the snatcher, I shouted and asked for help. Luckily, a man came and held the accused.”Kusum is studying in Class VIII at Lala Jagat Narayan Public School. Her father is a daily wage-earner. He said his daughter received deep cuts in her veins and bones. It took two hours to complete her surgery and around 20 stitches. “Thankfully doctors are providing her free treatment, as they can’t afford to pay the hospital charges of Rs1.50 lakh. Kusum will remain admitted to the hospital for four days, her father said.SHO police division number 2, SI Jatinder Pal Singh said, the accused was identified as Avinash Kumar (22), alias Ashu, a resident of Begumpura, Basti Danishmanda. While his associate is absconding, a case under Sections 379 B and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC was registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teenager-gives-snatchers-a-tough-fight-in-jalandhar-134578
01-09-2020||Jalandhar||When the former Prez visited LPU||The sad demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee has cast a gloom on the Lovely Professional University campus. Remembering the two treasured visits of him to the campus during two convocations, LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal shared that he not only awarded the ‘honoris causa’ (doctorate degree) to the then President of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai, but also accepted the same during his second visit.‘Honoris causa’ Recipient“The seasoned statesman of the country guided and motivated students and staff members to lead the university on global heights with research and innovative works. His cherished suggestions are a great source of inspiration for all of us at LPU,” he said, while paying a heartfelt homage to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-the-former-prez-visited-lpu-134579
01-09-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||4 die of Covid in Hoshiarpur||With 43 new positive patients, the number of positive patients increased to 1,538 in Hoshiarpur district, while the death toll went up to 45 after the death of four Covid patients on Monday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of 43 new cases, 18 were from Hoshiarpur city, one each from Mahilpur, Talwara, Garhshankar, Chakkowal and Posi; two each from Tanda, Depur village, Harta Badla and Bhunga; three from Mukerian; four from Hajipur and five from Dasuya.Vina Jain (71) of Gautam Nagar, Hoshiarpur, and Santosh Chawla (55) of Hoshiarpur were undergoing treatment at the CMC Ludhiana, where they died. Apart from this, 60-year-old Nishan Singh of Ibrahimpur, Tanda, was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar, where he died. Fourth victim Kulwant Kaur (59) of Mission Road, Dasuya, was admitted to the Civil Hospital, where she died.With 1,120 new samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms taken on Monday, the total number of samples taken in the district has increased to 58,672 so far.According to laboratory reports, 55,938 of them were negative, while 1,223 reports were awaited and 80 samples were invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 416 and 1,077 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-of-covid-in-hoshiarpur-134580
01-09-2020||Jalandhar||No need for retest after 10 days , pvt hospitals told||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday directed private hospitals not to conduct retest of novel coronavirus if a patient has undergone Covid treatment for 10 days on their premises.Presiding over the meeting of an expert committee for strengthening the management of Covid patients in private hospitals for the better coordination and outcome of Covid-19 patients, who are undergoing treatment in private hospitals, Thori said as per guidelines, once the Covid patient had been admitted to the private health institutions and treated for 10 days by them, there was no need of retest and patient could be sent for home isolation.He said a few complaints have been made about retesting by private hospitals to the Health Department. He also asked doctors in private hospitals to mention the date of sampling of the patient on their files. He said the major focus was being laid on saving the precious lives of people from this pandemic, for which all of us have to join hands. He also asked private hospitals to ensure patients do not suffer any kind of problems during their stay.Thori said the committee was constituted to ensure daily reporting from each private practitioner, a daily report of the suspected cases of Covid-19 pandemic, besides regular reporting of tests referred for Covid-19 with complete contact and address of the patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-need-for-retest-after-10-days-pvt-hospitals-told-134581
01-09-2020||Jalandhar||This bizman creates best out of waste||“As you sow, so shall you reap.” Expressing his sentiment for the sprawling green area in his house on the Cool Road here, Gurcharan Singh Channi, a businessman, says ever since he started tending to his garden, he has been reaping the benefits of a sustainable living.A brick kiln owner, Channi has grown a variety of vegetables in his cement pots of all sizes. His garden boasts of bitter gourds, chillies, mini melons, cloves and several colours of flower bushes like hibiscus, gerberas, bougainvilleas, roses and allamandas. Besides, the cement pots, he has also got a collection of fibre-based designer pots and got him lined his garden. To place these pots well, he has used steps, broad edges of the walls and windows and even an old ‘open bar’, which he says is no longer in use,” he showed.Channi also got huge drums readied for planting fruit trees on his terrace which include varieties of mango including the all-season Amarpalli mango, chikoos, litchis, oranges, grape fruit, drumsticks and lemons. Not just this, Channi has even set up a farm house at his vacant 5-acre land near Amritsar bypass where he is growing bottle gourds, cucumbers and has got planted about 100 fruit trees, all of which are being grown organically.Channi even held a workshop for the gardening material that he got readied on the backyard of his house. “I studied a lot and researched on preparing vermicompost and other organic ways of producing soil fertilizers. I am using the entire green waste of the house and pumping it back into the soil. I have readied my own bio-enzymes from orange and lemon peals mixed with jaggery. I am also using egg shells and rice bran in the pots for providing extra nourishment to the plants”, he said.An enterprising businessman, he says, “I find joy with my plants. I am now thinking of indulging in horticulture and experimenting with new varieties of fruits such as avocado etc.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-bizman-creates-best-out-of-waste-134582
01-09-2020||Jalandhar||Comatosed after mishap, Khushi comes back to life stronger||Khushi Gupta's turnaround is no less than a miracle. In 2018, then a class X student, she fell from the fourth floor of a school here. Khushi was comatosed for nearly two months. There seemed to be a slim hope of her survival as her spine and ankles were broken.The fateful dayIn 2018, then a class X student, she fell from the fourth floor of a school here. Khushi was comatosed for nearly two months. There seemed to be a slim hope of her survival as her spine was broken. “Four hospitals refused to treat me,” Khushi said.“Four hospitals refused to treat me. They said I was 95 per cent dead and couldn't save me. Everyone refused to take me in," she recalls.However, NHS hospital admitted her. According to her, the staff there alongside her parents, played a significant role in her revival. “Dr Naveen Chitkara took my critical case. They didn't give up and said they would at least try to revive me. Unke try se yahan tak pahunchi hun (their efforts have brought me here)," Khushi says. On her 18th birthday, she even threw a party for the doctors and staff (70 to 80 people) who treated her at the hospital to express her gratitude. She says she is deeply indebted to the medical staff. She adds: "Three doctors Dr Naveen Chitkara, Dr Sandeep Goyal and Dr Shubhang Aggrawal are 'Brahma, Vishnu and Mahesh' for me.Of grit and determinationMaking a dramatic recovery, she appeared for her class X exams, in an ambulance, months after the accident in January, and scored 71 per cent surprising everyone. Three years on, the 19-year-old and her family are an inspiration for many. In this year's class XII Boards she has managed to score 80 per cent marks. As of now, amid the pandemic times, she is now preparing for her medical entrance test. She plans to become a doctor. Armed with a profound will power - a gift acquired after the mishap - she has spent most of the time with parents and preparing for her entrance exam.Making a dramatic recovery, she appeared for her class X exams, in an ambulance, months after the accident in January, and scored 71 per cent surprising everyone. Three years on, the 19-year-old and her family are an inspiration for many. In this year's class XII Boards she has managed to score 80 per cent marks. As of now, amid the pandemic times, she is now preparing for her medical entrance test. She plans to become a doctor - like the ones who saved her.The road aheadArmed with a profound will power - a gift acquired after the mishap - she has spent most of the time with parents and preparing for her entrance exam. "For me the quarantine has been very happy. Our family got to spend quality time with each other. We had breakfast, lunch and dinner together and watched Ramayana twice a day. Additionally, it has also given me ample of time to prepare for the NEET exam," she shares."When I was immoblised, I used to cry and would ask my mother why it happened to me. She would say 'This is god's will and your only purpose now is to get better and show the world who you are'. That greatly inspired me to get better," she adds.However, she is still not allowed to walk barefoot or on uneven surfaces. Father Naveen Gupta, says her daughter's resurrection is a benefaction from above. "I am thankful to the person and the school staff who took her across four hospitals and got her treated in time. He owes it to the doctors as well. "I am thankful to her doctors. They are God for me. I had thought my daughter would be gone. It's a pleasure watching her walk around. She is making the most of the Covid times studying, preparing for further goals."Elaborating on her future dreams, she says, "I want to be a doctor and save people like my doctors saved me. I feel healthy and can walk and talk normally because of them. I would like to study at PIMS."Khushi is hopeful that the NEET JEE exams takes place. "I think the entrance exams should happen. The admit cards were received recently. They have a detailed protocol and mandate virus tests for all those appearing. Those who are taking exams will abide by all guidelines as we do. We should put a little faith in the system."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/comatosed-after-mishap-khushi-comes-back-to-life-stronger-134583
01-09-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Asymptomatic patients can isolate at their home: Expert||Mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic patients can be considered eligible for home isolation, says Dr Sachin Verma, diabetes and infectious disease specialist at Ivy Hospital, on Monday. They should have required facilities, including a well-ventilated room away from others and availability of a caregiver 24x7, as communication between the caregiver, he said.Patients suffering from HIV, transplant recipients, cancer therapy, etc. are not eligible for home isolation, he clarified.As per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer, the caregiver and all close contacts should consume hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis. They should have Arogya Setu App downloaded on mobile and regularly monitor their health and inform health status to the district surveillance officer.Talking about instructions for patients for home quarantine for Covid treatment, Dr Sachin said they should wear a triple-layer medical mask all the time. Discard the mask after eight hour of use or earlier if they become wet or visibly soiled. Mask should be discarded only after disinfecting it with 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite, he remarkedPersonal items should not to be shared with other people. The surfaces touched more often in the room should be cleaned with 1 per cent hypochlorite solution.Speaking about instructions for caregivers, Dr Sachin said they should wear a triple layer medical mask appropriately while attending an ill person. Hand hygiene must be ensured after contact with an ill person or his or her immediate environment. Practicing hand hygiene before and after removing gloves is also equally important, he said.On should leave home isolation for hospital admission if he or she develops difficulty in breathing, bluish discolourations of lips/face, dip in oxygen saturation (SpO2 < 95 per cent), persistent pain/pressure in the chest, mental confusion or inability to arouse, slurred speech/seizures or weakness or numbness in any limb or faceThe patient will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. Further, it would be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor health for another seven days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asymptomatic-patients-can-isolate-at-their-home-expert-134584
01-09-2020||Jalandhar||AAP demands minister Dharamsot’s dismissal||Workers of the Aam Aadmi Party began a state-level protest over the ‘post-matric scholarship scam’ outside the DC office here on Monday and sought dismissal of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. The workers were led by the leader of the Opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema, and party MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur.The protesters raised slogans against the state government and burnt an effigy of the Chief Minister and the Cabinet Minister. They submitted a memorandum to the Governor through the DC.Cheema said: “Rather than dismissing the minister, the CM has initiated a process to award a clean chit to the minister. Rather than trusting a senior IAS officer who conducted the inquiry, he has handed the inquiry to another officer (Chief Secretary). The report submitted by the Additional Chief Secretary makes it clear that the Cabinet Minister has played with the lives and futures of Dalit students, darkening their future prospects. Given the seriousness of the charge of a scam worth Rs 63.91, the minister should have been immediately dismissed and his associates also arrested.” Cheema demanded an inquiry into the scam by a sitting judge of the High Court or the CBI or any other Central agency.The protesters also demanded that the ambit of the inquiry be increased to 2012-13 year, alleging discrepancies worth Rs 1,200 crore during the previous Akali-BJP regime as well. “If the government did not take action against the minister, we will hold statewide protests, a beginning of which has been made from the Doaba region,” Cheema said.Order inquiry by CBI or HC judge, SAD urges govtLeaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday staged a protest against the state government, demanding a probe by the CBI or a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana Court into the role of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the alleged Rs 55.97 crore post-matric scholarship scheme scam.SAD MLAs Pawan Tinu and Baldev Khaira criticised the government for ignoring the report against the minister by an IAS officer holding the post of Additional Chief Secretary. “The report clearly indicates how the government records were tampered with and new bank accounts created at the minister’s behest. The report provides enough material to dismiss the minister, but the CM is not ready to take action and has called for another inquiry, giving an indication that he wants to save a minister facing allegations of corruption,” said Tinu.The leaders said for the past three years, SC and ST category students in the state had been facing hardships as the minister extended the scholarship benefit to a few colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-demands-minister-dharamsots-dismissal-134585
01-09-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||4 areas declared micro-containment zones in Hoshiarpur||To break the chain of Covid infection in the areas having infected people, District Magistrate Apneet Riyait on Monday declared four micro-containment zones in the district.As per the order issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, Mohalla Ajit Nagar of Hoshiarpur city, Mandiala village, Mohalla Kainthan of Dasuya and Uchi Bassi in Dasuya tehsil have been declared micro-containment zones (MCZs).Riyait directed SDMs and DSPs concerned to ensure 100 per cent testing in three days in the said zones and extend full support to health teams wherever required with complete sealing of these areas as per the Covid guidelines.She directed to take strict action if anybody tries to obstruct the health teams or spreads messages to prevent people from giving samples. Only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the said MCZs, where health teams will carry intensive door-to-door surveillance and contact tracing besides shifting all positive cases to health facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-areas-declared-micro-containment-zones-in-hoshiarpur-134586
01-09-2020||Jalandhar||‘Farmers can sell their produce freely’||Reacting to the state government’s Monsoon Session move of opposing three agricultural ordinances, former union minister and ex-Punjab BJP chief Vijay Sampla said opposing the ordinance was opposing the financial rights of farmers. With the opposition, the Punjab government has snatched away the right of the farmer to sell his produce with the utmost freedom. He said, “The three ordinances promise freedom to farmers to sell their produce anywhere and those opposing it are actually against the farming community”.He said the BJP-led Central Government had notified these ordinances keeping in mind the larger interest of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-can-sell-their-produce-freely-134587
01-09-2020||Jalandhar||Covid dampens Sodal Mela spirit, to be low-key affair||Scores of vendors selling colourful things, sounds of drums and shehnai, children enjoying rides and screaming, hoards of people buying goods from roadside vendors and paying obeisance, happy faces all around, etc, we all would be missing these activities this year.Cops monitor situationEvery year devotees were seen dancing and chanting the name of Baba Sodal with the band on their way to the templeIn order to ensure foolproof security arrangements, adherence to social distancing and wearing masks during the visit of people to the Sri Sidh Baba Sodal temple, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said more than 600 security personnel and CCTV cameras were installed in and around the premises. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, he asked people to obey health guidelines such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, etc, while visiting the temple.It is for the first time that the Sodal Mela, which is celebrated on September 1 every year, will be a low-key affair this year. The pandemic has played a spoilsport. The historical mela is attended by lakhs of pilgrims. Every year devotees are seen dancing and chanting the name of Baba Sodal with the band on their way to the temple.Earlier, the stalls of free community kitchen would also be put up near the Sodal temple area for the pilgrims coming from far-off places. And all this would start a week before the mela, but the pandemic has dampened the spirit.For thousands of people, the fair is a means to earn their livelihood. People from within the state and also from Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and other states come here to sell their goods and earn a buck for their families. Vendor Raj Kumar (56), who belongs to Jalandhar and has been coming to the mela for the last 30 years, said it was for the first time that he saw such a scenario. “The fair always gave us hope and happiness that we would earn well for our family. But I had never expected that the Covid-19 pandemic would stop everything, even historical fairs like this,” he said. Raj Kumar said vendors from other states would also visit the fair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-dampens-sodal-mela-spirit-to-be-low-key-affair-134589
01-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Norms on disabled commuters released||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 31A Jalandhar-based disability activist’s efforts have made the authorities change certain rules, which are set to make aviation an easier experience for the entire community in the country.Air India has released a detailed set of instructions and guidelines to its officials at airports for respectful treatment and facilitation of passengers with disabilities. The guidelines are the result of a complaint filed by Jalandhar-based National Awardee and Disability Rights Activist Vivek Joshi, who was heckled and harassed by the Air India staff in October 2018 at the Mumbai Airport.Joshi said he was “made to sit facing the wall like a school kid receiving punishment.” His relative had taken up the issue on Twitter with the then Minister for Civil Aviation Jayant Sinha and had also lodged a complaint with Air India, which issued an apology later. “It’s a triumph for disability rights. I shall be happy if the guidelines are implemented and don’t just remain on paper,” Joshi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/norms-on-disabled-commuters-released-134335
