09-09-2020||Avneet KaurKhatkar Kalan(Nawanshahr)||Deewan Khana — An epitome of great revolutionary legacy||For over a century now, the ancestral home of Indian Socialist Revolutionary — Shaheed Bhagat Singh — is the pride of Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr.But a few people know that the house was built in 1858 by Bhagat Singh’s great-grandfather Fateh Singh, who named it ‘Deewan Khana’, as he would hold a durbar at the house to impart justice to the people of his village. Besides, he used to encourage people and tell them that governments may come and go, but their problems would find solutions if they earmark them jointly.It is said that after the death of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the East India Company officials started suppressing people. So, to protect themselves, people took up arms. During the 1857 revolt, the British government requested Fateh Singh for help against the rebels, but he refused to oblige.“Since then, the house has been an epitome of great values and resistance to the colonial rule exhibited by the family,” said Prof Jagmohan Singh, Ludhiana-based nephew of Bhagat Singh.Prof Singh said it was after a great struggle that he managed to get the house converted into a protected monument in the 1980s, as many questioned the connection of Bhagat Singh with the house, claiming that he never visited the place. The truth is though Bhagat Singh was born and brought up in Faisalabad (now in Pakistan), he used to visit the house regularly, along with his grandfather Arjan Singh. He had many fond childhood memories associated with the house, Professor Singh said.Items on display Items such as utensils, wooden boxes, a table, an almirah, some pictures, an old wooden bed with carving, a weighing machine, a charkha (spinning wheel), and a typewriter, which is said to be of historical importance and has links with the freedom fighter, have been put on display at the house.Throwing light on his struggle to protect the house, Prof Jagmohan said: “While the portraits of Bhagat Singh have made their way to the offices of politicians, especially those from Punjab, who make a beeline to Khatkar Kalan village on every birth and death anniversary of Bhagat Singh or during elections, the martyr gets effaced from their memories in a matter of days.”A walk through the past...As per information, Bhagat Singh’s mother lived in this house till 1975, but it was in 1982, that the house was declared a monument under the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964. After that the family handed over its responsibility to the government to preserve it as a national monument. But the legendary freedom fighter’s house was relatively ignored for a long time. Sources say it was first in 2005, when the chappar (sewer pond) found in front of Bhagat Singh’s house was converted into a memorial park, but the structure of the house was not touched and one of its walls remained in bad shape and the paint peeled off from its lower walls owing to dampness. Prof Jagmohan Singh said: “The Department of Archives/ Culture used to be mostly out of funds whenever they were approached for restoration. It was like we had to beg in front of the government for grants even though the house’s upkeep should have been its job.” It was only in 2015 that the Department of Cultural Affairs, Archaeology and Museums, for the first time, started restoring the house since it was handed over to it in 1984 by the family. Before that, the local panchayat used to take care of the house. The house was restored at a cost of Rs42 lakh by the state government, he said.Prof Jagmohan recalled that in 2017, when then Punjab Tourism Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu went to the village to take stock of the ongoing museum work at the village, he handed over a cheque for Rs2.5 lakh from his ministerial funds to then Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri, in favour of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), as the state government miserably failed to clear the power bills of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s house and of the memorial park. “Such was the plight of the house and ignorance of the state government,” he said.The house nowIt was in July 2015 that the state government hired a Chandigarh-based private firm to carry out the restoration work at the house in a way that it could attract more and more visitors. The restoration work was completed in 2016 and the roofs, which were in a dilapidated condition earlier, were removed and replaced with new ones keeping the original form. The walls of the rooms, kitchen have now been repaired with a special technique to strengthen these by restoring its historical value. The floors of the building were restored and its level has also been raised. Old doors and windows have been replaced with new ones. Special cabins for displaying the belongings of the martyr and his family have been made, so that these are not damaged by visitors by frequently touching it. The house has got a complete facelift and is one of the most visited places in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deewan-khana-%E2%80%94-an-epitome-of-great-revolutionary-legacy-138544
09-09-2020||Nawanshahr||2 of family lose Covid battle in a week in Jalandhar||Two members of a family lost their battle against Covid within a week.Manmohan Singh Gulati, who is also a SAD leader, lost his brother and sister to the deadly virus. The family saw two deaths in an interval of a week.Gulati said last Monday, his brother (46), was cremated and yesterday he lost his sister (55). The virus caught everyone in its grip. Even Gulati and his wife had contracted the virus, but they recovered. However, their parents tested negative.“My brother had no co-morbities and had always lived a healthy life. He was symptomatic and had fever and cough. The X-ray reports revealed that his lungs were affected. He remained in the hospital for 13 days, but couldn’t survive,” Gulati said, adding that his sister had muscular dystrophy and was not keeping well for the past 30 years. He said it was only two days ago that they got to know that she was also positive. She died on Monday.“Even I remained in the hospital for 11 days when I tested positive. The virus is getting scarier day by day. I had never thought I would lose my siblings to the virus. The past week was the worst in our life, I don’t even know how to react,” an emotional Singh said.27 deaths till now in NawanshahrUntil now, the district has recorded a total of 859 positive cases and as many as 27 deaths have been reported. There are 143 active cases in Nawanshahr, out of which 137 belong to the district and six are from outside. The samples of as many as 478 persons were collected today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-of-family-lose-covid-battle-in-a-week-in-jalandhar-138545
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar District gets three new health centres||4 die, 245 test +ve in Jalandhar, dist tally 8,2571 dies,102 new cases in Hoshiarpur; tally 2,241They have been equipped with piped oxygen supply. Accompanied by Member of Parliament (MP) Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Pargat Singh, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri, Avtar Singh Junior Bawa Henry, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, DC Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, the Health Minister said the Covid bed capacity for level-II patients had now increased to 364 in government health sector, of which 284 beds were being utilised in the Civil Hospital. Appealing to the people not to take flu-like symptoms lightly and immediately contact nearby health facility, he asked them to get tested for Covid so that the spread of the contagion can be halted. He said people were reporting late to the doctors hence their condition further deteriorates. The minister also said that the state government would provide 50,000 free of cost Covid care kits to active patients in hospitals and home isolation to ensure better care for them. He said the kits would include an oximeter, digital thermometer, face masks and necessary tablets. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-gets-three-new-health-centres-138546
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||Pvt labs get nod to conduct rapid antigen tests in Jalandhar||To check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic by ensuring aggressive testing, early detection and treatment, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday said the Punjab Government has allowed private hospitals/ clinics/laboratories to conduct rapid antigen testing (RAT) for Covid-19 after getting empanelled with the Health Department.The DC said these kits would be provided free of cost by the Health Department to the empanelled institutions and the department would empanel those private hospitals/clinics/labs who were willing to offer testing to people.He said the empanelled hospitals/ labs could charge maximum Rs250 from a patient and the kits would be supplied to them by the department. He said these private hospitals/laboratories must have a separate isolated area for the suspected patients, where samples would be taken. He said the institution should have an arrangement of biomedical waste management generated by the test as per the guidelines, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pvt-labs-get-nod-to-conduct-rapid-antigen-tests-in-jalandhar-138547
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||Now, NIT launches 3 designs of PPE suits||Having designed masks, UV sanitisers and sole cleaners for use during the pandemic, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) has now come up with new designs of the PPE suits to protect from the virus.The institute introduced a full-body PPE cover, named ‘Marshall’, with a design covering the full body from head to toes with efficiency to restrict the entry and any face-off with the virus. It was designed for corona warriors, who are dealing with people such as police, doctors, shopkeepers and other essential service providers. The novel design introduced is for commoners who frequently travel and use various facilities during travel.The faculty has also designed ‘Body torso PPE cover’ and ‘Head mask PPE’. Both have been introduced for providing different level of protection.The brains behind the design are Dr Mahesh Kumar Sah from the department of biotechnology, prof Arvind Bhardwaj from the department of industrial and production engineering, and prof Lalit K Awasthi (director of the institute) from the department of computer science. Dr Mahesh described the salient features of these two PPE suits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-nit-launches-3-designs-of-ppe-suits-138548
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar resort misuses farm power supply, slapped Rs5 lakh fine||Tightening the noose around unscrupulous elements indulging in misuse of power, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) enforcement teams conducted raids in Hoshiarpur in the wee hours on Tuesday.A popular tourist resort on the outskirts was found misusing free agricultural power supply. Two agriculture pump sets of 15 HP each were being used to fill the swimming pool and water storage tanks of the resort. A fine of Rs5 lakh has been imposed on the resort for misuse of free electricity. The teams inspected more than 200 domestic and commercial connections.Ten cases were found wherein consumers were stealing energy. A penalty of Rs3 lakh has been imposed on these consumers apart from booking them under the Indian Electricity Act, 2003. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-resort-misuses-farm-power-supply-slapped-rs5-lakh-fine-138549
09-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Strong-willed, paralifter disabled only by govt apathy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 8Thirty two-year-old Manpreet Kaur’s journey as a para powerlifter seems nothing short of a dream. She represented the country in several international para powerlifting championships.Crippled due to polio, she only aspired to find a job after her education so that she could contribute to his family’s income like her three brothers. She also pursued BEd after her BCom degree despite several hurdles coming her way. Yet she wasn’t able to find a job for herself. The tides turned in her favour when Manpreet took part in para games.It was in the year 2013, after she completed herBEd, principal of her college (Ramgarhia College in Phagwara) told her to join para games till she finds a job. Her coach Parminder Singh and the college principal told her that if she performed well in the games, she would get a government job. Without a second thought and despite her disability, she reached the practice halls the next day after convincing her parents.How it all began“My journey towards my goal was not an easy one. I had no inkling about achieving success as in the initial days, I couldn’t even lift the 20kg barbel rod. But not the one to feel depressed, after a few weeks of learning the techniques, developing strength and working hard, I started lifting weights. Within a few months of my training, I started playing in the 50kg weight category and played my first national level tournament in 2013 only.I managed to clinch a bronze medal. It gave flight to my dreams,” said Manpreet.As nothing comes easy in life, Manpreet also went through her share of difficulties while treading the path to her success.The distance between her home to the training hall, would seem to be never-ending. It used to drain her. Being the only woman among all the male trainees at the powerlifting training hall, this didn’t deter her from following her dreams.Had to support her familyCrippled due to polio, she aspired to only find a job after her education so that she could contribute to her family’s income like her three brothers. She also pursued BEd after her BCom degree, despite several hurdles coming her way. Yet she wasn't able to find a job for herself. The tides turned in her favour when Manpreet took part in para games.After sharpening her skills, she bagged gold medals continuously from 2015-2019 in national championships and participated in five international events, including two Asian Championships that were held in Kazakhstan and Japan.She got 13th rank in the Mexico World Championships and also cleared Olympics qualifying round in UK in 2017. She also stayed as paying guest for one year before joining camp in the Sports Authority of India, Gujarat, qualifying for the Khelo India Scheme. She is now preparing for next Paralympics.Her early lifeA resident of Dr Ambedkar Nagar (Dhadday), Manpreet is the only graduate in her family. Defying all odds, she completed her education from a local government school and graduation from Kamla Nehru College in Phagwara. She would move her wheelchair on her own for nearly 5-6 km to reach her school.The only thing that held her back was the negligent behavior of the state government towards the players who sweat it out to bring accolades for their motherland and are later forgotten. Despite setting several milestones, not only is she jobless till now, but also hasn’t received the cash reward of the national and international matches she had won.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/strong-willed-paralifter-disabled-only-by-govt-apathy-138550
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||Civic body meet on beat system for safai karamcharis today||Several meetings have already been held by the Health and Sanitation Ad hoc Committee, no decision has been taken on the implementation of the beat system for safai karamcharis in the city.Under the beat system, every ward will get an appropriate number of safai karamcharis according to the area of the ward.Jagdish Samrai, councillor of Ward No.78 and an active member of the committee, said there were several vacancies which had not been filled. “Even if the wards have the safai karamcharis, they are also involved in other works, so the cleanliness of the city gets affected. Nearly 375 vacancies are lying unfilled,” he said.Another meeting will be held tomorrow on the issue again. It has been highlighted that some wards have more than 40 safai karamcharis, while others have less than five and residents here have been grappling with several problems such lack of cleanliness and garbage in wards where there are fewer number of safai karamcharis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civic-body-meet-on-beat-system-for-safai-karamcharis-today-138551
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||Rotarians discuss challenges in eLearning||The Rotary Club of Jalandhar on Monday organised a talk on the ‘Challenges and opportunities of eLearning in the wake of the pandemic.Three learned speakers from this field were invited, said Dr Sukant Verma and Harpreet Kaur, hosts of the meeting. The speakers included Dr Sumita Ummat, CEO and Founder ‘Let Us Talk’, Vikram Singh, banker, author and guest faculty IITs and IIMs, both from New Delhi, and Prof Sachin Gulati, Founder TruMath App.The meeting was widely attended by almost 150 participants which included teachers and students of Cambridge International Co-Ed School, Army Public School, BD Arya College and KMV College.It was an informative session where the speakers highlighted the problems facing the teachers as well as students, who were finding it difficult to adapt to the new ways of online learning. They stressed upon the need to accept the change and provide additional training to teachers and students to help them cope better.While both Dr Sumita Ummat and Prof Sachin Gulati highlighted how online learning has enabled knowledge to reach the masses, Vikram Singh urged the students to recognise their hidden talents and follow their dreams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rotarians-discuss-challenges-in-elearning-138552
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar-based novelist releases three dramas||Three dramas — Operation Blue Star, Lockdown and Dalit Pandit — written by city-based novelist Ajay Sharma during the lockdown were released at Doaba College here on Saturday.Naresh Kumar Dhiman, college principal; Simar Sadosh, eminent critic, novelist and poet; Prof Sandeep Chahal, Parul Sharma, novelist and; Avinash Bawa released the dramas written during the lockdown.Pursuing creativityWhile the world is grappling with the Covid pandemic, Sharma has channelised his energy very well into creative pursuits and penned down three books.Principal Dhiman said Dalit Pandit is a satirical take on various self-made rituals by priests and how these things exploit religious emotions of a common man, and when he tries to question these rituals, he is ridiculed and forced to give offerings against his will.Simar Sadosh said Operation Bluestar captures the psyche of a Sikh soldier who is asked to attack the sacrosanct place for Sikhs, the Golden Temple in 1984, as a part of his duty. Just before the attack, he engages in a conversation with a fellow Sikh soldier about the gravity of the situation and its possible outcomes. Unable to cope with the situation, he finally loses control over his mind and the story then shifts to mental asylum. The scars on his heart lead him to this dreadful position and readers are left to speculate on the effects of this tragedy on the mind of a Sikh soldier.Prof Sandeep Chahal said Lockdown highlighted various shades of events and incidents during the lockdown and the drama struck a chord with present-day challenges and fears about future that mankind is dealing with.“While the world is grappling with the Covid pandemic, Sharma has channelised his energy very well into creative pursuits and penned down three books — Operation Bluestar, Dalit Pandit and Lockdown. While the first two books are full-length plays and the last one is a collection of seven nano-dramas. So far, his pen has produced 18 books and many other works such as IVF Clinic and ‘Aaine Ki Peeth’ are in the pipeline,” Chahal said. Avinash Bawa said in the field of Hindi literature, Ajay Sharma is a well known name.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-novelist-releases-three-dramas-138554
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||110-kg poppy husk seized from truck, driver arrested||The CIA staff-1 of the Commissionerate Police on Tuesday arrested a truck driver and seized 110 kg of poppy husk from the vehicle.The driver has been identified as Balwinder Singh (45) of Railu Majra village in Rupnagar district.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the CIA staff laid a naka in Paragpur on the national-highway and stopped a truck (PB65-E-7989) loaded with homoeopathic medicines for checking.He said during search the police found six plastic bags packed with 110 kg of poppy husk from the truck. Balwinder during interrogation told that he had brought the contraband from Rajasthan and was in the drug business for the last two years. He was also in touch with a peddler, Dinesh of Rajasthan, and was pushing the poppy husk in Punjab with his help.Bhullar said before entering Jalandhar, Balwinder had supplied a drug consignment in Ludhiana’s Dehlon to a person on the instance of Dinesh and also had to deliver 100-kg poppy husk here to latter’s link in Jalandhar and 10-kg was to be sold out by himself. Balwinder used to get Rs 30,000 commission for each quintal of supplying the drugs.The suspect has been booked under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/110-kg-poppy-husk-seized-from-truck-driver-arrested-138555
09-09-2020||---||Declare results of Class X students, BJYM demands||Jalandhar, September 8Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) will start a campaign from Wednesday for 31,000 open school Class X students whose results have not been declared by the Punjab School Education Board.BJYM state president Bhanu Pratap on Wednesday said the party activists at the district headquarters would hand over demand memorandum in the name of Chief Minister. He said the Education Department was doing injustice with 31,000 families, whose wards were working and studying simultaneously.“Because of this, the future of thousands of students was in crisis due to which affected children could not apply for a job, where class X certificate is mandatory.The children and their families are disturbed mentally with stopping of the results”, Bhanu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/declare-results-of-class-x-students-bjym-demands-138556
09-09-2020||Garhshankar||Drinking water, irrigation related problems to be solved soon: Sarkaria||The people of Garhshankar will be provided with better drinking water and irrigation arrangements, so that they do not have to face any problem. This was stated by Water Resources Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria while addressing party workers at the residence of Congress leader Nimisha Mehta here on Monday.He was welcomed by Mehta and her colleagues during his visit to Nimisha Mehta’s residence on Nangal Road in Garhshankar. Nimisha informed the minister about the drinking water and irrigation problems being faced by people in Garhshankar. She informed the minister that due to the shortage of water in the Kandi canal, the fertile land of farmers was turning barren. She urged him to direct the officials concerned to release water soon.Nimisha urged the minister to install more tube wells for irrigation in villages and to get the faulty tube wells repaired. Meanwhile, Sukhbinder Singh ordered the officials of the departments concerned that water supply from the canal should be started at the earliest and that the process of sanctioning tube wells started soon.Nimisha thanked Sarkaria for fulfilling the demand of getting the Nariala cho cleaned. She urged the minister that other choes in the area should also be cleaned so that people did not have to face problems. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drinking-water-irrigation-related-problems-to-be-solved-soon-sarkaria-138557
09-09-2020||Jalandhar||4 arrested with looted money||Toddler killed in road mishapJalandhar: A 1-year-old girl was killed in an accident between a car and a bike near the Transport Nagar flyover on Tuesday around 2 pm. Her parents and an aunt received serious injuries. Baljit Singh of Ludhiana, was heading home on his bike with his wife, sister-in-law and his daughter. The mishap took place when an Alto car hit Baljit’s bike from the rear. Car driver, Jaswinder Singh, was arrested. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-arrested-with-looted-money-138572
09-09-2020||---||Won’t budge till action taken against Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, says LIP||Jalandhar, September 8Presenting before mediapersons party workers who got injured during the police lathicharge outside the CM’s residence in Patiala yesterday, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLAs Balwinder Bains and Simerjeet Bains today said they wouldn’t get bogged down by such assaults and would continue to demand the dismissal of SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot from the Punjab Cabinet over the SC post-matric scholarship scam.LIP announced that it would now launch a 10-day protest against the minister.“We will go on autorickshaws or on feet to the Dalit-dominated localities and tell them about the fraud that the Punjab minister had committed with the children of the poor families. We will assure these families of helping their children get college admissions,” said Bains, adding that the programme would start from September 16 from the Dalit-dominated Doaba region.Bains said the barbaric action against him and his partymen showed that the state government was targetting them in particular and not taking any action against the Akalis holding similar protests.Regarding a three-member committee constituted by the Centre to check the fraud in the scholarship scam, Bains said it was only an eyewash. “The Centre has deputed the team on the CM’s call just to defuse the mounting pressure on the state government”, he said, rubbishing the exercise.“The state government has also got lodged FIRs against me to muzzle my voice, but my protest would continue till action is taken against the minister,” Bains said.YAD seeks CBI probeChandigarh: The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Tuesday demanded a CBI inquiry against former Social Welfare Director-turned-Congress legislator Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal to uncover the money trail in the scholarship scam. It also announced to intensify its agitation against SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wont-budge-till-action-taken-against-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-says-lip-138327
