10-09-2020||Jalandhar||Pit bull attacks 8-year-old girl||2 booked for opening fireJalandhar: Taking action against a viral firing incident video, the police today registered an FIR against two youth, including a Shiv Sena party leader. Rajesh Kumar, SHO, police division number 1, said a video was recently circulated on social media in which two men were seen firing in the open. The incident occurred on September 4 night at Guru Amardas Colony. The police today registered a case against Sohit Sharma, a resident of Bhagat Singh Colony, and Sumit Kumar, a resident of Guru Amardas Colony. Sohil had reportedly shot fire from licensed pistol during the birthday celebration of his friend. A case under Sections 336, 188 of IPC and 25/2794/69 of Arms Act was registered against them. TNSCT Group holds placement driveJalandhar: Amid the Covid-19 crisis, CT Group of Institutions conducted online placement drive for MBA and BTech students. CapitalVia Global Research Limited, an investment advisor firm, conducted the recruitment via telephonic interview followed by video conferencing for personal interview rounds. Nearly 129 students appeared for the online interview. Of these, 59 were shortlisted for the final round. Students would get an annual package of Rs3.05 lakh per annum, excluding incentives. Managing Director, CT Group, Manbir Singh said online recruitment drive was a success. He congratulated all shortlisted students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pit-bull-attacks-8-year-old-girl-139139
10-09-2020||---||No curfew on Saturdays in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, September 9Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal has ordered fresh guidelines under the fourth phase of unlocking in which more relaxations have been granted to the markets.Under the new mandates, health institutions like hospitals, diagnostic centres and medical shops would remain open all seven days for 24 hours. While shops with essential commodities, religious places, sports complexes, public complexes, restaurants (including restaurants, hotels in malls), liquor vends would remain open all seven days till 9 pm, the night curfew would remain effective from 9.30 pm to 5 am in all municipal limits of the district.However, essential activities and services, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes will be permitted.Essential services include services related to health, agricultural and related activities, dairying and fishery activities, banks, ATMs, stock markets, insurance companies, online teaching, public utilities, public transport industry in multiple-shifts, construction industry, offices, media both visual and print etc.Movement of persons and students in the connection with all kinds of examinations, admission/entrance tests conducted by universities, boards, public service commissions and other institutions shall be permitted.All kinds of social, political, religious gathering, protests and demonstration have been prohibited strictly.Hoshiarpur DC issues detailed guidelinesThe District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Wednesday issued detailed guidelines on opening of shops etc which will remain in force from September 9 till end of month. As per the orders issued under Section 144 of CRPC, there will be no curfew on Saturdays but total curfew on Sundays will be imposed within municipal limits. Similarly, the movement of individuals for all the non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 9.30 pm to 5.00 am throughout the week. Now, the shops and malls can remain open from Monday to Saturday till 9 pm. Similarly, the religious places, sports complexes, stadiums, public complexes, restaurants, including restaurants/hotels in malls, liquor vends will remain open throughout the week till 9 pm. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-curfew-on-saturdays-in-kapurthala-139105
10-09-2020||Our Correspondent||4 die, 97 test +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 9As many as 97 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Hoshiarpur district taking the tally to 2,338. With four deaths, the toll has risen to 70.With 1,722 new samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken in the district has reached 70,542 and according to the reports received from the lab, 66,417 were negative, while the reports of 2,045 were awaited and 106 samples were invalid. The number of active cases is 717 and 1,551 patients have recovered so far.Jalandhar round-upDeath toll: 223Active cases: 2,958Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said today’s 97 cases include 24 from Hoshiarpur city, 21 from Garhshankar, Mukerian and Dasuya urban areas, while the remaining 52 cases were from different rural health blocks. The four deaths reported include that of a 59-year-old man from Chakk Sadu village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 70-year-old man of Puar village in Mukerian, who died at a private hospital in Pathankot; a 65-year-old woman of Gorian, who died at MH Jalandhar; and a 76-year-old man of Guru Nanak Avenue Fatehgarh Hoshiarpur, who died at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-97-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-139106
10-09-2020||---||As Punjabi music industry limps back, artiste says show must go on||Jalandhar, September 9As the Punjabi music industry is back into business after a break of over four months, the artistes have a different experience to share. Navi Lubana (29), director-cum-model, who created quite a buzz in his career spanning just over three years, says, post lockdown, our main concern is to go for maximum productivity with minimum labour.As the outdoor shooting is still on a halt, we have resumed shooting mostly in the pre-booked locations. Like every other sector, entertainment sector was also hit badly due to the lockdown. We still find it difficult to arrange enough workers, who were earlier available almost.Lubana has directed over 24 songs, including, widely popular tracks Sunroof, Giddha, Open Head, Channa and Thok Thar Di. Born and brought up in Jalandhar, Lubana completed his education in abroad. However, his love for music and the Punjabi culture couldn’’t keep him away from his homeland. He initially did modelling assignments in projects such as; Nakhre with Jassie Gill, Ja ve Mundeya by Ranjit Bawa, 5-7 Yaar and others. Calling pandemic a first-of-its kind, he said, “As it is said, the show must go on, we are ready to give new wings to our creativity,” added Lubana. His recently directed video was Giddha (Elly Mangat ft. Afsana Khan).An amalgamation of traditions and values, his videos also come with a dash of romance, which makes for a beautiful and enriching experience onscreen.He had his first modelling break in America where he walked the ramp at the American University. From that day on, he hasn’t looked back and has continued to shine with the support of his family and friends.His journey has not been a piece of cake, till date. He has had his fair share of blunders and last-minute panic moments ranging from non-completion of sets in time, no suitable locations for shoots to technical issues hindering an ongoing shoot. But these have never stopped him and he continues to move forward with his team. He aspires to make a mark in the Punjabi music industry with his aesthetically as well as emotionally enriching music videos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-punjabi-music-industry-limps-back-artiste-says-show-must-go-on-139107
10-09-2020||---||CBSE Teachers’ Award for Phillaur school head||Jalandhar, September 9Yogesh Gambhir, principal, Deshraj Wadhera DAV Public School, Phillaur, Jalandhar, was honoured with the CBSE Teachers’ Award-2020 for the academic year 2019-20.He was among the 38 teachers and principals of the CBSE affiliated schools who were presented with the award in a virtual ceremony.Won prizes in past tooYogesh Gambhir was given the award in recognition of his initiatives such as hybrid learning, multiple intelligence test, teacher of the day flipped classrooms, lab on wheels, etc. He also promotes eco-friendly activities among students and had also received awards for itHe was given the award in recognition of his initiatives such as hybrid learning, multiple intelligence test, teacher of the day flipped classrooms, lab on wheels, etc. He also promotes eco-friendly activities among students and had also received awards for it.A shawl, merit certificate and a cash reward of Rs50, 000 were given to the recipients of the award.He paid his gratitude to the local DAV management committee and Poonam Suri, president, DAV Institutions Management Committee, New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cbse-teachers-award-for-phillaur-school-head-139108
10-09-2020||Jalandhar||Teacher gets appreciation for e-lectures||Puja Mehta, a teacher of English, at Bhargo Camp Girls’ Senior Secondary Smart School here, received an appreciation letter from the office of the District Education Officer for her contribution towards content development as well as holding virtual classes using online platforms, including social media sites such as WhatsApp and YouTube during the lockdown period.DEO (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said she has successfully managed to develop audio text of books of Class X and created illustrations of lessons for students.Talking to The Tribune, Mehta said, “I always wanted to educate the masses and for that teaching was the best career option. I have set up a communication lab at the school and have been striving hard to bring out the best in girls and improve their communication skills. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teacher-gets-appreciation-for-e-lectures-139109
10-09-2020||Even as the educational institutions are using all available means to bridge the gap induced by the outbreak and following restrictions inflicted upon the structure of learning and teaching||‘Quality, effectiveness in digitised mode of learning must be addressed’||Ajay Joshi, he says the time has arrived when both the teachers and the students have to mould themselves according to the changed times.How is the teaching of different classes going on?As Covid-19 has forced schools and various educational institutes to shut all across the country, we have no option left but to shift to the digital mode. Even teachers, who were not well-versed with the virtual learning, are now making themselves tech-friendly. Apart from graduation courses, our prime focus at this time is to conduct undisrupted classes for students pursuing their masters, including MBA and MCA.What infrastructural changes have been made for the digital sessions?The college has three computer labs on its campus, earlier utilised for conducting practicals. But now as the teachers have started coming, we have turned them into online teaching studios. Laptops and internet connectivity has also been provided to the teachers for better conduct of the online classes and due to desirable space in the labs, around two-three teachers easily take their classes. Besides, academic calendar and time-table along with the digital platform where classes are to be held has already been shared with the students and teachers. Language apps, virtual tutoring, video-conferencing tools, or online learning, we are using all the available softwares and apps including Zoom and WhatsApp too. The final year students are the prime priority so that they could be ready to face placements. In addition, looking at the situation, a demand of digital equipment, including camera, microphones and speakers have also been submitted to the university’s main campus.Take on the conduct of final year exams?As far as the exams of the final year students is concerned, we are only relying on the UGC’s guidelines and directions of the state government. Though it’s difficult for the students to attend examinations amid pandemic, exams are equally important as it would directly reflect upon the job placement. Better score or performance would help fetch better job.How is the admission process going on?Fortunately, the pandemic couldn’t dampen the spirits of students from continuing their classes. The admissions process is on and students from other states are enthusiastically enrolling for different courses. We have total 350 seats for Bcom course, but have received 565 applications for the same. Similarly, there are only 120 seats for BBA and number of applications are 145. Hence, the admission process is smooth. Students from neighbouring states are helped through online model. They are sending scanned copies of their documents and the staff is admitting them, subject to the eligibility.Plans for academic session 2020-21?The online classes for existing students had already begun last month. The detailed academic calendar and time-table has been shared. During this academic year we have incorporated various online lectures, competitive activities for students and other assignments to engage students. However, we feel online method can’t be a substitute to classroom teaching. Rest, the exams will be conducted as per the guidelines.What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins?Our biggest concern is about the health and safety of the students and their families and for this we will put our earnest efforts to provide them a safe and conducive environment.What’s your opinion on New Education policy (NEP)?The government has tried to place its agenda by introducing the NEP that all institutions will have to adhere to. Despite opposition, I think some of the key changes are acceptable, like the primary education in first language and others. Besides, the real opinion would be established after four-five years of its implementation. However, the students do need to get rid of the old school principles like cramming of syllabus and should focus on overall development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/quality-effectiveness-in-digitised-mode-of-learning-must-be-addressed-139110
10-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Rendered jobless, an art director starts food corner to stay afloat||Jalandhar, September 9“I was broke but thought that it was just temporary and the shootings could resume anytime soon. But the situation around only worsened,” says Rakesh Kumar, an art director.Kumar had been hanging on to the hope for a long time. Thinking all will be fine. Before things went awry, he had been directing art for Punjabi movies, songs and was part of a top MTV show. With life coursing smoothly, the outbreak had other plans — it hit and rendered him in dire straits.Soon, his savings dried up and being the sole breadwinner, he was not in the position to wait for the things to normalise. Thus, sometime in July, after being idle for almost three months, he decided to switch his trade in order to rewind to good old times. As his work involved huge gatherings, it was palpable that not many would be called back nor the artistes would prefer shooting in such a scenario, so he went about looking for an alternative.Women are always right!However, he was confused at first about what to do as he has no skills other than being an art director. “But, as my wife is a great at cooking she suggested that we should start a food corner,” he says. This was it. Without wasting much time and instead of resigning to fate, they both decided to carve their own path. “Even both my sons, a 12-year-old and other being 16, were excited about the plan and said they too want to help,” he adds.Besides, another idea behind opening a food zone and providing customised meals to customers was people fearing to place orders from a restaurant and being more inclined towards homemade food. After much brainstorming, he finally selected a location near Tehsil Chowk, and as the place is one of the prominent spots in the city it attracts people of all age groups. With this idea growing into reality, they are finally having the glimpses of the good old time.“My wife cooks all the meals in the morning and then I take it up in my car to the counter that we had set up. For the time being it’s like no loss and no profit situation, but I am hopeful that as the situation will normalise, I will get a good response in this,” he shares.Sharing his future plans, Kumar says that he has decided that even if he returns to his art direction field in future, he would not wind up this business and will make arrangements to look after. “The pandemic has made me realise that we should never rely on one source of income”, he advises, before going on, “never in my dreams I imagined I would have to switch my profession. But now, I strongly feel that everything happens for a reason and God has better plans for me. The situation has only made me stronger as a person and with the support of my family, I have managed to come out of crisis,” he said.s||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rendered-jobless-an-art-director-starts-food-corner-to-stay-afloat-139111
10-09-2020||Guardians of Governance (GOGs)||GOGs on a mission||Making up for jobs lost in pandemicThose who lost their jobs during the pandemic were given a chance to grab one at a placement camp organised by the district Employment Department at Modern Institute of Advance Education in Nawanshahr. Rupinder Kaur, district employment generation and training officer, said candidates would be selected for posts such as hardware technician, computer typist, manager and IELTS trainer among others in the camp. Candidates who are graduates, post graduates or those who have completed their higher secondary and those holding degrees including computer hardware diploma, computer application diploma were eligible to applyLast-minute cancellations!Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora’s visit to Nawanshahr was scheduled for Wednesday, which got postponed. Notably, he was coming to monitor the Covid situation in the district and had to visit the Civil Hospital to check the arrangements for Covid patients. There was also a meeting with political leaders, followed by a press conference. An invitation was also sent to the media, but the plan got cancelled at the last moment. The administration officials said he would visit soon.Practising what he preachesSDM Nawanshahr Jagdish Singh Johal got himself tested voluntarily just to motivate people and show them that getting tested for Covid was not a big deal! His report came out to be negative and he gave out a message that if reported on time, the disease could be controlled. He said several rumours and fabricated news regarding the disease were making the rounds on social media just because of some notorious people, and no one should believe in these rumours. “The tests are being done so that further spread of the virus can be controlled,” the SDM said, adding that strict action would be taken against those spreading rumours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gogs-on-a-mission-139122
