11-09-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Ex-ASI runs from pillar to post to lodge snatching plaint||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, September 10 As the snatching incidents continue to brew in the city, the victims are left in lurch following the police’s inaptness to nab the accused swiftly apart from the delaying the process of registering FIR’s.  In one such case, a retired Assistant Sub Inspector, who served in Jalandhar for several years has been running from pillar to post to get an FIR registered against a snatching incident that took place with his wife almost a month ago.  Janak Raj (58) said, on August 13 two unidentified men snatched a handbag from his wife, Kamlesh Rani (52). The incident took place around 2 pm at Ladowali road near the Polytechnic College when Kamlesh and her mother were heading back home at Surya Enclave.  Victim told the police that she, along with her mother, was going to her home on her two-wheeler when two unknown persons came on a bike from behind and snatched her handbag nestled between the feet. The bag contained Rs 45,000, gold earrings, keys of her bank locker, a mobile phone and other important documents. Despite repeated resistance attempts, the miscreants managed to get away with her bag.  “Immediately after the incident, I went to the police along with my husband to lodge an FIR at Navi Baradari police station, however, even after visiting several times no FIR was registered and only the investigation officer has the complaint that had arrived at the spot of incident,” added Kamlesh. Even the hasn’t been traced at all.  SHO Ravinder Kumar while talking to The Tribune stated that he was aware of the case and assured having an FIR registered.  Even after the Kusum Kumari episode, when the 15-year-old girl came down heavily on the snatchers, every day women are falling prey to the snatching. Victims have been dealt injuries in the process as miscreants forcibly try to take away their valuables.  On Wednesday, another woman was robbed near Company Bagh chowk while waiting for an auto-rickshaw. Likewise, Seema Mahajan, a school teacher, received multiple gashes after she fell down while repelling two motorcycle-borne miscreants who ultimately snatched her phone at Urban Estate.  As per the police, a majority of the crimes are carried out by drug addicts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-asi-runs-from-pillar-to-post-to-lodge-snatching-plaint-139637
11-09-2020||---||289 cases take Jalandhar district Covid tally to 8,749||Jalandhar, September 10A whopping 289 cases of Covid were reported in the district on Thursday with which the tally climbed to 8,749 on Thursday. As many as seven deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 223.Meanwhile, 111 people tested positive in Kapurthala. The deceased include a 54-year-old man from Hardaspur village, who died at Military Hospital, Jalandhar; 80-year-old man from Preet Nagar, Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; 48-year-old man from Shalimar Bagh, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 72-year-old woman from Kahna village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.35-year-old man loses battle to CovidRanjan Sharma (35), a computer lecturer at the Government Arts and Sports College, Jalandhar, succumbed to Covid. A resident of Garha Road here, Ranjan had mild fever for the past few days. He remained admitted to a private hospital and was in a critical condition till he passed away on Wednesday. His last rites were performed yesterday following Covid protocol. His Covid-19 positive report came on Thursday, a day after his death. Son of a retired lecturer Sudarshan Sharma, Ranjan’s family is yet to come to terms with the incident. He was married and had a 2-year-old child. A family member said: “We got Ranjan admitted to a private hospital, for a better treatment, but we regret our decision now. We have been asking for his death summary but they have not provided us with any details. Since we did not meet him in the last three days, owing to isolation, we don’t know what all he went through.” They said: “When he got admitted, he had cough. The hospital conducted an X-ray and we were told that it could be Covid. We were also informed that they had started his treatment of diabetes as his sugar level crossed 400 mg/dL. We were told that since his oxygen level had dipped to 45%, but improved to 75% later. As of now, we are not saying that there has been medical negligence but we want his reports and details of the treatment followed.Two die, 138 test +ve in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district received reports of 1,616 samples on Thursday, out of which 138 cases were found Covid positive, taking the tally to 2,476. With the death of two patients, the toll rose to 72. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said of today’s cases, 76 are from Hoshiarpur city; 10 from Dasuya; nine each from Chakkowal and Harta Badla; six each from Posi, Bhunga; five each from Mukerian, Tanda; four from Paldi; two each from Garhshankar, Hajipur, Budhawar and Mand Mandher. Apart from this, there have been two Covid deaths including that of a 68-year-old woman of Gokal Nagar and a 66-year-old woman of Guru Nanak Avenue. Both died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/289-cases-take-jalandhar-district-covid-tally-to-8-749-139638
11-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Nine Dubai-returned youths struggle to get passports back||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 10A bunch of nine youths who returned from Dubai to their native places in Jalandhar, more than a month ago, are a worried lot as they are yet to get their passports back. Their passports were collected by the authorities at the Mohali Airport.A resident of Lohara village on Nakodar Road here, Manpreet Singh said it was not just him but also the eight other youths from Jalandhar (who returned in the same flight) who were made to run from pillar to post to get their passport back. He said, “We landed at the Mohali Airport on August 6. Our passports were collected by the Mohali administration and we were sent to institutional quarantine. The flight had youths from other districts, including Amritsar and Gurdaspur, besides those from Jalandhar. We were told that our passports would reach our respective districts.”Manpreet said upon completing the quarantine, he checked for his passport from the Mohali DC office and was given the contact number of an officer from the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. “When I contacted this officer, I was told that my passport had not been dispatched from Mohali. When I called back again in Mohali, I was asked to dial a travel helpline number. The person on this number also failed to trace my passport, which made us more anxious,” he said.Manpreet said he contacted other youths in the same flight who were known to him to check as to where they got the passport. “To my surprise, none of those eight youth I knew had got their passports back. I might have to go back anytime. We all had returned as we had been temporarily relieved. The employers of three other youths are also asking them to report back. My employer too can call me back anytime and I would have to leave immediately,” he said.The other youths who have not got their passport include Harvinder Singh from Bir Bansian village in Phillaur, Karnail Singh from Dhesian in Phillaur, Kamaljit Singh from Jamsher Khas, Arashdeep Singh from Sunner Kalan village, Sonu from Nagajja village, Santokh Singh from Pandori Mushakatan, Jatinder Kumar from Cheema Khurd and Amarjit from Bhandal Himmat in Nurmahal.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Though we dispatch all passports to the officers of the respective districts, the passports of these youth, too, should have been delivered in Jalandhar. I will look into the matter.”Video of 2 Punjab men begging on Dubai streets goes viralCM Capt Amarinder Singh intervened after a Pak youth highlights their plightPhagwara: After a video of two youths from Punjab begging in Dubai streets went viral, CM Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and UAE Ambassador Dr Ahmed Al Banna, asking them to intervene in the matter. He has sought intervention of authorities so that both the men could return home. The two youths have been identified as Gurdeep from Qadian in Gurdaspur and Charanjit of Phagwara. The video was shot by a youth from Pakistan. His mother told the media that his son had gone to Dubai two years back, while his wife and children stayed back in Punjab. She said, “Charanjit sent money to us for the first six months but we had lost communication with him for the past 1.5 years. He used to call us from unknown numbers but never mentioned about his condition. I thank the Pakistani guy who highlighted his plight and made this video viral.” She said, “It is extremely painful for me to see my son begging in a foreign country. I could not recognise him at first glance. He seemed to be so weak. I never wanted him to go to Dubai. He took a loan himself and left. I do not even know the status of his loans. In this age as well, I have been working for MGNREGA to feed his family. I would have taken care of my son too. I just want him back at the earliest.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nine-dubai-returned-youths-struggle-to-get-passports-back-139640
11-09-2020||The Ghadar Party Martyrs Memorial||A cenotaph honouring the revolutionaries||About The galleryThe memorial has a very large exhibition hall (90 ft by 60 ft) with 212 portraits of Ghadar heroes displayed thematically. Portraits, busts, relics and memoirs of Indian patriots and revolutionaries, who played a prominent role in the freedom struggle, are displayed in this gallery also called ‘Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna Museum’. It has the portraits of legends, including Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna, Sham Singh Attariwala, Lala Lajpat Rai, Laxmi Bai, Mangal Pandey, Lala Har Dyal, Madan Lal Dhingra, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Udham Singh, Banta S Sanghwal, Diwan Mool Raj, Jawala Prashad and Begum Hazrat Mahal.US-based Ghadar HeadquartersThe Ghadar movement organised by Punjabi immigrant workers in California with its headquarters at 5 Wood Street, San Francisco. The movement was formally launched in 1913 with a weekly newspaper, Gadar. The genesis of the movement came from the fact that most Punjabis were facing harsh immigration laws, restrictive and discriminatory policies and social exclusion by the white community and they felt humiliated. So, Lala Har Dayal came to the fore to organise a rebellion in the form of Ghadar Party dedicated to the liberation of India from the imperial rule. At the old site in San Francisco, a new building stands now that preserves the legacy.Gallows of martyrs in LahoreThe site where Shadman Chowk stands today in Lahore was where the gallows of the martyrs stood (as in this old picture on display in the hall). Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev were executed at this road junction on March 23, 1931. Shadman Chowk is at the centre of Shadman Colony. The colony was built after the Pakistani authorities demolished the historic jail of Lahore in 1961, where many freedom fighters, including Kartar Singh Sarabha and many of his comrades of the Ghadar Party, were executed in 1915.Ghadar party flag flies highThe Gadhar party flag has three horizontal red, yellow and green rows with a pair of white swords crossed over it. The flag remains raised on its building. The flag is also hoisted over other memorial sites related to the Ghadar movement, including at Kartar Singh Sarabha’s house. The flag is hoisted amid a flag song sung during the Ghadari mela by the chief guest every year.The last GhadariteA book sale counter called ‘Baba Bhagat Singh Bilga Book House’ falls just at the entry of the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall. The counter is named after Baba Bhagat Singh Bilga, who was the last Ghadarite to pass away and a native of Bilga village in Jalandhar. Baba Bilga was 101 years old, when he passed away.Udham Singh’s copy of HeerA copy of the epic Heer written by Sufi poet Waris Shah, which was possessed by Shaheed Udham Singh and bears his signatures, on display at DBYH. The copy was in the possession of a UK-based NRI, Sohan Singh Cheema, a native of Cheema Khurd village in Jalandhar, till the 1980s. His father Babu Karam Singh Cheema reportedly met Udham Singh in 1937 in UK and handed him over the copy before killing General Dyer. Udham Singh, who used to fondly read the Heer, but was executed on July 31, 1940, in a prison in North London over murder charges. The family handed over the copy to the yaadgar committee. The copy is on display in the museum since October 2009.Busts of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru & Durga BhabhiAmong the busts of freedom fighters on display, is the one of woman revolutionary Durgavati Devi, popularly known as Durga Bhabhi. She helped Bhagat Singh and Rajguru escape via train after Saunder’s killing. She was the wife of Hindustan Socialist Republican Association (HSRA) member Bhagwati Charan Vohra. Other members of the association also referred to her as Bhabhi and she became popular as Durga Bhabhi in Indian revolutionary circles.Bust of Pt. Kishori LalThe bust of Pt Kishori Lal, a freedom fighter from Punjab who worked with the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association, has been placed at the centre of the museum. He was born in 1912 at Dharampur village of Dasuya tehsil, Hoshiarpur. At the age of 16, he joined the Naujawan Bharat Sabha and came in contact with Bhagat Singh, founder of the sabha. He was involved in the bomb-making unit and was arrested in 1929 along with Sukhdev. After the Lahore Conspiracy Case in 1929, he faced 18 years of jail sentence. He passed away in a road accident in Jalandhar in 1990.Jalandhar HQ founded in 1959Post Independence, as a majority of Ghadarites were Punjabis, they felt that the main memorial to the Ghadar heroes should be in Punjab. This site was chosen in Jalandhar and the construction of the memoir was started by buying a prime land in 1955. Its foundation stone was laid on November 17, 1959, by a Ghadar veteran Amar Singh Sandhwan after which the construction work began. A Ghadari Babeyan Da Mela showcasing freedom struggle in the form of plays, seminars and book sales is now held here in October end every year.Chest plundered by GhadaritesAs Ghadarites associated with Kartar Singh Sarabha were planning a revolt in Punjab, a meeting of the Ghadar party was held at Ladowal near Ludhiana. It was decided in the meeting to commit robberies in the houses of the rich and wealthy to meet the shortage of funds for an armed action. The chest on display was plundered during one such raid. Also, two Ghadarites — Waryam Singh and Bhai Ram Rakha — are known to have died in a bomb blast in the raid.Portrait of Bibi Gulab KaurA portrait of Bibi Gulab Kaur, a Ghadarite, hangs in the gallery of the DBYH. She was born in 1890 in Bakshiwala village of Sangrur. Gulab Kaur kept a vigil on party printing press in the guise of a journalist. Carrying a press pass in hand, she is known to have distributed arms to the Ghadar party members. Gulab Kaur remained engaged in distributing freedom literature, delivering inspiring speeches and making others join the Ghadar party. She went to the Philippines after her marriage with an intention to move to the US. She sailed back to India with 50 other Ghadarites and remained active in the villages of Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar to mobilise the masses. She was sentenced to two years’ jail in Lahore for ‘seditious acts’.Skeletons from Ajnala well-preservedHuman skeletons of 282 soldiers, who were executed by the British, excavated in April 2014 from an abandoned well known as ‘Kalian Wala Khu’ (black people’s well), Ajnala, have been kept in a glass box at the DBYH museum. The well was excavated by locals and the remains are of soldiers of the First War of Independence, who had rebelled against the East India Company in 1857. They were executed (most of them shot in the head) and buried in the well on August 1, 1857. The Hindu and Muslim soldiers rebelled against the British East India Company over fears that gun cartridges were greased with animal fat forbidden by their religions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-cenotaph-honouring-the-revolutionaries-139643
11-09-2020||	||Asha workers seek implementation of Minimum Wages Act||Jalandhar, September 10 Under district president Gurjit Kaur, Asha workers held a protest outside the Civil Surgeon’s office here on Thursday. Headed by district president Gurjit Kaur, many Asha workers and facilitators from across the district participated in the protest. President Gurjit Kaur, general secretary Amritpal Kaur, Jalandhar district president Asha Gupta of the Asha workers and facilitators union said in the times of Covid Asha workers were being paid between Rs 1,000 and  2,500 while facilitators were being paid Rs 500 to 1,500. They said while on the one hand the government forced them to work on meagre allowances, on the other they were the victims of frivolous propaganda where their image was being tarnished rather than their plight being highlighted. They said in many blocks incentives were not being paid to Asha workers for months. They demanded that the Minimum Wages Act be implemented and they paid their fair wages. They also condemned the silence of the Health Department and top officials on the entire issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asha-workers-seek-implementation-of-minimum-wages-act-139644
11-09-2020||---||Deputy Commissioner hands over Rs 1 lakh cheque to Kusum||Jalandhar, September 10 Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday handed over a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to 15-year-old Kusum who took on two motorcycle-borne snatchers despite sustaining severe wrist injuries following attacked by a snatcher on August 30 in Deen Dyal Upadhya Nagar.  Appreciating Kusum for her courage, the DC also unveiled a mascot in her name as brand ambassador under ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme to motivate other girls.  Kusum had reached DC office with her father Sadhu Ram and mother Raj Kumar to take the award.  The DC told the family that the administration had also recommended Kusum's name for national and state bravery award and concerned information had also been sent to the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister’s office.  He also assured fulsome support to Kusum for realising her dream of becoming a police officer and asked the family to contact his office anytime for any kind of help.  'Dadi Ate Poti di Jodi’ an online contest was also launched by Thori today, in which young girls under the age of 15 can participate. He said that the girls can contest for ‘Selfie with Dadi’ and a video on relations of ‘Dadi and Poti’ (30 seconds -60 seconds) and have to send the entries on WhatsApp number 98720-21457 till September 21.  He said the first three best entries would get a cash award of Rs 10,000, Rs 5,000 and Rs 2,100. Ten consolation prizes of Rs 1,100 would also be awarded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deputy-commissioner-hands-over-rs-1-lakh-cheque-to-kusum-139646
11-09-2020||Jalandhar||Lecture on French New Wave Cinema||Roadways staff oppose mergerJalandhar: Punjab Roadways employees under the banner of Sanjhi Action Committee on Thursday ended their three-day hunger strike. They were opposing the government’s plan to merge Punjab Roadways with the PRTC. Baljit Singh, member of the action committee, said, it was not acceptable to them. Moreover, after the merger most of the roadways workers would possibly lose their jobs. Harinder Singh Cheema, another member of the committee, said, besides merger they were also against the recruitment of workers under Central Government pay scales. He said the employees had been demanding pending instalments of DA, implementation of the Pay Commission report and regularisation of contractual employees. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lecture-on-french-new-wave-cinema-139647
11-09-2020||Ankur Ohri (40) is a cloth merchant based in Mukerian||‘Joint family nursed me back to life’||“It was the first week of August when I caught mild fever. Soon, my wife and my son also developed the same. We did not have any symptom of cough or sore throat. But since we all got fever, we decided to isolate ourselves and get tested for Covid.“We got ourselves tested from Patel Hospital in Jalandhar and took permission from the Hoshiarpur administration for home isolation. The doctors told us that we needed to have three separate rooms in the house with attached washrooms to go in for home isolation.“Thankfully, we had enough space in our home to be able to be isolated seperately. We live in a joint family and were taken care of well by everyone else. We did not have to worry about preparing food and making arrangements for the required items as everybody in my family pitched in to make us feel better. The meals were readied and kept outside our rooms in disposable plates.“Though only in Class VIII, even my son knew how to handle things. The only problem that we faced was from our neighbourhood. We heard a few things which actually made us feel very depressed. Even though we did not face any severe health issue, except fever, which remained around 99 F for few days, I and my family faced a lot of trouble because of the stigma attached with the disease. The government must gear up to ensure that those who contract the disease are not stigmatised.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/joint-family-nursed-me-back-to-life-139650
