12-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Meet Kuldip Kaur, the first woman chowkidar of Punjab||Jalandhar, September 11As the night deepens, she picks up the khunda (a long, wooden stick) and a torch and sets out to guard the alleys of her village every day. Kuldip Kaur (55) has been working as the village chowkidar at Bangiwal, a remote setting here since 2008. Shredding to pieces gender stereotypes, she is one of only two women among the 13,500 chowkidars appointed by the government to guard 13,000 villages of Punjab. The other is Razia Begum, who guards Bir, 15 km away from Bangiwal, who came into profession a year or two after her.Dressed up in a simple salwar-kameez, head covered with a dupatta, the moment she steps out, her first priority is to take a quick check of the several lanes in the village before coming around to the main street by 9.30 pm. “After that, I go and sit for at least 20 minutes at a chabutra (platform) built around an old banyan tree, where the men play cards during the day. I sit there and call out villagers’ names and shout ‘Jagde raho’ (keep awake),” Kuldip says, adding, “Then I move to the other corner of the village.”With a population of around 1,500 and around 500-600 houses at stake spread over three or four sq km, long breaks are off the table as she has to take a round of entire lanes. “Earlier, I used to work for seven to eight hours ie till 3:30-4:00am, but since the last two or three years, I have been working for four to five hours only and return home between 12:30-1am,” she shares.The reason for this is that she has been diagnosed with a cataract recently, which has been making it difficult for her night duty. Though she comes home early, one of her two sons take the mantle from her. “At times people even make fun of me when I say Jagde raho as I pass by their homes, but all these things don’t affect me anymore as I have become used to it,” she says.Walking down memory laneTalking about her journey as a single mother to eight children and how it feels to be a woman chowkidar, Kuldip says she was offered the job as relief after her husband Avtar Singh, who was the village night guard before her, suffered a heart attack and died in 2008.She says there was no other option back then and had to take up the job as three of her daughters and two sons were studying. She was in a dire need of money to stitch her ends.“This job over the time has given me an identity, and is my only source of income beside widow pension which is just Rs700 per month”, she says, adding at times she is also responsible to summon people for this official gathering and on some days, she is even asked to guard the gurudwara as well.However, the earnings from the job are not enough she feels. “I earlier used to get Rs800 and now I earn Rs1,250, which is very less to manage a family of six.” Besides, she hasn’t been receiving pay on time and it is after three or four months, the government deposits her pay in the account.‘Superwoman’ for kidsWhen asked about the fears of guarding the village all alone at night, Kuldip laughs and says she has been into this job for 12 years and even the dogs recognise her voice and wag their tails as she passes by. “I wasn’t scared of this job when I first accepted it. But yes, my kids were a little scared and even used to visit me late at night to check if I am okay,” she says, adding that over the years the fear of her kids regarding her safety has vanished. “They now call me a superwoman!” she quips.Breaking gender stereotypesEven as she is suffering from a cataract and has no money for surgery, she is all dedicated towards her job and says can’t compromise with the duty as it is with this chowkidari income that the expenses of her family are taken care of. Meanwhile, amid the pandemic, she has had two jobs. Along with guarding, she also sensitised people to the safety guidelines. “During Covid, keeping vigilance in and around the village became quite stringent and I was asked to ensure that no one steps out during odd hours. So, instead of shouting my pet phrase ‘jagde raho’, I would call out ‘ghar vich hi raho’, she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-kuldip-kaur-the-first-woman-chowkidar-of-punjab-139936
12-09-2020||---||Biggest single-day spike: 364 Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 11The district reported six deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 237 on Friday. Besides, a spike of 364 fresh cases, the highest number so far on a single day, was also reported in the district.While a total of 8,749 cases were reported on Thursday, the number crossed the 9,000 mark with the biggest spike so far. Now the total number of cases stands at 9,096.Those who died due to Covid-19 have been identified as follows: a 75-year-old man from Pholariwal who died at a private hospital; a 65-year-old man from Shiv Nagar who died at the Civil Hospital; a 60-year-old woman from New Jawahar Nagar who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 50-year-old man from Jalandhar Cantt who died at a private hospital in Ludhiana; a 60-year-old man from Shahkot who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 62-year-old man from Mohalla Karar Khan who died at the Civil Hospital. Meanwhile, 65 persons tested positive in Kapurthala on Friday. Besides, a 28-year-old young man, a resident of Hamira, lost his life to the virus. He died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. The details regarding the history of co-morbidity of the patient is not yet available with the Health Department.PIMS to start antigen, RT-PCR testsThe Punjab Institution of Medical Sciences (PIMS) has announced to start antigen and RT-PCR tests, the charges of which will be as per the state guidelines. Amit Singh, Resident Director, said, “Covid-19 patients are being treated by expert doctors who first take the medical history of the patients on various parameters like diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney-related problems. In that case, special attention is given to the patient. After admission, oxygen levels of the patient are checked along with chest X-ray and blood investigation as advised by the treating doctor so that in case he needs oxygen/ ventilator, these can be readily available.” Dr Kulbir Kaur, Director Principal, said, “Currently, PIMS is having 30 beds for level 2 patients and six beds for level 3. In current pandemic times, people are not visiting hospitals and treating themselves at home. This is a good thing but in case any person is facing major problems or symptoms of Covid, he/she must visit a hospital and get him/herself checked. We must follow the government guidelines and practise social distancing. We should wear mask and also wash hands frequently. Children, elderly people and pregnant women should not step out of home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/biggest-single-day-spike-364-covid-19-cases-in-jalandhar-district-139937
12-09-2020||---||42 firms select 623 youth in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 11As many as 623 unemployed youth on Friday got job placements during a job fair organised at the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise Office here.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said that 878 unemployed youth took part in the job fair. A total of 42 companies including Shri Ram Insurance Company, Syndicate Gym Company, LIC Insurance, A1 International, Pukhraj, Krishna Sports, Sant Rubber, Civil Supply, CSC, Advance Scanning Centre and others participated in the job fair physically and virtually mode during which 623 unemployed youth got placements.The Deputy Commissioner said it was a win-win situation for both the employees and employers. He added all Covid protocols including social distancing and masking were strictly followed during the job fair. He further said the selection of the youth for jobs would be made purely on merit through a fair and transparent system.He informed that another job fair would be organised in the office of BDPO Nakodar. He called upon the youth to register them on www.pgrkam.com for more jobs. He said that the youth can also contact on 90569-20100 for further information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/42-firms-select-623-youth-in-jalandhar-139938
12-09-2020||Our Correspondent||339 get placement letters in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 11As many as 339 youth were placed in different companies and industries through employment fairs organised this week under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar mission in Mukerian and Hoshiarpur.An employment fair was organised at the District Employment Bureau, Hoshiarpur, on Friday in a series of sixth state-level employment fairs. In the fair, Sonalika, GNA, HDFC Bank, ICIC Bank, Pukhraj, Diamond Herbal and different plywood companies participated. As many as 325 applicants appeared in the interview for 240 posts, of which 134 were selected on the spot.The first fair in this week was held at Modern Group of Colleges, Mukerian. For 70 posts of ITI, polytechnic and technical degree holders, Modern Automotive, Mandi Gobindgarh, Government Polytechnic College, Talwara , Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College, Fatehgarh Sahib, Rayat Bahra College, Hoshiarpur, and Modern Group of Colleges, Mukerian. The second employment fair was organised in the office of District Employment Bureau on Wednesday. As many as 12 local companies came for placements. and about 226 candidates participated in the interview.The DC informed that after interview, 141 boys and girls were selected on the spot by the different companies. Meanwhile, District Employment Officer Karam Chand said in the forthcoming September 24 to 30 job fairs, 3,831 posts would be filled by various institutions. The job seekers can register themselves on www.pgrkam.com before September 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/339-get-placement-letters-in-hoshiarpur-139939
12-09-2020||---||Cook’s daughters take YouTube route to showcase their creativity||Jalandhar, September 11Quite creative despite adversities, daughters of a cook-cum-driver residing near the Cool Road here have taken to YouTube to show their talent.Students of Guru Amar Dass Public School, Class X student Sanjana Rawat and Class IX student Vandana Rawat have created a channel ‘DIYArtist’ wherein they are regularly putting up videos of scrapbook ideas, gift ideas, card making, folder making, stone painting, study table organiser, room décor, pom-pom making, best -out-of-waste, and gift bag ideas.“While one of us makes a craft item, the other one shoots the video and edits it. Since only our dad has a smartphone, we wait for him to come back in the evening to be able to shoot the video. We do take ideas from other similar videos on YouTube and Pinterest. But we always intend to make something for which craft material is easily available, involves simple steps and looks aesthetic,” said the girls, adding that they had also started using Instagram for their videos ‘DIYartist5’.Anu Saggi, a businesswoman who tutors the girls, too has a word of praise for them, “Despite their circumstances, both of them are doing exceptionally well in their studies as well as creative pursuits.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cooks-daughters-take-youtube-route-to-showcase-their-creativity-139940
12-09-2020||Jalandhar||Workshop-cum-internship on counselling skills||The Freudian Psychological Society of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, organised one-week national workshop-cum-internship on counselling skills for the students of B.Voc mental health counselling. The workshop was held under the guidance of Principal Ajay Sareen and head of psychology department Dr Ashmeen Kaur.The resource person for the workshop was Sonali Aggarwal from Bengaluru. She is a counselling psychologist and certified practitioner in behaviour, learning disability, play therapy and child psychology and a member of the National Association of Play Therapy. The workshop-cum-internship programme was divided into two parts—micro and macro skills—which aimed at strengthening communication skills at personal as well as professional level and enabling students to introspect their abilities and enhance them through self-development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-cum-internship-on-counselling-skills-139941
12-09-2020||---||Funds sought to clean Kala Sanghian drain in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 11Jagdish Samrai, a member of health and sanitation adhoc the committee, on Wednesday gave a memorandum to the MC Commissioner to release the remaining amount so that the Kala Sanghian drain, better known as ‘ganda nullah’, could be cleaned and brought under the aegis of Smart City project for further embellishments.The memorandum reads that an estimate of Rs23, 35,000 were allotted for cleansing, but until now only Rs10, 00,000 have been released.Samrai also said that for the beautification of the drain, an amount of Rs40, 00,000 must be cleared under Smart City project by the MC. “I have raised the issue several times in the general house meeting, but I really want the MC to consider this an important one,” Samrai added. It lies just 50 metres away from Maqsuda flyover and passes through Baba Balak Nath colony and Bhagat Singh Colony. With foul smell emanating from the drain filled with filth and sludge, it is an eyesore.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/funds-sought-to-clean-kala-sanghian-drain-in-jalandhar-139942
12-09-2020||Jalandhar||Labour unions protest, demand loan waiver in Jalandhar||Activists of five labour unions organised a protest here on Friday. Marching from the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall to the DC office, the protesters demanded easing of work conditions, loan waiver, ration and jobs during the pandemic.They blocked a road near the BMC chowk when they were stopped by the police from moving towards the DC office. The union activists raised slogans against the government but were pacified by SDM Jalandhar II Rahul Sidhu, who reached the spot and accepted a demand letter for the CM. He also assured the protesters of their meeting with the DC.The leaders said the lockdown had severely affected labourers livelihood. The little earnings they had have been lost in the pandemic. They said while the restrictions on the meeting of more than five persons and the imposition of Section 144 had stopped them from raising their voice. They said during the pandemic period microfinance companies had raised their finance rates to unreasonable level for women who had sought loans.The associations demanded waiver for microfinance loans, reduction in electricity charges, interest-free loans for poor peoples, besides lifting of restrictions on social gatherings. The unions warned the administration of bigger actions if their demands were not accepted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labour-unions-protest-demand-loan-waiver-in-jalandhar-140101
12-09-2020||Jalandhar||Inquiry indicts ex-sarpanch for embezzlement||The name of a former sarpanch of a village in Bhogpur block has appeared in the inquiry report for allegedly misappropriating Rs 16,36,000 of the Rural Development and Panchayat Department. The scam was unearthed in the report conducted by the department.As per information, the inquiry report has been submitted to the Director, Rural Development and Panchayat Department, for action against the former sarpanch in this regard.The former sarpanch, who was active from 2013 to 2018, has been accused of misappropriating funds and not spending proper amount on the works of the village.As per the inquiry report, from 2013 to 2018, a grant of Rs 47,19,937 lakh was received by the panchayat from the department, but the funds were not spent properly on development works. The inquiry reports also mentions the involvement of a panchayat secretary for not maintaining the record in a proper manner.The District Development Panchayat Officer has demanded the registration of an FIR against the former sarpanch. Besides, he has also sought departmental action against the panchayat secretary. “So far, no FIR has been filed in the case. The former sarpanch was involved in the misappropriation of funds and the panchayat secretary did not maintain the record,” said District Development Panchayat Officer (DDPO) Iqbal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inquiry-indicts-ex-sarpanch-for-embezzlement-140103
12-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||4 deaths, 145 new Covid-19 cases reported in Hoshiarpur||The district reported the death of four persons taking the toll to 76 on Friday. Besides, 145 fresh cases were reported, taking the tally to 2,621. The reports of 1,804 samples were received, out of which 145 were found positive.So far, the total number of Covid-19 samples taken in the district has reached 74,033 out of which 1,785 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken. According to the reports received from the lab, of them, 69,593 have come out negative while 2,086 reports are awaited while 108 samples have been found invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 837 while 1,708 patients have recovered.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said out of 145 cases, 44 were related to Hoshiarpur city, 30 were from urban areas of Garhshankar, Mukerian and Dasuya while 71 patients are from other different rural health centres.The Civil Surgeon said four patients died in the district. The victims have been identified as 70-year-old man from Allahabad village, who died at Amritsar Medical College; an 85-year-old woman from Dugri village, who died at the Civil Hospital, Dasuya; a 68-year-old resident of Kotli Khas village in Mukerian subdivision, who died at Medical College, Amritsar; and a 50-year-old woman, a resident of Bullowal, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-deaths-145-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-hoshiarpur-140106
12-09-2020||---||Jalandhar district administration to give Rs 10-crore subsidy for crop residue management||Jalandhar, September 11To eliminate the menace of stubble burning by providing hi-tech machinery to farmers on subsidy, the district administration will give subsidy of more than Rs 10 crore to the farmers to get hi-tech machines for in-situ management of crop residue scheme this year.With the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department extensively sensitised the farmers to shun stubble burning and manage the stubble with the machines, the department this year received 888 applications from farmers and 909 applications were submitted by farmers’ groups. Last year 287 applications were submitted individually and 232 were submitted by farmers’ groups, he said.Divulging details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a draw was organised by the department in which 444 applications of individual farmers and 460 applications of farm groups/cooperative societies were selected.He said the state government had started this scheme where the subsidy was being given to farmers on farm machinery used for managing paddy straw.Under the scheme, individual farmers would get 50 per cent subsidy for purchase of happy seeders, paddy straw chopper, multure, hydraulic reversible MB plant, zero till drill, super SMS rotary slasher/shrub cutter.There is a provision of 80 per cent subsidy for registered farmers groups or co-operative societies for opening custom hiring centres so that machinery can be used on rent by the farmers.The Deputy Commissioner said the objective behind providing these types of equipment was to decompose the stubble in the field rather than burning as it would save the environment and improve the soil health.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said due to the burning of paddy straw several major nutrients and other micro-nutrients of soil were destroyed adding that the burning of paddy straw produces several poisonous gases which harm human health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-to-give-rs-10-crore-subsidy-for-crop-residue-management-140107
12-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Hurdler takes down all obstacles to have glimpse of a bright future ahead||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11She is the face of inspiration for other girls, be it her classmates or neighbourers.Neha, a class XII student at Government Sr Sec School (Girls), Adarsh Nagar, is a 400m hurdle athlete. Those who have seen her in action know what she is capable of. “When she started, Neha didn’t even have proper shoes and would run bare feet!” shares Sharandeep Kaur, her physical education teacher from school.Biresh Singh, Neha’s fatherThere are problems, but who doesn’t have them? So, I really don’t sit and think about it. Neha’s teachers and coach help her a lot. I have set her free. No matter what I go through, I always ask her to play and work hard and become something in life.She comes from a humble background. Her father is a factory worker and mother’s a house help. But Neha’s potential as an athlete was the real deal from the very beginning. And Sharandeep was well aware. In fact, her belief in the girl was so strong that she took the matter to the school management and got her shoes.“I decided that we must do something for the girl so that she doesn’t have to face any obstacle,” the teacher said. She would take Neha along with other girls to practise at Sports College.All the blood, sweat and tears came to fruition when she won medals at state-level tournaments. She stood fourth in National School Games. Apart from this, she won a bronze at the Indian Grandprix Athletic Meet, held in Panchkula last year.“I noticed that Neha was extremely hard working. Whatever help we can provide, we do. The only aim is to see her achieving in life,” said Sunil Kamboj, her coach at Sports College, adding that despite problems in her family, she has achieved so much already.Meanwhile, Biresh Singh, the girl’s father, is same as her. He looks beyond the hurdles of life and says, “There are problems, but who doesn’t have them? So, I really don’t sit and think about it. Neha’s teachers and coach help her a lot. I have set her free. No matter what I go through, I always ask her to play and work hard and become something in life,” he said.Humble beginnings...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hurdler-takes-down-all-obstacles-to-have-glimpse-of-a-bright-future-ahead-140108
12-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Social activist and retired Civil Surgeon Dr Ajay Bagga donates blood for the 92nd time in Hoshiarpur||DHO inspects food qualityHoshiarpur: District Health Officer Dr Surinder Singh examined food at the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, to test the quality and hygiene of food being provided to the Covid-19 patients in the Covid care centers. The food was inspected according to the guidelines of the Food Safety and Standards Act. Dr Singh expressed satisfaction over the quality and quantity of food. Dr Jaswinder Singh, who is in-charge of the Covid care centre, said, breakfast, lunch and dinner were provided as per the fixed menu for Covid patients as per the government instructions. The food is hygienically packed and the patients were provided with multi-vitamin juice, a kettle for warm water and a steamer for steam. In Lunch, a 200 ml juice is also served along with four chapatis, lentils, vegetables, raita and salad. Oatmeal and curd-parantha are also served in the breakfast. He appealed to the people not to trust the rumours and urged people with suspected flu-like symptoms to get their Covid tests done at the earliest. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-activist-and-retired-civil-surgeon-dr-ajay-bagga-donates-blood-for-the-92nd-time-in-hoshiarpur-140109
12-09-2020||A seminar and a cycle rally were held against social evils at Dhapai village in Kapurthala. A campaign against social evils in Kapurthala is being run for the past some time. In this series||Cycle rally against drugs and social evils in Kapurthala||Walk-in testing corners for Covid-19Walk-in testing corners have been set up at the district hospital and sub-divisional hospitals in District Kapurthala this week. Any person who wants to get tested can be sampled at these testing centres. Informing about this, Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa said these centres remain open 24 hours and reports are also given within half an hour. She further added that the Health Department was taking the samples in the field and outreach areas of persons with co-morbid conditions. She also appealed to the IMA members to get the suspected patients tested for Covid.If religious centres are open, why not science cityA faculty member of the Pushpa Gujral Science City on Saturday caught Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Science & Technology, Government of India, off-guard when during a Teacher's Day webinar when she asked him why science institutes were lying closed while religious places had opened during the pandemic. The secretary retorted, "We should never frame a question negatively. It is true that science centres play an important role. They could play an even more important role during Covid-19. But I do not look after this issue. You should convey this idea to whosoever controls the science cities, centres and museums." The secretary said the experimental education in schools had disappeared and the museums and science centres like the science city had a big role to play in filling the gaps left by it.Now, FIR against rumour-mongersKapurthala Deputy Commssioner Deepti Uppal, recently said FIRs shall be lodged against those spreading fake news regarding Covid. While the DC has been holding weekly Facebook lives during the Covid period, during one such Facebook live, she said many people were spreading false stories regarding organ trading among other falsehoods during Covid. She said the district police was strictly monitoring all such elements and action would be taken if anyone spreads misguided rumours regarding Covid.(Contributed by Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cycle-rally-against-drugs-and-social-evils-in-kapurthala-140115
