13-09-2020||Jalandhar||Over 5,000 aspirants to sit for NEET today||Despite much hue and cry by the non-BJP-ruled states, the National Testing Agency (NTA), which is tasked with conducting various entrance examinations, would finally conduct the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday across the country. Approximately 5,000 students from the city are expected to appear for the exam at five centres and over 500 teachers (two teachers per classroom) have been assigned duties to ensure its smooth conduct.No curfewAs per information, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the NTA has issued certain guidelines and students, accordingly, have been informed to report at their respective examination centres by 11 am, though the exam will begin at 2 pm and will conclude at 5pm.“Maintaining proper social distancing and after checking the temperature of students, teachers will be coordinating with students regarding their respective sitting arrangement. Besides, the number of students in each room has been cut down to 12, to ensure at least a six feet gap between two students,” sources said.Also, students will be signing a self-declaration form mentioning their health updates. Besides, a medical room has been created at each centre for any emergency and regular sanitisation is being done and teachers, too, will be screened before the exam.A special security agency has been hired by the NTA which will be present at the centres to conduct checking of students as per Covid-19 guidelines. In case anyone has a temperature or is asymptomatic, a separate isolation room will be assigned to the student. Besides, students are allowed to bring transparent water bottles, their own sanitisers. They can wear their own masks but face covers will be provided to students and the staff at the centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-5-000-aspirants-to-sit-for-neet-today-140489
13-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Another spike: Jalandhar district reports 313 Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 9,409||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12A day after Jalandhar registered a record single-day spike of 365 cases, the number of Covid cases rose to 9,409 on Saturday with 313 more people testing positive for the disease in the district.It’s the second consecutive day that the district has reported over 300 cases in a day. From 9,096 cases, the district crossed the 9,400 mark in a single day. In the past two days, (365 cases on Friday and 313 on Saturday) the district numbers have had an addition of 678 cases. While 6,462 people have been discharged in the district so far, the deceased tally increased to 248 with nine more deaths on Saturday.Health teams survey colonyThree days after a member of a family died of a heart attack at a Jalandhar-based colony, health teams on Saturday sampled 35 people (rapid tests) in the area of whom one person came out positive. Notably, the deceased who was more than 50-year-old had complained of breathlessness and also had fever a week ago, which resulted in a sampling drive being held at the colony.Although as per the family, since the man was tested negative for Covid, none got the Covid test done on Saturday. His demise and last rites were heavily attended and over 300 people went to visit the family. While his family has 25 members, none got a Covid test done when the health teams visited.The victim’s brother told The Tribune: “My brother was taken to the hospital after he complained of breathlessness. He was treated by doctors and died around 9 pm. His test was conducted, but it came out negative. Our family is big, but we are all fine. So, we did not get our test conducted.”The one person in the area who tested positive is a labourer who lives near the colony.Four die, 65 test positive in Kapurthala As many as 54 people tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala on Saturday and four people died of Corona.The deceased include a 77-year-old resident of Sachra Mohalla, Phagwara, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 58-year-old man from Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 60-year-old woman of Kapurthala, who was living in Jalandhar for the past few months, died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 52-year-old resident of Dudwindi village at Sultanpur Lodhi who died at DMC Ludhiana.6 die, 125 cases in HoshiarpurThe number of positive patients increased to 2,746 in the district with 125 people testing positive for Covid on Saturday. With the death of six patients, the death toll also rose to 82.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken so far has reached 75,544 with 1,511 new samples taken on Saturday with suspected flu-like symptoms. According to reports received from the lab, 71,335 samples were negative, while 1,786 reports were awaited and 108 samples are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 896 and 1,766 patients have recovered so far. Dr Singh said of the six Covid patients who died on Saturday, a 55-year-old woman of Ahirana Khurd died while on the way to a Jalandhar hospital. Apart from this, four patients died in private hospitals in Jalandhar, while a 52-year-old man died in Civil Hospital Dasuya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/another-spike-jalandhar-district-reports-313-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-9-409-140490
13-09-2020||Avneet Kaur/Ajay Joshi||JEE (Main) 2020: Jalandhar’s Ujjwal tops Punjab with 99.99 percentile||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12Ujjwal Mehta, a student of Apollo Public School in Patiala and the resident of Jalandhar, has topped the state and district in the JEE (Main), the results of which were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late Friday evening.Though he didn’t appear for the exam held in September first week, his last score (exam held in January) helped him fetch the first spot.TopperspeakI avoided being on social media throughout my preparation. I also avoided using smartphones and studied for a minimum of six hours a day. I focused on my mistakes and made sure that I never repeated the same mistakes again. Regular mock tests helped me in scoring well. While others usually solve one mock test a day, I would solve two. I enjoy solving mock test papers which prepared me for every kind of question in the exam. — Ujjwal MehtaUjjwal scored 99.995 percentile and All-India Rank (AIR) 27, followed by Avval Amil of Apeejay School, who became the district second topper by securing 99.998 percentile and AIR 43. The third and fourth spot in the district was achieved by Tanish Gupta of Woodland Overseas School securing 99.98 percentile (AIR 247) and Sarthak Arora of Innocent Hearts School, securing 99.95 percentile (666 AIR), respectively.Talking to The Tribune, Ujjwal, said he was aspiring to join IIT Bombay after clearing the JEE Advance. Having scored good marks in all three subjects (maths 100, physics 99.99 and chemistry 99.99) in JEE exam held in January 2020, he said he didn’t appear for the exam that was held recently.“I was preparing for JEE (Mains) from a private coaching institute in Patiala since Class IX and have been staying in a hostel for the past three years for constant preparations,” he said.Not an internet-savvy person, Ujjwal said he avoided being on the social media throughout his preparation. He also avoided smartphones and studied for a minimum of six hours a day. He said he focused on his mistakes and made sure that he never repeated the same mistake ever again.A resident of Kartar Nagar here, Ujjwal said, though the Covid outbreak put a break on his studies for a few days after he got stuck in Jalandhar due to the lockdown, he continued with his preparations by mostly solving mock tests. He said the lockdown made him stay here for over 100 days, which was the longest period he stayed at his home after he started his engineering preparations.“I only prefer studying at my own space and surrounded by family sometimes is a big distraction. So, I mainly focused on solving practical errors. Thereafter, when I reached my hostel, I took help of online coaching to stay connected with my teachers,” Ujjwal, son of Naveen Kumar Mehta, a financial manager in a private company, said.Avval Amil, the second topper, said he was now preparing hard for the JEE Advance and aims to take admission to one of the top IITs in India. “My score of the January exam wasn’t that good, so I appeared for the exam again this time, as the lockdown gave me enough time to improve my rank. I kept a very easy schedule and after going through the lessons, I made it a point to revise it thoroughly the very same day,” he said.The district third rank topper, Tanish Gupta, said he aspired to become a computer science engineer in future and that he was at present working hard to get a good AIR in JEE Advance, too, so that he gets admission to a top IIT. He credited his success to his mentors and parents.Similarly, Sarthak also focused on self-revision and thorough understanding of the entire syllabus for getting good marks. He said he took coaching to get a good hold on his subjects. “To get through the exam, one needs to maintain consistency throughout the preparations. Study hours can vary, but studying daily is important,” he said.Meanwhile, over 100 students from different schools in the city qualified for the JEE Advance, recording their positions in the all-India rankings. The JEE Advance exam is scheduled to be held on September 27. The Advance exam was earlier called the Indian Institutes of Technology-Joint Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jee-main-2020-jalandhars-ujjwal-tops-punjab-with-99-99-percentile-140491
13-09-2020||---||YAD demands action against Cong’s Dharamsot, Dhaliwal||Phagwara, September 12Members of the Youth Akali Dal staged a protest against Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot and Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal over the SC scholarship scam here on Wednesday and demanded action by the government against the two.The protesters, led by YAD Doaba zone president Sukhdeep Singh Sukar, submitted a memorandum in the name of Governor through the SSP and tehsildar. They alleged that the Congress leaders had ruined the future of many Dalit students by usurping the scholarship funds meant for the education of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yad-demands-action-against-congs-dharamsot-dhaliwal-140492
13-09-2020||Our Correspondent||205 get appointment letters in job fair||Hoshiarpur, September 12Under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar mission of the state government, the district administration provided appointment letters to 205 candidates during the two-day job fairs held at Mukerian and Hoshiarpur.Karam Chand, District Employment OfficerIn the employment fairs from September 24 to 30, as many as 3,831 posts would be filled by various institutions. The job seekers can register themselves on www.pgrkam.com before September 14.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said the first fair was held at Modern Group of Colleges, Mukerian. For 70 posts of ITI, polytechnic and technical degree holders, Modern Automotive, Mandi Gobindgarh, Government Polytechnic College Talwara , Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College, Fatehgarh Sahib, Rayat Bahra College, Hoshiarpur, and Modern Group of Colleges, Mukerian. After interview appointment letters to 64 candidates were handed over on Tuesday.The second employment fair was organised in the office of district employment bureau on Wednesday. As many as 12 local companies including Vardhman, Hoshiarpur Automobile, Pratika Engineering, Sardar Agro, etc. participated in this job fair and about 226 candidates participated in the interview.The Deputy Commissioner informed that after interview, 141 boys and girls were selected on the spot by the different companies. The DC said in this job fair class VIII to XII pass, ITI and graduates were called for interview. District Employment Officer Karam Chand and Modern Group chairman Surjit Singh, HRD officers Karan Sharma and Satwinder Singh, placement officer of the college, Lovepreet Singh, placement officer of Government Polytechnic College, Talwara, Sukirat Pal Syal were instrumental in making this two-day job fair a success.Meanwhile, District Employment Officer Karam Chand said in the employment from September 24 to 30, as many as 3,831 posts would be filled by various institutions. The job seekers can register themselves on www.pgrkam.com before September 14. Further information can be obtained through the number 62801-97708.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/205-get-appointment-letters-in-job-fair-140493
13-09-2020||---||Around 2.5L families to get smart ration cards in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 12In a step towards ensuring effective and transparent distribution of food grains and giving freedom to eligible beneficiaries to get ration from any depot holder in the state, Member of Parliament (MP) Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Saturday started the state government’s ambitious pro-poor digital initiative, Smart Ration Card Scheme, by handing over smart cards to beneficiaries at an event organised at the District Administrative Complex.Accompanied by MLAs Pargat Singh and Rajinder Beri, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, the MP initiated the scheme by giving smart cards to ten beneficiaries.The scheme was simultaneously launched by MLAs Sushil Kumar Rinku, Avtar Singh Junior Bawa Henry, Surinder Singh and Hardev Singh Ladi Sherowalia in their respective constituencies of Jalandhar West, Jalandhar North, Kartarpur and Shahkot, respectively. The MP said the scheme would set a new milestone in the public distribution system in the state.“People are now free to obtain food grains from any government fair price shop (ration depot) of their choice without worrying about transferring their ration cards to the concerned depot,” the MP said.He said the new system would weed out fraud or pilferage in the system as the entire process has been computerised. He said a total of 2, 48,205 families in the district would get smart chip-embedded ration cards containing details of the beneficiary.He said under the scheme, the beneficiaries get food grains twice a year and a single member of each family would get 30 kg of wheat (5 kg every month).Chaudhary said the smart ration card holders need not carry identification proofs such as Aadhaar to avail themselves of the share of food grains from any of 917 ration depots in the district.The smart ration card scheme was also begun in Adampur, Nakodar and Phillaur by former minister and Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training Mohinder Singh Kay Pee, Senior Congress leaders Jagbir Singh Brar and Vikramjeet Singh Chaudhary, respectively. On the occasion, ADC (G) Jasbir Singh, DFSC Narinder Singh, DFSO Ashok Kumar, Congress leader Sukhwinder Singh Lalli, Youth Congress leaders Angad Dutta and Honey Joshi were also present.1,97,771 smart cards to be distribted in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora personally handed over smart ration cards to 10 beneficiaries of Hoshiarpur district during a district-level function held at the District Administrative Complex on Saturday.The Hoshiarpur MLA said it was a revolutionary step taken by the state government, which would go a long way in providing grains to eligible beneficiaries digitally anywhere in the state from any depot. The chip-enabled cards were linked to the EPOS machine along with the details of beneficiaries and their families and these cards would be operational at all authorised EPOS machines.In Hoshiarpur, as many as 1,97,771 smart cards covering 7,49,298 beneficiaries would be distributed among beneficiaries. More than 35,000 cards have been received by the administration and the remaining would also be handed over shortly.The minister also mentioned that as many as 1.41 crore members of 37 lakh families would be benefitted with this endeavour. He said now there was no need to carry any other document to the depot for getting wheat if the beneficiary had a smart ration card.Meanwhile, Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar said not only smart ration cards, but a health insurance cover of Rs5 lakh was also being provided to the beneficiaries under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. With the announcement by the CM to include nine lakh additional smart ration cards to the existing number in the state, the Hoshiarpur district would get additional 14,000 such cards, which provides a chance to those beneficiaries, who could not make their cards earlier, Dr Raj Kumar said. Sham Chaurasi MLA Pawan Kumar Adia and Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/around-2-5l-families-to-get-smart-ration-cards-in-jalandhar-district-140494
13-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Week-long virtual PTM of Punjab govt school students to begin tomorrow||Jalandhar, September 12With an aim to give a fillip to the state government’s ‘Sikhiya Sudhar Muhim’, the Education Department on Saturday announced a week-long virtual parent-teacher meeting (PTM) from September 14 to 19.Over a lakh government schoolteachers would interact with parents of about 27 lakh students of classes from pre-primary to Class XII studying in over 19,000 government schools in the state. Besides interacting with parents to apprise parents of the performance of their wards, the teachers will also take feedback on online education and lectures being streamed on TV/radio, social media platforms such as YouTube and WhatsApp and other applications and the use of Punjab Educare app.Meanwhile, District Education Officers (Secondary and Primary), Zila Sikhiya Sudhar teams, school heads, District Mentors (DMs) of various subjects, Parho Punjab district coordinators and Block Primary Education Officers have started holding online meetings to educate schoolteachers, parents, students and community about the virtual PTM. Posters and videos are also being prepared and shared by media coordinators in WhatsApp groups and on Facebook to encourage parents’ participation.“Officials and teachers have really been doing a commendable job during the pandemic and putting in all-out efforts. They have not only accepted the challenges posed by digital education but have also adapted themselves to the latest digital applications to make online education successful,” said Education Secretary Krishan Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/week-long-virtual-ptm-of-punjab-govt-school-students-to-begin-tomorrow-140495
13-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Illegal colony under civic body scanner||After failure to check construction work on an illegal colony for months, the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation (MC) is set to take action against the colony developer under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995.On June 16, the MC assistant town planner (ATP) wrote to Avtar Singh, the owner of Guru Nanak Colony, Adamwal Road, Bahadurpur, that no colony would be regularised on or after March 19, 2018. According to the letter, Avtar had applied for regularisation on October 18, 2018. Despite ATP’s warnings, the levelling work continues on site. The revenue department has also done land registrations in the illegal colony, Tehsildar Harminder Singh admitted.MC Commissioner Balbir Raj Singh said, “We have written to the sub-registrar (to stop the registration of the land) and to the police to take legal action against the owners.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-colony-under-civic-body-scanner-140496
13-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Former comedian having fun through poems, sketching these days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12Balwinder Singh Vicky, better known as ‘Chacha Raunki Ram’, a Doordarshan Punjabi comedy character, is currently keeping his art alive by writing poetries and sketches.His profession basically was that of spreading love and laughter in the early ’90s. Already a known face, working for seven years as announcer in Akashwani, he joined the channel in 1988 as programme executive; his comedy sketch made him an overnight star.Balwinder Singh Vicky, ComedianThough I performed several characters in professional career, ‘Chacha Raunki Ram’, a rustic character, evoked humour and is something I remember even now. Owing to its popularity, people thought the character was real and used to send their problems related to civic issues to my house so that I could highlight them.People who are aware of the show are sure to recall his satirical display in which he would raise several social issues and connect with the locals. Even today, many from the industry and viewers fondly address him as his famed role. He says, “Though I performed several characters in professional career, ‘Chacha Raunki Ram’, a rustic character evoked humour and is something I remember even now.” He had written over 6,000 scripts before finalising the character and more work was put in to make the character realistic. “Owing to its popularity, people thought the character was real and used to send their problems related to civic issues to my house so that I could highlight them,” he adds.After voluntarily retiring from Doordarshan in 2006, he continued getting fame through Punjabi cinema. In his second innings, he acted in films like Haani (2013), Young Malang (2013), Ishq Garrari (2013) etc. He remained the most versatile artist of Punjab for years and his comedy plays, skits, features have been a huge hit. To add more sparkle, he has mentored noted comedy king Kapil Sharma during his college days among other artists.His comedy sketches and plays have kept audience entertained for almost four decades, but only a handful know that he was a singer and a cricket player as well and was the captain of his college cricket team. Under his captaincy, the team also lifted the district championship trophy during 1970s.Recalling his college days, he shares, “I started acting when I was 22 and mostly played the characters of old men. However, the turning point happened when I was mimicking my college principal, who after catching me red-handed making fun of his dialect, declared me as his tape recorder!”Instead of scolding him, the principal supported and asked to mimic him in front of the whole college in a play called ‘Tai Da Sudhaar’. “Since then there has been no looking back and I continued my stage journey with several plays and skits. With the motivation of my teachers Dr DB Rai and Gulshan, I was adjudged as the best actor for three years and consequently lifted national and state-level trophies,” the 60-year-old tells.After his graduation he would work in oil mills, rubber industries and as reception officer in Punjab Tourism Development Corporation. In 1979, when Akashwani was launched here, he auditioned and was selected. “I also remained a commentator for several cricket matches, including international clashes. At Akashwani, I used to cover rural sports and created awareness regarding it,” he tells.“I am grateful to my parents, Jaswant Kaur and Suchet Singh, who gave me freedom to choose my own path,” the ‘Chacha’ adds. He is a resident of Master Tara Singh Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-comedian-having-fun-through-poems-sketching-these-days-140504
13-09-2020||Jalandhar||Head constable stabbed to death in Jalandhar||Cancel FIRs against union leadersGarhshankar: Workers of Centre of Indian Trade Unions(CITU), anganwari, kiln labourers, Asha and MGNREGA burnt effigies of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Punjab Police at Banga Chowk in protest against lathi charge and cases registered against union leaders in Mansa. Handing over a demand letter to the SDM, they demanded quashing of false cases registered against union leaders. Comrades Mahinder Kumar, Somnath and Asha Lallian said the voice of people fighting for their rights could not be dispelled by lathi charge and filing false cases. Gurbaksh Kaur and Jaswinder Kaur said by entering into the office of Kulwinder Singh Udat, who was struggling in Mansa for demands, the police took him to the police station and beat him brutally. They alleged that the police had registered false cases against 23 people, including women. The protesters demanded quashing of the FIRs. OCKMV tops Outlook magazine rankingJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV), Jalandhar, has been ranked first among all autonomous colleges of Punjab in various categories by the Outlook Magazine Ranking-2020. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi said of 40,000 colleges under the University Grants Commission, 129 were selected by the Outlook magazine. She said at the national level, KMV has been ranked 24th in BCA and 35th in BBA. She congratulated students and faculty members for the achievement. TNSMan’s Body found in pondJalandhar: A body of an unknown man was spotted floating in a pond near Shahid Babu Lal Singh Nagar here on Saturday. Locals who spotted the body around 11 am fished it out and informed the police who sent it for a post-mortem examination. The deceased was aged between 30 to 35 years and was wearing shorts only. His photos have been circulated in nearby districts for identification. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/head-constable-stabbed-to-death-in-jalandhar-140505
13-09-2020||---||Congress holds protest over exclusion of Punjabi in Jammu and Kashmir||Jalandhar, September 12Members of the district Congress on Saturday staged a protest over the exclusion of Punjabi as one of the official languages of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The Congress leaders condemned the Centre’s approval to a Bill which proposes to make Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi the official languages of Jammu and Kashmir.Led by MLA Rajinder Beri, Congress leaders burnt an effigy of PM Narendra Modi outside the Municipal Corporation office. District Congress Committee urban president Baldev Singh and Jalandhar Youth Congress president Angad Dutta also protested against the move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-holds-protest-over-exclusion-of-punjabi-in-jammu-and-kashmir-140507
13-09-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Former professor continues charitable work with same fervour as before||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, September 12Bahadar Singh Sunet was a student of B Pharmacy in Panjab University in 1982, when a teacher known to him met with an accident and blood was needed to save his life. He stepped up effort for the cause. It was his very first humane act.“The warmth felt after meeting the person, who was given a new life, motivated me to continue to volunteer as a blood donor — the only aim of my life,” Singh says.Bahadar Singh SunetThe warmth felt after meeting the person, who was given a new life, motivated me to continue to volunteer as a blood donor — the only aim of my life. My own family members, my aunts, my uncles all opposed my decision and I was upbraided for it. I took my true inspiration from Bhai Ghanaiya Ji's selfless services. It motivates me for dogged working in these social activities which is the need of the hour to eradicate the prevailing evils in our society.But he didn’t stop there. After his father departed in 1999, the retired professor from Pandit Jagat Ram Government Polytechnic, Hoshiarpur, donated his eyes. He received a lot of stick for this decision from his close ones. “My own family members, my aunts, my uncles all opposed my decision and I was upbraided for it,” he recalls. However, this didn’t bring him down and only motivated him to continue with such charitable work. He did the same in 2008 when his mother, Gurmeet Kaur, passed away in 2008. He donated her eyes to an eye bank in Ludhiana which helped four corneal blinds to see the world.The number of times he has donated blood surpasses his age, he is 60. He has organised more than 100 blood donation camps motivating thousands for blood and eye donations.“I took my true inspiration from Bhai Ghanaiya Ji’s selfless services. It motivates me for dogged working in these social activities which is the need of the hour to eradicate the prevailing evils in our society,” the former professor says.Inspired by services of Bhai Ghanayia Ji, Red Cross and Bhagat Puran Singh (founder of Pingalwara, Amritsar), he established a social organisation named ‘Bhai Ghanayia Ji Mission’ in 1987 at Ludhiana for service of the humanity, equality and strengthening the brotherhood.He is the founder member Of Bhai Ghanayia JI Charitable Blood Bank, Hoshiarpur, is associated with Blood Donor Council blood bank, Nawanshahr, and blood bank civil hospital, Hoshiarpur. He also helped in establishment of Sant Rangi Ram Charitable Blood Bank, Jaja (Tanda). Apart from being the president of Eye Donation Association, Hoshiarpur, in his eighteen years of work more than 1000 corneal blinds have been able to see the light.On the occasion of Blood Donation Day 1989, he was honoured by Dist Red Cross for valuable contribution in the field at Ludhiana. He was honoured on the occasion of World Red Cross Day in 1998 at a state-level function by BKN Chibber, then Governer of Punjab for his evergreen dedication towards helping people.On June 25 this year, his son Karmanveer Singh celebrated his birthday by donating blood and Bahadar contributed to the cause for 67th time. “In today’s busy life if you spare some time for the cause of service to humanity, it will definitely colour the life of people around you and theirs,” he feels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-professor-continues-charitable-work-with-same-fervour-as-before-140508
13-09-2020||---||SAD MLA, 35 others booked for protesting in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 12SAD MLA Pawan Tinu has been booked along with 35 others for holding a protest against Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for the post-matric scholarship scam.On Thursday, SAD leaders also burnt an effigy of the minister. On Friday, an FIR was lodged against Tinu along with eight of his supporters by name and 27 other unidentified people. The FIR has been lodged under Section 188 of the IPC and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.DSP Adampur, Harinder Singh said, “The MLA clearly violated the section 144 by organising a gathering of more than five persons. At Adampur we have already booked over 50 people earlier for similar violations as well.”Tinu claimed they had intimated the Naib Tehsildar about the protest at the Adampur bus stand and ensured the social distancing protocol was followed by everyone.”“The Chief Minister should get an FIR lodged against Dharamsot. We are being targeted, while their own leaders are holding gatherings. This is Rajwada shahi,” said the Adampur MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-mla-35-others-booked-for-protesting-in-jalandhar-140387
13-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Rehabilitation centre in Jalandhar now Covid care facility, addicts at receiving end||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12In order to tackle the pandemic, the authorities have converted a de-addiction centre to a Covid care centre in Jalandhar. As a result, rehabilitation of drug addicts has taken a back seat.The de-addiction centre (25 rooms) had witnessed 603 indoor admissions between March and August in 2019, however, 164 patients have been admitted this year. In March 1,027 addicts visited the OPD, but the number reduced to 400 in August.Dr Avneet Kaur, Director, Health‘Will look into matter’We will provide additional beds to the centre if they face any problem. I will take up the issue with the Civil Surgeon and see if alternative arrangements can be made.Despite representations from the de-addiction centre to Director Health Services, Mental Health Cell in-charge, Head of Department Psychiatry (Medical College, Amritsar), Civil Surgeon and Jalandhar Deputy Commssioner, nothing concrete has happened on the ground.From March 24, de-addiction and psychiatry services are being offered to addicts from the Jalandhar Civil Hospital. From the 50 bed de-addiction centre, the bed capacity has been reduced to 12 and both men and women share bathrooms.In February 1,163 and March 1,027 cases were reported at the OPD of the de-addiction centre, respectively. In April, 365 cases were reported, 421 in May, 476 in June, 422 in July and 400 in August. The staff has now started to send the patients to the OOAT clinics.Jalandhar has the busiest de-addiction services in the state (7,734 OPD, IPD and rehab registrations at the de-addiction centre and 12,649 registrations at psychiatry OPD in 2019).Dr Aman Sood, In-charge, Jalandhar De-addiction Centre, said, “The present facilities are compromised. Higher authorities have been briefed.”Jalandhar Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “I haven’t received any information, but if there are any problems, we will definitely look into them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rehabilitation-centre-in-jalandhar-now-covid-care-facility-addicts-at-receiving-end-140390
