14-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||He brings latent talent of his students to the fore||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 13Imagine a lone teacher teaching 66 students in a smart school! This is the success story of Government Primary School, Jhandi Peer, Kadiana, in Phillaur block. Situated at a remote area, it was declared a smart school last year because of the sincere efforts made by Jagjit Singh Randhawa, the only teacher at the school who had joined the school in the year 2017.Not only did he turn the school into a smart one because of his hard work, but also went to the nearby areas and admitted children to the school who used to beg to earn a living.Besides persuading them to join school, he also encouraged them to take part in sports activities. When he joined, there were only 14 students in the school, but with his efforts, today there are 66 students in the school.Facing acute shortage of teachers, he is the only one teaching there. Before Randhawa joined, teachers used to come only on deputation basis in the school. Randhawa had also visited the school twice; it was then he took note of the neglected state of the school. He says there was nothing in the school back then. He then joined as a permanent teacher here and then there was no looking back.“Since there is not much development in the village, I made sure that I visit every household and convince parents to let their children join the school. That is how I gained success. With the help of some NRIs, I arranged a water cooler and an RO for the students so that they could drink clean water,” the teacher said, adding there is a well-developed garden in the school. The students of the school have performed academically well too.Last year, in the month of October, the girls of the school participated in the district-level primary school games held in Adampur. There was no coach to train them, no lifeguard to protect them, but these swimming lovers participated and surprised everyone.Theirs was the only government school that participated in the event. The girls competed with well-trained participants from private schools. Jagjit Singh Randhawa, who encouraged the girls to take part in the event, said these young swimmers suffered a lot in their lives. “They live in poor conditions and there were times when people would help the family with food and other things. Even the girls were into begging. The girls learnt swimming by spending hours in the river.” he said.The teacher, while recalling the incident said the girls were not regular in the school. “I once went to their jhuggis to ask the parents to send them to the school regularly. Their parents told me that the girls had gone to swim in the river,” the teacher said.“When I went there, I saw them and called out their names. The girls got scared and within a minute, they deftly swam to the other side. Though I got scared, I recognised their talent. When the games approached this year, I resolved to encourage them to participate,” he shared.The Block Primary Education Officer of the block Naresh Kumar said the teacher has put in immense efforts and he is one of the most deserving teachers of the block. Ever since he assumed the charge, he has transformed the whole school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-brings-latent-talent-of-his-students-to-the-fore-141009
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent||2 drown as SUV falls into canal||Dasuya, September 13Two men drowned, when the SUV in which one of them was travelling in fell into the Mukerian Hydel Canal from over a bridge near Dasuya’s Baja Chakk village late Saturday night.According to the information, Sarbjit Singh (38), a resident of Marasagarh, was taking a turn over the bridge, when he lost control over the SUV. During this time, Gurwinder Singh (44), a Naraingarh resident, who was present at the spot, held onto the steering to get the drowning vehicle out of the water, but he, too, fell into the canal along with the vehicle as the water flow was very high.Eyewitness Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Galowal, said the entire incident happened before him. He tried saving them by pulling them out with the help of the cloth tied on his head, but it, too, tore off. He then informed the people around him and the Dasuya police.DSP Anil Bhanot reached the spot along with the police party and started looking for the car and the two men. As the incident happened at night, the search operation was carried out with the help of the lights of different vehicles. But even after five hours, the vehicle and the men could not be traced. In the morning, the search operation was resumed with the help of divers in the presence of SHO Dasuya Gurdev Singh. After three hours, the divers succeeded in locating the car and the body of Sarbjit Singh inside it.They then started looking for the body of Gurvinder Singh and it was recovered from Mukerian Hydel Power House No. 5. SHO Dasuya Gurdev Singh said both bodies have been kept at Dasuya’s mortuary. After the post-mortem, the bodies would be handed over to their family members. The police have registered proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-drown-as-suv-falls-into-canal-141010
14-09-2020||---||Jalandhar District reports 253 cases, 7 casualties||Jalandhar, September 13With 253 new cases, the district tally rose to 9,630 cases on Sunday. With seven more deaths, the death toll also reached 255 in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, in Kapurthala 53 positive cases and four deaths were reported on Tuesday.Six deaths, 73 new infections in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Reports of 1,541 samples were received in the district on Sunday, out of which 73 new positive cases were found, taking the total number of positive patients in the district to 2,819. With deaths of six Covid-19 patients today, the toll has reached 88.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said new samples of 866 people with suspected flu like symptoms were taken today, taking the total number of samples to 76,410. According to the reports received from the lab, 72,807 samples are negative, while the report of 1,075 samples is awaited and 109 samples are invalid.Dr Singh said the number of active cases in the district is 876, while 1,855 patients have recovered. He said there were 73 positive cases in the district today, out of which eight are from Hoshiarpur city and 65 from various blocks in the rest of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-253-cases-7-casualties-141011
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent||NAS postponed, PAS to be held as per schedule||Jalandhar, September 13Even though the Centre has postponed the National Achievement Survey (NAS) 2020 by one year amid surge in Covid cases in the country, the Punjab Education Department has reportedly decided to conduct the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) as per the fixed schedule. The first PAS-cum-bi-monthly test would be held on September 21.Officials of the Education Department said, “Though the PAS is based on the pattern of the NAS, it has a wider scope than the NAS as it comprises all students from Classes I to XII and is aimed at preparing students not only for the NAS, but also to strengthen their understanding level of basic concepts of different subjects and reasoning ability.”Besides, the motive of PAS is also to prepare students for a better score in board examinations as well as in various competitive entrance tests.Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the Education Department had made all arrangements and the dedicated teams of teachers had been working hard to conduct the first PAS test on September 21. Moreover, the test is aimed at improving the teaching-learning methodologies, thus bringing about qualitative improvements in the school education, thus, the survey will be held as per the schedule, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nas-postponed-pas-to-be-held-as-per-schedule-141012
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Induction programme concludes at KCLIMT||Jalandhar, September 13 A two week-long online induction programme which was underway at KCL Institute of Management and Technology to welcome their new batch of Management IT and Hotel Management students, in order to make them familiar with professional environment, concluded on Saturday.  The programme on the first day commenced with welcome speech by Dr S K Sood (Director KCLIMT). Dr Manisha Dheer gave the PPT presentation about the institute in order to acquaint the students about the infrastructure facilities, teaching pedagogy etc. Sardarni Balbir Kaur (president, Governing Council) stated that their emphasis is on the holistic growth and development of students, to make them competent enough to accept the challenge of the corporate world. The students were also given presentation about examination system, co-curricular aspects, personality development, training and placement scenario etc.  They were shown movie ‘I am Kalam’ and management lesson were taught from the movie.  A cultural programme was also organised in which solo dance and solo song competitions were held.  Besides, Anil Gangta presented a motivational talk to the students. He stated that in globalised scenario, in order to meet the challenges of job, one has to be self-motivated.  Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) and Kamal Nain Sharma (HoD, IT) also welcomed the students of their respective departments and said they would try their best to provide a healthy environment to the students, so that they could excel in their respective fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/induction-programme-concludes-at-kclimt-141013
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Handicraft workshop gutted in fire; goods worth lakhs destroyed||Hoshiarpur, September 13 A sudden fire erupted on the upper floor of Kanhaiya Lal Brij Lal’s workshop, a well-known wooden inlay handicraft firm at Dabbi Bazaar, one of the city’s oldest crowded market, late Saturday night. Raw material and machinery worth lakhs of rupees burnt in the fire. The fire brigade took two hours to douse the flames, but by then most of the goods had been burnt. Luckily, the fire did not reach the lower floors or else the damage could have been even greater.  Workshop owner Gunesh Jain said that around 2.30 am chowkidar of the market informed him that the roof of the workshop was on fire. In the meantime someone from the market informed the fire brigade. The fire tenders could not enter the narrow market,  due to which fire personnel Sukhdev Singh, Ajay Pal Singh and Gurditt Singh, under the leadership of fire officer Rajan Kumar, parked the fire tenders in Kanak Mandi Chowk and controlled the fire after nearly two hours. Wood and raw material worth lakhs of rupees, one generator, electric machinery and roof of the upper floor warehouse were burnt to ashes. The cause of the fire was not known.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/handicraft-workshop-gutted-in-fire-goods-worth-lakhs-destroyed-141014
14-09-2020||Kapurthala||Microsoft set to hire candidates in mega job fair||Microsoft would participate in the Mega Virtual Job Fair being organised by the Government of Punjab under the Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission (PGRKAM) from September 24 to September 30, in which they would offer the annual package ranging between Rs 12 to 43 lakh to the selected candidates. Besides, the job applicants would get a stipend ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs 80,000 per month.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said candidates pursuing B Tech degree in streams such as computer science, Information Technology and electronics and communication engineering, passing out in 2021, 2022 and 2023 can participate in the fair. The selected candidates would be hired as a Software Engineer, Support Engineer, Technical Consultant, etc, with job location at Hyderabad/ Bangalore/ Noida. Uppal further said the last date to apply for the mega job fair was September 15 before or till 5:00 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/microsoft-set-to-hire-candidates-in-mega-job-fair-141015
14-09-2020||---||Man arrested for murdering father-in-law||Jalandhar, September 13A day after the murder of a city-based cop who was posted as a head constable at the women cell of the Basti Bawa Khel police station, the cops today held his son-in-law for stabbing him to death.The accused has been identified as Ravi Kumar, a resident of Guru Ramdas Nagar.The incident took place near the Nakahn Wale Bagh in Basti Bawa Khel when the deceased Dara Singh was going to his home on his bike around 6 pm.He was stabbed 2-3 times before he lost his consciousness. The accused left the knife in his stomach after attacking him. SHO Basti Bawa Khle said Dara was allegedly killed by his son-in-law who was in bad terms with him. The duo had some heated arguments concerning his daughter. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-arrested-for-murdering-father-in-law-141016
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Mobile snatchers jump off police vehicle, flee||Hoshiarpur, September 13  Two mobile phone snatchers jumped off a police vehicle and fled. Residents of Tajpur Kalan village, near Hariana town here, nabbed them and handed them over to the police. Later, en route to the police station they jumped off the police vehicle and escaped. A case has been registered against the suspects.   On September 11, two snatchers armed with sharp weapons robbed two persons  of their mobile phones. Last evening, when they were riding a without number plate bike, one of the victims recognised them and informed Tajpur Kalan residents, who after a chase nabbed them. A sharp weapon, intoxicating capsules and syringes were recovered from them. Hariana police reached the spot and Tajpur Kalan residents handed them over to the police. But before the police party could reach the police station, they jumped off the police vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mobile-snatchers-jump-off-police-vehicle-flee-141017
14-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||For NEET, students beat Covid fear||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 13Over 5,000 aspirants from the district appeared for the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) at five different centres on Sunday.Students evinced mixed response towards the conduct of the exam that was held in the midst of rising Covid cases in the state. Many aspirants covered long distances to arrive at their respective centre.While a major chunk of students, after attending their exam, said it was good that the exam was held despite opposition by several students and non-BJP-ruled states, parents waiting outside the examination centres displayed their anger towards the government for holding the exam amid the pandemic.Traffic hitHundreds of guardians and parents of students kept waiting outside till the exam got over, thereby hindering traffic. Chaos was witnessed as soon as the exam got over. Most of the students were accompanied by their guardians only.The cops deployed outside the centres even warned parents of legal action if they didn't follow social distancing. Sub Inspector Jugal Kishore, who was managing the security outside at the HMV College, which is one of the NEET centres, said: “Over a dozen cops were deployed to manage the rush. As per the guidelines, stickers were pasted on the road for maintaining gap between students. Before entering the college, they were properly sanitised and none was granted entry sans face mask. Loudspeakers were also given to examiners to make announcements and give directions to parents and students.”Difficulty-level: 'Moderate'After attempting the exam, students had mixed opinion regarding the question paper. Neha, who had come from Adampur, said: “Though after the much dillydallying, the Central government eventually conducted the exam, we were expecting it to be simple. We thought the difficulty level would somehow be taken care of but nothing of that sort happened. As compared to the last year's question paper, it was equally tough. Our preparations were interrupted after the subsequent postponing of the exam. Luckily, the biology part was easy, which will help me in getting through.”Similarly, Vikas, who had attempted the question paper for the first time, said: “While physics and bio part was easy, the questions from chemistry were moderate. I was happy to appear for the exam.”Harpreet Kaur, who had come from Phagwara, said: “The question paper was set on the format of 2018 question paper and was not that tough, nor was it so easy. It was my second attempt and I am hoping to clear it.”HIGHLIGHTS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-neet-students-beat-covid-fear-141020
14-09-2020||Garhshankar||Youth Congress hails Ambika Soni’s appointment||‘Anti-labour’ policies flayedJalandhar: The Punjab wing of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) on Sunday held an online meeting conducted by its state president Dr Subhash Sharma. The meeting condemned the anti-labour and anti-poor policies of the Modi government. The meeting also condemned the Union Government’s policy of selling out private sector to capitalists. INTUC also reminded the state government of its failure to provide jobs to the youth, restoring employments lost during Covid-19, no care towards agitating employees demanding regular employments on full pay scales and with new pay commission report. TNSFarmers’ protest tomorrowJalandhar: Several farmer associations will hold a protest against agriculture ordinances promulgated by the Centre, on September 15. They will block roads and highways and have also requested the public not to come out as they might have to face inconvenience due to road blocks from 12- 2 pm. The farmer leaders said people from all walks of lives, be it arhtiya (commission agent), businessman or customer, will eventually suffer because of the ordinances. As many as 11 organisations had organised a meeting at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-congress-hails-ambika-sonis-appointment-141024
14-09-2020||People are opposing Covid testing. Do you think it requires intervention by govt?||It’s Health Dept’s duty to disseminate correct information||Rumours rife, awareness neededWith the number of infected cases spiking, it’s very unfortunate and unacceptable that many people in the villages and other areas are resisting the testing. Not only that, they are even attacking and targeting the testing teams. They are being misled by political parties and other people for their selfish means. Rumours regarding Covid patients abound. They need to be told about how many tests are involved in such procedures and only blood relatives and those matching blood and tissue are entitled to donate their organs for transplants. Social activists and religious leaders should be enlisted and involved to inform the gullible about these facts. If even then people resort to such illegal and violent acts to resist testing, they should be dealt with iron hands. No leniency should be shown to such rogue and anti-social elements.JS WadhwaLack of facilities at govt hospitalsPatients who are being treated at government hospitals have been complaining of lack of facilities. That is the reason why people are opposing sampling. Private labs are costly and charge Rs2,500 for testing. Also, private labs issue false reports of patients just to make money. That’s a crying shame. Nowadays humanity has vanished. The government has become deaf and dumb, they are least bothered.Shailja ThakurCorrect information be disseminatedThe continuing spread of virus has evoked fear among the people at large. It stems from the lack of a specific treatment, the need to be isolated, its higher rate of developing complications and a higher fatality as compared to other viral respiratory infections. Moreover, these medical facts, the fear of contracting infection stems from the highly sensationalised reporting of the pandemic by the media. In this backdrop, increasing instances of villagers and industrial workers opposing the sample collection for testing seems justified. These instances clearly show a lack of understanding of the basic principles of controlling a crisis, on the part of villagers and industrial workers. Clearly, they are not expected to have this technical knowledge. It is the duty of the Health Department of the state to disseminate correct information regarding the need for testing. So, a wider and more effective public outreach programme is needed to curb the spread.Gulbahar SidhuVillage panels, NGOs should be consultedIn order to control the pandemic, a setback for the testing teams opposed by the rural population, is facing resistance for testing due to rumours and fear of losing loved ones because of alleged lack of poor treatment at government Covid facilities. To make them aware, government should take the help of Mahila Arogya Smities, village health and sanitation committees, panchayat members and NGOs should come forward. They should be given proper counselling.Shashi KiranGovt must take steps to counter rumoursThe country has been confronted with the twin challenges of ensuring public health and economic resurrection. From time to time, the Centre and state governments have taken all necessary measures to tackle the crisis. During the nationwide lockdown and partial relaxation of strict restrictions in a phased manner, the Health Ministry has issued medical advisories to contain the spread of the deadly contagion. But people violate the mandatory safety and hygiene protocols with impunity. Besides, our healthcare system has lagged behind in contact tracing, testing and treatment of patients, courtesy lack of trained medical staff, PPEs and lab facilities, prohibitive costs and delayed diagnosis. Consequently, the number of positive cases and fatalities has been multiplying of late. Concerned at the rapidly worsening situation, the ICMR has regularly revised its testing strategy in its effort to reduce community transmission and flatten the curve. It has roped in high-tech private pathological labs and provided more quality testing kits to state governments. Its latest decision providing walk-in tests for asymptomatic and mild cases without doctor’s prescription is welcomed. But due to false and misleading propaganda about testing and organ harvesting, people are vehemently resisting aggressive sampling. Also, they are skeptical about testing procedures, their reliability and delayed reports; they complain about poor facilities, care and treatment at government’s care centres. To boost people’s confidence, rumour-mongering should be checked and social stigma attached to virus be removed. Strict enforcing of SOPs, a tab on overcharging by private hospitals and revamping state health infrastructure is needed.DS KangQUESTIONThe Covid-induced lockdown has changed the trend of wedding ceremonies in India. The celebrations, which earlier used to be fancy, big-budget, colourful and elaborate, are now turning into a low-key affair. Do you think the trend is for good and should continue even post-Covid?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 17).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-health-depts-duty-to-disseminate-correct-information-141025
