15-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Garden of wellness: 55-year-old Jalandhar resident grows his own herbal remedies||Jalandhar, September 14Amanjit Singh Bakshi (55) discovered his green thumb as a child. He further honed this hobby over the period of time. Tending to his home garden for six—seven hours and seeing his plants bloom keeps him thriving. He believes that surroundings have a great impact on one’s personality, so he made the plants his companion. “They are just like living creatures, which demand all the care, love and regular cossetting.A proud owner of a large variety of fruit plants, ranging from peach, plum, guvava, imported guvava, apple, mango, grapefruit, sapodilla (chikoo), mitha fruits (Citrus limettioides which fights against viral fevers) to vegetable plants, almost each variety of plants are planted at Bakshi’s garden here in Pholriwal. He says he used to live in the Urban Estate Phase I, but the house did not have much space for the garden, so three years back, he decided to shift to a place where he could dedicate a good portion of land towards gardening. “I now have my garden set up on an area of 1,400 sq ft,” he said.He shared, “My daughter is married and my son lives in Gurugram, I live here with my wife. I carry out my business activities from home only so that I can work amid nature. Besides, Amanjit said his garden was also home to two hens. “As we are now used to eating only home-grown fruits and vegetables, we have kept two hens too, so that we do not have to buy eggs from outside.” Amanjit first said he had no gardeners to tend to his garden and he alone managed to take care of each plant. “It’s been a decade that I bought fruits from outside. We eat fruits that are grown in our garden,” he said.With a variety of medicinal plants such as insulin, tulsi, gilloy, amla, aloevera, shatavar and ashwagandha and vegetables, including bitter gourd, ridge gourd (tori), brinjal, chillies, mint, coriander, drum stick, and many more in his garden, Bakshi said, he has got remedy to every ailment and that he never took any antibiotics.“My wife is diabetic, so I make sure she eats the leaf of an insulin plant, which is good for maintaining blood sugar. Besides, we are very fond of ‘Mitha’ plants and we eat that every day, this fruit is not commonly found outside, so even my neighbours too visit me to have this fruit from me,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garden-of-wellness-55-year-old-jalandhar-resident-grows-his-own-herbal-remedies-141505
15-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||No one’s listening: Common man’s anger spills on to roads||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 14Congress workers staged a dharna outside the Municipal Corporation on Saturday to protest the exclusion of Punjabi among the list of official languages in Kashmir, while previous consecutive days saw a series of dharnas by the Akali Dal against minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot on the post-matric scholarship scheme (one of these, held by MLA Pawan Tinu even saw him being booked along with 25 of his supporters); the AAP party, too, held protests and separate press meets announcing its Oximetre drive in the state. In turn, the BJP held its set of protests against the post-matric scholarship scheme.Simultaneously, various labour, health workers, ASHA workers, women groups, farm unions and employee unions have been holding repeated dharnas at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall, DC office and countless other spots in the district for the constantly precarious position they find themselves in during the pandemic.Ever since restrictions were relaxed, dharnas and protests have become a regular thing and lately, it seems the intensity of protests and dharnas has risen as sharply as the numbers of the cases in the pandemic.Amid Covid, at least a dozen protests have taken place in the district last week alone. On one single day last week the district saw as many as five dharnas in a single day. Activists (of both political and non-political outfits) are regularly flouting norms – holding dharnas without masks. However, there is also a rising sentiment especially among the underprivileged groups that Covid-19 is being used to snub dissent and deny the poor a platform, where they might raise their voices in support of genuine demands and issues.While MLA Pawan Tinu termed the case against him as selective targeting of Akali workers, none of the Congress workers flouting similar norms were booked; last week, Pendu Mazdoor activists were also prevented by the police from marching to the DC office from the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall to lodge their protest. BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia also similarly termed it “classic case of political and police vendetta” on Monday.As the protests have risen so has politics over them. While AAP and SAD activists have been alleging that the law enforcement agencies target them, the administration in turn says those gathering in huge numbers shall be acted against if they violate norms and hold gatherings of more than five people.Support extended to Harike stir against farm ordinances Jalandhar: A huge congregation of farmers, under the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, on Monday extended their support to the protest at the Harike Head Works against the three farm ordinances passed by the Centre. Over 500 farmers from Jalandhar alone reached there in big numbers to register their protest. Farmers said their livelihood was under threat due to ordinances. They said they were forced to hold dharnas in scorching heat because their demands went unheard. While the same farmers also held protests in all district headquarters from September 7 to 12, they submitted demand letters to DCs and held ‘Jail Bharo’ morchas. Farmers said if any minister voted in favour of the bill in the Parliament in the coming days, they shall ban the entry of such a minister in the villages. They said the ministers should make their up minds about whether they wanted to support the ordinance or not. They said ordinances should be immediately withdrawn. Salwinder Singh Jania, district president of the union, said, “We are not getting up from here until our demands are met. The ordinances will destroy the farming community. The dharna will continue as long as the government does not relent.” TNS‘Anti-employee’ policies of government flayedJalandhar: Members of the Punjab and UT Employees Sangharsh Morcha held a rally at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall on Monday condemning the ‘anti-employee policies’ of the state and Central governments. District convener Kanwaljit Sanghowal said in the name of restructuring various public establishments, the state and Central governments were selling them off at throwaway prices to private buyers, speeding up the process of privatisation in the country, when Covid was at its peak. ASHA workers and mid-day meal employees said they have not been paid a steady wage as per the Minimum Wages Act and State Salary Commission has also been stalled until December 31. They said the DA had been stalled since January 2018 and dues for 158 months also remained with the government. Thousands of temporary, contractual and society employees haven’t been regularised, they said. NPS implementation has also hit pensions and the meagre mobile allowances have been halved. They condemned dispensing away with 3,400 posts in Water Supply and Sanitation Department and 8,635 posts at the Water Resources Corporation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-ones-listening-common-mans-anger-spills-on-to-roads-141506
15-09-2020||---||Migrant held for raping minor in Bholath||Jalandhar, September 14The Kapurthala police have arrested a migrant labour, who allegedly raped a 6-year-old girl on the pretext of buying her a toy. The incident was reported on Saturday when the girl was playing outside her house in Bholath.As per the family members’ statements, the accused took the victim to an isolated place around 3 pm on his bicycle after offering her Rs 20. After over an hour, the accused left her outside her house. She reportedly fainted while narrating the ordeal to her brother and sister, who later rushed her to the Bholath Civil hospital with the help of their neighbours and their grandmother. Considering the victim’s critical condition, the doctors referred her to the Kapurthala Civil Hospital, where the doctors confirmed the sexual assault on the minor.DSP, Bholath subdivision, Jatinderjit Singh said immediately after the incident was reported, a police team was formed to nab the accused. “All CCTV cameras were checked to trace the accused who took the girl around 1 km away from her house,” said the DSP. The accused was later nabbed from the Nadala bus stand in Bholath on Sunday evening. He was on Monday presented before a court which sent him to 3-day police custody.Meanwhile, Bholath SHO Amandeep Kaur briefed that the accused was identified as Tafreez Alam (35), who was working at a tailor’s shop here. A case under Section 376-A of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act has been registered against him. Earlier in May 2008, he had served two years for rape attempt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-held-for-raping-minor-in-bholath-141509
15-09-2020||Jalandhar||4 die, 248 test positive in Jalandhar district||With 248 new cases, the district tally reached 9,864 on Monday. With four more deaths, the death toll also reached 259.The Sewa Kendra at the District Administrative Complex, has also been shut for two-days after one of the employees tested positive on Monday. It will be closed for public dealing on September 15 and 16. Meanwhile, 53 people tested positive while four people died of Covid in Kapurthala. The deceased include a woman (50) of Phagwara, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a woman (65) of Jattpura in Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a man (58) of Bhago Arrain village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. — TNS2 succumb to virus, 129 +ve in HoshiarpurReports of 360 samples were received in the district on Monday, of which 129 patients tested positive, taking the tally to 2,958. With two more deaths, the toll reached 90. The number of samples taken so far has reached 78,279, with 1,869 new samples taken from individuals with suspected flu-like symptoms. According to reports received from the laboratory, 72,985 tested negative, while 2,555 reports were still awaited and 109 samples are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 1,011 and 1,934 patients have recovered so far. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said of 129 new positive cases, 45 were related to Hoshiarpur city and the rest were from different health blocks of the district. The two deceased include a 56-year-old resident of Malkowal, who was reported from Nawanshahar, and an 80-year-old woman of Keshav Nagar in the city, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-248-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-141510
15-09-2020||Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1780-1839)||Experience the legacy of  Sher-e-Punjab||Acquisition of Koh-i-Noor (1814): Right from his childhood, Ranjit Singh had an ambition to acquire the Koh-i-Noor diamond. It was at that time in possession of Shah Shuja, the Durrani monarch, who was later defeated and captured by Ata Md. Khan, the Governor of Kashmir. Ranjit Singh provided asylum to his wife and got Shah Shuja released from Kashmir in lieu of Koh-i-Noor.Ranjit Singh’s marriage (1795): The marriage of Maharaja Ranjit Singh with Mehtab Kaur, granddaughter of Kanhaiya Misl chief, is being solemnised in a large decorated Baradari. The matrimonial alliance became a major event in the history of Punjab.Maharaja’s PanoramaThe panorama, a visual depiction of the important stages of the Maharaja, was set up in 2006 at a cost of Rs 5 crore by the then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal with his personal interest. A two-storeyed circular building features paintings depicting the six major battles of the Maharaja. It is accompanied by a multimedia representation of the sights and sounds of war.Victory at Lahore (1798): At a young age (18 years), Ranjit Singh challenged Afghan invader Shah Zaman, the grandson of Ahmad Shah Abdali, with a handful of soldiers and peasants from Musamman Burj on a foggy early January morning in 1798. With the courage and diplomacy of Ranjit Singh, Shah Zaman was driven out of Punjab in January 1799.The Capture of Kangra (1809): Gurkhas, considered as outsiders by Ranjit Singh, had captured the Kangra fort in 1806. Ranjit Singh accompanied by some hill chiefs and their contingent defeated them in a fierce battle at Ganesh Ghati of Kangra Valley. The total defeat took place in September 1809. Use of small khukries by the Gurkhas compared to long swords, guns and canons by the Sikh army, was the reason behind the failure of the Gurkhas.Victory at Hazro (1813): The fort of Attock traditionally regarded as the sentinel of India on the border with Afghanistan, was recaptured in 1813 from Wazir Fateh Khan and his army marking the liberation of Northern India from Afghans. The battle was won under the overall command of Ranjit Singh with Diwan Mokham Chand in operation accompanied by Hari Singh Nalwa, Mian Gausha and Sardar Dal Singh with a strong Punjabi force.Summer Palace (1819): The summer palace of the legendary Sikh king was built in 1819. The Maharaja used to stay here during his visit to the Golden Temple. It is located in the Chahar Bagh, a quadrilateral garden on the Mughal pattern. The British ruined the garden. It has been under renovation for the past 13 years, but is still incomplete. It has been out of bounds for tourists for years owing to its prolonged conservation work. Started in 2007, the conservation work is still not over.Deorhi: There are two Deohris of the summer palace. The front Deohri towards the walled city had been renovated and is in a good condition, while the deohri at the back side is in a poor condition.Watch Towers: The quadrilateral garden has four watch towers on all four corners. Three of the towers were restored recently, while one is encroached by a club inside the garden.Baradari: There were several baradaris in the original Chahar Bagh around the palace. Some were demolished decades ago. Only one baradari is left in the garden now.Capture of the Zamzama (1802): The Maharaja acquired the giant cannon Zamzama from Mai Sukhan, widow of Bhangi chief, Gulab Singh Bhangi in 1802. Three small cannons were also acquired from them, which are near the giant Zamzama. A big gun — Zamzama — is being hauled up by a good number of Maharaja’s soldiers in front of the Govindgarh Fort of Amritsar.The Fall of Multan (1818): Ranjit Singh captured the fort of Multan situated between the Sutlej and the Ravi in 1818 from Nawab Muzaffar Khan. The 16-year-old Prince Kharak Singh participated as one of the commanders along with Misr Dewan Chand and 20,000 men. The artillery under the command of Illahi Baksh and big Bhangi gun ‘Zamzama’ played a major role in capturing the fort. The conquest of Multan by Maharaja Ranjit Singh ended the Afghan influence in Punjab.The Conquest of Kashmir (1819): In a fierce fighting on the plain of Shopian, the Sikh army defeated Zabbar Khan, the Afghan ruler and his army, who later fled to Afghanistan, thus leading to the liberation of Kashmir. Prince Kharak Singh, Misr Diwan Chand, Akali Phula Singh with his Nihang troops participated in the battle. The paradise-like Kashmir came under the possession of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in July 1819.Gold plating service at Darbar Sahib (1830): The Maharaja used to go to Harmandir Sahib on every special occasion, especially Diwali and Baisakhi, and present gifts before prayers and the holy dip. The most important offering was the laying of gold plates on the Golden Temple in 1830. Under the supervision of Ranjit Singh, the work of laying gold on the Darbar Sahib is in progress (in the painting).Modernisation of Army by the Maharaja (1830)Maharaja Ranjit Singh was a great general, who wanted to modernise his army after seeing the superiority of the British troops. He inducted several Europeans to facilitate this. JF Allard and JB Venture, the two French officers, who were inducted by Maharaja Ranjit Singh for modernising his army, had served Napoleon in his campaigns. In the painting, they are seen inspecting an organised infantry on the one side and cavalry on the other. All personnel are in right army outfit. Many of them are carrying long arm guns.The Ropar Treaty (1831): Maharaja Ranjit Singh, riding an elephant, met William Bentinck, the Governor General of India, in Ropar on the banks of the Sutlej on October 26, 1831. The Maharaja is followed by a battery of armed men with artilleries at the far end. A good number of royal canopies and tents of the British camp with senior armed officers can be found on duty. The Maharaja took this opportunity to display the prosperity and power of the kingdom of Lahore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/experience-the-legacy-of-sher-e-punjab-141513
15-09-2020||Jalandhar||MC’s cleanliness drive from today||Man duped of Rs 42L, 1 bookedHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have registered an FIR against a person for allegedly cheating Jagtar Singh, a resident of Jakkewal village, of Rs 42 lakh on the pretext of facilitating a government job. According to information, Jagtar has complained to the SSP that Gurwinder Singh Manupur of Fatehgarh Sahib took Rs 42 lakh from him on the pretext of helping his ward get a government job. However, Gurwinder neither provided the job nor returned the money. On the order of the SSP, the police have registered a case against the suspect. OCAgent booked for Rs 25L fraudHoshiarpur: The police have booked a person for duping a Kahirwali village resident of Rs25 lakh on the pretext of sending him to the US. Sukhmanpreet Singh, in his complaint to the police, said travel agent Nanak Singh alias Jangi, a resident of Mehatpur, took Rs 25 lakh from him. But the suspect neither sent him abroad nor returned the money. The complaint was investigated by the Economic Offences Wing of the police and then an FIR was registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mcs-cleanliness-drive-from-today-141516
