17-09-2020||Jalandhar||10 die, 210 test +ve in Jalandhar||The district reported 10 deaths, while 210 patients tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. With this, the district’s Covid death toll reached 281, while the tally of positive patients reached 10,319. From 6,770 cases on September 1, there has been a pile up of 3,549 cases in the month of September so far.Meanwhile, 89 persons tested positive in Kapurthala, while two persons died of Covid on Wednesday.The deceased include a 68-year-old woman of Mehli Gate, who died at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar and 73-year-old resident from Subhanpur village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. The total Covid tally of Kapurthala district has reached 2,422 so far, of which 666 cases are active and 1,494 have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-die-210-test-ve-in-jalandhar-142352
17-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur reports highest single-day spike of 206 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-206-cases-142353
17-09-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Proud parents on cloud nine  as son selected in British army||It was a proud moment for the parents of Harminder Pal Singh (33), who was recruited in the British army.“I am on cloud nine. Three years of my son’s hard work and focused preparation has finally yielded results,” an elated Salukhan Singh, Harminder’s father, told The Tribune, adding that he was filled with pride and honour, as his son was now a part of the Royal Regiment of Artillery, commonly known as ‘The Gunners’, which is the frontline fighting force of the British Army.Over 150 Sikhs in British armyIn a telephonic conversation with The Tribune, Harminder Pal Singh said there were about 150 Sikhs in the British army. There are 205 Sikhs in the British air force and navy combined. Also, one of his companions is Amritdhari (baptised) Sikh, and they have been allotted separate rooms to do the paath.Born and brought up in Jalandhar, Harminder, a resident of Ramneek Avenue here, is an electronics and communication engineer, who passed out from Lord Krishna College, Kapurthala. His father said his son always wanted to join the Army, as he was fascinated by the lives of officers, but his dream only got a push when he visited England on a visitor visa in 2017 and met his brother-in-law, who, too, is serving as an officer in the British army, and who gave wings to the dreams of Harminder by motivating him to at least give it a try.His father said Harminder after completing his studies moved to Australia in 2008 and after working there for nearly eight years, he came back to Jalandhar in 2016.“My son came back because he wanted to do some reputed job. In the meantime, we fixed his marriage, too! Thereafter, when he visited England, his brother-in-law, Nishan Singh, asked him to join the British army. Inspired by his words, he immediately started his preparation as well as physical training. Eventually, in February 2020, he got selected and just a few months ago he joined the Royal Artillery,” he said.“It’s really a proud moment for everyone in the family, as getting a reputed job in a foreign country is not easy. People are losing jobs already due to Covid and employment has become a serious issue. Thus, I am very much thankful to God for showing us this day. There is no bigger happiness for a father than to see his son live his dream,” said Salukhan, who performs kirtan here, adding that Harminder’s two younger brothers Maninderpal Singh and Jagwinderpal Singh, were also living in Australia at present. While one was still studying, the other one was working.Meanwhile, Ranjit Kaur, wife of Harminder Singh, said her son, who is just 3-year-old, was very fond of wearing military uniform. She said he also wants to be a soldier like his father when he grows up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/proud-parents-on-cloud-nine-as-son-selected-in-british-army-142354
17-09-2020||Jalandhar||Tinu flays registration of case against SAD leaders||On Tuesday, after the release of four SAD leaders on bail in a Covid protocol violation case, the SAD leaders on Wednesday while holding a press conference here said the registration of FIRs against Akali leaders was an act which defied political and democratic values.Shiromani Akali Dal leader and MLA Pawan Tinu along with Akali Dal urban president Kulwant Singh Mannan, while holding a press conference here on Wednesday, said rather than maintaining cordial terms and solidarity with Akali leaders, the filing of an FIR against them was a violation of democratic and political values. Leaders said under the Congress government, political leaders holding protests are being targeted. Tinu said we were only registering a protest against discrepancies in the post-matric scholarship scheme.The cases were registered against former mayor Kamaljit Singh Bhatia, deputy mayor Parvesh Tangri, Gurdev Singh Goldy and HS Walia.Leaders said they held a very peaceful dharna outside the residence of MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, but due to sudden rain four senior leaders — former mayor Kamaljit Singh Bhatia, deputy mayor Parvesh Tangri, Gurdev Singh Goldy and HS Walia— barged into Chaudhary’s house to take cover amidst heavy rains.They said on the insistence of the gunman they promptly left the premises. “We are all responsible people. But the FIR against senior leaders for merely entering the premises is condemnable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tinu-flays-registration-of-case-against-sad-leaders-142355
17-09-2020||Jalandhar||Pandemic hits love for Urdu language||While the district Language Department used to receive 50-60 applications for learning Urdu every year, this year only 18 students (out of 40 enrolled) are taking online training for the language amid the pandemic.The department has been conducting Urdu classes for the past several years now. All students this time are mostly above 40 years of age and learning the language has become a challenge for both — students and the teacher as well. Professor Arinder Singh, who has been teaching Urdu for the past 15 years here, said it was for the first time that he was teaching the language online.He said he had taught the language to students up to 80 years of age as well.Arinder Singh, while sharing the challenges, said: “When I teach face to face, I can gauge from the facial expression of students as to who has understood the concept or who has not. And, if they face any problem in writing, I can check and correct them. Also, there is no coordination in the online medium. Sometimes it gets difficult to listen to students’ problems.”He said this language requires a lot of practise, as it’s difficult like mathematics, so there is a need to study it on a daily basis.Giving an example, the professor said: “In English language, there is one Z, but in Urdu, there were six. Similarly, there are three S with different sounds, but what type will be used where only comes with proper practise.”He said there were network issues too. The department officials said it was getting difficult to hold the classes.Shorthand classes also affectedEven shorthand classes have suffered. The officials from the department said classes would have started by September 1 had the situation been normal, but this time, they have just invited students to fill the forms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-hits-love-for-urdu-language-142356
17-09-2020||Jalandhar||Relief for Jalandhar passengers as bus service resumes to Chandigarh||Passengers waiting for the resumption of public bus service to Chandigarh heaved a sigh of relief after the Punjab Roadways and other transport services started plying to the Union Territory (UT) on Wednesday.The development came a day after the state government gave a green signal to the movement of buses to and from Chandigarh. Over 100 buses from the district left for the UT from the city bus stand, including 52 government buses. While the buses to Chandigarh started plying early in the day, the rush of passengers was limited. As per the first seven routes of the Jalandhar depot-1 buses, around 71 passengers were ferried to UT.Kuldeepak, an official at the city bus stand, who manages the permit and routes of Roadways buses, said the buses operated with earlier guidelines only with not more than 50 per cent capacity. He said in the absence of passengers, buses operated as per limited schedule. “On the first day of the reopening of the Chandigarh route, around 110 buses of various depots, including Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Ropar, CTU and the PRTC among other private buses left the city bus stand with passengers. The count of passengers is expected to rise in the coming days, as many enquires were earlier received regarding the bus services to Chandigarh,” Kuldeepak said.Meanwhile, drivers ferrying passengers said, social distancing norms were followed and it was ensured that passengers wore masks and their hands were sanitised, before boarding the buses. “There was no rush at most bus stands in the morning hours, but many people expressed relief at the resumption of bus services,” said Gurjit Singh, a conductor. Navraj Batish, Roadways General Manager, said: “After the suspension of buses in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Roadways has already suffered losses in crores and even as the services to Chandigarh have resumed, the recovery rate is still low due to the 50 per cent capacity rule.”He also confirmed that inter-state movement of buses would remain terminated until the next orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relief-for-jalandhar-passengers-as-bus-service-resumes-to-chandigarh-142357
17-09-2020||Jalandhar||Age is just a number for this 52-year-old fitness buff||Nothing inspires you to hit the gym quite like a 52-year-old, who has proved that if you work hard, age is just a number. When it comes to fitness, Sarb Raj Kumar, a civil engineer, says excuses have no place if you want a good physique. Sarb started his fitness journey around 10 years ago. After a few years, he started developing interest for fitness and chose to jump another level by participating in marathons. After participating in local events, he tried his calibre in international races, where he managed to match the standards.Having clinched the eminent fitness title of ‘Ironman’ (Triathlon), last year, Sarb is now gearing up for Boston Fitness Challenge. He won the ‘Triathlon’ title by completing 225-km fitness challenge, including continuous 3.86-km swimming, 180.25-km bicycle ride and 42.20-km run in 16 hours and 16 seconds. With this, he becomes the second ‘Ironman’ from the state. The triathlon, considered as one of the most difficult one-day sporting events in the world, was organised in Malaysia.Around 1,400 participants from 17 countries had taken part in the fitness event and only 970 participants managed to qualify the triathlon. The event was hosted by the World Triathlon Corporation (WTC). In November 2018, he also participated in the Olympian patron event, which was based on the similar parameters but the distance was reduced to 52 km.He says, one can stay in good shape at any age. “Ever since I got into fitness, my lifestyle has changed and compared to people of my age, I never faced any health issues and didn’t take medicines. I make sure that I follow my running schedule and do strength training 3-4 days a week. As I started preparing for the next marathon, I bought a treadmill and an exercising bicycle to remain on the track. I’m right now only focused about clearing the qualifying round of the Boston Marathon. I take special care of my diet, too, which includes natural sweet sources, fibres, fruits among other things,” said Sarb, who is presently working in the Public Works Department (PWD), Kapurthala.He begins his day at 3 am followed by three hours of fitness activities. “Without hampering my demanding job, I used to train myself extra on weekends, that included, four hours training on Saturdays and 7-8 hours’ training on Sundays,” he said.Before the lockdown, he participated in IDBI Marathon, Hoshiyarpur Marathon and Republic Day marathon, which was organised in Chandigarh. With the help of the social media, he also encourages people to stay fit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/age-is-just-a-number-for-this-52-year-old-fitness-buff-142358
17-09-2020||Jalandhar||One held with illicit liquor||2 held with 20-kg poppy huskHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have recovered 29-kg poppy husk from Amir Khan of Chamba and Fateh Muhammad of Baghana in Kapurthala district. They have been arrested and booked under the NDPS Act. Balwinder Singh, SHO in charge of the Mehtiana police station, said after a tip-off, a truck loaded with apples was stopped near the police station. During search, 20 kg of poppy husk was found hidden in the cabin. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-held-with-illicit-liquor-142359
17-09-2020||In a unique initiative||No challans, people get only masks!||Girls get appreciation letter‘Poshan maah’ has been launched by the Punjab Government and will be celebrated till September 30. Under the programme, the district administration will identify the the children suffering from malnutrition. Under the programme, the administration is also promoting kitchen gardening. Other departments organising several activities under the programme are agriculture, horticulture, Public health, education, animal husbandry, dairy and district development panchayat department.Employees dealing with public get testedThe Covid test of a total of 69 officials and other employees working in various departments in the District Administrative Complex was conducted. Even those dealing with the public in the private sectors have also been advised to get their test done by the Deputy Commissioner. She said in the government hospitals, the test was conducted for free. Those who are spreading fear among the people by rumours will also be caught soon, the officials said.Poshan Maah: Various activities begin'Poshan maah' has been launched by the Punjab Government and will be celebrated till September 30. Under the programme, the district administration has declared that the children suffering from malnutrition will be identified. Under the programme, the administration is also promoting kitchen gardening. Other departments who are organising several activities under the programme are agriculture, horticulture, Public Health, Education, Animal Husbandry, dairy and district development and the Panchayat Department||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-challans-people-get-only-masks-142360
17-09-2020||Jalandhar||‘Stubble burning  will worsen Covid situation’||Farmers have been urged to not to burn paddy stubble. It is not for the time that the farmers are instructed not to burn the paddy as it is a major cause of air pollution and even FIRs have got lodged against the farmers in the past who were involved in the act. This time, the Agriculture Department has given emphasis on Covid and said farm fires could aggravate the Covid situation.Chief agriculture officer Dr surinder Singh, said, “Covid affects lungs and hence gives rise to breathing problems and farm fires would only worsen the situation, so, it is advised not to burn paddy stubble. The panchayats have been advised to make the farmers aware and tell that they shouldn’t indulged in this practice.To eliminate the menace of stubble burning by providing the hi-tech machinery to the farmers on the subsidy, the district administration had recently announced to provide subsidy more than Rs 10 crore to the farmers to get hi-tech machines under In-Situ management for crop residue scheme this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stubble-burning-will-worsen-covid-situation-142361
17-09-2020||---||656 youth get jobs at placement drive||Around 39 private companies today provided job placements to over 656 unemployed youth in the district. In the two job fairs organised both virtually and physically, as many as 831 youth from the region took part in it.The job fairs were organised at the offices of the Multi Skill Development Centre (MSDC) and BDPO Nurmahal. The recruiters included; Airtel, Kundi Hand Tools, Rock Man Private Limited, Adhan Private Solutions, Agile, Tata Sky, Exalt Health Care, State Institute of Management and Technology, Capital Medical Hall, Ayush Clinic, Akal Eye Hospital, Emzz hair saloon, Dishu Karyana Store, Renatus Wellness and others. While the companies offered jobs to the job seekers, with no certainty on the joining, some of the selected candidates remained discontented.DC Ghanshyam Thori mentioned that such job fairs had been scheduled for the whole month of September during which avenues of employment would be offered to participants.He added all Covid-19 protocols were strictly followed during the job fair. The selection of the youth for jobs was made purely on merit. Besides, another job fair would be organised at the BDPO, Lohia Khas.Now, the fair will be held in the DBEE office in which renowned companies would participate and would offer jobs to the unemployed youths. The job seekers can register themselves on www.pgrkam.com or call on 90569-20100 for further information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/656-youth-get-jobs-at-placement-drive-142363
17-09-2020||Our CorrespondentKapurthala||Webinar to mark World Ozone Day held||On the occasion of World Ozone Day, Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, today organised a webinar on ‘Ozone for Life: 35 years of Ozone Layer Protection’. Anuradha Sharma, an environmental engineer from Punjab Pollution Control Board, was invited as the keynote speaker.In her online address, she said: “Fast depletion of stratospheric ozone layer allows harmful UV radiation to penetrate earth atmosphere and causes several direct and indirect harmful effects on human beings as well as on other living beings. The most severe and serious effect of UV radiation on human being is skin cancer. The other health disorders of UV radiation are cataract of eyes, mutations and loss of immunity”.She said the purpose of the celebration of this day is to create public awareness about substances that play a significant role in the depletion of the earth’s ozone layer, which in turn play a vital role in protecting life on earth, and also to make people aware that these threats are caused mainly due to man-made chemicals such as chlorofluorocarbons used in refrigeration and air-conditioning industries.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, PGSC, in her introductory remarks said World Ozone Day celebrated on September 16 every year, gives the message that collective decisions and actions guided by science are the only way to solve major global crisis.She further said that slogan of the day, ‘Ozone for life’, reminds us that not only ozone is crucial for life on earth, but that we must continue to protect the ozone layer for future generations.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, urged the students to protect and save ozone layer by planting more and more trees, use public transport and also emphasized on the usage of renewable sources of energy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-to-mark-world-ozone-day-held-142375
17-09-2020||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar||Will not form alliance with any party in Assembly elections, says LIP chief||Under the ‘Dalit Vidyarthi Bachao Yatra’ launched by the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), president of Lok Insaaf Party and MLA Simranjit Singh Bains visited Khuralgarh and historic religious place Charan Chhoh Ganga.He alleged that Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmasot had cheated Dalit students by getting involved in the scholarship scam of the Dalit students. He said because the amount of scholarship funds to be given to Dalit students was released by the Centre, it should also be investigated for the scam by CBI. He said those convicted in the investigation should be given severe punishments so that no one thinks of getting involved in such a scam again.He said he would not form alliance with any party for the 2022 Assembly elections and claimed that only the Lok Insaaf Party government would be formed. He said the Akali Dal Badal’s seats would be reduced to a single digit in the 2022 Assembly elections.He also said the BJP had no basis in Punjab and that is why it was compelled to form an alliance with Akali Dal Badal. He said the Congress would have to sweat a lot to save even one and a half dozen of its seats in coming 2022 elections.He said Navjot Sidhu was an honest person and that’s why he had been kept out of the Cabinet. Describing captain and his ministers as corrupt, he said in the departments that the captain has held with him, thousands of crores of seed scam, tax scam and liquor scam, etc have Taken place.He said two years ago, in a meeting at the PAP complex in Jalandhar, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had promised to install a tubewell for drinking water for Charan Chhoh Ganga but it has not been fulfilled till date. At Tapasthal Khuralgarh Sahib, Chairman of the Managing Committee, Bhai Kewal Singh, Secretary Dr. Dilbag Singh, Treasurer Harbhajan Singh, Head Granthi Naresh Singh etc. honored Simranjit Singh Bains with siropa. Prior to this, Saint Surinder Das honored him by giving a siropa at Charan Chhoh Ganga.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-not-form-alliance-with-any-party-in-assembly-elections-says-lip-chief-142376
17-09-2020||Our CorrespondentGarhashankar||AAP to open oxygen testing centre in every village: Garhshankar MLA||The Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi Government has provided 20,000 pulse oxymeters to Punjab and with the help of these, oxygen testing centres would be opened in every village and urban wards of Punjab, said Jai Krishna Singh Rodi, AAP MLA from Garhshankar, while addressing a meeting held at his office under the chairmanship of Lok Sabha coordinator Satnam Singh Ghumman.He said AAP would open these emergency investigation centres in every village and every ward of the cities in Punjab on the pattern of Delhi. With this, people would get the facility to check the level of oxygen. During this meeting, oxymeter coordinators were appointed by making different groups of villages.Rodi said the Punjab Government had failed on every front of the Covid prevention. Due to this, thousands of people have been affected by the coronavirus and a large number of people have died.Councillor Som Nath Bangar, Charanjit Singh Channi, Rooky Moyla, Gurdial Singh Bhanot, Dr Harminder Singh, Paramjit Singh Barapur and councillor Surjit Singh among others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-to-open-oxygen-testing-centre-in-every-village-garhshankar-mla-142377
