21-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Punjabi TV industry’s doyen still making her presence felt||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Husband: Ni ajj ki banaya?Wife: ZeherH: O Tun khaa laeen, meri roti ajj bahar haiW: Phitte muh tera, eho jehe daRemember these dialogues from Ashiqui Mittran Di, a skit featuring Harbhajan Jabbal and Jatinder Kaur?Actor, activist and feminist Jatinder Kaur made the character immortal. While remembering those days, she said: “Odon lokan nu hor kisam diyan jananiyan vekhan di umeed si. Bholiyan, chup kitiyan, mardan de pairan heth rehan valiyan. Main role kardi si tikkhi, zyada bolan vali te laraaki aurat da. Pind diyan aurtan mennu kehndiyan san tusi sadde dil di gal kar rahe ho, jo asi darde keh nahi sakde” (Back then people had hopes of seeing other kind of women. Those who were docile, submissive, silent and domineered by their men. I played a woman who was outspoken and feisty. Women in villages would tell me I am saying things of their heart, things that we can’t say out of fear).”In the ’80s and ’90s, TV screens in Punjab’s homes lit up with her commanding presence on DD Jalandhar (then called Jalandhar Doordarshan) as an outspoken wife. Kaur played mother, wife and grand-mother and one-half of the hit DD couple which regaled the Punjabi audience all through the DD’s golden period. Her popular act ushered in an era of a feminism of sorts on the Punjabi television, introducing a woman who told a man his place and prodded women to speak up, thus empowering them.Brought up in a conservative household amid a deeply patriarchal society, Jatinder Kaur went on to win accolades as an actor with her on-screen exuberance and assertive presence. A theatre person at heart, she was mentored onto stage by the legendary socialist playwright Gursharan Singh, lovingly called Bhai Manna Singh.“Apne haq khovo, baaghi hoke inquilaab leaao,” (fight for your rights, be a rebel and bring in the revolution), these words whispered to her by Gursharan Singh altered the path of her life. Taking to acting as a response to the subversion of women, she spent her early years torn by the innuendos and insinuations directed at her by regressive peers. For them, acting was “Kanjaran wale kamm” (a low status profession).Jatinder Kaur says: “Back then, if boys arrived late from the school, no one would say a thing. But if girls got late by even 15 minutes, they would be bombarded with questions. Men were privileged. I often questioned what wrongs had the girls done. Why this discrimination being meted out to us. Mere andar ik saad rehnda hunda si, eh galla main kihnu dassan, kitthe karan (A fire was burning inside me, I didn’t know who do I say these things to and where). Then I met Gursharan bhaji, after which things started changing. I felt I had reached my destination. Before meeting him, I bothered a lot about people. He taught me to live life on my terms, snatch my rights and not accept what people had decided for me.”Kaur says: “I worked with him for 15 years. He actually cared what women felt. On my first village play with him, the audience comprised only men. Bhaji asked them: ‘Where are the women, I have come for them. My real audience is missing.’ I realised someone is there fighting for us, for our honour and our place in the social set up which tries to exclude us. That gave me strength and courage.”Hailing from Amritsar, Kaur has spent 20 years of her life working with Doordarshan Jalandhar. She was among the iconic DD actors who won legendary status, earning a huge popularity among the state populace. She was a part of Doordarshan’s first ever serial, ‘Supne te Parchanve’. Jatinder Kaur and Harbhajan Jabbal were also the iconic couple and indispensable DD entertainers who churned out several hits. Starting with ‘Mennu Sunai Nahi Dinda’, they moved onto series such as ‘Surmai Shaam’, ‘Kach Diyan Mundran’, ‘Rang Birangi’, among others. People wrapped up their work early to get free to watch them on TV in the night. Such was their charisma that to this date, many mistake them for an actual couple.“I actually went to a live interview, carrying a portrait of my real husband to tell them who my husband is. Even now, sometimes people mistake Jabbal as my husband. At a recent film shoot, a board outside my vanity read ‘Madam Jatinder Jabbal’. I asked them who was that lady because my name is Jatinder Kaur,” she shares laughing.Her marriage to Surinder Singh also involved the role of theatre. “I played a courtesan in Gursharan bhaji’s play called ‘Maas Lai Lao Maas’. It was a hard-hitting play, aimed at niche audience of writers, intellectuals, academics, etc, and not everyone would understand it. I asked this guy I liked to watch it. I knew a conservative and narrow-minded man wouldn’t be able to sit through it. So if he got up, I’d know his character. But not only did he sit through it, he appreciated it. I went on to marry that man,” she shares.Though her in-laws never accepted her (they didn’t like her profession) and fiercely opposed the union, her husband has remained a constant support all through her career, backing her art.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjabi-tv-industrys-doyen-still-making-her-presence-felt-144359
21-09-2020||---||8 succumb, 197 test +ve in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20With 197 fresh cases, the Jalandhar district tally reached 11,350 on Sunday. With eight more deceased in Jalandhar, the toll also reached 318.4 deaths, 91 new cases in Hoshiarpur The reports of 773 Covid samples were received in the district on Sunday. With 91 fresh cases, the total number of positive patients has increased to 3,708. The Covid toll has also gone up to 118 with the death of four patients. As many as 87,810 samples have been collected till date of which 82,787 were negative, while the reports of 1,681 is awaited and 121 reports are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 981. As many as 2,609 patients have recovered from the disease. Hoshiarpur Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of 91 new patients detected in the district today, 39 were from Hoshiarpur city, while 52 belonged to other health blocks. The four persons who succumbed to the virus include a 63-year-old resident of New Shakti Nagar, Hoshiarpur, who died at home; a 66-year-old woman of Fatehgarh (Hoshiarpur), who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 58-year-old woman of Dhanedu village, who died at MH, Jalandhar; and a 67-year-old woman of Roop Nagar (Hoshiarpur), who died at Medical College, Amritsar. While 8,778 people have been discharged in the district, there are 2,256 active cases. Of the active cases, 1,809 people are under home isolation.Meanwhile, 40 positive cases of Covid and three deaths were reported in Kapurthala on Sunday. The deceased include 58-year-old woman from Mohalla Rishi Nagar, who died at her home in Sultanpur Lodhi; 55-year-old woman from Noorpur Lubana village, who died at military hospital Jalandhar; and 69-year-old woman from Ahmadpur Channa village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. So far, 2,761 positive cases have been reported in Kapurthala of which 673 are active, 1,786 have recovered and as many as 84 people have been discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-succumb-197-test-ve-in-jalandhar-144360
21-09-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers vent out their anger, burn Modi govt’s effigies||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-vent-out-their-anger-burn-modi-govts-effigies-144361
21-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Rs2.06 crore fine  collected for not wearing masks||Jalandhar, September 20As many as 42,602 people have been challaned for not wearing face masks in the city in the past six months and an amount of Rs2.06 crore has been collected as fine from violators till Sunday.Face masks were made compulsory for everyone in the city on April 10 and not wearing one was made a punishable offence.Apart from police personnel, the administration also authorised all sector magistrates, tehsildars, naib tehsildars, BDPOs and executive officers of Municipal Committees to challan residents for violation of the guidelines issued under the Epidemic Disease Act.Urging people to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the state government to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said: “Violators of the guidelines are being dealt with strictly.”“The police commissionerate has already intensified drive against such violators. Till September 20, as many as 42,602 people were challaned for not wearing masks under the Mission Fateh initiated by the CM. A fine of Rs2.06 crore was collected from them since March 23,” he said.“Besides, a fine of Rs4, 88,000 has been imposed on 238 people till Sunday for violating social distancing norms. Fortyseven violators of home quarantine instructions have paid Rs88,000 as fine. As many as 454 persons paid Rs 1,16,600 as fine for spitting in public places. In all, 61,290 challans have been issued to violators and 2,491 vehicles impounded,” the CP said.“Fine worth Rs1, 77,000 was imposed on 87 overloaded four-wheelers and Rs20,500 on 38 overloaded autos,” the CP said, adding that on Sunday, 136 challans were issued and 168 persons without mask were challaned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs2-06-crore-fine-collected-for-not-wearing-masks-144362
21-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Kusum’s bravery pushed her coach to train more girls for self-defence||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20On August 31 last month, Kusum Kumari, a 15-year-old girl made headlines all across the nation with her act of bravery. She not only gave a befitting reply to two miscreants who tried to steal her phone, but also got her phone back, eventually leading to their arrest. While people from all over the country were praising her courage to fight back snatchers, despite being attacked several times, she said, the spunk to defend herself was instilled in her through the martial arts techniques that she learnt from her coach at school.As a consequence of Kusum’s fearlessness, her coach, Vishal Kumar is now providing free self-defence training to meritorious and under-privileged girls. He says after he learnt about Kusum taking down two snatchers, just because she thought that she could fight back and save herself, he couldn’t imagine the entire episode.“After I watched the video of the entire incident, I was surprised. I couldn’t believe Kusum would do it, as she never attended martial arts classes at the school. As she was afraid of me, she used to watch self-defence sessions through windows of the practice hall. Hiding herself from everyone, she apparently learnt the most precious lesson. Before making students learn self-defence techniques, I focus primarily on getting the fear out of them. Coping with our fears is the first and the basic step prior to mastering self-defense. Kusum did the same. When she was at the hospital, healing from her injuries, she told me that she wasn’t scared at all while fighting snatchers. It pushed me to train more and more people, especially girls, who were exposed to several crimes,” said Vishal.A physical education teacher at Lala Jagat Narain School, Vishal started his self-defense classes at Sewa Sadan in Mahiran gate.“After taking the permission from my school authorities, I started training children recently. My aim is to train a large number of people in self-defence and martial arts. I wanted to empower them to defend themselves, their friends and family from any kind of abuse or attack,” said Vishal.People of all age groups are welcome to take classes and women are also offered free yoga sessions at the Sewa Sadan. The classes are conducted in morning and evening sessions. Due to the spread of Covid-19, proper care is also being taken in classes. “Though we are charging nominal fee from those who can pay, to bear the infrastructure expenses, meritorious girls are being offered free classes. As we are aware of the background of the children, we don’t insist that they practice their lessons wearing traditional karate robes. They are only asked to wear comfortable clothes. My previous students, who took training from me also instruct and motivate children for self-defence,” Vishal said. Kusum nominated for National Bravery Award Jalandhar: To ensure national honour to the 15-year old braveheart Kusum, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has sent her name for the national bravery award that is given by the Indian Council for Child Welfare every year to honour exemplary acts of bravery. The council recognises a few acts of bravery every year based on recommendations made by district magistrates after due analysis. This year, Kusum’s name was sent by the administration for the award, as she foiled a snatching attempt despite sustaining injuries and took down one of the snatchers. Thori said Kusum has become an idol for girls and deserves a special recognition for her act of bravery. He said the district administration had already honoured her with financial assistance for study and an appreciation letter. Notably, Kusum, a student of Class VIII from Lala Jagat Narayan DAV Model School, on August 30, 2020, faced two bike-borne snatchers, who tried to snatch her mobile phone, which was given to her by her brother to attend online classes. The snatchers attacked her with a sharp weapon injuring Kusum’s wrist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kusums-bravery-pushed-her-coach-to-train-more-girls-for-self-defence-144363
21-09-2020||Do you think the current wedding trend should continue even post-Covid?||Wedding trend has transformed radically, should continue||Social movement is need of the hourReducing the capacity of guests in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak is a good decision of the Punjab Government. Though it’s a temporary decision, its outcome is encouraging in a state where big fat wedding is a common feature. Lots of money is spent to solemnise weddings. Once the pandemic is tackled, Punjabis will be back to merry making. In certain scenarios, people take loan on exorbitant interest rates to organise big events. It is a classic case of peer pressure and outdoing neighbours to show their superiority. However, livelihood of lakhs of people is directly and indirectly attached with wedding industry. Thus there should be no curbs on celebrations once the life gets back to normal. A social movement should be started to make people aware of not spending too much on wedding of their kids. Forcible implementation won’t bring any positive result.JS WadhwaMicro weddings should be new normalCovid-19 outbreak and imperative lockdown has not only radically transformed wedding trends in the country, but have also hit the entire sector, including planners, caterers, jewellers, hospitality, catering, florists, disc jockeys, and transporters. The pandemic has proved out to be a dampener for high class and a blessing in disguise for the middle class. Apprehensive about safety, some couples have postponed or cancelled their weddings till the situation improves, while others have decided to move ahead with limited guests and celebrations. They have either swapped the traditional customs with online ceremonies or have chosen simple marriage in the august company of their family members. It is good that big fat Punjabi weddings lasting for days — pre-wedding photography, band, massive crowd, cocktails and dance events — have taken a back seat. Social distancing norm will certainly impact India’s traditional wedding scene in the future as well. One hopes that micro weddings become a new normal in the post-Covid-19 period. Endowed with a more practical outlook, youth should adopt a novel approach to wedding. Unlike the well-to-do who unabashedly indulge in an ostentatious display of wealth, taste and generosity as a sign of strength and prestige in society, families of brides and grooms should not succumb to societal pressure. Rather, they should opt for long-term investment plans to secure the future of their kids. This will provide relief to poor parents, who exhaust their lifetime savings or even take loans, which they keep on repaying for years.DS Kangsimple weddings should continueThe trend of simple wedding ceremonies in the wake of the pandemic is a heartening gesture in otherwise pensive scenario. Though we are facing unprecedented times due the Covid-19, yet there is a silver lining when it comes to micro weddings. What social movements and reformers could not achieve from a long period, the virus has done it within a short span of time. Even laws enacted to check wasteful expenditure on weddings failed to bring desired results. One can only hope that the current trend stays in our society even after the Covid-19 is tackled. Huge gatherings with unlimited expenditure on ceremonies have evolved into a social evil, which defies the basic spirit of marriage and oneness among couples.Jagdish ChanderYouth should shun lavish ceremoniesThe lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 contagion has changed the trend and put a brake on lavish weddings. It has happened for good as people waste money during marriages just to show their status in society. Wastage of food, water and noise pollution are some of the sad stories associated with big fat weddings. People who cannot afford lavish ceremonies often take loan or borrow money and as they fail to return the amount, their life becomes a nightmare and they crumble under pressure and mounting debt. Marriage is a lifelong commitment and money has no role to play in its success. Youth should come forward and pledge not to spend unnecessary on weddings. Simple weddings should be a common feature as restrictions on number of guests are for a limited time to curb the Covid-19 pandemic.Shashi Kiran QUESTIONThe three agricultural laws, which the Centre claims to be long-pending reforms, are being opposed by farmers. Do you think the farmers are justified and the Centre must have a rethink?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 24).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wedding-trend-has-transformed-radically-should-continue-144365
21-09-2020||---||‘Pash fought multiple wars and held protests with his pen’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20‘Kaviyan de siveyan ch dehekde angiar kade thande nahi hunde’ (embers burning bright in poets’ pyres never grow cold), said legendary poet Surjit Patar at the 32nd Pash Yadgari Sahitak Samagam (Pash Memorial Literary Event) held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall on Saturday. Poets, writers, intellectuals and eminent people participated in the poignant event held to pay tributes to the life and legend of poet Avtar Singh Pash amid the pandemic.With his poetry rendered even more topical and apt in the crisis of present time – warm tributes were paid and his memory and revolutionary poetry was fervently pondered upon by all who have been moved by his ever-contextual and valid concerns.Like many poets, whose verses and revolutionary songs of yore are chanted in various recent civil rights protests these days, Pash’s poetry has also seen a revival and heightened interest in the young.Prof Dr Surjit Bhatti, who retired from Punjabi University Patiala, while speaking on the topic ‘Pash Anthology and contemporary challenges’ said: “Son of the soil Pash and his entire life work, literary works, poetry and the terrible way he parted with the world is testimony to the fact that he lived and died as a loyal, solemn and warrior son of the creative, hard working class of society.”Dr Surjit Bhatti said our sensitivity as human beings was being choked for ages now. Pash’s iconic poem “Sabh ton Khatarnak Hunda Hai Saade Supneyan Da Mar Jana” (the death of our dreams is the gravest danger) understood this vicious attack on our being, ages ago.He said it was through his pen, that Pash fought multiple wars and held protests. “Like a coconut, he was hardened and confrontational for the black forces of society, but like the inside of a coconut, he was a pure, soft, considerate and healthy literary influence for the creative society,” he said.Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall general secretary Gurmeet Singh, senior Trustee Surinder Kumari Kochar, famous poet Surjit Patar, Dr Lakhwinder Johal and Pash Yadgaari Kaumantri Trust member Amolak Singh passed resolutions by raising hands that scholars, journalists, theatre persons, activists and social workers jailed in the country be released unconditionally. They also demanded that curbs on the freedom of expression and speech be removed and the sidelining of Punjabi language in various regions be stopped. The audience at the event also agreed to the support of farm stir against farm ordinances on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pash-fought-multiple-wars-and-held-protests-with-his-pen-144366
21-09-2020||Jalandhar||Week-long virtual PTM ends at govt schools||Virtual parents teachers meeting (PTM), underway at government schools across Punjab from September 14 to 20, concluded on Sunday.Ove 1 lakh schoolteachers from across the state interacted with parents of 20 lakh students of Classes I to XII, studying in 19,000 government schools. Teachers made phone calls, video calls and organised meetings on Zoom app to interact with parents to get their feedback in the wake of the pandemic.They also briefed them about the progress of their wards. In certain cases, especially those where parents did not have access to smartphones, PTMs were held at schools. Teachers also made parents aware about the Punjab Achievement Survey-cum-bimonthly test scheduled to be held from tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/week-long-virtual-ptm-ends-at-govt-schools-144367
21-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Cops solve murder, carjacking cases||Hoshiarpur, September 20The police claimed to have solve three cases of heinous crimes. Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said they have solved the murder case registered in Garhshankar, a case of attempt to murder lodged in Bullowal and a carjacking case registered in Hariana.In Bullowal, Avtar Singh and his brother Lovedeep Singh, both residents of Sikri village, were shot at. SP Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu found that notorius gangster Sandeep Kumar, alias Ravi Balachauria, was behind the incident. Balachauria was questioned and he confessed that he had asked Sunil Kumar, alias Monu Gujjar, a resident of Garhshankar; Paraminder, alias Vapari, a resident of Hajipur, Garhshankar; and Jasmeet Singh, alias Lucky, a resident of Raipur to fire on the duo.The police had detained Haramesh Lal, alias Lala, and Savraj, alias Sunny, on September 18 along with a .32 bore pistol and bullets. Cops found that the car used in the crime was stolen from Yamunanagar in Haryana, which was parked in Raipur village after the incident.Lala and Sunny were absconding in a case of strangling Jaspreet Kaur of Soli village. The police seized three pistols and a car from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-solve-murder-carjacking-cases-144368
21-09-2020||---||DC orders relaxations under Unlock 4.0||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, September 20In compliance with the state government’s directions issued on September 19 under Unlock 4, the district administration has ordered relaxations with effect from September 21, 2020 i.e. Monday.Issuing orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said relaxations would be applicable till September 30. In continuation with the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, additional restrictions in urban areas, including curfew on Sunday, will continue to be in operation.The orders mentioned that the students of Class IX to XII were permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers. This would be subject to written consent of their parents/guardians and would be permitted with effect from September 21, 2020, as per the SOP issued on September 8, 2020, by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Similarly, the skill or entrepreneurship training is also permitted in the National Skill Training Institute, Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), short-term training centres registered with National Skill Development Corporation or State Skill Development Missions or other union and state ministries. Likewise, the activities of National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development (NIESBUD), Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) and their training providers are also allowed.As per the orders, the online distance learning shall continue to be permitted and be encouraged. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will, however, continue to remain closed for students and regular classes.The orders further stipulated that 50 per cent of the teaching and non-teaching staff shall be allowed to be called to schools at a time for online teaching/ tele-counselling and related work in areas outside the containment zones only as per standard operating procedure issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on September 8, 2020.Higher educational institutions are allowed to open only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmers requiring laboratories/experimental works.The orders said open air theatres were permitted to open with social distancing and wearing of face masks/covers. However, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain closed.Curfew on sundays to continue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-orders-relaxations-under-unlock-4-0-144369
21-09-2020||---||Maize being sold at half MSP a slap on BJP’s face, says Cheema||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, September 20Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Leader of Opposition in Punjab Vidhan Sabha Harpal Singh Cheema asked the entire BJP leadership to find out the status of Doaba mandis, including Hoshiarpur, where the maize crop was being purchasedby private traders belowthe half minimum support price (MSP) of Rs1,870 per quintal announced by the government.Cheema said BJP MP from Hoshiarpur and Union Minister Som Prakash, instead of advocating anti-farmer black laws, should immediately resign from the Modi Cabinet and help Punjab and the farmers of Punjab.“Be prepared to stand by the farmers or face the wrath of people like Harsimrat Kaur Badal,” said Cheema.On Saturday, Harpal Singh Cheema accompanied by a delegation of AAP MLAs and leaders visited the Hoshiarpur grain market. Cheema said: “Farmers are forced to sell their maize crop at Rs650 to Rs1,200 per quintal, while the price of maize has been fixed at Rs1,870 per quintal. It’s a slap on the face of BJP leaders who are supporting the black agricultural laws.”Cheema and the MLAs said if Punjab BJP leaders did not oppose the anti-agriculture black laws, AAP would besiege the houses of Som Prakash, Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol and state BJP president Ashwani Sharma like the Badals.Cheema said despite the announcement of MSP, the plight of maize in Punjab mandis, including those of Doaba, was deteriorating. This is a warning to all, including the BJP, that if the three black laws on agriculture were passed in the parliament, the day was not far when wheat and paddy crops in Punjab and Haryana would be purchased arbitrarily by private traders at half the price despite the MSP’s announcement such as maize.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maize-being-sold-at-half-msp-a-slap-on-bjps-face-says-cheema-144370
21-09-2020||---||Network pushing arms into Punjab busted, 7 held||Jalandhar, September 20In a major breakthrough, the police have busted an inter-state network involved in pushing illegal arms and ammunition into Punjab with the arrest of seven members from various districts. As many as 12 .32 pistols and 15 live cartridges have also been seized.Weapons seizedThe accused have been identified as Suraj (21) of New Rajan Nagar, Jalandhar; Vijay Kumar (25) of Bhikha, Adampur; Jobanjeet Singh (22) of Arjan Maanga village, Amritsar; Sahil Saini (27) of Prem Nagar, Pathankot; Amritpal Singh (24) of Bhoma, Batala; Keshav Khera (23) of Hakimi Gate, Amritsar; and Harmandeep Singh (24) of Kheri Veer Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police started a probe after receiving information on September 9 regarding a person sustaining a bullet injury and undergoing treatment at a local hospital. The suspect was identified as Abhinav Misra of Pilibhit, UP.“During the investigation, it came to the fore that Suraj had opened fire on Misra from an illegal weapon due to personal enmity. Following leads, the police nabbed Suraj, who told interrogators he along with Misra had been illegally pushing arms and ammunition into Punjab from Indore (MP).After subsequent investigation, the police busted the network and seized 12 pistols and live cartridges besides arresting their accomplices from Batala, Amritsar, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib, Bhullar added.A case under Sections 307 and 188 of the IPC; 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act; 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act; and 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered.Vijay Kumar is already facing eight criminal cases, while Suraj, Jobanpreet and Keshav Arora were facing two cases each.Bhullar said he would recommend DGP’s coveted Disc Award for the team of CIA-1 headed by Harwinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/network-pushing-arms-into-punjab-busted-7-held-144097
21-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Amid losses, Kapurthala's science city all set to unveil section dedicated to Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Closed since March 18, the Pushpa Gujral Science City at Kapurthala is all set to showcase an exhibit on Covid once it reopens.With an average footfall of 3 to 3.5 lakh visitors annually, the science city has incurred losses to the tune of Rs 2 crore during the pandemic. However, to make up for the losses and to revive the passion for sciences among young visitors, the science city is all set to introduce a special section on Covid.The 250 sq m exhibit, coming up at a cost of Rs 70 lakh, shall feature the history of Covid-19 and all pandemics. It shall also feature a special section on Covid symptoms, its transmission and prevention, history of all major pandemics on earth, the lifecycle of the virus, causes of its emergence, interactive sessions on myths and facts and information on the vaccine trials.The science city, spread across 72 acres, is among the three science cities set up across the country. It is still lying closed. The science city authorities have written to the state and the Centre on the issue.Neeliam Jairath, Director General, science city, said: “We have had operational losses of Rs 2 crore during the pandemic. We have written to the Union Secretary for Science and Technology as well as the state government to be allowed to function whenever possible as per Covid norms. We have a marketing team, which will be approaching people so that more visitors can come in once it opens. We have intimated them that we shall operate as per Covid norms and shall conduct organised tours. The proposal for the Covid gallery is expected to liven things up once the science city opens.”Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, science city, said: “Our motive is to spread information about Covid so that students become advocates for disease prevention. The section shall detail a history of all communicable diseases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-losses-kapurthalas-science-city-all-set-to-unveil-section-dedicated-to-covid-144100
21-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Needy kids get wings, lay eyes on making it big in football||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20After losing his father, Arjun discontinued his studies in Class V and joined his mother in playing ‘dhol’ at marriages to lend a helping hand to the family. Now 14, he is a promising football player.Arjun, along with several other children who have suffered in their lives, have been brought together under one platform — Principal Harbhajan Singh Training Centre, Barian Kalan in Jalandhar. The training centre was started with one mission, to not let young children get indulged in drugs and instead, make them adopt sports and channelise their energy. One doesn’t expect these small kids, who hardly have televisions at their homes, to even know of any international players. They do not have enough money to afford a diet and football kit for them, but ask them who they adore in the game and they name their favourite players — Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.Daughter of daily wagers, Sonia (10) is the only girl among 50 boys at the centre. She is a Class VI student. Ask her who her favorite player is and comes a prompt reply, “Ronaldo”. She is an ardent fan of the Portugese player and idolises him.Karan is another player whose mother is the only breadwinner in the house. He aspires to become an Army officer, for which he has taken up the sport. His only pair of worn out shoes injured his foot recently, but he carried on with the practice without any break.The talent of these young kids has been recognised by former BSF football coach Suraj Bhan Handa. It was his view to start the training centre. “These small kids have a lot of talent in them. I just didn’t want them to lose their way because of problems and absence of proper direction. We,” Handa said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/needy-kids-get-wings-lay-eyes-on-making-it-big-in-football-144106
