22-09-2020||Stories that inspire||This artiste believes theatre will have a bustling audience post Covid||Aparna BanerjiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21Before Covid came, shows of YUVAA theatre group ran packed to capacity. The group earned as audience paid for tickets to watch shows, which was a huge feat for a theatre outfit in a city like Jalandhar.But six months into the lockdown and the interest in video and web platforms is already veering off.Amid existential dread setting in with continuous increase in cases and no let-up in the Covid crisis, theatre artistes hold on to shreds of inspirations available around them in hope that they will finally get an opportunity to vent dialogues they have been rehearsing once the restrictions are eased.Prof Ankur Sharma, founder of YUVAA theatre group, and an actor, director and artiste says he had plays lined up for World Theatre Day, Punjab Rang Utsav in April and the upcoming Rang Mahotsav in October — all of which had to be cancelled during the coronavirus pandemic.Having exhausted web resources, the theatrist is spending the pandemic holding Zoom rehersals with his team to keep brushing up their craft, reading new scripts, staying with family and working on his new play “Chidiya Ghar”, which he plans to stage once the pandemic is over. He believes theatre will have a bustling audience post Covid.In the day he attends to his duties as a lecturer at a local college, but spends his leisure time reading books to his son, playing casio, flute and drums with him. He has also taken online courses in screenwriting.“Life has changed for theatre artistes as the only places they used to frequent before the pandemic are now out of bounds. All our rehearsal spaces are public areas. The Sehgal Memorial Hall and the auditorium where we performed, are all closed due to Covid. We can’t gather at a house because of fear of infecting our family members,” said Prof Sharma.“There are times when we say to each other, Will we ever recite a dialogue again?” Prof Sharma added.“Theatre is all about action. You can’t theorise it. During Covid we tried shifting to the digital medium. But we are missing telling our stories. We miss the connect with hundreds of audience and emoting for them, who are intently watching us,” said Prof Sharma.“We tried reading plays online, but its not the same. Digital platforms are extremely competitive. In the beginning of the lockdown we were all upbeat and happy and did several screenings on web platforms. Two of our plays ‘Ishq Remix’ and ‘Bicchoo’ featured on the Book My Show web theatre slot. We also did live rehearsals, readings, plays etc. on Zoom and posted videos on Youtube and Facebook. I have also participated in webinars. But theatre doesn’t manifest aptly on web. We’ve realised web portals aren’t the best idea,” Prof Sharma added.Are mental health issues a concern among actors too? Yes an existential crisis has set in. Everyday a friend from Mumbai says they are quitting the city of dreams. Theatre like the film industry is among the worst affected industries. While we were upbeat in the beginning there are moments now when I wonder whether the actor in me will die. We dread if we will begin forgetting our lines, lose our craft and get out of touch. Many actors are already leaving theatre. Intriguingly some are also contacting us that they want to work in theatre. We keep mouthing dialogues, saying our lines, reading and engaging with plays and scripts to keep the fire burning...What’s the silver lining? ...We continue practicing even in adverse circumstances because I believe we will have a better audience once Covid is over. One of the advantages of the pandemic is that people are already getting sick of binge watching OTT platforms. Their eyes and minds are tired. So, I think believe people will be all the more interested in threatre after Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-artiste-believes-theatre-will-have-a-bustling-audience-post-covid-144669
22-09-2020||---||Vigilance nabs ASI for taking bribe of Rs 4,000||Jalandhar, September 21 The district Vigilance Bureau on Monday nabbed an ASI red-handed while accepting bribe of Rs4,000. A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, as amended by PC (amendment) Act, 2018, was registered against the cop, who was identified as Davinder Kumar. He was presently posted at city police station, Hoshiarpur.  An official spokesperson of the Vigilance Bureau, Punjab, said the ASI was arrested on the complaint of Deepak Nakhwal of Committee Bazaar, Hoshiarpur city. The complainant had informed the VB that he was running a lottery shop and the police official was demanding bribe of Rs4,000 to release his worker from police custody.        After verifying his information, a vigilance team from Jalandhar range laid a trap and the ASI was arrested on the spot while accepting bribe of Rs4,000 from the complainant in the presence of two official witnesses. He said a case was registered against him at the VB police station, Jalandhar, and further investigation was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vigilance-nabs-asi-for-taking-bribe-of-rs-4-000-144670
22-09-2020||---||65-yr-old man shot dead||Jalandhar, September 21A 65-year-old man was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne men outside Singh Sabha Gurdwara at Jamsher Khas village on Monday. The incident was reported around 6 am, when the deceased, identified as Maan Singh Rana, a former sarpanch of the village, was on his way to the gurdwara to pay obeisance.SI Kamaljit Singh, SHO Sadar police station, said: “As per the locals, the accused were waiting for Rana, nearly at a distance of around 600-800 m, while he was on his way to the gurdwara. The accused also engaged in a heated argument with the victim before firing the bullets on him. The deceased was shot on his chest, shoulder and left knee from a very close range.” After hearing the gunshots, locals reached the spot and rushed him to a nearby hospital. He, however, died on the way to the hospital.ADCP city-2 Ashwani Kumar said as per the initial investigation, it came to the fore that the victim had enmity with a father-son duo of the same village. Rana had also registered an attempt to murder case against the accused around 10 years ago. Subsequently, both groups were fighting for a long time, and recently also, as per the claims of the victim’s family, the father-son duo, who are on bail had reportedly threatened them. A murder case was registered against the two suspected men of the village.The cops are verifying the CCTV footage of the nearby areas to identify the accused. This is reportedly the third illegal firing incident in the recent past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/65-yr-old-man-shot-dead-144671
22-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Lab employee among three held for loot||The police have solved the recent Rs1.2-lakh loot incident at Sharma Laboratory on Dangana Road, with the arrest of three persons, including a woman employee of the lab. A sum of Rs94,950 was recovered from them.  Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said a case under Sections 379 B of the IPC was registered on September 16. During probe, it came out that Preeti of Model Town conspired to loot the money with her accomplices Harjinder Singh, alias Kaka, of Model Town and Ranjit Singh, of Dagauri Beet in  Garhshankar, presently residing at city’s Shanti Nagar mohalla.   A team under SP (investigation) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu, DSP Jagdish Attri and SHO Model Town Manmohan Kumar was formed. They got a clue from mobile phone records of the lab employees, which helped. It came out that Preeti had called the other suspects when the lab owner was not there and after-half they committed the crime.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lab-employee-among-three-held-for-loot-144672
22-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj---||This athlete is stitching footballs to help his family||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, September 21 A state-level medallist in open athletics championship is stitching footballs these days to extend a helping help to his family.  Sixteen-year-old Ashish Kumar is a talented athlete, who apart from studying, is practising hard to perform well in sports. Not only this, he is stitching footballs so that he can help his father and mother in running the house. Ashish Kumar’s father is a factory worker, who goes to work for three days a week because of the pandemic and Ashish’s mother also works in the same factory. When she gets back home, she stitches footballs and Ashish joins her. This young and talented athlete said he started stitching footballs to remove the burden and pressure off his parents’ minds. “I love playing and want to become a great athlete, but at the same time, I know my responsibilities as well. Being their elder son, I have to work and earn for my family too,” he said. Sunil Kamboj, Ashish’s coach, is all praise for him. “He is a dedicated player. There are problems in the family but still, Ashish never lets any problem come his way. Players always need a good diet, but such players, who belong to economically weak families, always suffer and hardly get a proper diet. But I make sure I help them in whichever way possible,” the coach said. Ashish’s mother Prem Shila Devi said she was thankful to the people around her, as they helped her family a lot amid the pandemic. “Ashish’s coach, and our factory owner, make sure we are never without ration. Sunil sir is like a blessing for us. Not once did I face any ration problem in our home,” the mother said, adding that she wanted her son to rise in life and would do anything for him. “Even when Ashish was small, he would help me in stitching footballs. But then, I never allowed him, because I didn’t want him to work, but now, he doesn’t stop and tries to reduce my burden,” Shila said. Recently, Ashish’s father had also purchased a second hand phone from one of his friends for his online studies. Ashish said the seller had asked his father to pay money in instalments. “We have got it for Rs3,500. But now, at least I will be able to study properly,” Kumar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-athlete-is-stitching-footballs-to-help-his-family-144673
22-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Not satisfied with RAT? Go for RT-PCR||Hoshiarpur, September 21According to the government’s instructions, if people with suspected flu-like symptoms are found to be negative in rapid antigen test, then their RT-PCR test will also be done so that the disease can be tested properly. Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said this order had been issued by the government for the correct identification of Covid-19 patients.He said with 1,507 new samples of patients with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples in the district has increased to 89,317. According to the reports received from the lab, 84,456 samples are negative, while 1,436 reports are awaited and 121 are invalid. The number of deaths so far is 120.The total number of patients has increased to 3,795 with 87 new positive cases and the number of active cases is 825 while 2,852 have recovered. Today, 20 new cases have been found in Hoshiarpur city while 67 cases are related to other health blocks. Of the two deaths on Monday, the 70-year-old Meerapur Talwandi Dandian resident died in a private hospital in Jalandhar, while the 40-year-old Salwara resident died on the way after being referred to a specialty hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-satisfied-with-rat-go-for-rt-pcr-144674
22-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||After 6 months, schools open in Jalandhar for teachers with 50 pc limit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21Free online classes for girlsIn order to ensure free online coaching to promising and deserving girls to prepare them for competitive exams under 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' campaign, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori on Monday inaugurated the courses in the District Administrative Complex here. He said as many as 150 girls had registered themselves for the course in which they would be taught by experts virtually daily.After a gap of six months, the school managements were allowed to call 50 per cent staff. Both in primary and secondary schools, the teachers were going for office works, but not on a regular basis. District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said there was no such data available on how much staff attended the schools, but he said the principals had to make the decision on the number of staff members they wanted on their premises.“The students are allowed to take guidance from teachers only after the their parents’ consent,” he said.Gurinderjit Kaur, Principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, said she had not called 50 per cent staff. “We have been instructed that we can call a maximum of 50 per cent of our staff, but I didn’t feel the need to call 50 per cent. Teachers will come according to the work. Books have arrived and the teachers will distribute books among the students tomorrow,” she said.Khushdeep Kaur, Principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Adarsh Nagar, said the teachers were already coming for work. “Since the authorities have allowed 50 per cent staff, I have asked other teachers to come and complete their pending works,” Kaur said. The students who are interested to come to the school have been asked to take consent from their parents. Looking at the strength of the students, teachers will be called, she said.PSA begins, teachers visit students’ homesThe much-awaited Punjab Assessment Survey (PSA) started on Monday. The teachers from rural areas also visited their students’ homes to ensure they had been taking the test. One of the teachers from Lohian block said he visited around 20 homes just to make sure that there was 100 per cent attendance.“I found out that some of the students were even not home. They at their relative’s places. Then I told their parents that they must take the test. This is what we did today,” he said. According to principals, some of the parents are labourers who come home late so students have to wait to take the test. So, the teachers, the students, and the parents, everyone remained on tenterhooks the whole day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-6-months-schools-open-in-jalandhar-for-teachers-with-50-pc-limit-144675
22-09-2020|| ---||Cong hold protest against farm Bills||Jalandhar, September 21  Farmers, political parties and various outfits organised protests against the farm ordinances here on Monday.   District Congress Committee head Baldev Singh Dev and Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri led the protest against the Modi government at the Centre.  Congress workers raised slogans against the Prime Minister and burnt his effigy on the occasion.   MLA Rajinder Beri said: “The Bills discriminate against farmers and open ways to ensure their exploitation”. Beri said the SAD was also shedding crocodile tears on the entire fiasco. They said Harsimrat Badal should have resigned when cabinet meeting was being held on the issue. This was not a time to tender resignation. He said the Congress stood behind farmers on the issue and woukld intensify the agitation in the coming days.   Salwinder Singh, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee along with various farmers held protests at Jania village. He said the farmers would oppose the Bill till it was withdrawn.   At Jalapur Khurd village, farmers protest against the Bills and burnt effigies of former  Cabinet Minister Harsimrat Badal and the Modi government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-hold-protest-against-farm-bills-144676
22-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Rayat Bahra inks pact with Canadian college||Hoshiarpur, September 21 Rayat Bahra Educity, Hoshiarpur, has inked a pact with Eton College in Canada, wherein students would spend two years at Rayat Bahra campus and two years abroad. A unique feature of the programme is that students can begin their programme at Eton College, India (Rayat Bahra campus), and save 60 per cent money in the first two years. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, chairman, Rayat Bahra Group said it’s a joint venture between Rayat Bahra Educity and Eton College, Canada.  He said students would spend two years at Eton College India campus and two years at City University, Capilano University, Royal Roads University and Vancouver Community College.  The programme would be supervised by faculty of the Eton College, Canada, and students would be eligible for post graduation work permit in Canada after completion of their degree. Dr Chander Mohan, director, Rayat Bahra Educity, said curriculum and evaluation would be monitored by Eton College faculty. The first batch would have only 30 seats and a single window facility for admissions, immigration and visa has been started at Rayat Bahra campus in Mohali and Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rayat-bahra-inks-pact-with-canadian-college-144677
22-09-2020|| ---||Pensioners’ hunger strike enters Day 4||Jalandhar, September 21  The hunger strike of the members of Punjab UT Employees’ and Pensioners’ Joint Front entered its fourth day on Monday.  They are protesting against the government for allegedly ignoring their demands. The protesters raised slogans in front of the DC office.  Thirteen employees of the Punjab Subordinate Services Association have been sitting on dharna since long. Those on hunger strike include Karnail Phillaur, president, Ram Pal Mahe; Jasvir Singh, Angrez Singh; Boota Ram Akalpur; Bal Krishan; Kulwant Ram Rurka and Mangat Ram Samra among others.  The protesters said despite repeated reminders, the government did not fulfil its poll promises. They said it had not regularised the services of contractual employees, implemented the pay commission report and the old pension scheme. Besides, they demanded the release of DA installments.  They said despite repeated reminders the government had remained unresponsive. The protesters said they were standing behind the farmers on the issue of agri ordinances.  They said if the government did not accede to their demands the association would begin ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ from October 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pensioners-hunger-strike-enters-day-4-144678
22-09-2020||---||Patients weren’t dumped, allegations baseless: Report||Jalandhar, September 21A report, which has been submitted by the Director, Heath Services (ESI), to the Principal Secretary in response to the inquiry into the ESI Hospital patients being dropped near Domoria Bridge, fails to raise questions or hold the staff accountable for any lapse at the hospital. It rather calls the allegations “baseless”.The report, filed on the basis of MS, ESI Hospital, Loveleen Garg’s response, claims the 60-year-old man left with the help of a woman whose son was also admitted to the hospital. The report claims he sat in an auto-rickshaw along with a younger patient and his friends and all of them decided to go to Bihar. Both patients went in the same auto, reached the site on the night of September 16 and came back to the hospital on September 17. The report says their treatment was promptly taken up.While 60-year-old Raju is unable to sit, the report mentions him sitting in an auto and also contradicts the statements made by him in an interview with The Tribune. Raju (who is unable to sit due to sores on his back) along with Bikram was found “dumped” on a roadside. The report doesn’t question why a patient, who left willingly, didn’t even take his catheter off. It also mentions that the younger patient’s age is 20 and his name is Manoj.The report claims, “The elder patient (Raju), who was admitted to the hospital since July 31, 2020, was found missing from his bed on September 16 and was declared “not on bed” by the staff. The patient turned up outside the emergency ward at 11 pm on the night of September 17. When asked about his whereabouts, the patient said he was made to board an auto by a woman at the hospital whose son was a patient and he was left outside a ‘raen basera’.”Loveleen Garg has formed a committee to look into the matter. Responding to the repeated change in names and the catheter still being attached to the patient, she said, “I have no idea why the patient did not take off his catheter. None of the hospital staff was involved in the duo leaving the premises. The elder patient repeatedly changed his name and statement several times and is adamant on going home even today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patients-werent-dumped-allegations-baseless-report-144724
