23-09-2020||Jalandhar||Weapon, heroin seized from Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi, two held||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/weapon-heroin-seized-from-maqsudan-sabzi-mandi-two-held-145424
23-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Beware of fake mobile apps that claim to check your blood oxygen level||Jalandhar, September 22Modus operandiOnce you click on a link that has been attached below the message that reads “App for oximeter, blood pressure and heart rate, give permission of camera on app to measure now”, it will take you to Google Play Store and once it is installed, it will say ‘Press camera allow button’.After that, it will say click on ‘data’ option, and then click on ‘oxygen’, following that select, ‘mobile measurement’ and press the index finger on the rear camera.Touch ‘measure’ option; hold the finger until measurement is complete. Reading will display on the screen. (Note: While it shows the reading, it means, your phone is being hacked).If you happen receive a forwarded WhatsApp message asking you to download an app from the Google Playstore that can check your blood oxygen level using your mobile’s rear camera, then beware!It’s most likely a phishing attack to hijack your biometric as well other confidential data from your cellphone.As per information, a viral message, which reads “Every one please install an app and measure oxygen level daily in this corona time and if oxygen level falls below 90 please consult a doctor immediately. App for oximeter, blood pressure and heart rate, give permission of camera to measure on app” has been making rounds on social media and people are falling prey to it, which they unknowingly consider as a cheaper option for the oximeter.However, the truth is that the claims made by these applications are unrealistic in nature and completely void. Throwing light upon the issue, Cyber Security Researcher, Palvinder Singh, CEO and founder of Secuneus Technologies, here, said fraudsters from announcing unbelievable discounts on online purchases to winning a jackpot worth crores to deferring of EMIs, keep finding new ways as per the trend to dupe people.“As doctors these days, due to the rise in the number of Covid cases, have been advising people to check their oxygen saturation level on a daily basis to stay safe, therefore, this latest oximeter app thing is nothing but an attempt by cybercriminals to take advantage of innocent people and steal their confidential data,” he said. He said this scam was first reported in Mangaluru in Karnataka and then there were reports that in Kolkata several WhatsApp users ended up compromising with their data security by sharing sensitive biometric data such as fingerprints after installing the app.“There has been no victim of this cybercrime in Punjab, so far, but yes, some people in the city claimed to have received this forwarded message,” he said. On possible risks it possesses Palvinder said biometric data such as fingerprints that are used for e-wallet transactions and as an alternative to passwords and screen lock could be misused. Besides, there is also a threat of personal photos and data being stolen, as it asks for storage and gallery permissions during installation, he said, adding that such apps can also read the SMS inbox that has the bank account transaction alerts.Necessary precautionsIn mobile, fingerprint scanners alone can never calculate oxygen level, thus, any such app which claims to measure oxygen level by camera or fingerprint scanner, consider it fake. Always verify and install apps after verifying the developer, ratings, reviews, bugs and total downloads before installing an app. “In case you are not able to recognise if it’s a fake app and you end up installing it, then while you are in the process to check your oxygen level, make sure you do not give permission to share your location, SMS, call log or camera access, as all these permissions are never required for an oxygen measuring app,” said Palvinder Singh.Govt’s warningLast week, the cybersecurity handle of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, on Twitter had warned users not to install fake oximeter mobile apps from any links they may have received over email, SMS or social media. “... these apps may steal your personal or biometric data from your mobile phone,” it said in the tweet.Is there an app that checks o2 level?Palvinder Singh says there are inbuilt health apps in branded cell phones that have a special sensor placed (in picture) next to its rear camera that is capable of measuring oxygen saturation. However, if you ask about those apps that claim to monitor oxygen level using fingerprint or camera, then that’s most likely fake.Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, Indian Medical Association, Punjab unit, emphasised the fact that oxygen measuring devices such as oximeters have advanced with time. “Also, there are health apps in various smartphones and iphones, which help measure oxygen level. However, verifying the authenticity of such apps is a cumbersome task,” he said, adding that it seems cybercriminals were exploiting the prevailing atmosphere of fear to target online users with malicious links and applications aimed at stealing personal information, thus, people need to be very careful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beware-of-fake-mobile-apps-that-claim-to-check-your-blood-oxygen-level-145173
23-09-2020||---||Amid contagion, 600 students give CBSE compartment exams in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 22Around 600 students of Class X and Class XII appeared for the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE’s) compartment exams on Tuesday.Class X students had social science exam, while Class XII students had economics, accountancy, physical education, physics, maths, history and biology exam.Examination centres were set up at MGN School, Adarsh Nagar; Police DAV School; Innocent Hearts School, Green Model Town; Apeejay School; and Mahavir School. Nearly 1,900 students have registered to appear for compartment exams, which will be conducted till September 30.The CBSE ensured that the Covid guidelines were followed at the examination centres. Only 12 students were seated in a class, which had two invigilators.KS Randhawa, principal, MGN School, said prior to exam, principals were given a list of do’s and don’ts in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.“Apart from social distancing, masks and sanitisers were made available. We had set up two isolation wards, so that students with medical issues could give their exams. Only 12 students were allowed to sit in a class after maintaining a distance of 2 metres. Students with normal body temperature were allowed to enter the centre,” said Randhawa. A total of 127 students of Class XII and five students of Class X appeared for the exams at MGN School. Rashmi Viz, principal, Police DAV School, said 152 students appeared for the exams.Rajeev Palliwal, principal, Innocent Hearts School, said 126 students from Class XII and six from Class X turned up for their compartment exams. Around six police personnel were deployed outside each exam centre. Most of the students were accompanied by their parents and guardians.Students stressed outRishak Arora, who had appeared for his accountancy exam said, “Paper was tough as compared to the last year. Questions were tricky, however, I am hopeful of clearing the exam. Our only concern is that exams are being conducted on a very short notice.”He said the CBSE itself didn’t follow the rule of informing students about compartment exams around a month ago. After the Supreme Court’s judgment, we had only 15 days to prepare for the exam and I was stressed out throughout the preparation, he said.Harshpal Singh, who had appeared for economics exam said, “Due to delay in the exam, we almost forgot the syllabus. We should have been informed about the exams a month ago.”Meanwhile, Class X students hailed the examination pattern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-contagion-600-students-give-cbse-compartment-exams-in-jalandhar-145174
23-09-2020||Stories that inspire||They are churning out wrestlers for national, int’l tourneys since 2001||Aakanksha N BhardwajTribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 22Jagjit Wrestling Academy in Wariana recognises talented players. The academy has prepared several players, who have performed at national as well as international level. Most of the players who have been getting training at the academy belong to the economically backward families, but their dreams are big enough to not let any problem come their way.Hall of fameThe idea of training children was given by former international player Jagjit Singh, who is now posted as ADCP (Headquarters) Jalandhar. There are total 200 players taking training at the academy at present.Rajinder Singh, the coach associated with the academy since it’s inception, said it was in 2001, when children from villages were called and given training.“There used to be an akhara near a crematorium then and I used to give training to around 30 young children. There were no mats back then, we would play on soil. But then Jagjit sir saw that the players were performing well in the game and in 2014, a proper academy was established at Wariana and since then there has been no looking back. We are growing,” he said. Until October 2016, only boys were taught wrestling, but it was only after Sakshi Malik won RIO Olympics, that the need to start wrestling for girls was finally taken into consideration. Today, there are several girls training at the academy.The coach said to ensure that no young child falls prey to drugs the academy was started so that they could channel their energy in the right direction.Be it daughters of labourers, marginal farmers and daily wagers, the girls are practicing really hard to become star wrestlers one day. Prabhjot Kaur (13), a gold medallist, is enthusiastic about the game.Amarpreet of the district is another wonder, who has already won seven medals and is polishing her skills. Daughter of a marginal farmer, Harpreet Kaur, is another wrestler, who had won a gold in the National School Games held last year. And, there are several other girls, who have been making their parents proud by winning medals. Coaches at the academy are proud of their students. Mandeep Sharma, an international coach, said they used to practise two times a day — in the morning and evening — before the pandemic.“Refreshments and uniform were also given by the academy itself to the players, who have played at the state and national levels,” he said.Another coach Dev Anand also joined the academy a year ago. There is some help from the Sports Department, as wrestling mats and gym facilities have been provided by the department.Many players from the academy have already played nationals and many have also been posted in the Punjab Police and paramilitary forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/they-are-churning-out-wrestlers-for-national-intl-tourneys-since-2001-145175
23-09-2020||---||Jalandhar district reports 11 deaths, 69 +ve cases||Jalandhar, September 22As many as 69 people tested positive and 11 people died due to Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday. While the district Covid tally reached 11,630, the death toll also reached the 323 mark.Jalandhar round-upSo far, 8,919 patients have been discharged and 1,724 have been placed under home isolation in the district.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, two people died and 48 tested positive on Tuesday. The deceased include a 70-year-old man from Talwandi Chaudhrian, who died at a private hospital; and a 65-year-old patient from Kamrai village, who died at Military Hospital, Jalandhar. Those tested positive in Kapurthala include residents of Thapar Colony (JCT mills), Mehtan, Domeli, Chachoki, Fattu Dhinga, Dhaliwal Dona, Noorpur Dona, Janian Chahal, Kakar Kalan, Mehtan, Chahal Nagar, Plahi Gatem Pjagwara, Industrial Area Phagwara, Preet Nagar, Sherghar and Khanawal Rajapur among other areas.One dies, 97 test positive in HoshiarpurWith 97 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday, the total number of patients has increased to 3,892. With the death of a 66-year-old patient from Randhawa, who died at MH Jalandhar, the death toll also increased to 121.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said the total number of samples taken in the district has reached 90,939 with 1,622 new samples taken by people with suspected flu-like symptoms. According to the report received from the lab, 85,990 reports were negative, while 1,428 were awaited and 121 were invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 874 and 2,891 patients have recovered from the virus so far. The Civil Surgeon said out of 97 positive cases found in the district on Tuesday, 46 cases belonged to Hoshiarpur city, while 51 cases were related to other health blocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-11-deaths-69-ve-cases-145177
23-09-2020|| ---||Recycling plant helps students earn while they learn||Jalandhar, September 22 As various initiatives are being taken under “My waste my responsibility” campaign, launched by the Health and Sanitation Department of the Municipal Corporation, people from several institutions and organisations are coming forward to join hands with the civic body for judicious treatment of waste.  In one such initiative, the paper recycling plant at HMV College is serving as an effective model of the campaign. The recycling unit converts waste paper into coloured sheets that are further used for making office files, greeting cards, envelopes and decorative papers. Teachers, who operate machine said, the recycling unit was installed on the college premises around three years ago.  Anjana, a college teacher, said, “The machine recycles waste paper, cardboards, denim and stationery. Many recycled products produced by machine are sold by students. Paper of different thickness, colour and quality depending upon the requirement is generated through this machine.”  HMV College Principal Ajay Sareen said paper could be recycled three times and waste water from the machine could be utilised for gardening. “No chemical is used during the whole process except alum. Recycled paper is used for making office files, folders, envelopes, gift wraps and packing material,” added Sareen.  “Faculty members, students and supporting staff have been trained to operate the machine. Working of most parts of this machine is manual. So, we are saving electricity too,” said Sareen.  “First, waste paper is given water and alum treatment, followed by drying the wet material. After it dries, creases on sheets are removed by pressing and organic colours are added to make them colourful,” said Anjana.  “Students from Art, Craft and Design Department decorate sheets and sell them in college festivals and carnivals. They promote earn while you learn motto,” Anjana added. Other staff members, Jatinder Goswami and Rakhi Mehta, help students in operating machine.  Municipal Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said, “My waste, my responsibility campaign has been launched to provide livelihood to self help groups (SHGs), formed under the National Urban Livelihood Mission, by tying them with industries and organisations generating waste in form of cloth.”  “From waste cloth, SHGs at ‘Bibian di Hatti’ form useful and creative items like bedsheets, rugs, wall art, mats, purses, pouches and dresses. This way we can help manage cloth waste effectively and also support SHGs,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/recycling-plant-helps-students-earn-while-they-learn-145178
23-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||No buyers, Covid dashes hopes of Ravana effigy makers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 22Though life has limped back to normalcy in most markets, the buzz on the Old Jail Road is still missing in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Every year, people used to visit the Old Jail Road to purchase effigies of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakarna, without which Dasehra celebrations remain incomplete.Numerous Dasehra committees used to buy effigies from this market, but around 100 to 150 craftsmen have been rendered jobless due to the pandemic. Artisans spend most of their time giving shape to effigies for their customers, who hail from Jammu, Hoshiarpur, Chamba, Chandigarh and Tarn Taran.Artists, who are in this trade for the last five decades, said after the Amritsar Dasehra tragedy, their business and profit got reduced to half, but the pandemic hit them harder.Sanjeevan Lal (62), a father of six kids, said, “I have been preparing effigies for the past 45 years. Dasehra is the only time of the year, when we earn enough. This year, due to restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19, there is little chance of Ramlila getting the nod. I cannot believe I am sitting idle. Earlier, we used to rely on Dasehra to make up for our losses. However, all our hopes have been dashed to the ground.”“Earlier, two months before Dasehra, we used to collect material from Meerut, Himachal Pradesh and other states. We had craftsmen from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan, who would do the finishing work on effigies. Now, there is no hustle and bustle in the market. We don’t know if we’ll get permission to carry on with our work,” said Arjun Rajput (23).After losing his parents, Arjun had been making effigies from the last six to seven years. He is proud that he managed to marry off his two sisters from the money he had earned after selling effigies.“A pair of three 50-ft effigies gives us a profit of around Rs60,000. And by the time Dasehra arrives, we easily earn up to Rs1 to Rs2 lakh. A 25-ft effigy cost between Rs15,000 and Rs20,000. We earn around Rs5,000 to Rs10,000 from small effigies,” he said. More than 50 families, mostly from Uttar Pradesh, work hard to meet the demand, which they also receive from Non-Resident Indians as well. Sanjeevan was a national-level wrestler in the early ‘80s and he had also participated in the Asian Games.He left his sporting career to help his father in expanding the business. Nowadays, he is making articles to be sold in temples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-buyers-covid-dashes-hopes-of-ravana-effigy-makers-145179
23-09-2020||---||Devoting part of life, land to environment||Jalandhar, September 22While gardening has emerged as the most sustainable hobby amid the lockdown, Dalbir Singh Mahal (62), a resident of Urban Estate Phase-2, has been gardening for the past 25 years.A lush green garden at his home indicates that he is an ardent nature lover. Apart from various medicinal plants, including giloy, tulsi, aloe vera, insulin and satawar, Mahal has planted different varieties of fruits and vegetables.Mahal said when he purchased the house in 1994, he had in his mind to devote a particular part of his land to mother nature.Besides planting trees in his house, he also increased the green cover in the park outside his home. Mahal, who works with the Sikh Gurdwara Judicial Commission, has a sprawling green cover outside his house.His garden has seasonal fruit trees, including, mango, grapes, peach, litchi, oranges, blood orange (malta), kinnow, meeta fruit (citrus limmitiodes, which fights fever) and grape fruit.In addition, he has a dedicated space for seasonal vegetables in his garden. Brinjal, bitter gourd, ridge gourd, green vegetables, lemon, chillies, pumpkin and daikon radish, among others, are plucked fresh for cooking.He said we hardly purchase chemical-produced veggies from the market. “Maintaining a garden takes a fair amount of effort and attention to detail. Two things that allow nature lovers to feel mentally engaged in the activity. As gardening increases mental serenity, it promotes stimulation and helps maintain cognitive functions. And, no wonder being surrounded by lush green trees is always a healthy retreat,” he said.“My garden is also home to numerous birds. It feels good when we get to hear birds chirping every day at our house. It’s been over 25 years, since I am cultivating my hobby of gardening. If I get busy, I have gardeners to take care of my plants. Impressed over my love for nature, my friends and relatives gift me just saplings and I, too, gift them saplings in return,” said Mahal.Recently, he bought some imported pots, soil and seeds. For growth of plants, he uses organic manure, including kitchen waste and cow dung.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/devoting-part-of-life-land-to-environment-145180
23-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||RSS-affiliated bodies concerned over farm Bills||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 22The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated farm and swadeshi organisations working to promote organic farming in the state have sought a guarantee from the Centre that farm ordinances should not exploit farmers and a steady MSP should be mainatined. RSS affiliate organisations the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) as well as the Swadeshi Jagran Manch have raised concerns over farm ordinances, while the foremost proponent of organic farming in the state, the Kheti Virsat Mission has also aired concerns.The BKS also sent representations on behalf of 500 village samitis in the state to Prime Minister Narendra Modi raising four main concerns regarding the Bills.Gurdev Singh, organising secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, said, “Our main concern is that the Bills are not exploitative to the farmers. We have sought MSP guarantee for farmers and private agencies do not exploit them like the arhtiyas earlier did. Suggestions on this had been sought by us from the government. As many as 500 village samitis held meetings in which suggestions were sought and resolutions passed. These have been sent to the PM. Special courts at district-level should also be set up to make it easy for farmers to get justice if someone exploits or dupes them.”Umendra Dutt, founder, Kheti Virasat Mission, who has played a major role towards organic farming in the state, says, “The government should have adopted a proper way to bring in the Bills. There is no room for apt dialogue in the current atmosphere. Farmers have some doubts. These should have been addressed before the Bills were brought in. Contract farming has not shown desired results in the state. Overall the Bills would have been more effective if farm opinion should have been taken into consideration.”Vimal Sharma, a tritiya varsh shikshak and RSS parcharak, who has been associated with the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, said, “It is my personal opinion that the security of rates among farmers is very important. The ultimate aim of the Bills should be to stop exploitation of farmers”.RP Singh, a representative of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, said, “I feel the Bills are pro-farmers and in the long run these would benefit the farmers. However, in the present political circumstances, the Bills would have been more fruitful had farmers been consulted earlier”.Country needs an Indian farming model: Ex-VC, PTURajnish Arora, former VC of Punjab Technical University, had also opposed the Bills. He said the Bills were hastily brought in without consulting the requisite stakeholders. Arora is associated with the RSS. Arora said, “There has been a 70-year history of the mismanagement of grains and produce in the country. Grains go waste but don’t reach the right persons. At the end of the 70 years, the Bills which are being brought in should have addressed this issue. I think much of the protests against the Bill are politically motivated. But the Bills follow more of the Western or US model than Indian. The US model of farming has failed and led to monopoly of private agencies, harming farmers. India needs an Indian model. India needs a farming model which protects and promotes organic and swadeshi cultivation. I think the Bills have been brought in hastily during the Covid period, without taking various stakeholders into confidence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rss-affiliated-bodies-concerned-over-farm-bills-145181
23-09-2020||---||Sans salary, volunteer Covid staff stage protest||Jalandhar, September 22 Volunteer medical staff, which was specifically appointed to tackle the pandemic, has been performing duty without salary from the past five months. The protesters today blocked Kapurthala Chowk in Jalandhar and demanded their salary. Nearly 164 persons have been appointed under the volunteer medical staff.  So far, 11,630 people have tested positive in the district.  Those protesting included doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and assistant staff working at Covid care centre set up at the Meritorious School and Civil Hospital.  Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner wrote to the Civil Surgeon on the matter. Dr Saurav said, “We have been performing duty at the Civil Hospital and Meritorious School. In scorching heat, we did duty at flu corner. Volunteers are treated badly by senior doctors and none of us have been paid a single penny.” Dr Daljeet said, “We met the Deputy Commissioner yesterday, but received no assurance about our salary. We have been working since the time, when no one wanted to stand near a Covid-19 positive patient.” The agitators said they have been forced to take the extreme step during the pandemic due to severe financial constraints. They said if the government does not pay them salary, they would be forced to intensify the stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sans-salary-volunteer-covid-staff-stage-protest-145182
23-09-2020||Jalandhar||Breach in Bist Doab Canal distributary||A breach in the Jalandhar distributary of Bist Doab Canal was reported near Bhagat Singh Colony last night, when residents alerted the councillor after coming across water flowing out of it. Councillor Vicky Kalia said he monitored the situation and called irrigation officials to fix the breach. Until 3 am, councillors, residents along with irrigation officials plugged the breach with sandbags. Amit Sabharwal, Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO), Irrigation, said a team was already patrolling in the area when it got the information about the breach.  “After covering the breach, we restored the sand that was lost. The situation was controlled on time otherwise it would have created problem,” he said. “Streets of Balaknath extension locality were submerged and the breach was approximately 20 ft,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/breach-in-bist-doab-canal-distributary-145183
23-09-2020||Tanda Urmar||Hoshiarpur man found dead under mysterious circumstances in US||According to family members, they received information that their son was reportedly found hanging on September 17. Deceased’s father Amrik Singh alleged that his son was murdered. His family members urged the Indian High Commission to probe and asked the Centre to bring back his body.He had gone to the US around two years ago. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-man-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-us-145188
