24-09-2020||---||Farmers unrelenting, cops on toes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 23The kisan and trade unions will hit the roads and railway tracks from September 24 to 26 against the farm Bills passed by Parliament.The administration is busy chalking out plans to ensure that no untoward incident takes place.Amrik Singh, district chief, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian), said, “We will intensify our agitation on September 25. Farmers should be in fields and take care of their crops, but they are on roads to safeguard their interests. We will never accept the farm Bills passed by PM Narendra Modi-led NDA government. Shopkeepers and vendors have been urged to support farmers and observe Punjab bandh on September 25.”He said, “Our activists will block the GT Road and the DAV railway track.”The farm BillsThe farm Bills passed by the Parliament include the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.Sukhjinder Singh, a member of BKU, said, “Despite opposition from farmers and the opposition parties, the first two farm Bills were passed by Parliament. Farmers are also against the Electricity Amendment Act and rising fuel prices.”The Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (Piddi), Bhul Ugrahan, All India Kisan Sangarsh Co-ordination Committee (AIKSCCL), Krantikari Kisan Union (Shinder group), All India Kisan Sabha and BKU (Rajewal), BKU (Doaba), and All India Kisan Union, among others, will block railway tracks.Maintaining law and order top priority, says CPCommissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Wednesday issued directions and guidelines to be followed during the Punjab bandh on September 25.Bhullar said maintaining law and order would betheir top priority and he had asked the police personnel to keep a strict vigil.CBSE’s compartment exams to continueAs the CBSE is holding compartment exams for students of Class X and XII, CBSE coordinator Rashmi Viz said the students have been asked to reach at their examination centres as early as possible.Hoshiarpur Grain market to remain closed on September 25 Hoshiarpur: Coming in support of farmer organisations, arhtiyas and mandi labourers have decided to keep the Hoshiarpur mandi closed on September 25. Giving details of the joint decision of the Hoshiarpur Arhtiya Association and the Galla Mandi Labourers Union, Sudhir Sood, president of the Hoshiarpur Arhtiya Association, said, “We are with the farmers and against the Central Government passed agri bills”. The Hoshiarpur grain market (mandi) will remain closed on September 25. Hari Chand, president of the Galla Mandi Labourers Union and secretary Raj Kumar Baba Maili said they were with the farmers and there would be no loading and unloading work in the mandi. OCWe will intensify our agitation on September 25. Farmers should be in fields and take care of their crops, but they are on roads to safeguard their interests. We will never accept the farm Bills passed by PM Narendra Modi-led NDA government. Shopkeepers and vendors have been urged to support farmers and observe Punjab bandh on September 25. Our activists will block the GT Road and the DAV railway track. —Amrik Singh, dist chief, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian)Despite opposition from farmers and the opposition parties, the first two farm Bills were passed by Parliament. Farmers are also against the Electricity Amendment Act and rising fuel prices. —Sukhjinder Singh, a member of BKUWhile the railway tracks and highways will majorly be blocked on Friday in the city areas, we will block the railway lines in Lohian on Saturday. —Harpreet Singh, a farmer under the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Union (Lohian)Trains Cancelled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-unrelenting-cops-on-toes-145797
24-09-2020||---||Nine die, 309 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 23With 309 more patients testing positive for Covid, the district tally rose to 11,905 on Wednesday. Of these 275 are from Jalandhar, while the rest are from other districts. Nine people also succumbed to the virus, after which the death toll reached 343.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, four people died and 109 people tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. The deceased include a 52-year-old woman from Khassan village, near Bholath, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 58-year-old man from RCF, Kapurthala, who died at his home; a 41-year-old man from Thapar Colony, Phagwara, who died at the DMC Hospital in Ludhiana; and a 65-year-old man from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar in Kapurthala, who died at CMC, Ludhiana. So far, 128 people have died in Kapurthala.8 succumb in HoshiarpurEight persons died in Hoshiarpur district on Wednesday, taking the toll to 129. With 121 new cases, the number of Covid patients mounted to 4,013. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken in the district had reached 92,865. There are 814 active cases in the district. — OCJalandhar round-upSamples collected 1,51,126Negative 1,33,750Positive 11,905Active 2,107Discharged 9,455Deceased 343Samples repeated 1,753Home isolated 1,612||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nine-die-309-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-145802
24-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Rampant development, change in Jalandhar city ate up the 12 kots||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 23Twelve ponds, 12 gates, 12 sarovars, 12 religious places and 12 kots (walled areas). The sprawling town, which pops out for its whiteness like a white dot on Google maps, was a much vast space several years ago, very different from the densely populated concrete jungle now, which spreads out like a monster gobbling up the greens.During the time of the Mughals, the 12 bastis of the town, populated by Muslim settlers, began to branch out into kots.About the 12 kotsWhile the town was divided among bastis and kots, the 12 kots were walled areas, where affluent Muslim families lived. With time, the kots have disappeared into oblivion. Their names and legends shrouded in obscurity. The places which were earlier the kots now constitute the busy, congested bazaars of the old city. Only a few have retained their names, while others are referred to by other names.Deepak Jalandhari, an 89-year-old historian who has carried out extensive research and penned two books on the history of Jalandhar, writes in detail about the kots in his book “Ek Shahar Jalandhar”.He said: “Much of the history of the city is lost because no on tried to document the buildings or developments. Nor were many of the historic buildings marked or researched upon by the Archaeological Department. Many glorious havelis and palaces of yore fell to decay. Of others, a gate, a wall or a ruinous pillar remains. A majority of these are totally gone. I also know of historic gurdwaras and buildings that were built over or laid over with marble. Now, we can never catch a glimpse of what they looked like. There are others that still stand but are in extremely pathetic condition.”Partition also altered the area substantiallyNotably, the Partition also substantially altered the area. Earlier, much populated by the Muslims, it was later populated by the Saini Sikhs, who settled here after the Partition.Historian Chiranji Lal Kangniwal, says: “Back when the bastis were formed, there were repeated attacks against Indians by Ahmad Shah Abdali and Nadir Shah. The bastis were populated by the poorer Muslims, who grew their own food on little plots and gardens and sold vegetables off in the city. They toiled while the affluent lead lives steeped in decadence, travelling the city on horses. The richer ones lived in walled cities, while the poor ones lived outside. These poorer peasants and working class members were called ‘raain’. After Partition, the working class Sikhs, which replaced the ‘raains’ were the Sainis. Following 1947, these outer bastis started being frequented by Kabohs and Sainis.”Subsequently, rampant development and change in the city ate up the kots and very few traces of the original structures remain today. Deepak Jalandhari says the historic buildings and heritage sites of Jalandhar weren’t documented even in 1861, when the Archaeological Survey of India was formed by the British Government.Stories of yore...The Kot Kishan Chand area is also popular for another legend.It was frequently used as a hideout for the members of the Kirti Party during World War-II. Historian Chiranji Lal Kangniwal, Ghadar and Independence movement scholar as well as librarian at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall, says: “During the second World War, the peasantry, under certain able farm leaders, was being mobilised to rise up against the oppression of the British. Many Kirti Party leaders, who were mobilising farmers, were put in jails. Those who escaped went underground and used to organise activities against the British from their hideouts. A rented house at Kot Kishan Chand served as the underground office for several Kirti Party luminaries. Madan Lal, the general secretary of the Jalandhar unit of the Kirti Party, was himself a resident of Kot Kishan Chand and he rented a house to carry out his underground party activities. Madan Lal, along with freedom fighters Nain Singh Dhoot, Bujha Singh, Gandharva Sen, Ram Singh Dutt and Tehel Singh Baghi, were revolutionaries, who mobilised farmers to stand up against the British.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rampant-development-change-in-jalandhar-city-ate-up-the-12-kots-145804
24-09-2020||STORIES THAT INSPIRE||At Rs10/plate, Thakur Rasoi feeds needy, hungry people||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 23To ensure that nobody sleeps hungry, Thakur Rasoi (kitchen), in Kartarpur provides food to the needy for just Rs10 per plate.Thakur Rasoi was founded by Pardeep Sharma (64), under Harinam Sankirtan Mandal and it’s been over a year since the stove in the rasoi is running. Thakur Rasoi feeds as many as 150 to 160 people on a daily basis and those who can’t pay Rs10 are offered food for free.Neeraj Suri, president of the Harinam Sankirtan Mandan, said: “When we first started the rasoi, we managed to feed only 30-50 destitute in the initial weeks. However, gradually more and more people started coming to kill their hunger.”“After cooking the meal, we serve it to the underprivileged people at Vishwakarma Bhavan in Kartarpur. In the past 14 months, Thakur Rasoi has gained enough popularity that people themselves come here. Unlike earlier, people now come here on their own. In the beginning, we either used to go to the locations, where destitute live or ask them to come to Vishwakarma Bhawan. The food is served every day from 6 pm to 7:45 pm. Before the Covid outbreak, food was distributed for two hours between 7 and 9 pm every day. To make sure that all Covid norms are followed, we are distributing packed food at present. People coming to take food are sanitised and social distancing is followed. Likewise, special care is also taken in the kitchen. When we founded the Thakur Rasoi, we also hired three cooks, who would work every day to cook a healthy meal,” Suri said.While, in the starting months, all founding members bear the expenses of food — from purchasing to cooking. Now, more people have associated themselves to this noble work and over 100 people make their contribution to keep the Thakur Rasoi running.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-rs10-plate-thakur-rasoi-feeds-needy-hungry-people-145806
24-09-2020||Free vegetable kits for kitchen gardening were distributed during a joint event organised by the Department of social security and development of child and women and Krishi Vigyan Kendra||Vegetable kits distributed under ‘Poshan Maah’||Pensioners’ body extends support to farmersThe Punjab UT Mulazim and pensioners joint front members, who have been sitting on hunger strike in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC), in protest against the government have extended their support to the farmers. The protesting members said they would also support the farmers in the Punjab Bandh on September 25 against the farm ordinances.ICU facility in the district for critical patients soon: DCDC Dr Shena Aggarwal today said an ICU facility would be soon started in Nawanshahr for critical patients. Earlier, serious patients used to go to other districts for their treatment, but now, they will be treated in the district itself. "It is good news for our district," she said. The Covid positive cases are on otherwise rise in the district. At present, 387 patients are positive out of which 350 are home isolated and the remaining 37 are in hospitals. Till date, 1,416 total positive cases have been reported in the district.Don’t burn crop residue, experts urge farmersA two-day virtual fair was organised by the Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, and a district level event was also organised which was headed by DC Dr Shena Aggarwal. The farmers were asked to watch the live telecast of the fair and the interactive programme was also held. In the fair, the experts from the university asked the farmers not to burn the paddy as it could aggravate the situation of Covid-19. "The problem is linked to breathing, so, if farmers burn the paddy stubble, those suffering from breathing problems and Covid would have to bear the brunt of the problem. So, every step must be taken in a responsible way,” the experts added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vegetable-kits-distributed-under-poshan-maah-145807
24-09-2020||---||3.12 quintal of poppy husk seized from truck||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, September 23The Hoshiarpur police seized 3.12 quintal of poppy husk smuggled from Jammu in a truck. The contraband was kept in eight gunny bags.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal informed that in a major action taken against the drug paddlers under the supervision of SP (investigation) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu and DSP Jagdish Raj Attri, SHO City Gobinder Kumar had laid a naka at Nalian Chowk.On seeing a truck coming towards city at around 1 pm, the SHO signalled the truck driver to stop for checking but the driver drove away after breaking the checkpost.A police party chased and stopped the truck near Dhobighat. During search, 3.12 quintal of poppy husk was seized hidden under cardboard in eight sacks.A case has been registered against truck driver Mansa Hussain, a resident of Chanias district, Doda, Jammu and Kashmir, under the Sections 15,61, and 85 of the NDPS Act.Hidden under cardboardA police party chased and stopped the truck near Dhobighat. During search, 3.12 quintal of poppy husk was seized hidden under cardboard in eight sacks. A case has been registered against truck driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-12-quintal-of-poppy-husk-seized-from-truck-145809
24-09-2020||Jalandhar||5,000 saplings planted||A mass plantation drive was carried out at the District Institute of Education and Training DIET, Rampur Lallian, Jalandhar, here today, dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur. More than 5,000 plants of different varieties were planted with the cooperation of the Forest Department.Principal Mandeep Kaur Pannu thanked Rajesh Kumar, District Forest Officer (DFO), Jalandhar, Hargurnek Singh, RFO Jalandhar, Devinder Pal Singh, RFO Kapurthala and Gurbaj Singh, forest guard, for providing the institute with this valuable gift of plants. She said it was one of its kinds of joint venture. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-000-saplings-planted-145813
24-09-2020||Jalandhar||Recent trends  in embedded systems discussed||The department of ECE at School of Engineering, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, on Tuesday organised an industry oriented certified workshop on “Recent Trends in Embedded Systems”. Nowadays, every industry needs some artificial intelligence into it and the artificial intelligence can be given by the embedded systems. A wide variety of devices and systems in the industry such as 3D printers, ABS system in automobiles, metro trains etc. are majorly based on embedded systems for their functionality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/recent-trends-in-embedded-systems-discussed-145815
24-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Overcharged for Covid test: Jalandhar hospital asked to refund Rs 3.28L to 106 patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 23Jalandhar-based Patel Hospital has been asked to refund Rs 3.28 lakh “overcharged” from 106 patients for the RT-PCR Covid test.An inquiry ordered by the Deputy Commissioner on the issue concluded that the hospital had erroneously overcharged Rs 3.28 lakh from 106 OPD patients who underwent the RT-PCR Covid test on its premises. The hospital management has been asked to refund the excess amount to all patients. This is the first time in the state that a private hospital has been asked to return the amount overcharged for the RT-PCR test during the pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had ordered a probe following a complaint by Rajiv Makol, a resident, that Patel Hospital had charged Rs 5,500 for the test on July 21 instead of Rs 2,400 fixed by the government. Following the order, Assistant Commissioner (Grievances) Randeep Gill conducted a probe. The Tribune highlighted the issue.“Patel Hospital has given an undertaking that it will refund the excess amount of Rs 3.28 lakh to 106 patients. The hospital will also set aside an equal amount in a separate account for poor patients,” said Thori. He said the management admitted it was not aware of the government notification that fixed the rate for the RT-PCR test at Rs 2,400.The Patel Hospital management stated, “The charges included RT-PCR test using Cepheid GeneXpert machine, for which PPE kits. There was ambiguity in the July 8 orders issued by the state government. We discontinued the OPD-based RT-PCR Covid-19 test using the Cepheid GeneXpert machine on July 21 as it is not possible to do it without PPE kits.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/overcharged-for-covid-test-jalandhar-hospital-asked-to-refund-rs-3-28l-to-106-patients-145563
