25-09-2020||Jalandhar||ASI’s son ends life in Canada||A city boy committed suicide in Canada. Amrinder Singh (21), reportedly hanged himself on September 17. The only son of a Punjab Police ASI, Amrinder had gone to Canada in 2017 on a study visa. He was residing in Surrey with four roommates. Malkiat Singh, his father, however, alleged that his son took the extreme step after falling in the trap of “love jihad”. After going to Canada, Amrinder was also doing a part-time job with his studies. “In November 2019, when we asked him that he hasn’t sent any money, he said the expenses including his fee had increased. Till March, we had sent him around Rs20 lakh. This was the second time when he tried to kill himself. Earlier, he said he got into an affair with a Pakistani girl, whom he met on social media, and sent her gifts and money. Now, he had nothing, however, we counselled him. He also said his education was over and mailed us some certificates. But last Thursday, he committed suicide.” The family has requested the state and Central governments to help them bring back his body. They demanded a high-level inquiry of the incident. TNSwebsite of Virsa Vihar launchedJalandhar: To disseminate all forms of art and cultural activities globally from Jalandhar, DC Ghanshyam Thori launched the website of Virsa Vihar www.virsavihar.org. The DC said it would be a catalyst in connecting artists and young generation with the rich and glorious heritage of the state. He said through the website, artists, educational institutes or other organisations would be able to register themselves to showcase their artwork in Jalandhar for free by using the platform of Virsa Vihar, which falls in the heart of the city. The DC also announced to give a financial grant of Rs50,000 for renovation works in the building. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asis-son-ends-life-in-canada-146348
25-09-2020||‘Hawaaon mein rahengi mere khyalon ki bijlian||Remembering the  Shaheed-e-Azam||The martyr was born on September 28, 1907, at Banga Chak No. 105 G, Jarranwala, district Lyallpur (now in Pakistan), and died at the age of 23. Even after years, the revolutionary remains an inspiration.On his birthday, we take a look at the Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Museum and Memorial, that was inaugurated on March 23, 2018. It comprises 10 galleries — Operational Gallery, Punjab Timeline Gallery, Family Tree, Rise of Revolutionaries, Magic Lantern, Assembly Bombing, Poster Gallery, Jail Gallery, Children Gallery, and Execution Gallery.One of the main attractions is a huge hall replicated as the Jallianwala Bagh. The massacre has been depicted through blood-stained life-size fallen statues. In Punjab timeline gallery, several movements that were started in Punjab and inspired Bhagat Singh have been explained. There is another attraction, in which one can listen to a six-minute interview of Bhagat Singh’s mother that was broadcast in the ’60s, where she talks about his life. The valiant action of Bhagat Singh of first throwing the pamphlets and then bombing of the Assembly is also shown. The moment one enters, sensors fitted on the floor leads to a shower of re-printed leaflets, sound of slogans of Inquilab Zindabad with a huge rumbling. The trial room is abuzz with the narration of eminent voice-over artiste Shammi Narang. The last part of the gallery shows the execution of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev in a dark room, controlled through a remote device.an empty case of the hand grenade used by Bhagat Singh and his fellow revolutionaries.The heroes were hanged at Central Jail, Lahore, on March 23, 1931. Prof Jagmohan Singh, martyr’s nephew, said the memories of the trio, which included blood stained remains of the martyrs, were kept with the newspaper that carried the news of the execution of the bravehearts, because of which the newspaper was in this condition.What he readBhagat Singh left DAV School, Lahore, in 1921, when he was in Class X and joined the National College, Lahore. Initially, his command over English was weak, while he excelled in history and politics. With perseverance, he mastered the language, possibly realising it as an essential requirement to counter argue and fight against the British Raj. The books that were most popular among college students, include ‘My struggle for Irish Freedom’ by Den O Bren, biographies ‘Mazzini’ and ‘Garibaldi’ and ‘History of French Revolution,’ among others.Shaheed Bhagat Singh as journalistA wall of the museum tells about the journey of Bhagat Singh as a journalist. He first worked at ‘Pratap’ in Kanpur and then with ‘Kirti’ journal in Punjab. During his escape to Delhi to flee police attention, he found a job in ‘Vir Arjun’ newspaper. He used several pen names, including Balwant Singh, Vidrohi and BS Sidhu. He is known to have written in four languages — Hindi, English, Punjabi and Urdu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remembering-the-shaheed-e-azam-146347
25-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Railways pegs big losses due to farmers’ stir||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 24As farmers in the region commenced their stir against the promulgation of the farm ordinances on Thursday, adequate arrangements were carried out in the city to avoid any untoward incident.Both — city and Cantt railway stations — ahead of the Punjab bandh call on Friday, also wore a deserted look. Three passengers who were unaware of the cancellation of trains, were asked to return by the Government Railway Police deployed at both stations. On the first day of the protest, not much agitation was observed and farmers also refrained from hitting the roads. However, as per the farm outfits, an intensified protest would be observed on the ‘Punjab bandh’ day.Buses likely to remain off-roadOwing to zero movement of locals as well as inter-district commuters, the services of Punjab Roadways and PRTC busses will possibly be suspended on Friday. Navraj Batish, General Manager at Jalandhar Depot-1, said: “While no official information has been received on the suspension of bus services, the directions have been received to operate busses considering the safety of passengers amid highways being blocked. There is a fleet of around 55 buses at the Roadways Depot-1 and 35 at Depot-2.150 cops to man trafficWhile major roads and highways will remain blocked on Friday, DCP traffic, said the traffic routes would be diverted through villages to ensure that commuters don’t face any inconvenience, and they would be advised not to use the highways. “Around 150 police personnel will be manning the traffic at all entry and exit points of the city and a map work has been done to divert traffic. All emergency services, inter-state or inter-district passengers will be diverted through villages and only service roads would be used,” Dogra said. Besides, senior traffic police officials would also be there on roads to assist the patrolling teams.Passengers inconvenienced as Train schedule changed AAP leaders hold demonstration Jalandhar: The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday held a protest against the farm Bills and demanded that these be withdrawn. The demonstration was held at Jalandhar West constituency’s Shri Guru Ravi Das Chowk from 10 am to 12 noon. Leaders including Darshan Lal Bhagat, Balwant Bala, Sanjeev Bhagat, Ramesh, Parmanand and Subhash Bhagat among others gathered under Dr Shiv Dyal Mali. They appealed to make the September 25 Punjab Bandh a success. TNSPeople misleading farmers, says BJP Jalandhar: The Modi government and the agricultural ministry has provided a gift to the protesting farmers by increasing the MSP of crops such as wheat, mustard, chana and pulses from Rs50 to Rs300 before sowing. Senior BJP leader Mohinder Singh Chheena said this during a press conference held by the district president Sushil Sharma at the district BJP office. He appealed to the protesting farmers to read the farm Bills. He said the PM and the Agriculture Minister have specified that MSP would not be dispensed with. People who are scared of losing control are misleading farmers on the issue, he said. District president Sushil Sharma said on the directions of state BJP president Ashwani Sharma, Kisan Morcha workers will go to all villages and spread awareness among farmers on the Bills. TNSUGC-NET candidates urged to reach venue earlyPrecautions have been advised for students appearing for the UGC-NET exam to be held in the city on Friday. In a press release issued by Dr Rashmi Vij, city coordinator, UGC-NET September-2020, he said: “Keeping in view the bandh call by farmers tomorrow, all candidates have been requested to reach the venue —Saffron Consulting Service, Paragpur ION Digital IDZ-I — before time. The entry will start from 6 am onwards and 12:30 pm for the evening shift.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/railways-pegs-big-losses-due-to-farmers-stir-146270
25-09-2020||---||Eight succumb to virus in Jalandhar,175 test +ve||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 24With 175 more patients testing positive for Covid in the district on Thursday, the tally rose to 12,078. Meanwhile, eight people died due to Covid in the district, after which the toll reached 351. With recoveries reaching 9,642 cases and a marginal reduction witnessed in the cases, the Health Department said Jalandhar might just be over the dreaded September peak. The number of active cases in the district are 2,085Meanwhile, in Kapurthala, four people died and 96 people tested positive for Covid. The deceased include a 60-year-old man from Nawa Thatta village (block Tibba), who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; an 85-year-old woman from Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, Phagwara, who died at private hospital in Jalandhar; a 55-year-old man from RCF, Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 70-year-old man from Maqsoodpur Dhilwan, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.3 die, 81 +ve in HoshiarpurThe reports of 1,476 samples were received in Hoshiarpur district, of which 81 were found positive. Of these, 19 cases are from Hoshiarpur city while 62 others are related to different health blocks. Three patients have died taking the death toll to 132. A 71-year-old Mohalla Tibba Sahib Hoshiarpur resident died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, while a 62-year-old Jahan Khelan resident died at MH Jalandhar and a 40-year-old resident of Johal village died at PGI Chandigarh.Kits for patients in home isolation Kapurthala: Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Thursday said the state government had decided to provide medical kits for Covid-19 patients under home isolation to facilitate them for regular check-up of their health at their home. Addressing residents in a Facebook interaction, she said the district would receive these medical kits in a day or two which would further be provided to the patients. These kits would contain oxymeter, thermometer, medicines and literature to make aware people about how they can beat Covid. She said it was noticed that people approached the hospital at later stages, when oxygen level turns low due to Covid. She said with these kits, people would be able to test their pulse and oxygen level any time and in any adverse situation they could contact doctors immediately. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-succumb-to-virus-in-jalandhar-175-test-ve-146278
25-09-2020||AS the entire higher education system in the country underwent a massive change due to Covid-19 pandemic||‘Digital, classroom learning will go hand-in-hand in post-Covid era’||The Tribune interviewThe Covid-19 outbreak forced universities to suspend physical classrooms, so, we had no option but to shift to the digital mode. Initially, we were conducting classes via Microsoft Teams, Google Meet, Zoom etc, but we brought developments in our virtual teaching and learning process and started monitoring the classes as well as the attendance of students via Google drive. We managed to smoothly conduct the online classes and have also begun the final year exams online as per the guidelines from GNDU from September 21. -  Gurpinder Singh Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeIn an interview with Avneet Kaur, he talked about this paradigm shift in education, his views on the with regard to calling 50 per cent staff and postgraduate students on campus. Excerpts:How has Lyallpur Khalsa College tackled the challenges posed by Covid-19?The Covid-19 outbreak forced universities across India and the world to suspend physical classrooms, so, we had no option but to shift to the digital mode. Initially, we were conducting classes via Microsoft Teams, Google Meet, Zoom etc, but it's since July 15 that we brought developments in our virtual teaching and learning process and started monitoring the classes as well attendance of students via Google drive. Besides, we conducted scores of workshops for the faculty and students, training them in several web-based teaching applications. Therefore, we managed to smoothly conduct the online classes and we have also begun the final year exams online as per the guidelines from GNDU from September 21.Are you happy with the GNDU’s decision to conduct the examinations of exit classes online?The decision has been taken keeping in mind the health and safety of both students as well as teachers. I welcome this decision, as it was difficult for the students to attend examinations physically when the cases in the district are at an all-time high. Besides, it was equally important to conduct the exams as it would directly reflect upon the job placement. Therefore, conducting exams online was the only way out.How do you plan to implement the recent guidelines to call 50 per cent of the teaching and non-teaching staff aswell post-graduation students pursuing technical coursesto campus?Safety of the students would be our top priority while making any decision. Although, we have chalked out a plan to implement these guidelines in a phased manner, but even then, a lot needs to be taken into consideration. With social distancing norms and safety guidelines in place, it is definitely a big challenge to invite students on campus without having to compromise on their health. Besides, we have to mentally prepare the students to strictly follow the guidelines as with ease in restrictions the classroom learning and technology will go hand-in-hand. We do not know when the vaccine will be out, but classes have to be reopened one day, so it's better, we adopt these changes at least for the sake of our families and our own lives.Do you think the digital shift in education, especially higher education, is here to stay?I believe that due to the pandemic, the education sector was suddenly forced to change their way of functioning and depended largely on digital conduct of classes. But there is an equal need of classroom teaching. It's time the best brains of our country developed some system where the holistic development of the personality of students takes place and it provides opportunities for interaction and hands-on experiential learning using technology, so that both the experience of teachers of classroom teaching as well technology could be used to bring out the best in students.How has been the responseof students towardsvirtual classes?The response of students has been great. The attendance in online classes is more than the normal classes. The arts students, who earlier hardly used to attend classes, were seen actively participating in virtual classes. Moreover, this digital shift has upgraded both the teachers and students. They are enjoying virtual learning, and we have plans that once the situation normalises and we are back to normal, the learning via smart boards in classrooms will be made mandatory.How is the admissionprocess going on?Fortunately, the pandemic couldn't dampen the spirits of students. The UGC, too, has announced to begin the new session from November 1, and the admission process is on and students from across the states are enthusiastically enrolling for different courses online. Our 75 per cent of seats in all courses are filled. We are just one fourth count behind to cross our last year's admission tally.What's your opinion on the New Education Policy (NEP)?There is no doubt that the new National Education Policy is historic on many counts and will open doors for a wider spectrum of courses. Whether it's the recommendation to use the mother tongue until Class V or restructuring of regulatory bodies, all are groundbreaking reforms. But the question is whether these recommendations will be implemented. The NEP is merely a document; the key lies in its implementation, both in letter and spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/digital-classroom-learning-will-go-hand-in-hand-in-post-covid-era-146279
