27-09-2020||---||ASI loses battle against Covid-19||Jalandhar, September 26A 50-year-old Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) of the Jalandhar police lost the battle against Covid-19 on Saturday. ASI Manjit Singh (in pic) was deputed at the division number 7 police station for the past more than three years. He was keeping ill for the past over a week and was among the three personnel from the police station, who tested positive for Covid. The staff said: "He had previously been admitted to a private hospital and then discharged.On September 24, his report came out positive yet again, after which he was admitted again. While it started off with loose motions on Friday, he was put on ventilator. He was a diabetic."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asi-loses-battle-against-covid-19-147323
27-09-2020||Our Correspondent||152 youngsters get job offers||Hoshiarpur, September 26Under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ campaign of the Punjab government, a job fair was organised in the office of BDPO Garhshankar by the District Employment and Business Bureau (DEBB).As many as 13 companies, including Vardhman, Verma Hyundai, Crompton Baddi, Future Generali Life Insurance, LIC Garhshankar etc. participated in the fair. A total of 265 youth participated in the employment fair, of which 152 were selected on the spot, while 11 youth have been shortlisted.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat praised the hard work done by GOG Captain Lakhvir Singh and his team for making the fair a success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/152-youngsters-get-job-offers-147322
27-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Illegal colony: One booked  in Hoshiarpur||A coloniser has been booked by the Sadar police under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA) on the basis of a complaint by the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation (MC) here.An allegedly illegal colony in the name of Guru Nanak Colony was being raised at Adamwal Road, Bahadurpur, for the past nine months. The owner, Avtar Singh of Bariana village, had applied to the corporation for regularisation of the colony but the MC found the application to be contrary to the rules and on June 16, the civic body wrote to the colony owner, asking him to stop the construction. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-colony-one-booked-in-hoshiarpur-147320
27-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur dist reports only 10 dengue cases this season||Hoshiarpur, September 26The district has reported 10 cases of dengue so far, while 460 cases were reported till September 24 last year. Crediting it to the work being done by the Health Department, the Municipal Corporation and the Municipal Councils, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said employees of the Health Department as well as the MC and Municipal Councils deserved appreciation for this.She was addressing district residents during a live session on the Facebook. She said since there was a risk of diseases like dengue, malaria, typhoid etc. in these days, if anyone has symptoms of any of these diseases for 3-4 days, then such person should go for corona test. She said it was a matter of great pleasure that almost all panchayats in the district had passed resolutions to support health teams in the battle against corona as well as dengue-malaria etc.The DC said, “Covid-19 is at its peak in the district. In the last six months the maximum positive patients are coming presently and the number of deaths is also increasing. Therefore, one should not take any relaxation in adopting caution. Around 2,000 samples are being taken daily in the district. Currently, there are 43 hot spots, one containment zone and two micro containment zones in the district.She appealed to Covid-19 patients in home isolation that patients suffering from other serious diseases should get their treatment in the hospital itself so that they could get oxygen or ventilator facilities if needed. She also informed the people about the use of oxymeter and six-minute walk procedure for health checkup.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dist-reports-only-10-dengue-cases-this-season-147319
27-09-2020||---||Centre begins  procurement of paddy in Punjab||Jalandhar, September 26In view of the early arrival of paddy at mandis, the Central Government has allowed procurement operations to begin in the state on September 26, instead of October 1. All necessary arrangements such as posting of staff, storage space, finances, etc, have been made by the authorities for a smooth procurement.There are 4,035 procurement centres (mandis) in the state. The Food Corporation of India (FCI), along with state procurement agencies, has made arrangements for paddy procurement. Around 170-lakh metric tonne paddy is expected to arrive at mandis in the state this year. FCI officials said the corporation had sufficient storage space available to accommodate the paddy to be procured and consequent custom milled rice of the Central pool.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, procurement will be done in a staggered manner and arrival of farmers’ at mandis will be regulated through tokens issued by arhtiyas to ensure social distancing. Further, mandi areas will be regularly fumigated, cleaned and disinfected and wearing of masks will be made mandatory. Arrangements of masks, facilities for washing of hands (with soap and running water) and alcohol-based sanitisers will be ensured by officials of procurement agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-begins-procurement-of-paddy-in-punjab-147317
27-09-2020||---||Webinar organised on stress mgmt||Our CorrespondentKapurthala, September 26Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, on Saturday organised a webinar on ‘Stress management in time of Covid-19 pandemic’. The key speaker on the occasion was Dr Yogesh Gambhir, principal, Deshraj Wadhera DAV Public School, Phillaur, Jalandhar, who was recently honoured with the CBSE Teachers’ Award-2020.During his address, he said, “Effective stress management helps one to be happier, healthier, and more productive. Stress-free life leads to balanced life, time for work, relationships, relaxation, and fun and the resilience to hold up pressure and meet challenges head on.Stress management starts with identifying the sources of stress in your life”, he said, adding that all of us need to adopt the practice of 4 A’s: avoid, alter, accept and adapt in our daily lives to get relief from stress.He further said the Covid-19 pandemic had caused fear, worry, and stress among people, which could further lead to irritability, unhealthy eating and sleep habits, excessive sadness, and difficulty with attention and concentration.Speaking at the occasion, Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said, “Exercising helps release endorphins within our body system which plays a vital role in elevating our mood and keep a positive attitude. Stretching exercises and yoga also help us to keep ourselves fit and mind calm. Even playing with kids or pets can help us to manage and relieve stress”.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science City, said that elimination of stress was unrealistic; management of stress was an attainable and realistic goal that could be achieved by a number of strategies, including time-management skills and overall healthy lifestyle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-organised-on-stress-mgmt-147316
27-09-2020||Our Correspondent||4 travel agents booked for duping two of  Rs19.68 lakh||Hoshiarpur, September 26The Mahilpur police have booked four travel agents on the charges of cheating two persons of Rs 19.68 lakh on the pretext of sending them abroad.In his complaint to the SSP Hoshiarpur, Vinod Kumar, a resident of Nangal Kalan village, alleged that travel agent Babu Khan of Bhadore village in Barnala district had taken Rs 17.48 lakh from him promising to send him to Canada. When agent did not send him to Canada, Vinod asked him to return the money, but he refused, the police said.In another case, Sukhdish Singh, a resident of Saila Khurd, complaint to the SSP that Dinesh Kumar of Chankoya (Balachaur), Harpreet Singh and Harjinder Singh (Ludhiana) took Rs 2.20 lakh from him on the pretext of sending him to Singapore. But they neither sent him abroad nor returned the money.After investigation of the cases, the Mahilpur police have booked the travel agents under Sections 420 of the Indian Penal Code and 13 of the Punjab prevention of Human Trafficking Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-travel-agents-booked-for-duping-two-of-rs19-68-lakh-147315
27-09-2020||Jalandhar||Speaker Kaypee gives Rs5L grant for Hansraj stadium||Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana Kaypee has issued a grant of Rs 5 lakh to the Raizada Hansraj Stadium for setting up yoga and an aerobics centre inside the complex.A member of the interim committee of the District Badminton Association (DBA) and former national player Ritin Khanna has thanked the Speaker for the grant while also sharing with him the various development works that had been carried out inside the premises for the past several months. Five synthetic courts and a new gym have been set up where the players have been practising regularly even amid the ongoing pandemic.Khanna has handed over the cheque issued by the Speaker to DC Ghanshyam Thori for getting the works started. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/speaker-kaypee-gives-rs5l-grant-for-hansraj-stadium-147314
27-09-2020||---||Mehr Chand Polytechnic inks pact with Australian varsity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26Mehr Chand Polytechnic has signed an MoU with Edith Cowan University, Australia, for a period of three years for exchange of technical education.The MoU has been signed by professor Daryoush Habibi, executive dean, school of engineering, Edith Cowan University, and Dr Jagroop Singh, principal, Mehr Chand Polytechnic College, Jalandhar. Jagroop Singh said under the agreement diploma passed students in any discipline could seek admission in Edith Cowan University through lateral entry directly in 2nd year. Moreover, the university would provide special scholarship to lateral entry students.The university officials said a special team would visit Mehr Chand Polytechnic College once or twice in a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mehr-chand-polytechnic-inks-pact-with-australian-varsity-147312
27-09-2020||---||Youth Cong leaders hold tractor march||Our CorrespondentJalandhar, September 26Unhappy over the three farm Bills passed by the Centre recently, the office-bearers and members of the Youth Congress, Jalandhar, held a huge tractor march here on Saturday, which started from Congress Bhawan, Rajinder Nagar, and after passing through BMC Chowk, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Nakodar Chowk, Ravidass Chowk, Model Town and other adjoining areas, it culminated near the bus stand.The march was led by Angad Dutta, president, Youth Congress, Jalandhar (urban) and Bunty Shelke, general secretary, Youth Congress, and was flagged off by Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri and District Jalandhar Congress Committee (urban) president Baldev Singh Dev. The members during the protest also burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raised slogans against the BJP government for passing the anti-farm bills.Addressing the gathering, Rajinder Beri and Baldev Singh Dev, said the new farm bill i.e. the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, passed by the Centre during the monsoon session of the Parliament is nothing but death warrants against farmers in the form of farm Bills.Bunty Shelke said the Bills hold big consequences for the future of farmers. “These proposed laws will paralyse farmers as well as the entire agriculture sector in the country. The Bills were forcibly passed by the Centre in a bid to make the Indian farmers dependent on industrialists. The government has removed grain and pulses from the essential commodities’ list. Hoarders have been legalised and now, they can sell farmers’ produce at a higher price. People of Punjab should unite and no such draconian laws should be allowed to be implemented,” he said.Saying that the Bills will confine APMC madis to their physical boundaries and give a free hand to big corporate buyers, Angad Dutta said there was no provision in the Bills for the protection of the rights of farm labourers or tenants. “When the mandi system ends, a farmer will be dependent only on contract farming and big companies would set the price for their crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-cong-leaders-hold-tractor-march-147310
27-09-2020||---||UVC disinfectant lamp rolled out by CT Group||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26The research team of the CT Group of Institutions, North Campus (Maqsudan), has developed a UVC-based disinfectant lamp. The invention is based on Ultraviolet C light which deactivates the DNA of bacteria, virus and other pathogens and thus destroys their ability to multiply and cause disease.The brain behind the invention, Navdeep Singh, Assistant Professor (ECE), CTITR, said, unlike harsh chemicals that are sometimes used in cleaning and sanitisation products, this UV lamp is environment friendly. He said this UVC Disinfectant Lamp was widely used in hospitals and laboratories to sanitise instruments and work surfaces and to prevent the spread of potentially lethal airborne infectious diseases, bacteria, viruses. It is also used in food industry to sterilise food before packaging and water treatment systems.“This UVC light kills 90 per cent of microbial contaminants after 10 minutes of exposure and 99 per cent after one hour”, he added.Manbir Singh, Managing Director CT Group and Dr Jasdeep Kaur Dhami, Director, appreciated the efforts of team members and encouraged them to perform more research based activities in future also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/uvc-disinfectant-lamp-rolled-out-by-ct-group-147309
27-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Hockey Olympian working on another book||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26Step into his house at Radio Colony and you will feel like having entered a nice photo gallery. Preserved and arranged in a tasteful manner, hockey Olympian Col Balbir Singh Kular (76) has put up photographs and memorabilia of his yesteryears along the two long parallel walls of the lobby area.All photographs have been mounted on highlighted background. The prominent ones include a group photograph of the Indian hockey team that won the Asian gold medal in Bangkok in 1966 and his picture with former President Zakir Hussain while receiving the Arjuna Award at a young age as a cadet.In fact, the gallery has his pictures with six former Presidents — S Radha Krishnan, VV Giri, Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, Giani Zail Singh and Shankar Dyal Sharma. The gallery also has his picture with hockey wizard Dhyan Chand, dating back to December 1971.Besides, he has all his medals and badges put up on a glass-covered box, a group picture “The Balbirs” portraying him with three other namesake hockey Olympians and a special commemorative stamp and first day cover released by the India Post in December 1966, featuring him along with other players of the 1966 Asian Games.Pointing to a family picture on the same wall in which he, his son-in-law and son are seen in the Army uniform, Col Balbir shares, “It has been now four generations and 118 years that our family has given to the Indian Army. My grandfather was a part of the World War-I and my father fought in the WW-II. My father was a hockey player too. He played in the nationals and I learnt a lot from him.”Colonel Balbir recalled his experiences of the 1968 Olympics where he had scored three goals and his team brought home the bronze medal. “Owing to tearing of ligaments around my knee during a game, I had to retire early in the 1970s. But I have never had any regrets. I was soon taken as a coach of the Indian hockey team and later the women’s team. I also remained a selector for a long time,” he says.“Penning books has been my favourite pastime. I have already written a book, ‘The Colonel’s Deadly Scoop’, which is more like a coffee table book with many full page exclusive photographs that I had managed to collect over a period of four-five decades,” he shares.“I am now working on another untitled book, which will be based on my tryst with Saragarhi. I too was a part of the 36 Sikh Battalion and the book will have photographs and memorable events related to the place where the historical battle was fought,” he says, showing some notes, handouts and historical pieces that he collected.On a lighter note, he adds: “I studied at the local Cantonment Board High School where the teaching of English language started in Class VI. Thanks to the global exposure and my wife who has been a teacher of English, I am able to follow my passion of writing books. I have slowed down a bit due to the ongoing pandemic, but I think it is time to restart again.”His memorabilia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-olympian-working-on-another-book-147306
27-09-2020||---||166 new cases, 8 deaths in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26With 166 new cases reported on Saturday, the district tally reached 12,484. The health authorities also reported eight deaths, taking the toll to 365. The number of active cases is 1,958 while 10,161 have recovered from the infection and 1,522 are in home isolation.The district had reported over 300 cases on some days in the past one month, but since the beginning of this week, the daily count has been witnessing a steady reduction. With hospital admission rising, the number of those in home isolation has also come down, however, the mortality rate still remains high. The recoveries have also seen an increase, which is an encouraging development.Meanwhile, 90 persons tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala on Saturday and one person succumbed to the disease. The deceased is an 82-year-old man from Model Town, Kapurthala, and he breathed his last at Military Hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/166-new-cases-8-deaths-in-jalandhar-147288
27-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers block Jalandhar-Pathankot rail track in Tanda Urmar||Tanda Urmar, September 26Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, Hoshiarpur unit, led by district head Kuldeep Singh Begowal, held a one-day sit-in (dharna) on the railway track in Tanda against the Modi government on Saturday.They protested against the farm Bills and raised slogans against the Centre by blocking the Jalandhar-Pathankot rail track near the Darapur gate. Meanwhile, rail movement on this track has been suspended by the Railways till September 29. While addressing the protesters, various speakers said the Central government wanted to eliminate farmers of Punjab and provide benefit to their corporate friends. The Modi government was forcing farmers of Punjab to live a life of corporate slaves, which would not be tolerated at any cost.They said they have started a struggle across the state to protest against the Bills and their struggle would continue till the government withdraws these Bills. During this, Kuldeep Singh Begowal, Kashmir Singh Fatta Kulla, Paramjit Singh Bhulla Bath, Daler Singh, Sodhi Shahbazpur, Yodha Singh Gandhuwal and large number of farmers were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-jalandhar-pathankot-rail-track-in-tanda-urmar-147304
27-09-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Farmers’ interests ignored to benefit corporate houses’||Hoshiarpur, September 26Terming the newly-passed farm Bills as ‘black Bills’ for the farmers and the agrarian economy of the country, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Saturday accused the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central government of ignoring the interests of farmers on one hand and securing benefits for ‘corporate houses’ on the other.Reiterating the commitment of Punjab Government to safeguard the interests of farmers at all costs, the Minister said the Centre would not succeed in its nefarious designs to destroy the agrarian sector. The Punjab Government will stand by the farmers against the apathetic attitude of Centre at the behest of ‘corporate houses’ and will work shoulder-to-shoulder in future too as the farmers of the state had been producing grains for the entire country since long, said Arora. Demanding immediate revocation of ‘anti-farmer’, ‘anti-arthiyas’ and ‘anti-labourers’ Bills, the Minister pointed out that these Bills would ruin several sections of the society.The Minister said the recent exclusion of cereals, pulses, onion-potatoes etc. from the list of essential commodities would further lead to hoarding and black-marketing across the country as the rates of foodgrains were skyrocketing. He said these bills would never benefit the farming community but will only be beneficial for the corporate houses. The Centre is conspiring to tinker with the Minimum Support Price, which will not be tolerated at any cost in the larger interests of farmers, said the minister, adding that the newly-passed farm Bills were aimed at devastating the rural development across Punjab as the state would be bereft of Rs 4,000 crore annual fund being collected by the Mandi Board once these Bills were converted into laws.The minister demanded the Centre to immediate rollback these Bills, which are being strongly opposed by the farmers, arthiyas and farm labourers in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-interests-ignored-to-benefit-corporate-houses-147305
27-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||It is no joke! Hurdles were only stepping stones for this comedian||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26He was six, when he lost his mother and nine when he lost his father. Brought up by his paternal uncle amid financial crisis, he had to drop his studies after school education. The story of popular Jalandhar-based comedian Balraj Syal is actually quite a serious one.Before stepping into the TV world and getting popular through his shows including ‘Entertainment ki Raat’, ‘Mujhse shadi karoge’ and ‘Khatron ke Khiladi’, Balraj even had to do a lot many odd jobs here to support his family. “I worked in a pharmaceutical store. I was a salesman at a shop in Wholesale Clothes Market near Company Bagh here. I even sold inverters of Microtek Company. I even remained employed for a company selling engine oil. I took up a job at a general store till my friend Ravish convinced me to at least pursue graduation from a college to get any better employment opportunity. He paid for my fee and got me enrolled at St Soldier College here,” Syal shared.Balraj shared, “We had to deal with the loss of both the parents early in life. The loss caught us off guard. We did not even know how to react. But my uncle brought us up like his own kids. Most of my friends did not even know that they were not my real parents till I shared it in my interviews few years ago.”Sharing his early life in the city, the comedian said, “I studied at Devi Sahai Sanatan Dharam School in Basti Nau and did my class XII from Parvati Jain School. He also admitted my sister (just a year younger) to HMV College here. Though he never dissuaded me from pursuing higher studies, I could sense that he was financially burdened. He suffered losses in his factory and was alone bearing the burden of raising five children including three of his own.”Balraj then went on to share anecdotes from his college life, “That is where my theatre life began. One of my friends Jassi Kochar pioneered to form a new theatre group in the college. We got a prize at the inter-college level and went on for the inter-zonals. The victory came as a big incentive as I became eligible for fee waiver. I worked hard aned partcipate4d in several extra-curricular activities.Belonging to a relatively lower middle class family, I faced a lot of inferiority complex when I went to participate for the inter-college event at Apeejay College riding with another friend on the same bicycle. Since I was active in theatrical activities, I managed to take admission in Apeejay College in MSc Computer Applications.”The 37-year-old artiste added, “I even met other comedians Kapil Sharma and Bharti in inter-university competitions as we became part of one team of Guru Nanak Dev University. But they were senior to me as I had a gap in my studies. The TV break came my way when I accompanied my friend for MH1 auditions. I was sitting in the waiting lounge when my friend convinced even me to go in for the auditions as there were fewer candidates and I could expect a chance. Days later, I got a call that I had been selected for comedy show ‘Hasde hasande ravo’.”Balraj says that the project that he enjoyed working for was ‘Entertainment ki raat’. “I spent nights along with the creative team for planning each show of it. Another project which is close to my heart was a music video ‘Shukar kar’ on problems of commoners in pandemic in which we featured Sonu Sood and Prince Narula. The project came on my label ‘Realise Music’ and the female voice in this is of my singer wife Deepti Tuli,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-is-no-joke-hurdles-were-only-stepping-stones-for-this-comedian-147286
27-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Women, youth come out in support of farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26The agitation against the three “controversial” farm Bills is in high gear in the region, but what’s more amusing is the support extended to farmers from women, children and the youth in large numbers.Unlike any other day, the women, mostly belonging to the marginal farming groups, had different chores to do on Saturday. They had to support the males in their families, so that their voices could be heard more loudly. With the same enthusiasm, children, too, joined the protest today that was organised by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (Lohian), at Jalandhar Cantt railway station. The farmers were continuing with the third day of their “Rail Roko Andolan”.Having little knowledge about farm ordinances introduced by the Modi government, a group of women said: “We certainly don’t know the terms introduced in the Parliament, but we know that when a Bill is passed arbitrarily in the houses of Parliament, it impacts the kitchens in our homes. We have already been producing less crops and couldn’t grow enough to sell in the market, but whatever we sell should be sold at a fairly good price.”“Through the discussions, we learnt that the Bills are against the gains of producers. Even if we don’t quote well on the Bills, we know that if the ‘mandi’s’ will disappear, we won’t be able to sustain for long. Complete privatisation is wrong in every way. I remember most of the farmers in our village haven’t received their pending dues from the private mills. Thus we can’t accept the bills at any cost and will continue lending support to farmers,” said Jagirat Kaur.Likewise from carrying tractor rallies to ferrying elderly farmers to the protest venues, youth have become the much-needed strength for farmers at this time. While the elderly are seen standing in front of the mike and creating more clarity on farm Bills, the youth make arrangements for food and water. They ensure that a large number on people gets associated with them.Vikram Singh (24) said: “With the implementation of the farm Bills, we are fearful that the Agricultural Market Produce Committee (APMC) would lose it existence and we won’t get fair price for our crops. Therefore, it’s necessary that we support the agitating farmers, who are protecting the future of farming in the state, as eventually, we have to hold the batons. With the minimum support price set to be abolished and multinational companies set to take over our lands, we can’t see the farmers deep down in debts. Therefore, it’s a wake-up call to the government to pay heed to the needs and demands of farmers.”Meanwhile, Salwinder Singh Janiyan, zonal president of the committee, while warning the Centre said: “This is just the trailer of the protest. An intensified version of Jail Bharo Andolan. The Modi government should be prepared for our protest in Delhi. We will block all roads leading to Delhi if the Bills won’t be rolled back.”Jagtar Singh, Kang Khurd, Manpreet Singh, Jagtar Singh Chakk, Mohan Singh, Joginder Singh, Kishan Dev, Malkit Singh Janian, Paramjit Singh Sardarala, Tarlok Singh Gatti Peer Bucks, Sukhpreet Singh Hakim Singh, Baljinder Dhillon, Baljinder Singh Sherpur, Tarsem Singh Jabbowal, Bhajan Singh, Mukhtiar Singh, Jaswant Singh, were among the hundreds of farmers, who remain seated on the railway tracks on Saturday from 12:30 to 5 pm.Cong dares Som Parkash to clear stand on farm BillsPhagwara: Thousands of farmers led by MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann marched towards the residence of Union Minister of State Som Parkash on Saturday to offer him a bottle of blood as a mark of protest over farm legislations passed by the Centre. "The hands of the Central government are drenched with the murder of agrarian economy of the country in general and farmers in particular, due to which we were presenting the unit of blood to him," said Dr Chabbewal and Mann while addressing farmers. He dared Som Parkash to clear his stand on the Bill. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-youth-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-147287
