28-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, ‘best before’ label on non-packaged sweets||Kapurthala, September 27As per the directions of Kumar Rahul, Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, Punjab, all food business operators dealing in sweets are directed to comply with the order dated September 25 of the Food Safety Standards Authority of India, which mandates display of ‘best before date’ in case of non-packaged sweets.Assistant Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, Kapurthala, Harjot Pal Singh, said, the order would come into force from October 1 and it mandates that in case of non-packaged, the container/ tray holding sweets at the outlets for sale should display ‘best before date’ of the product. However, in addition to this, Food Business Operator (FBO) may also display the ‘date of manufacturing’, which shall be purely voluntary and non-binding.“The FBOs shall decide and display the ‘best before date’ of sweets depending upon the nature of the product and the local conditions such as temperature, moisture etc. An indicative list of shelf life of various types of sweets is given in the guidance note on safety of traditional milk products, which is available on the FSSAI website,” said Singh.He said this order was issued by the nodal authority to ensure that customers at the time of purchase shall know the date by which a particular sweets item can be consumed, so as to avoid any ill-effect on their health.He said the food wing of FDA seeks cooperation from those dealing in sweets to ensure the display of best before date, so that this order of the FSSAI issued in public health interest can be implemented in its true spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-best-before-label-on-non-packaged-sweets-147677
28-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Social messages convert Jalandhar city walls into beautiful canvass||Jalandhar, September 27The district administration has taken a step forward to spread awareness regarding women empowerment. The Pathankot bypass and the PAP Chowk have been painted with graffiti, giving a creative expression to the Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao programme.The entire graffiti work at both locations is based on the theme ‘Women empowerment’ and portraits of great women achievers, including Lata Mangeshkar, Malala Yousafzai, PV Sindhu, Surinder Kaur, Mother Teresa and Mary Kom. Not only this, social messages, emphasising the role of women in society and gender equality, have converted the walls into beautiful canvasses.Talking to The Tribune, District Programme Officer (DPO) Gurminder Randhawa said, “Even though the plight of women in India has improved marginally over the past few years, we still have a long way to go. These paintings celebrate the achievements of Indian women and also showcase the evils that still exist.”He said the recent incident of Kusum has proved to be the epitome of women empowerment in the city and it shows that women are no less and that it’s time people changed their mindset.The DPO said a hefty sum has been spent on these paintings and local artists were hired to create these artistic pieces. He said while most of the work has been done at some walls, the work was still underway. Besides, he said more such graffiti would come up in other parts of the district in future.However, Randhawa also said though a section of society has been appreciating the graffiti, there are many, who have been defacing the walls by pasting posters and banners among other advertisements.Meanwhile, city residents are also elated over this move of the administration and have appreciated the work done. “It is good to come across such as social message beig put forward in a creative way. Besides, it also enhances the beauty of the city,” said Gurpreet Kaur, a resident.“Colourful paintings on city walls look good, but these should exist for long. The administration should also ensure that those found spoiling the graffiti are fined. Moreover, all illegal dumping points here should also be converted into green belts. People visiting Punjab is on the verge of development,” said Jaspal Singh, another resident.Braveheart kusum also features on the wallThe district administration has also dedicated a graffiti to braveheart Kusum at the PAP Chowk here. She has also been announced as district brand ambassador under the Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao scheme. DC Ghanshyam Thori said the graffiti had been dedicated to Kusum for her act of bravery that has made the entire city proud as she has emerged as an ideal for girls. “We are hopeful that Kusum’s graffiti will inspire hundreds of city girls to face challenges with confidence,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-messages-convert-jalandhar-city-walls-into-beautiful-canvass-147679
28-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Use and throw? Frontline workers laid off after five months of hectic work, no pay||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27The sudden reduction in Covid tally in the district has cost the livelihoods of 106 frontline health workers employed for Covid duties at the Meritorious School.A day after protests by Volunteer Medical Staff for not being paid their salaries for the past five months, as many as 106 of the staff members were “rationalised’ (asked not to continue their duties until further orders). Those rationalised also include some of those who showed up for the protest on Tuesday, blocking the Kapurthala Chowk in Jalandhar, demanding their salaries. These volunteers still haven’t been paid their salaries and now, they were jobless, too, at least for the time being.While a total of 164 people, including doctors, ward attendants, staff nurses and lab technicians, were hired for medical services amid rising cases in the month of May, 142 of them were included in the list of those laid off. While some of these 142 have already quit jobs, the remaining 106 have been asked not to continue with their duties.The 54 staff members who have been retained include eight doctors, 20 ward attendants, 16 staff nurses and the number of lab technicians and pharmacists retained is eight (each). Meanwhile, the list of those asked to discontinue Covid duties includes 16 doctors (MBBS, BDS and BAMS), 18 lab technicians, 50 ward attendants, 18 pharmacists and 40 staff nurses.Even though they were temporarily hired in view of the Covid scenario, some doctors allege a peeved department has laid them off a day after they sought their well-deserved salaries.What the letters says...The load at the Covid Care Centre has substantially decreased due to the new home-isolation instructions by the state government. In the past some time, those admitted have been reduced to less than 50 people. As per a letter by the DC office dated 23/9/2020, it is hence being instructed that staff employed at the Covid Care Centre be retained for only 100 patients, while the rest be rationalised...A letter released by the Civil Surgeon’s office on September 24 states that the rationalised volunteers shall be called again if need be in keeping with government instructions. A doctor, who was the earliest to join Covid duties, said, “I am among the first doctors who set up the Covid facility at the Meritorious School. While we had been asked to work only at the Meritorious School, we were later deputed at the Civil Hospital, too, amid the scorching heat and very busy days at the flu corner. Now, a day after the protests, we get the instructions to discontinue duties. Clearly, it’s the department’s reply to our protest. This, too, while we are yet unpaid. The government seems to have adopted the use and throw policy with us. Amid the Covid crisis, we have been rendered jobless after five months of hectic work and no pay.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/use-and-throw-frontline-workers-laid-off-after-five-months-of-hectic-work-no-pay-147680
28-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Co-operative bank employee booked for woman’s ‘murder’||Hoshiarpur, September 27The Model Town police have found the body of a married woman from a vacant plot in Subhash Nagar. She had gone to meet a cooperative bank employee known to her. On the complaint of the victim’s husband, the police have registered a case of murder against the bank employee.Prem Lata, wife of Ajay Kumar of Rodian Bathian village, told her husband that she was going to meet Ashok Kumar, a cooperative bank employee at Piplanwala. When she did not return till late in the evening, Ajay informed the police. During search, the police found her body in bushes on a vacant plot near PiplanwalaPeople present there said suspect Ashok Kumar was drunk and was seen going towards the fields. Later, the victim’s body was also recovered from the same side. According to sources, the suspect has been arrested by the police, however, cops were refraining from confirming this. Inspector Manmohan Kumar, in-charge of the Model Town police station, said, on the complaint of the victim’s husband a case had been registered against Ashok Kumar. The exact reason behind the murder will be ascertained after the suspect’s arrest, the police said. The body has been sent for postmortem, the police said.Car hits man, drags body for 3-km Dasuya: Onkar Singh (43) of Khun Khun Khurd was killed after being hit by a high speed i-20 car. The accident took place near Garna Sahib, while the body was found lying on the roadside near Dasuya judicial courts complex on the Hoshiarpur road, 3-km away from the accident site. The police have recovered the car involved in the incident, while the driver is at large. Onkar Singh left his house around 4 am to bring sand for the ongoing construction work at Gurdwara Garna Sahib. After reaching at Garna Sahib bus stop, the victim started calling other friends over the phone. Meanwhile, a high-speed car coming from the Jalandhar side hit him. Eyewitnesses said the car driver did not stop the vehicle and dragged him for about 3-km and later threw the body on the road and fled. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/co-operative-bank-employee-booked-for-womans-murder-147681
28-09-2020||---||Change in train schedule, courtesy farmers’ protest||Jalandhar, September 27As the ‘Rail Roko Andolan’ launched by the farmers in the region has been extended till September 29, the Northern Railways authorities have also extended the cancellation and short-termination period of around 10 express and mail trains, crossing through the district.Trains to remain cancelled: 02425 (New-Jammutawi Exp), 02426 (JammuTawi-New Delhi Exp), (02054 (Amritsar-Haridwar Exp), 02053 (Haridwar-Amritsar Exp)Trains short-terminated: 02903 (Mumbai Central-Amritsar Exp) will be terminated at Ambala, 02904 (Amritsar-Mumbai Central Exp), 02925 (Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Exp), 02926 (Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Special Exp) will be short-terminated from Ambala and remain partially cancelled on the Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala route, 02715 (Nanded-Amritsar Exp) short-terminated at New Delhi, 02716 (Amritsar-Nanded Exp) short-terminated on the New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi route, 04673 (Jaynagar-Amritsar Exp), 04674 (Amritsar-Jaynagar Exp), 03307 (Dhanbad-Ferozepur Exp), 03308 (Ferozepur-Dhanbad Exp), 02357 (Kolkata-Amritsar Exp), 02358 (Amritsar-Kolkata Exp), 04652 (Amritsar-Jaynagar Exp), 05909 (Dibrugarh-Lalgarh Exp), 05910 (Lalgarh-Dibrugarh Exp), 00763 (Hyderabad-Amritsar Exp), 00764 (Amritsar-Hyderabad Exp), 00901 (Bandra Terminus-Jammu Tawi Exp), 00902 (JammuTawi-Bandra Terminus)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/change-in-train-schedule-courtesy-farmers-protest-147682
28-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Four arrested with intoxicants, liquor in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 27 The district police have arrested four drug smugglers from various places and confiscated a large quantity of intoxicants and liquor from them. The Garhshankar police nabbed Dhamai resident Jatinder Singh at a naka and seized 450 intoxicating pills from him. In another case, 9,000 ml of liquor was seized from Jagdish Singh, alias Deesha. Similarly, during a naka, the Tanda police nabbed Vikas Kumar of Gurdaspur, and recovered 19,800 intoxicating pills from him and Rakesh Kumar of Johlan, was arrested along with 27,000-ml liquor. The police have registered four cases against individuals. The respective police stations have registered four cases against individuals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-arrested-with-intoxicants-liquor-in-hoshiarpur-147683
28-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur toll 140 as 3 more succumb to virus||With the death of three positive patients, the death toll in the district reached 140. Eightyfour new cases have been reported, taking the number of positive patients to 4,312.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir said new samples of 921 people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken in the district today, while reports of 1,368 samples were received. He said the total number of samples taken till date had gone up to 99,130 of which 93,641 samples were negative, the reports of 1,582 samples was awaited and 127 samples were invalid. Dr Jasvir Singh said the number of active cases was 678 while the number of recovered patients was 3,494. Of 84 new positive cases found on Sunday, 14 were from Hoshiarpur city, while 70 cases were related to other health blocks. — OCResidents apprised of Covid safety protocolJalandhar: To sensitise masses to Covid safety protocols and timely testing, several teams of the MC Jalandhar conducted awareness drives in 51 wards of the city under the Lok Saanjhedari programme and apprised them of the importance of early testing and treatment to save human lives from Covid. The teams sensitised people to remain vigilant of the symptoms and if anyone developed fever or influenza like illness and came in contact with any positive person, he or she must contact the doctor without fail and undergo Covid-19 testing. The teams stressed upon the need to pay special attention to the elderly or persons with co-morbidities. They said people must wear protective masks, wash hands frequently and maintain a two-yard distance in case they venture out of homes. DC Ghanshyam Thori said the community participation was the need of the hour in controlling the spread of Covid-19. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-toll-140-as-3-more-succumb-to-virus-147684
28-09-2020||Jalandhar||New mandi at Partappura||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-mandi-at-partappura-147688
28-09-2020||Open House||Govt should shun its capitalist agenda, clear misconceptions||Central government took a hasty decisionThe Central government has taken a hasty step by passing three agriculture Bills. It should have taken the farming community and other stakeholders into confidence before implementing its decision. Farmers are being convinced that these Bills were in no way a threat to mandi system and MSP regime. It would rather open up new opportunities for farmers to sell their produce to private players. The chief apprehension of the farming community is that it will spell doom to a time-tested mechanism of selling farming produce through mandis, rendering farmers hapless. It would strengthen big players, who in turn would exploit farmers. If it is so, it would then jeopardise the food security of the nation, too. The Central government should come clean over the issues raised by the farming community. Politics on this issue is unwarranted.Prof Rajan KapoorBlack laws should be immediately revokedThe three ordinances regarding agriculture and farming, which have been made into laws through unconstitutional means sounded the death knell for not only the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, but other parts of the country as well. The Modi government has brought these secretively amid the pandemic. The statements of ministers, including the PM, are completely false and misleading. Just think about his previous promises —demonetisation, GST, bringing back black money, two crore jobs every year — these were all lies, nothing else. They just want to hand over the farming land to their corporate cronies. MPS will be abolished though they were denying it. Even now, farmers are selling maize and cotton below the MSP. Now, the corporates will buy these and wheat, rice etc. below the minimum price and stock these to sell later at exorbitant rates. If the government was really serious about it, then they should have made a law wherein no corporate house are allowed to buy these crops below the MSP. Only then will it benefit farmers in the real sense. The arhtiyas or commission agents have close bonds with farmers and help them with finances wherever they need it for marriages of their children and other social events. The relationship with the corporates will be quite impersonal and dry. Even BJP minister late Sushma Swaraj spoke in the Parliament that arhtiyas were like ATMs for farmers, so that they can take money from them. These black laws should be immediately revoked to save farmers and society in general.Dr JS WadhwaSans checks, it will lead to exploitationFarmers in large numbers are vehemently opposing the recently passed farm Bills, which provide for open market by dismantling the existing APMC and MSP framework. Apprehending it an apparent roadmap towards the corporatisation of agri sector, strong undercurrents are being felt by the peasantry, where both purchase and price of their produce would be determined by private traders. In the absence of any regulatory check, it would lead to exploitation of gullible farmers, especially those that fall in small and marginal category. On the contrary, the government is claiming that these three Bills were intended to boost farmers’ income by empowering them to sell their produce at competitive rates to anyone and anywhere, thus freeing them from the clutches of middlemen. Despite all kinds of explanations, these laws have raised more scepticism than rendering a solution to double the income of ‘sons of the soil’, who take it as a death knell to their age-old occupation and its allied activities. They seem to be arguing justifiably that when Covid-19 has paralysed the entire economy, what was the rationale behind hurrying up with these legislations through ordinances and then passing it in the Parliament without any debate on the vital issues. The ongoing scenario warrants the Centre to hold the new laws till all aspects are addressed and stakeholders adequately convinced.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathEnsure communication between govt, FarmersThe Centre has initiated major agricultural reforms through enactment of three pivotal laws, but the farming community, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, have vehemently opposed the same and resorted to protests and agitation. A wide gap of communication between the government and the beleaguered farming community needs to be narrowed down. Instead of playing politics over the issue, major political parties of Punjab should come forward to alleviate the apprehensions of farmers. At present, a majority of farmers were distressed and the agriculture needs revolutionary changes, especially in marketing structure. The change must be given a chance if status quo over a long period fails to yield desired results. These laws aim at growing farmers’ markets open, free and wider under the concept of ‘one nation one market’ without diluting the present structure enshrined through the APMC and commission agents, while keeping the MSP regime intact. Under such a scenario, where without carrying out major changes in existing set up, additional reformatory measures are going to be taken, the farmers are expected to cooperate and support them for their implementation in true spirit.Jagdish ChanderSuccessive Govts made false promisesAfter leading India’s Green Revolution, Punjab, is in the throes of a deep agrarian and socio-economic crisis, manifesting itself in the form of rising input costs, low productivity, market manipulation, sinking income and employment, perpetually escalating indebtedness, mounting rate of suicides, large-scale overseas migration of educated youth and ecological imbalances. Over the decades, successive governments have been making tall promises to resuscitate the perennially ailing agriculture sector, but nothing concrete has been done on the ground level, courtesy lack of pro-farmer policies, corruption and mismanagement due to politico-bureaucratic apathy. What is needed is scientific and eco-friendly long-term planning to make agriculture more attractive, economically viable and sustainable to ameliorate the lot of beleaguered, toiling farmers and labourers, who are the backbone of Indian economy. The hasty and untimely passage of contentious farm Bills in the Parliament has sparked countrywide protests by farmers and their organisations and the Opposition. While the government maintains that these Bills aim at creating a common market for agricultural produce, contract farming and diversification of crops will be the harbingers of innovative transformative reforms in the agriculture sector, farmers and their organisations and the Opposition dub them as anti-farmer and undemocratic. The unprecedented legislative overreach — flouting of accepted parliamentary principles and procedures, and the failure to build a healthy consensus after reasoned debate on such a critical national issue — has raised serious concerns about the gradual withdrawal of the MSP and subsidy on fertilisers and electricity, food procurement process of the government and corporatisation of agriculture. The ruling dispensation should shun its aggressive and pro-capitalist agenda and clear these misconceptions to ensure the vibrancy of rural economy and redeem its promise of doubling farmers’ income by 2024.DS KangDialogical approach the only solutionDiscussion, dialogue and debate are the pillars of a strong democracy. But the current regime at the dispensation has marred the spirit of a diversely democratic nation like ours. The three draconian laws have spelt doom for the farming community throughout the nation. The northern belt of India, especially Punjab and Haryana, are after the Cental government with hammer and tongue. The reason is simple as their repeated and consistent pleadings have fallen on deaf ears. It is the constitutional duty of our representatives, specifically the PM, to give a rethink to aforementioned contentious and vicious Bills to safeguard the future of farmers, who have fed the nation even in the darkest hour. The dialogical approach is the only solution. We need to take on board farmers. The ruling government should order a rollback and stand by the innocent and hard-working sons of soil. There is no point in corporatisation of the produce as seed, crop and produce belong to farmers only. Then why to nullify his fundamental right to sell it at market price to earn profit after covering all other essential costs? Hope wisdom will prevail.Simranjeet Singh SainiQUESTIONAs the tourism industry was one of the first casualties of the Covid pandemic, many livelihoods dependent on it were hit. For the first time, World Tourism Day was celebrated under the Covid shadow on September 27. What steps can be taken to revive tourism in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-should-shun-its-capitalist-agenda-clear-misconceptions-147691
28-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar farmer shows the way with stubble cardboard||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27With the state government reiterating and urging farmers not to burn stubble, a farmer from Mehatpur village has set an example by using paddy stubble for making cardboard since 2010. The use of paddy straw as a raw material in the making of cardboard not only gives it a better quality, but production cost is also low.Gurtej Singh, along with his two cousins Biranmol Singh and Paramvir Singh, started a small cardboard business in 2007. The unit is running at Kakran Kalan in the Shahkot block. For three years, they used only sack bags and sludge as raw materials in the production. It was in 2010 when he started using paddy straw and found that his input cost was reduced. “Sludge and sack bags are costly. Now, 70 per cent of paddy straw is used, resulting in a low expenditure for a decade,” he says.Gurtej says he came in contact with Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Nurmahal, before 2010, and it was after getting training there and under the guidance of experts he started working on using stubble in cardboard manufacturing.According to him, almost every farmer in Kakran Kalan gives paddy straw to them. “The farmers in Kakran Kalan don’t burn their paddy straw anymore,” he says.He gathers paddy stubble from 300 acres in Kakran Kalan and surrounding villages. Kakran Kalan Sarpanch Paramjit Kaur claims that no one in the village burns stubble. Corroborating Gurtej’s statement, she says almost every farmer in the village provides paddy straw to the unit.While explaining the procedure, Gurtej informs that with the help of a Baler machine, several bundles of paddy stubble are made. Then the stubble, sack and waste products’ sludge is put in a Beeter machine that mixes up the three raw materials, and a paste is formed, which gets transformed into cardboard.“It gives me satisfaction that I am not contributing to the pollution. I am using paddy stubble in a right way,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-farmer-shows-the-way-with-stubble-cardboard-147629
