30-09-2020||Jalandhar||Rs 7.5 Lakh  fine for stealing power||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-7-5-lakh-fine-for-stealing-power-148846
30-09-2020||---||Paddy procurement: MP takes stock of Phillaur grain market||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paddy-procurement-mp-takes-stock-of-phillaur-grain-market-148845
30-09-2020||---||Minor held for killing friend||Jalandhar, September 29A day after a 17-year-old boy was found dead at his residence in Lalkurti area in Jalandhar Cantt, a city police team on Tuesday arrested his friend, who is also a minor, for killing him with a cricket bat. The deceased was identified as Armaan Kumar.Terming it a “love interest”, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused was upset with Armaan for his closeness to a girl, whom he liked.Owing to grievous injuries on his head, Armaan’s body was spotted lying in a pool of blood. The incident was reported late on Monday evening, when the boy was alone at home. While his father is an NRI, who stays in France, his mother had gone to Himachal Pradesh to pay a visit to her maternal home with her daughter.One of his friends, who came to take him along to play football, and his grandfather found him injured and unconscious. After raising an alarm, Armaan was taken to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared brought dead.Bhullar said the Cantt police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC on the complaint of Ashok Kumar, who told the police that his grandson Armaan was studying in Class XII at KV-4.“On receiving an information of the murder, DCP Balkar Singh, ADCP Ashwani Kumar, ACP Major Singh, ACP Kanwaljeet Singh, CIA Heads Harminder Singh and Ashwani Kumar rushed to the spot and started with the probe. Both victim and accused were classmates till Class X and the victim was friends with a girl, who, too, was a minor. The arrested juvenile used to like the girl and was upset with her friendship with Armaan,” Bhullar said.ACP Major Singh, who was the part of the investigating team, said the case was traced after they received the bat that was used to hit the deceased and a video that was made right before his murder, in which both of them were posing. The accused attacked the victim on his head and face with a cricket bat and later strangled him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minor-held-for-killing-friend-148806
30-09-2020||Our Correspondent||To grannies, with love||Jalandhar, September 29In a benevolent gesture to honour the importance of elders in families, especially grandmothers, the district administration has announced to plant 14,000 saplings in Jalandhar through granddaughters under Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday formally launched the drive in Doaba Khalsa Senior Secondary School, wherein the little girls planted saplings for their grandmothers.Accompanied by SDM Rahul Sindhu, Assistant Commissioner Harpreet Singh, DC Ghanshyam Thori said that the drive was just a small effort to recognise the role of grandmothers in the lives of granddaughters and told around 14,000 saplings would be planted for which directions had been issued to the department of social security, women and child development.He said the motive behind the drive was to sensitise the masses about the importance of girl children in the family along with enhancing green cover by plantation. He said that granddaughters will feel a special kind of bonding with the saplings and they will ensure proper upkeep.The Deputy Commissioner said as trees keep the environment healthy and give enormous things to the people at no cost similarly grandmothers care for their granddaughters and play a key role in their growth.He said as there was a regular increase in the levels of air, water and soil pollution the trees could play a crucial role in conserving our environment including reducing air pollutants which would be a real tribute by the girls towards their grandmothers.“The district administration is deeply committed to the environment and it will leave no stone unturned to achieve the goals of planting more and more saplings”, he added.The Deputy Commissioner further said that the administration had already launched ‘Dadi Ate Poti di Jodi’ an online contest in which young girls in the age of 15 was participating. “The girls can contest for ‘Selfie with Dadi’ and a video on relations of ‘Dadi and Poti’ (30 seconds-60 seconds) and have to send the entries on WhatsApp number 98720-21457 till September 30, the DC said. He said the first three best entries would get a cash award of Rs10,000, Rs5,000 and Rs2,100. Ten consolation prizes of Rs1,100 would also be awarded.On the occasion, District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa and others were present. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Income Tax Dr Gagan Kundra Thori along with her daughters also planted saplings there and distributed sanitary pads, masks and sanitisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-grannies-with-love-148807
30-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Before death, retired LIC officer donates Jalandhar flat worth Rs 1 crore for social cause||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 29An 80-year-old retired executive director of Life Insurance Corporation of India, Jalandhar, has shown a big heart, which has surfaced after a month he passed away — on August 30.Dr Pritam Singh Pritam, who had spent most of his retired life in the national capital and had recently shifted to a new four-bedroom flat at Jalandhar Heights, has left it behind to be donated for some social cause. Besides, he has also generously donated Rs 20 lakh from his savings for the maid, who took care of him for the last 10 years.The LIC Class-I Retired Officers’ Association has shared his story with all members.“A month after the demise of Dr PS Pritam, we have now learnt that he has donated his flat covering an area of 2,050 sq feet, which could be worth Rs 1 crore. He has expressed his willingness that it could be used as an old-age home for people with no one to look after them or for some religious activities. Further, Dr Pritam donated an amount of Rs 20 lakh to his maid, who was from a humble family background. We salute Dr Pritam for this extraordinary act of kindness for the cause of humanity. May God bless eternal peace to his noble soul,” said BR Mehta, senior vice-president of the association.Managing director of Jalandhar Heights Township Sukhdev Singh also confirmed: “A month prior to the demise of Dr Pritam, his brother rang me up and shared with me his willingness to donate the flat for a noble cause. He discussed with me the possible social means, for which it could be used. I am waiting for further correspondence from their side.”He said the property rate was not as high and would have to be calculated once all legal processes for liquidation were followed.Surjit Singh Arora, the younger brother of the deceased, confirmed the development.“My brother was indeed a very noble soul. We wish to use his property for a good social cause, which could be for an old-age home, a gurdwara or any other welfare purpose. So far, we have not had the heart to touch his belongings. We still need time to execute his wishes. I even intend to add up something from my side for whatever project we start in his name. The entire plan may take another month or so to take some shape,” he said, adding that Dr Pritam did not have a wife or kids and that all siblings would jointly take the call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/before-death-retired-lic-officer-donates-jalandhar-flat-worth-rs-1-crore-for-social-cause-148808
30-09-2020||---||Jalandhar reports 4 deaths, 150 +ve cases||Jalandhar, September 29A sudden jump was witnessed after two days when 150 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The Covid tally in Jalandhar recorded less than 100 infections for two consecutive days. The number of infected people in the district again included health workers. Meanwhile, four patients also succumbed to the virus on Tuesday taking the death toll to 385 in the district.Jalandhar round-upFive succumb to virus in Hoshiarpur, 49 test +veWith 49 people testing Covid positive in Hoshiarpur on Tuesday, the tally has risen to 4,436, while the death toll reached 151 after five people lost their battle against the virus. With 2,162 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken till date has reached 1,03,359. As per the reports received from the lab, 97,693 people were negative out of this and 1,651 reports were still awaited, while 127 were invalid. There are 593 active cases so far and 3,693 patients have recovered. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 49 new positive cases, 18 cases belonged to Hoshiarpur city, while 31 cases were from other health blocks. Those who died include a woman (80) and a man (82) of Khardehar village; a 63-year-old resident of Bajwara; and a 55-year-old resident of Haryana; a 70-year-old patient of Bishambahr Nagar, Hoshiarpur. — OCScribe dies of Covid Hoshiarpur: Veteran journalist Ashwani Kapoor (70) succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Tuesday. He was posted in Hoshiarpur as senior correspondent of the Punjab Kesari group. CM Capt Amarinder Singh expressed grief over his demise. The CM described Kapoor as a dedicated journalist and a fine human being, who was committed to the professional ethics and discharged his duties fearlessly throughout his stint spanning over four decades. He said Kapoor’s death had created a void in the field of journalism, which was difficult to be filled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-4-deaths-150-ve-cases-148809
30-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Heart attack? Don't be afraid to show up at hospital, says expert||Hoshiarpur, September 29A few studies have reported presentation of myocarditis in patients infected with Covid-19. It is a condition in which inflammation happens in the heart muscles, which may result in its abnormal functioning, Punjab Rattan awardee Dr Rajneesh Kapoor said this on Tuesday during an online session on World Heart Day.“There are chances that patients, who are infected with Covid, may present with heart-related symptoms such as breathing problems, chest pain, changes in ECG, and rise in troponin levels,” he said.Dr Kapoor, who is working as the vice-chairman of interventional cardiology at Medanta, The Medicity, said: “The coronavirus infection is a disease that causes inflammation by means of the release of interleukins and cytokine storm. It can affect the heart by causing inflammation of heart muscles, known as myocarditis. It may also lead to occlusion in the arteries, which can lead to a heart attack. Hence, patients who are infected with the virus should be treated for heart disease if they show signs.”The good news is the harmful effects of Covid on heart resolve once the infection subsides. This greatly increases the possibility of patients having normal heart function in later life, he said.“We appeal to people to continue taking steps towards the prevention of heart disease. Exercise 45 minutes a day, keep BP, sugar, cholesterol, weight in control, sleep for 7 hours a day, quit smoking, drinking, manage stress. And don’t be afraid to show up at the hospital if there are signs of a heart attack. It is an emergency condition and must be treated in the first 8 hours or golden period,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heart-attack-dont-be-afraid-to-show-up-at-hospital-says-expert-148810
30-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Shahkot farmer on mission to promote organic farming||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 29After toiling hard for years, Sukhjinder Singh Kohar (31) has finally achieved success in organic farming. Not only his initiative proved fruitful, but it also motivated other farmers to grow crops organically. Morival village in Shahkot is today witnessing an “organic revolution”, with many farmers making efforts to end the excessive use of fertilisers and pesticides.Kohar initially started sowing crop organically for own use on a small portion of his land. Seeing good results, he slowly brought his entire 8 acres under pesticide-free farming. He says it is better to have a “family kisan” than a family doctor. He says apart from producing a variety of seasonal vegetables organically, he has also grown rabi and kharif crops without using chemicals.Lessons from the pastAfter graduating in 2009, Kohar was sure that he would help his family in farming. Unlike his brother and other youths in his village, he never wished to move abroad. He stayed here to help his father in the fields. He was introduced to organic farming four years ago and he liked the concept instantly.“Besides studying the nutritional value and fertility of soil in our region and the types of crops it supports, I visited other parts of the country and brought different kinds of seeds. The seeds grew well and slowly I brought more acres under organic farming. I also studied how farmers used to survive in the absence of chemical-laced fertilisers. The traditional farming methods helped me in discarding hybrid seeds and chemicals,” Kohar says.Owns a decomposing unitTo replace chemicals, Kohar uses compost made from the leftovers of sugarcane and other crops. Vegetable waste is another source of fertiliser. Vegetables, fruits and processed food items produced by Kohar are in high demand. His products are even supplied to foreign countries.Go for it, his messageUrging farmers to adopt organic farming, Kohar says they should first start sowing crops organically for their own use. Once they acquire knowledge, they should adopt it on full scale, he says. By adopting organic method, the farmers can save money spent on fertilisers and pesticides, he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shahkot-farmer-on-mission-to-promote-organic-farming-148812
30-09-2020||Jalandhar||President confers NSS Award on LPU student||President Ram Nath Kovind has honoured a B Tech final year student Gourav Singhal of the Lovely Professional University (LPU) by conferring upon him the National Service Scheme (NSS) Award for the year 2018-19. He was honoured during the Virtual National Service Scheme Awards (2018-19) ceremony held at the Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi, recently.  LPU student Gourav was the only student of a private university who was awarded. He was also one among the 32 volunteers selected for awards from across the country. He has been chosen among the 40 lakh NSS volunteer students of 298 universities and 42 school conclaves and vocational institutions from across the country. Youth Affairs and Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju also attended the ceremony. A  citation regarding Gourav and his contributions to the society regarding ‘Free Education; awareness for drug de-addiction camps was read out aloud; and campaign against social evils and ill traditions’. Gourav has been awarded with a citation, a medal and Rs 1 lakh amount. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/president-confers-nss-award-on-lpu-student-148813
30-09-2020||---||Around 750 participate in workshop on media literacy||Jalandhar, September 29 The PG departments of Mass Communication and Video Production and Multimedia of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya (HMV) organised “Factshala, India Media Literacy Network workshop”. The resource person of the workshop was Prof Umesh Arya, Chairman, Department of Communication Management and Technology, Guru Jambeshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, Haryana.  Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen welcomed him and said while it was difficult to control the flow of information, media and information literacy could lessen the impact of this problem by developing media and information literacy competencies among people. She said there was a need to disseminate media literacy. Rama Sharma, Head of the PG department of Mass Communication and Video Production department, welcomed him and gave his brief introduction.  Prof Umesh Arya pointed out that in present times; the importance of awareness has been increasing but the universal question of how to acquire news still remains. Lately, literacy has become defined as IT literacy and it should also include media literacy, because while news and information can be received within seconds, its dissemination has been threatened because of the social media, increasingly, every day. He advised that the mainstream media needed to improve their skills. Prof Arya said media literacy was the ability to understand different types of media and the messages it gives. He said once a message has been received, it is important to ask five questions: who created the message, why was the message created, who is the target of the message, what is the information included and excluded in the message, and what is the message making the reader feel. He made his session interactive with feedback sessions simultaneously which he took through various online modes.  As an educational institution, the departments of Mass Communication and Multimedia of HMV took on the responsibility of helping students, faculty and professionals to indentify disinformation, and in turn, encourage them to actively participate in public affairs as a media literate citizen.  The workshop was attended by more than 750 participants through facebook live. Moderator of the workshop and Dean Student Welfare Dr Anjana Bhatia presented vote of thanks. She also thanked Head of Multimedia Department Ashish Chadha and Technical team Vidhu Vohra and Rishabh Dhir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/around-750-participate-in-workshop-on-media-literacy-148814
30-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Friction between Town Planning Dept, ad hoc committee rises||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 29Enraged members of the building and roads ad hoc committee today boycotted the meeting when the Town Planning Department officials told the committee members that they had failed to set up teams to carry out the measurements of the colonies for collection of dues.Notably, the issue of recovery of the dues from the colonisers hasn’t been resolved yet due to which the friction between the Town Planning Department officials and the committee members has been increasing.Chairman of the ad hoc committee Nirmal Singh Nimma said the employees were not working for the MC, instead, they were working for the colonisers because until now, they haven’t sealed any property. Town Planning Department officials said there was a huge shortage of staff in the department and they couldn’t act against anyone without getting orders from senior official, MC Commissioner.It is to be noted that it was revealed in a report on the regularisation of colonies submitted by the MC’s Town Planning Department to the ad-hoc committee that colonisers owed crores of rupees to the Municipal Corporation, but until now, there has been no solution to the issue.From 2013 to 2018, 82 colonisers had approached the department for regularisation of colonies and out of these, 42 colonies were regularised, while the remaining requests were rejected because these did not fulfil the terms and conditions set by the state government. The chairman had informed that even after getting refusal from the MC, 40 colonies were established.“This is a big scandal. The 40 colonisers did not pay even a single penny to the MC during the last five years, leading to losses of around Rs6.15 crore to the civic body. On the other hand, 42 colonies that were regularised paid only 10 per cent of the total amount and the remaining 90 per cent was still pending. They (42 colonisers who got approval) owe Rs2.25 crore to the MC. The total amount due to be paid to the civic body, along with interest, is a whopping Rs18 crore,” the chairman of the ad hoc committee had revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/friction-between-town-planning-dept-ad-hoc-committee-rises-148815
30-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Cracks in ITI College building expose chinks in its management||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 29The 76-year-old Mehr Chand ITI College, located near the DAV College flyover has developed cracks in the ceiling and various portions of the administrative block and three workshops. As part of the infrastructural survey carried out by the Public Works Department (PWD) in the month of June, this year, the institute, established in 1944, was declared unsafe.Despite that, the enrollment of students for different courses continued during this academic year. The institute was erected by the DAV management and it is providing vocational training as per the memorandum issued by the President of India in the year 1954. Since its inception, the administrative powers of the institution are vested with the Principal, appointed by the DAV Managing Committee, New Delhi, and all other staff members are government employees.Principal of the college Vijay Sharma said no funds have been released by the state government for its repair or renovation. While the premises and buildings of the institution are the property of the DAV Managing Committee, since 1955, it was brought under the state government for its management and functioning. Hence, its maintenance comes under the Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training.“It was in the year 1999 when the institute last received the payment for its repair. For the past 20 years, the college has been receiving only meager grants under the Professional Service Funds. Due to the dilapidated condition of the college, it was eventually declared unsafe in July on several parameters including; visual cracks and corrosion, steel reinforcement was exposed, no repair to provide interior and exterior coating. However, no grant was offered to patch up the cracks. Subsequently, the DAV Management, after serving a notice to the department, filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Surprisingly, after the department was summoned, the PWD Engineer, who had declared the college unsafe earlier, in another letter, on September 16, announced it safe for the students, after visiting the college in the second week of August (copies of both the letters is with The Tribune),” added Sharma.DAV management has sought a stay for enrollment of students, from the High Court, till the college buildings are revamped. Sharma also alleged that after the building was declared unsafe, some employees of the ITI indulged in hooliganism and removed the office furniture from principal’s office and the name plate of the principal was also removed by DDO Tarlochan Singh. Kumar Saurabh Raj, Director Technical Education and Industrial Training, maintained that the building was safe and only required minor repair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cracks-in-iti-college-building-expose-chinks-in-its-management-148816
30-09-2020||---||Indira Colony sans potable water for 5 months||Jalandhar, September 29 Erratic and non-supply of drinking water at Indira Colony here has for long been a matter of crisis with the residents alleging that for past five months they haven’t received potable water.  Despite repeated complaints, the authorities concerned failed to provide access to drinking water. There are around 400-500 houses in the colony, belonging mostly to slum dwellers and people dependent on hand to mouth jobs. None of the families have got the facility.  For the women and youngsters, it has become a daily routine to look around for places from where they could acquire pure water. Vishal, Sonu, Deepak, Ajay and Rahul are among the persons who come as far as from three kilometers away from their house to get water from a public tap outside an ashram.  Vishal said that before going to work in the morning and upon returning in the evening, fetching water is the next task on the list of chores. “The water supplied in our houses is not at suitable for drinking. We only use the contaminated water for bathing and washing purposes,” he adds. Also, people including children who have sensitive skin are developing skin diseases due to the use of contaminated water. “The babies have rashes and acnes all over their bodies due to the dirty water that is being supplied. With every passing day, the scarcity of drinking water is getting acute. Despite this, the authorities are not doing anything.”  Similarly, Deepak, his friend and neighbour stated, “The broken sewer lines have added to woes. The filth water remains scattered near our houses, yet no repairing initiative was taken.” Meanwhile, Mayor Jagdish Raja assured that the problem would be eradicated shortly and the colony would be added among the areas where new tubewell connections are to be installed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/indira-colony-sans-potable-water-for-5-months-148817
30-09-2020||---||October deadline for covering potable water connections||Jalandhar, September 29 While presiding over a meeting under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) with the officials in the district administrative complex, the Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday directed the water supply and sanitation officials to ensure tap water connections in all 2.32 lakh households in the district by end of October this year. At present, there are around 1.77 lakh households here with the facility of running tap water connections.  Thori said the state government was committed to achieve universal coverage of 100 per cent rural households with Functional Household Tap Connections (FHTCs) at an accelerated pace by March 2022. He asked the executive engineers, junior engineers and others officials of the Water Supply and Sanitation Department to leave no stone unturned to cover all remaining rural households in next month so that the administration can ensure the potable water service delivery in adequate quantity to all households.  The officials were directed to hold meetings with the remaining panchayat heads and expedite the ongoing works. “Under JJM, the local panchayat is being involved in planning, implementation, management, operation and maintenance of water supply systems in villages for providing drinking water to all households in the rural areas,” Thori said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/october-deadline-for-covering-potable-water-connections-148818
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Petitioner seeks reopening of Jalandhar mall||The action of “unilaterally” locking up The Galleria, DLF, Jalandhar, a shopping mall-cum-office complex, today came under judicial scanner with a petition challenging the same on no less than 20 grounds, and raising questions on law on the powers of the state government to exercise administrative and supervisory control over such projects.Taking up the petition filed by Trilochan Singh Anand through counsels Kabir Sarin and Raghav Dayal Gupta, the Bench of Justice SN Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri has put the DLF, the state of Punjab and other respondents on notice. The Bench issued notice regarding stay, while fixing November 4 as the next date of hearing in the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/petitioner-seeks-reopening-of-jalandhar-mall-148632
