02-03-2021||Tarn Taran||One killed in road accident||36-yr-old dies of drug overdoseTarn Taran: A resident of Sarhali Kalan, 22 km from here, died of drug overdose today. The deceased has been identified as Hardev Singh (36). He left home under the influence of drugs on Friday. His body was found from the outskirts of the village on Sunday. Dharamjit Kaur, wife of the deceased, in her statement to the police, said her husband was a drug addict and he used to inject intoxicants. The police have registered a case. ocSpeed radar camera on NH-54Tarn Taran: The district police, in its move to make people aware of traffic rules installed a “speed camera traffic police radar” on the National Highway No. 54. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said with the help of the camera, the overspeeding vehicles would come to the notice of the traffic police. The speed of the vehicles on the national highways is 80 km per hour and it was 50 km per hour on the highway bridge. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-killed-in-road-accident-219422
02-03-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||70 seniors get the jab on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 1The district Health Department started administering the vaccine to senior citizens and people with comorbidities on Monday. On the first day of the second phase, 70 persons above 60 years of age and 16 persons in the age group of 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities were given the shot.The district health officials said the vaccination would be available at 15 public sector hospitals in the district besides 19 private hospitals.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said on Monday, 19 private hospitals were approved for giving Covid vaccines. “More hospitals from the private sector would be empanelled in the coming days as and when need be,” he said.The district had earlier started vaccination for around 23,000 health workers in public and private sector on January 16. Later on February 3, the district started vaccinating other frontline workers.“At present, we have allowed senior citizens to walk-in and get the vaccine after registration. As the vaccination picks up pace, they would be required to register on the portal prior to visiting,” said Dr Singh. He said people aged between 45 years and 59 years, too, can get the vaccine, provided they have any of the 20 ailments listed by the government as co-morbid conditions for the coronavirus. “They would have to furnish a certificate from the physicians,” he said.Meanwhile, Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla and his wife received the injection at Ranjit Avenue satellite hospital. A meeting of senior health officials to plan the drive was also held.No side-effects of the injection have been reported from the district so far, but the general public is still apprehensive. A senior health official said: “The response is expected to be slow initially, but it will pick up pace gradually.Covid UpdateNew cases: 45Total cases: 15,777New deaths: 2Total deaths: 597New recovery: 16Total recovery 14,693Active 487Helpline numbers for Covid patientsCity Control Room Numbers: 0183-2500398, 2500498, 2500598Health Department helpline: 0183-2535322, 0183-2535323Medical helpline: 104Contact a doctor: 1800 180 4104Bed availability and status: Punjab Covid App (updated daily at 5 pm)Here’s How you can register yourself||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/70-seniors-get-the-jab-on-day-1-219199
02-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Bootleggers have an edge over officials?||Tribune News Service(Lopoke) Amritsar, March 1The seizure of huge quantity of lahan (raw material mixed for distillation of illicit liquor) and illicit liquor in the early morning swoop down on Monday has raised many questions.It has hinted at well-oiled network involved in the bootlegging running right under the nose of the Punjab Police while involvement of political patronage of the unscrupulous elements cannot be ruled out. It is being touted as a failure of the rural police in nailing bootlegging rackets.Though the excise and the Punjab Police officials also pointed out that huge profits in the illegal trade was also the reason behind thriving business as the accused restart their activities after coming out from jail on bail.Evidently, the Punjab Government had launched a crackdown on illicit liquor trade code named ‘Red Rose’ after the hooch tragedy in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala that had led to over 100 deaths in the border belt last year.During this, the Excise Department and district administration also tightened the noose around illegal liquor trade and nabbed hundreds of bootleggers in the border state seizing huge quantity of lahan, country-made illicit liquor and licit liquor. Different rackets were unearthed who were involved in pilfering of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) meant for industrial purpose. This ENA finds its way into the hands of bootleggers who sold them in pouches after mixing with water. In Monday’s seizure, the excise and police officials found piped fittings for discharging waste generated from distillation process besides RCC pits and 64 drums, 42 plastic cans and two water tanks from seven houses.An excise official, wishing not to be named, said, today’s seizure indicates that the racket has been operating for a long time in the past. “We received the tip-off only yesterday and following it, planned and carried out operation overnight. We have excise force from three districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur besides Punjab Police that conducted the raid,” he said.Ironically, the Punjab Police in February last year had deputed designated police officers (village police officer) in the rank of ASI, head constable or constable who were asked to visit their respective villages at least once in a week. These officials were tasked to keep tabs and gather information about the criminals, including their activities and whereabouts, criminals missing from the village etc, drug sale and distribution too.Interestingly, the police did not know about the racket still running in the village. Further, the police have been carrying out cordon and search operations in the villages on daily basis in order to curb bootlegging.Shailender Singh Shelly, Superintendent of Police, however, said it would be wrong to paint it as failure of Punjab Police. “We have been carrying out operations while there have been around 17 cases of under the Excise Act against the same persons who were arrested today,” he said. He added the police department has made huge recoveries and arrested a large number of liquor smugglers in the past.Past and presentLucrative business||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bootleggers-have-an-edge-over-officials-219200
02-03-2021||---||SGPC: Decision to stop Sikhs from visiting Nankana Sahib has hurt them||Amritsar, March 1The SGPC organised a grand Gurmat Samagam (religious programme) at Habri village in Kaithal district of Haryana, dedicated to the centenary of Saka Nankana Sahib, when Gurdwara Nankana Sahib was liberated from mahants about 100 years ago.The SGPC has been organising these programmes at different places dedicated to Saka Nankana Sahib and centenary of the establishment of SGPC, to commemorate the contribution of Sikh leaders of the Gurdwara Reform Movement.On this occasion, many Sikh personalities including SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur shared their views with the congregation and the renowned raagis (gurbani kirtan singers), dhaddis (ballad singers) and kavishar (poetry) groups connected the audience with Gurbani Kirtan and the glorious history of the Sikhs. The family of jathedar Kartar Singh Jhabbar, an important leader of the Gurdwara Reform Movement, had migrated to Habri village in Kaithal district of Haryana after the partition of the country.Speaking on the occasion, Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The brutal atrocities perpetrated by the goons of mahant Narain Das, on the Sikhs who had come to restore the sanctity of the holy shrine Sri Nankana Sahib a hundred years ago, was a cruel truth of the times which could never be forgotten. This incident had laid the foundation of the country’s independence. Whenever there was a calamity in the country, the Sikhs rendered great services as per teachings of the gurus, yet the present government has restricted the Sikhs from visiting their pious Shrine in Nankana Sahib without bothering about their religious sentiments”.The SGPC president also announced financial assistance for Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha at Habri village, including Rs 5 lakh for Jathedar Kartar Singh Jhabbar Diwan Hall and Rs 2 lakh for a library.Jathedar Jhabbar’s grandson Jograj Singh Jhabbar and prominent personalities were honoured on the occasion with siropao (robe of honour) and mementoes.Members of SGPC executive committee Harbhajan Singh Masana, Bhupinder Singh Assandh, Jagsir Singh Mangeana, Tejinderpal Singh Ladwa, Bibi Arvinder Kaur, Baba Sukha Singh Kar Sewa Karnal and other Sikh leaders from Haryana were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-decision-to-stop-sikhs-from-visiting-nankana-sahib-has-hurt-them-219201
02-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Customers not happy with ‘poor’ services after PSU bank merger||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 1Bank veterans and customers in the city have complained of several disruptions and hiccups faced by them due to the merger of various banks. They complained that the promise of convenient banking solutions following the merger has evaporated and they are facing new difficulties every second day.Harpreet Singh, an account holder with one such a bank, which was merged into another nationalised bank, said, he always finds the passbook printing kiosk down. Most of the time, the staff blames it on poor connectivity. “They do not even get up from their seats to address our problems. It is not an observation developed through an instance but many of my friends from different shops of Katra Sher Singh have also claimed so. On being requested for help, they cite the reason of shortage of staff.”Not a panaceaTalking about ‘May I help desk’ window to facilitate banking needs of customers, Amarjit Singh said, “Either the window is missing or the designated staff has not been assigned. It should have been made functional on a priority basis especially after the merger as customers are in dire need to know the latest updates.”Customers of the merged banks are referred to the base bank even for cash deposit and clearing instruments. In some instances, even ATM services continue to be hit, citing flimsy grounds, such as discontinuation of outsourcing.The issue of Internet banking, Mobile banking, Point of sale (POS) took a long time to resolve and hampering banking services post mergers.He said in this scenario they do not have any other alternative but to shift to private banks due to deterioration in services.The Narendra Modi-led government in its first tenure had set the ball rolling for consolidation and amalgamation exercise in public sector banking with merger of SBI with five of its associate subsidiaries along with the Bhartiya Mahila Bank in 2017. In its second term, the government continued the process with a mega merger of 10 PSBs into four entities in 2020 bringing the number of state run banks to 12, which were 27 in number three years ago.Suresh Sarpal, a shopkeeper, stated that “We are close to the first anniversary of mega merger yet software upgradation is playing truant as whenever they approach local branches they attribute it to the same.” Even the basic banking services are hampered due to the continued upgradation process on core banking solutions. Customers cannot avail hassle-free services at the merged entity, causing harassment and inconvenience to the public at large.Munish Arora, a wholesale trader, said except the installation of new glow sign boards, nothing tangible has been achieved with mergers and amalgamation of banks. Neither the economy witnessed any growth nor banks are on the road to recovery from bad loans, ordinary customers like him feel harassed even during a visit to any branch of a bank with fewer staff.Anil Vinayak, a retired Senior Manager from the Oriental Bank of Commerce, said, banking reforms were the need of the hour amid burgeoning NPA portfolio, spike in banking frauds and shrinking credit growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/customers-not-happy-with-poor-services-after-psu-bank-merger-219202
02-03-2021||Tarn Taran||11 arrested with illegal drugs, liquor||As part of its crackdown on drug peddlers and illicit liquor smugglers, the district police  on Sunday arrested nine persons under the NDPS Act and two under the Excise Act.  The Khalra police arrested Gursahib Singh of Narla village with 30 gm of heroin and Sarabjit Singh of Sursing village with the same quantity of heroin.  Meanwhile, the district police arrested Jorawar Singh of Bhutwind, Jagtar Singh of Kalsian Kalan, Rachhpal Singh of Wan Tara Singh, Paramjit Singh of Khadoor Sahib, Sikandar Singh of Muglani, Bashir Singh of Thatha and Akashdeep Singh of Noordi village and seized 1,327 intoxicating tablets from their possession.  The police also arrested Baldev Singh of Khemkaran and Sukhwinder Singh of Patti town with 14 bottles of Illicit liquor. A case has been registered in this regard. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-arrested-with-illegal-drugs-liquor-219203
02-03-2021||Amritsar||IIM Amritsar wraps up placement drive||IIM Amritsar has successfully concluded summer placements for the MBA batch 2020-22 on a high note with 100 per cent summer placements. With teaching and job interviews moving to virtual platforms, several changes occurred in the recruitment process.Despite the pandemic, IIM Amritsar outdid its previous performances by achieving 100 per cent summer placements for its largest MBA batch since inception. The recruitment drive saw over 100 recruiters partaking in the summer internship hiring process, a whopping 100 per cent year-on-year increase in the organisations gracing the institute. More than 80 companies were first-time recruiters. The summer internship drive saw big brands like Crompton Greaves, Jio Creative Labs, Kotak Mahindra, Adobe, Dalmia Group, IOCL, Haldiram’s, Shoppers Stop, Capital Food and Akshay Patra visiting for the first time. The previous recruiters, including ICICI Lombard, RBI, Xiaomi, V-Guard, Cipla, HPCL, continued their association with the institute, bearing testimony to our alumni and astounding performance in the industry.All the summer internship processes were conducted seamlessly through the virtual mode, as the top quartile average stipend and the highest stipend of Rs99,207 and Rs1,70,000, respectively. The recruitment drive provided opportunities in all management areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-wraps-up-placement-drive-219204
02-03-2021||---||Amritsar Cricket Academy down SSV Cricket Academy||AMRITSAR, MARCH 1Amritsar Cricket Academy on Monday outdid SSV Cricket Academy in a pulsating encounter during the Richcook Junior Cricket tournament here.SSV Cricket Academy decided to bat first after winning the toss. Aryan’s 75 played a pivotal role for his team to post a target of 154 in 40 overs. Meanwhile for Amritsar Cricket Academy, Sukhvas scalped three, conceded 27 runs in eight overs. Guntaz also sent three packing in eight overs.Riding on Abhinav's 40 off 76 and Arshdeep Singh's 39 and Sukhvas' 31, Amritsar Cricket Academy wrapped up the match comfortably. They needed nine runs in the last over, which was as easy as ABC for them to score.Earlier, Rankirat Singh, Sports in-charge of Khalsa Institutes inaugurated the match and got acquainted with the players. On the occasion, he said, “It is a remarkable effort on the part of the Amritsar Games Association (AGA) to organise a promising tournament after the Covid-triggered lockdown and resultant economic crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-cricket-academy-down-ssv-cricket-academy-219205
02-03-2021||---||Eight arrested with heroin, intoxicants||Amritsar, March 1The police have arrested eight persons in separate incidents and confiscated 477 gm of heroin from their possession on Sunday. Besides, the police also seized over 1,500 intoxicants from two of the accused.Those arrested were identified as Didar Singh, alias Bunty, of Gumtala, Sumit Bhatia of New Shiv Nagar, Dalwinder Singh, alias Deepu, of Guru Nanakpura, Sanjit Singh, alias Prince of Mohkampura, Vishal of Pandora village in Sultanwind, Mahabir Singh of Sultanwind village, Gursahib Singh of Ladhu Vadda village in Tarn Taran and Rajiv Sharma of the Kot Khalsa area.Separate cases under the NDPS Act has been registered against the arrested persons, while further investigations are under way to ascertain the source of the contraband and their forward and backward linkages, said the police.The police confiscated 255 gm of heroin from Didar Singh, while Sumit and Dalwinder were held for possessing 20-gm and 60-gm heroin, respectively. Vickey Looks, an accomplice of Sumit, managed to escape from the spot. Similarly, Sanjit, Gursahib and Rajiv Sharma were nabbed with 40-gm, 60-gm and 42 gm of heroin, respectively. Vishal and Mahabir were arrested with 1,260 and 254 sedative pills, respectively.Two mobile phones seized from jail inmatesAmritsar Central Jail authorities seized two mobile phones from as many prisoners here on Sunday.Ajmer Singh, Assistant Superintendent, jail, said that during checking in room number 2 of barrack number 1, the jail staff confiscated a keypad mobile phone from Gurbhej Singh of Dhun Dhae village while another cell phone was seized from Baljinderpreet Singh of Jujhar Singh Avenue in room number 1 of barrack number 1.A complaint was lodged with the Islamabad police following that a case was registered under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against them. Meanwhile, the police also booked three jail inmates—Amandeep Singh, Skhdev Singh and Baljint Singh— for allegedly quarrelling inside jail premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-arrested-with-heroin-intoxicants-219206
02-03-2021||---||Vocational edu gets a boost at BBKDAV||Amritsar, March 1Taking a cue from the increase in demand for vocational and skill-based courses post-pandemic, BBKDAV College has launched its own web application specifically to cater to the students of vocational education. The application BBK-VOCS has been designed to make life easier for the students of vocational courses of the college as a single platform for sharing of study material and interaction between student and teachers.Dr Pushpinder Walia, principal, BBKDAV College, said, the shift from traditional courses to professional, skill-oriented courses has resulted in higher institutions adopting measures to innovate and upgrade learning process. “In the new normal, a lot has been said about technology-driven learning and re-inventing the classroom learning. The paradigm shift in higher education during the pandemic has now paced the process of making education multi-pronged. The application launched by our college has been designed to facilitate the students of vocational courses, given that there has been significant increase in students opting for vocational courses.” The college has also introduced five new vocational courses, including MVoc in Fashion and Technology, MVoc in retail management, BVoc in nutrition and dietetics, BVoc in healthcare and hospital administration, BVoc in tourism and hospitality management.The lady behind developing the application, Kamayani, associate professor, PG Department of Computer Science at BBKDAV and nodal officer for BVoc courses, said the application is exclusive to students of college and it will ease out the complicated process of taking online classes through popular applications. “The UGC had cleared a grant of Rs6 lakh for our college to upgrade vocational education and we utilised the funds to come with this application. It is an upgrade from the traditional classroom learning and we have so far got a good response from our students. The teacher doesn't need to add each student for each class and students can just login using their mobile numbers, without disturbing the process of ongoing class,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vocational-edu-gets-a-boost-at-bbkdav-219208
02-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||88 yrs on, Gandhi Ground is still in construction mode||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 1Even after 88 years Gandhi Ground (cricket stadium), which had hosted several international matches, is far from completion. Though many international tournaments in the past were held here, but things went wayward as the stadium was not developed as per the guidelines of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI).Forget about the state-of-the-art equipment, even basic facilities were crying for attention.Many parts of the ground cannot be accessed due to absence of staircase and concrete seating arrangement has been missing. Once completed, the seating capacity would increase from 15,000 to 25,000. A raised concrete platform for installing high-definition cameras has no access and a stopgap arrangement has been made by using of bamboo sticks.An announcement to install floodlights was made in 2009 and expression was received from five companies, but things did not materialise.In 2015, former cabinet minister Anil Joshi had shown interest to elevate the ground as per international standards to host IPL matches, however, nothing positive came out. Veteran cricketers said Gandhi Ground played an essential role in honing their skills. They said in the absence of quality cricket ground, it would be difficult to produce cricketers.A peep into the pastGandhi Ground (roughly spread on 22 acres) was established in 1932 with a donation from Maharaja Bhupinder Singh of Patiala and then Punjab Government. Subsequently, Guru Nanak stadium, badminton hall, AGA Club, Cosmo Club, Virsa Vihar and other entities were carved out of it. Now, the cricket stadium is situated on nine acres.The first match was played between India XI and MCC in 1933. The Indian cricket team was led by Maharaja Bhupinder Singh along with Lala Amarnath, Col CK Naidu and Surjit Singh Majithia.Legends, including Madan Lal, Mohinder Amarnath, Bishan Singh Bedi, Surinder Amarnath, Sarandeep Singh Harvinder Singh and others honed their skills at this ground.The cricket ground hosted several international teams, including West Indies, Australia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and England. The Indian cricket team played against Sri Lanka here in 1983. The North Zone cricket team had played West Indies in 1984. The ground hosted the last international match between India and New Zealand in 1995.Raman Bakshi, vice-president, Amritsar Games’ Association-cum-Senior Deputy Mayor, said huge amount is required to complete public gallery, install floodlights and construct luxury rooms, besides constructing the entire stadium.He said Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu had announced a grant of Rs1 crore for the ground. He said the first priority was to prepare the pitch and surrounding ground. Bakshi said around eight samples of soil have been received for the same.Around six new rooms would be constructed for which Rs3 crore would be required to install floodlights to host day-night matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/88-yrs-on-gandhi-ground-is-still-in-construction-mode-219210
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Family members of 34 people killed in 2018 Amritsar rail tragedy to get jobs||The Punjab government on Monday decided to provide jobs to a family member each of 34 people killed in the 2018 Amritsar train accident by relaxing existing recruitment norms.The decision was taken by the state Cabinet at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here, an official statement said.On October 19, 2018, as many as 58 people were killed and 71 injured when a train ploughed into a crowd that had spilled onto the tracks while watching the burning of a Ravana effigy near Amritsar.Read also: Punjab paves way for recruitment of 831 craftsman instructorsOn a proposal of the deputy commissioner of Amritsar, the Chief Minister’s Office, after detailed deliberations, decided that one member each of the 34 families of the 58 deceased be considered for a job in various institutions and departments of the state on the basis of their academic qualifications, the statement said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-members-of-34-people-killed-in-2018-amritsar-rail-tragedy-to-get-jobs-219108
