03-03-2021||Amritsar||After drones, sniffer dogs to help locate illicit stills?||After using drones for locating illicit liquor trade flourishing in the rural belt, the Excise Department has mooted the use of sniffer dogs for locating lahan (raw material mixed for distillation of illicit liquor) hidden underground.Additional Chief Secretary (taxation), A Venugopal, has sent a proposal to the Punjab Government in this connection for its nod.Tightening the nooseAvtar Singh Kang, Assistant Commissioner, Excise Amritsar, has confirmed the development while adding that the department was hoping for the go-ahead soon. The department is to put these specially trained dogs to work for locating lahan hidden by the bootleggers, which could not be traced manually.The bootleggers involved in the manufacturing of hooch or illicit liquor usually hide lahan at the places where it cannot be easily traced. “Sometimes they dig huge pits and later layer it with tarpaulin. They filled the same with lahan for fermentation. Then, they cover the same with soil after tying the ends of the tarpaulin,” he said. This modus operandi is used especially in the areas close to water bodies as it requires a lot of water and also to dispose of the waste generated after distillation process.The department doesn’t have any equipment to trace such places and you cannot identify the place manually either. “We can’t locate such places with the help of drones also. One should have specific inputs about the location to trace such pits,” he said.Therefore, the department has proposed for using sniffer dogs to discover the places where lahan is hidden. Earlier, drones were used extensively to bust bootleggers.During this financial year 2020-2021, the Excise Department has seized 1.15 lakh litre of illicit liquor besides 1.17 lakh kg of lahan, which is around four times higher than the last financial year (2019-2020). Even though the department has busted 76 illegal stills as compared to 43 in the last financial year, the practice seems to be burgeoning. The conviction rate is also much higher this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-drones-sniffer-dogs-to-help-locate-illicit-stills-219787
03-03-2021||Amritsar||SGPC decides to set up sports academy for girls||In order to provide better opportunities to Sikh girls in the field of sports, it has been decided in the first meeting of the Directorate of Sports for Girls, constituted recently by the SGPC, to set up girls’ sports academy.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a girls’ sports academy dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib would be set up.“To select girls for the teams of hockey, basketball and athletics in this academy, the trials will be held at Punjab Armed Police (PAP) Ground in Jalandhar on March 13 and 14,” said the SGPC president. The hockey academies for boys are already being run by the SGPC, recently recognised by Hockey India this year.She said, “In the sports academy, players would be selected in the categories of under-15 and under-17. The girls who will be selected for the academy will also be provided quality education, sports equipment, hostel, food and uniforms, etc. The best female coaches will also be provided.”Regarding the selection procedure, she said, “The final selection would be made by organising sports camps for the selected players after completion of the trials.”Apart from Bibi Jagir Kaur, sports director Bibi Rajbir Kaur, Arjuna awardee, deputy director Bibi Surjit Kaur, members of the directorate Bibi Harpreet Kaur Barnala, Sumati Kanwar, Poonam Arora, Bibi Parminder Kaur Pannu and Bibi Rajinder Kaur were also present.Bibi Jagir Kaur expressed grief over death of Prof Narinjan Singh Dhesi. The SGPC president said Prof Dhesi not only guided society through his writings but also did research in the field of Gurmat. She said Prof Narinjan Singh was a research writer whose demise is a great loss to the literary circles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-decides-to-set-up-sports-academy-for-girls-219790
03-03-2021||Amritsar||22-yr-old kills self, husband booked||A 22-year-old married woman, identified as Mamta, allegedly committed suicide in Bhoewali village falling under the Ajnala police station here on Sunday. The police have booked her husband William Masih following the complaint by her mother on Monday. No arrest has been made till now, while body was handed over to the family members after autopsy.Veena, the complainant stated to the police that Mamta was married to William in 2014 and they had given dowry as per their capacity. She alleged the couple had two children from the marriage. She said that William had demanded money a number of times from them and they had met the same for a couple of times. However, the accused started quarrelling with the victim while seeking more money.She said, on Sunday she got a call from her mother-in-law that Mamta had consumed some poisonous substance after a quarrel with William at 9.30 pm. She was immediately rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where she died on Monday.The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against William and efforts were on to nab him, said Jugraj Singh, Investigating Officer, in the case.Meanwhile, Ram Sewak, a resident of Gonda in UP, who has been residing on rent in the Gokal Ka Bagh area on 100-ft road here committed suicide by hanging himself with the ceiling fan on Monday. The police have initiated inquest proceedings in the case and further investigations are underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-yr-old-kills-self-husband-booked-219791
03-03-2021||Amritsar||University, college teachers to boycott exam duty tomorrow||Responding to the call given by Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation, GNDUTA has appealed to all its members from the university campus, regional campuses and constituent colleges to reach PU campus to participate in a protest rally and march towards the Legislative Assembly. GNDU postpones exams scheduled for March 4n Guru Nanak Dev University has postponed exams scheduled forMarch 4 due to mass casual leave and call for boycott by university examinations by Punjab Federation of University and CollegeTeachers’ OrganisationsOn March 4, all teachers of universities and colleges will proceed on mass casual leave, boycott examinations and teaching as well as research work. A meeting of the District Council of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU) Amritsar was held at DAV College on Tuesday also called to mobilise the teachers for the state rally. Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon, district president, PCCTU, said the Punjab Government took condemnable decision to delink UGC pay scales for the teachers in colleges and universities.Sekhon said the seventh pay commission wages have already been implemented by the Central Government as well as by almost all the states for their employees in 2016, but the Punjab Government has not implemented it till date. “Also, an attempt is being made by the Punjab Government to delink the pay scales of assistant professors of universities and colleges, which is unfair, unjust and illegal. It implies that university and college assistant professors will get lower pay as compared to teachers of other states, which will have long term implications on the quality of higher education in Punjab. Private sector universities and colleges will also fix the pay of their teachers accordingly. It will lead to overall low pay to teachers working in higher education sector in Punjab,” he said. He added that initially the pay scale of assistant professors is being delinked and diluted but in coming years the same will be done for associate professors and professors. There will be complete boycott of conduct of universities exam and evaluation work on March 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/university-college-teachers-to-boycott-exam-duty-tomorrow-219793
03-03-2021||---||Robbery case cracked, 2 held||Amritsar, March 2With the arrest of two youths, the police on Tuesday claimed to have cracked the dacoity case within 24 hours. The accused had robbed gold from a goldsmith, identified as Mukesh Kumar, a resident of the Kot Harnam Das area, on Monday late evening. He told the police that he along with his workers was working in a room of his house when three persons with covered faces entered the room and snatched gold weighing around 30-gm from them at gunpoint.ADCP Harpal Singh said that the police had arrested Deep Singh, alias Deepa, of Kot Harnam Singh along with Arwinder Singh, alias Rohit, of Kot Atma Ram locality and recovered 2.60-gm of gold from their possession. The police also confiscated the bike used in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbery-case-cracked-2-held-219794
03-03-2021||Amritsar||Waste is not a word in her glossary||Driving positive vibes from greens in her garden, Sunita Anand, an entrepreneur from city swears by the power and impact of sustainable lifestyle. Amid the din of the city, she has created a peaceful yet exquisite display of colourful flowers, organic herbs, indoor and outdoor plants along with garden accessories.Founder of ‘OrganiCore Boutique Garden’, a six-month old brand that promotes plant-based food and lifestyle, Sunita has groomed multiple species of flowers, medicinal plants and vegetables in her garden at her home and the nursery she runs. “I believe in the power of mother nature. Adopting organic way of life was a choice I made because I wanted to spread the message of being kind towards nature. I studied how important the plant-based food and lifestyle is in current times and we need to promote it as a life skill,” she said. Sunita started her brand six months ago, during the lockdown as she wanted more people to adopt a healthy, natural way of life.It’s all natural!Passionate about organic farming, she has been nurturing her beautiful and exquisite collection of perennial flowers, including pansies, petunia, marigold, snapdragons and many more. She has also created multiple flower beds, patches of micro greens and herbs in her nursery and garden. “I use natural fertilsers through techniques such as composting and have lot of elements in my garden that promote recycling and re-use,” she shared.The in-house layout of flowers and sculptures is eye-catching and mesmerising. Stand out features of her garden include use of worn out accessories, including clothes like jeans, shoes, spare tyres and discarded household items as planters. An extensive line up of engraved pots, vases and sculpted planters can be seen in her garden.She grows lots of perennial flowers like pansies, petunia, marigold, ranunculus, that are also known as rose’s cousin. She also grows vegetables, including Chinese cabbage, yellow and orange cauliflowers and micro greens. She not only has a vast variety of garden and landscaping essentials, but also has a store that boasts an array of plant-based, organic products, including grocery, dairy substitutes, toiletries and vegan chocolates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waste-is-not-a-word-in-her-glossary-219796
03-03-2021||Gurdaspur||Proposed in 2001, rail underpass in Gurdaspur set to be reality soon||After a torturous two-decade-long wait, Gurdaspur will finally have an underpass on the busy Gurdaspur-Mukerian rail crossing with the Punjab government releasing Rs 21.72 crore for the completion of the much-needed project. In what is being termed as a rare occurrence, the state government has chipped in with a 100 per cent grant. Under normal circumstances, state governments and the Railways share the costs.This was a long pending demand of locals as serpentine queues of vehicles could be witnessed every time the crossing is closed. The track caters to several goods and passenger trains. The crossing remained shut for long periods of time throwing the city’s economy in a chaos.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal confirmed that “the Railways have been kept out of the loop to ensure the venture faced no bureaucratic hassles and also to hasten the process.”“A few weeks ago, I had met the CM Capt Amarinder Singh and had apprised him of the situation. The state PWD will be undertaking the construction soon,” said local MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra.In 2017 then MP Sunil Jakhar, too, had promised to get the venture completed. He was in touch with the Railways officials but the project went into a limbo following his loss in the 2019 parliamentary elections.Pahra added that earlier there was a proposal to construct an overbridge. “Building an overbridge would have meant displacing hundreds of shopkeepers who have their businesses on the Tibri road. Now, not even a single business will be displaced. The project will be completed within six months,” he said.“What acted as a catalyst was the fact that the density of traffic had increased manifold in the last 10-15 years. The queues were getting longer with every passing day,” said Baljit Singh Pahra, a newly elected municipal councillor. Incidentally, he is also an aggrieved commuter because he uses this road to reach his native village from the city.It was in 2001 that the proposal to construct either an underpass or an overbridge was taken up. On numerous occasions several politicians did rake up the issue but every time things got derailed due to one reason or the other. Residents claim that it is now, after a long gap of 20 years, that they can heave a sigh of relief.“The venture is considered to be important from the security angle too as this is the stretch of road normally used by Army personnel commuting to the city from Tibri cantonment. Now everything has been sorted out,” said Rajesh Mahajan, a shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/proposed-in-2001-rail-underpass-in-gurdaspur-set-to-be-reality-soon-219797
03-03-2021||Amritsar||Case filed against unknown persons||Mystery shrouds the incident in which a couple was admitted to a private hospital on the Majitha road following gunshot injuries. Their condition is stated to be critical while the police have registered a case under the charges of attempt to murder and the Arms Act against unknown persons for now.The victims have been identified as Harjit Singh (55) and his wife Paramjit Kaur (50), both residents of Kathunangal area.Himanshu Bhagat, SHO, Kathunangal police station, said a matrimonial dispute is apparently the reason behind the incident. He said as the doctors have declared them unfit for recording their statements, nothing concrete can be said at the moment. Further investigations were under progress, he added. Harjit had reportedly suffered a bullet injury on the neck, while Paramjit sustained bullet injury on her chest.The incident came to light when the police got information from the hospital authorities. The police immediately reached the hospital where doctors declared both of them unfit for recording statement. Following this, a case has been registered under Section 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unknown persons.Nirmal Singh, investigating officer, said, the couple was alone in their house and there was no sign of involvement of any other person. He said according to information, Harjit was in depression. It appeared that he tried to commit suicide, but the woman stopped him from doing so. In the melee, Paramjit got injured and later Harjit shot himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/case-filed-against-unknown-persons-219798
03-03-2021||Our Correspondent||CPI, AAP protest rising prices of essential commodities||Tarn Taran, March 2To mark their protest against the rising prices of essential commodities, workers of different political parties organised demonstrations at different places in the district on Tuesday. The CPI activists organised a demonstration and took out a march in Harike township. Prithipal Singh Marimegha, state leader of the party, while addressing on the occasion said the Central government had failed to check the price rise. He said the prices of petroleum products, including the LPG, had been rising daily. He said the price of LPG cylinder had increased to the tune of Rs 200 in the last three months and the prices of essential commodities too were rising daily.AAP volunteers, led by senior party leader Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, condemned the Modi government and organised a protest against the rising prices of essential commodities in Tarn Taran. Dr Sohal, while addressing the party volunteers, demanded from the Punjab government to slash VAT on petroleum products to give relief to the people. Similar protest were organised in Patti, Khemkaran, Khadoor Sahib and Chabal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cpi-aap-protest-rising-prices-of-essential-commodities-219799
03-03-2021||Tarn Taran ||Abolition of posts of teacher decried||The district unit of the BEd Teachers’ Front, Punjab, in its meeting held here on Tuesday condemned the move of the Secretary, Education, Punjab, abolishing hundreds of teacher posts under the name of transfers.Prabhjot Singh, district president of the organisation, presided over the meeting while Dinesh Sharma, Amandeep Singh Bhullar, Gurpreet Singh Chheena were among the others who addressed the meeting. The speakers said that on the orders of the Secretary Education, 228 posts of PTI teachers from Government Middle Schools across the state had been shifted to the Block Elementary Education Offices while abolishing these from the schools. The leader said that there were hundreds of other vacant posts which were not shown as vacant in the departmental portal, hence these are meant to be abolished.The speakers said that the organisation would not bear the viciousness of the authority and had chalked out agitation programme to face the challenge of the secretary. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/abolition-of-posts-of-teacher-decried-219800
03-03-2021||---||Dive into the world of books with four-day lit fest at Khalsa College||Prominent writers and literary personalities marked their presence at the four-day national literary festival and book fair at Khalsa College on Wednesday. The inaugural day began with a poet convention led by Padma Shri poet Surjit Patar, who expressed his happiness over the increasing interest that Punjabi literature has piqued interest of the younger generation.Patar along with Khalsa College Governing Council Secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina and Principal Dr Mehal Singh inaugurated the festival. The book exhibition panorama had more than 50 publishers from all over the country, lead by National Book Trust (NBT) and the collection include books from different genre.Patar in his inaugural address, said that Punjabi language needs to be promoted through literary festivals. `Banda ann paani naal hee nahi banda, bo- baani naal vee banda hai (A person is not merely identified by what he or she eats but by what he speaks),” said the noted writer and poet. Another eminent literary personality, Lakhwinder Singh Johal too addressed the session and said books have remained the integral part of Punjabi culture and the festival is an opportunity to indulge with the books and immerse into the world of literature. Patar also gave an account of his literary journey and recited his popular poetry. The poetry convention had recitals by Jaswant Jafar, Sukhwinder Amrit, Swaranjit Sawi, Darshan Buttar, Wahid, Balwinder Sandhu, Jagwinder Jodha and Chamnandeep Deol.NBT Director, Yuvraj Malik informed that Punjab Art Council Chandigarh and NBT had joined hands with Department of Punjabi Studies, Khalsa College, to arrange this national event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dive-into-the-world-of-books-with-four-day-lit-fest-at-khalsa-college-219801
03-03-2021||Amritsar||Slew of  key development projects to transform holy city, says Mayor||Though, the Municipal Corporation (MC) witnessed a sharp dip in the recovery of taxes and bills after the outbreak of Covid-19, the city Mayor and officials of the civic body are claiming to strengthen the infrastructure and speed up the development in 2021.Karmajit Singh Rintu said, “No doubt, the Covid-19 hit the revenue of MC but we have optimum planning to tackle the situation. We have several funds and fixed deposit grants so development works would not suffer. Even we will spend more than previous years.”Several infra works in the offingThe Municipal Corporation proposed to re-carpet the A and B Class roads of the city. Last year MC had spent Rs 13 crore on the roads but now proposed to spend more Rs 60 crore on the city roads and streets. The government spent Rs 31 crore on street lights under Smart City project. Now, MC sanctioned Rs 7.5 crore for the completion and maintenance of street lights project.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu claimed that in 2021 the MC will provide 100 percent water supply and sewerage system in the city. Several projects are being carried out under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). MC hired desilting machines for main sewer lines and now facing issue in streets where sewer lines are narrow. The small super suction machines would be hired to de-silt the narrow lines.MC reserved Rs 10 crore for this. For sanitation, MC to buy the sweeping machines for mechanical sweeping.The Municipal Corporation officials claimed to strengthen collection and transportation for solid waste management. Modern machinery would be bought for the walled city areas. The bioremediation project would focus to vacate more land at Bhagtanwala dump.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/slew-of-key-development-projects-to-transform-holy-city-says-mayor-219802
03-03-2021||---||YSCA get better of Dashmesh Cricket Academy||Amritsar, March 2Yuvraj Singh Cricket Academy (YSCA) beat Dashmesh Cricket Academy in the Richcook Junior Cricket Tournament on Tuesday. After winning the toss, YSCA opened the innings and posted a target of 189 runs for four in 30 overs. The players of Dashmesh Academy could not withstand the bowling attack and tight fielding by the victorious team and were bowled out for 107.In another fixture played at the Gandhi ground, Bhanot 11 thrashed SSV Cricket Academy. SSV had won the toss and elected to bat first. However, they could not post an impressive target and were all out for 88 in 20 overs.Balwinder Singh of Bhanot 11 took five wickets followed by Prabhjot Singh who scalped four. Bhanot 11 successfully chased the target by scoring 89 for a loss of five in 21 overs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ysca-get-better-of-dashmesh-cricket-academy-219803
03-03-2021||Amritsar||Five cartridges seized at airport||‘Selling tobacco to minors unlawful’Amritsar: The district Health Department has warned cigarette and tobacco product vendors that the sale of these products is prohibited within 100 yards of any educational institution, besides the sale of tobacco products is prohibited to persons under the age of 18. Dr Sharanjit Kaur, nodal officer for Tobacco Control Programme, said: “Young children are impressionistic and the laws are aimed at saving them from the menace of tobacco usage”. She added that under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015, exposing a child to tobacco can carry up to seven years in prison. TNSOne held with 370-gm heroinAmritsar: The city police have arrested Lovepreet Singh of Guru Nanak Colony here for allegedly possessing 370-gm heroin. He was arrested at a checkpoint. A case under Sections 21 (C), 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against him while further investigations to ascertain the source of contraband and his backward and forward links are underway. Meanwhile, the police also arrested Bobby of Mullechak village and seized over 500 sedative pills from his possession. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-cartridges-seized-at-airport-219804
03-03-2021||GS Paul||Job assurance a ray of hope for Amritsar train tragedy victims’ kin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 2Two years after the tragic incident, in which a diesel multiple unit (DMU) train had mowed down a crowd standing on the rail tracks near the Jaura railway crossing to watch Dussehra festivities, a ray of hope has emerged among the victims’ families after the state Cabinet’s approval to offer jobs to the next of victims’ kin.At least 59 persons had lost their lives in the incident that occurred on October 19, 2018.An FIR was registered against unidentified people. However, no arrests were made. Lately, a departmental action was taken against two civic officials for negligence.The Centre and the state had given an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, respectively, but the affected family members had alleged that the amount could hardly secure their future. Jobs have been assured to 34 eligible family members.Deepak, who had lost his father Virender and uncle Pawan, said, “The government responded quite late. Now, with the Cabinet approval, other formalities should not take time.” Mukesh Kumar, who lost his son, was happy that his daughter Nancy would be able to take care of the family after getting a job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/job-assurance-a-ray-of-hope-for-amritsar-train-tragedy-victims-kin-219646
