04-03-2021||Amritsar||Gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria let off in NDPS case||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-jaggu-bhagwanpuria-let-off-in-ndps-case-220441
04-03-2021||---||46% healthcare, frontline workers vaccinated in Amritsar district||Amritsar, March 3A total of 22,997 persons, including healthcare and frontline workers, those above 60 and 45 years with comorbidities have been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the district till Wednesday. Besides, 4,734 healthcare workers have received the second jab.Out of 24,890 registered healthcare workers (public and private sector), around 46 per cent (11,463) had been inoculated. Among 22,555 registered frontline workers, around 47 per cent (10,739) had been vaccinated.The vaccination drive for healthcare workers started in the district on January 16 and for frontline workers the drive commenced on February 3. The district health officials said 637 people above 60 years and 158 persons in the age group of 45 to 59 have been administered the dose.Officials said 346 senior citizens and 84 persons within the age group of 45 to 59 years visited the vaccination centres today. On March 1, only 70 persons were inoculated.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said considering the age of senior citizens, proper arrangements have been made. He said medical teams remain present during the entire process. None of those above 60 years or any other person who had been vaccinated to date has reported any adverse affect.Civil Surgeon said senior citizens and middle-aged persons with comorbid conditions were at a more risk of contracting the virus, thus they should get vaccinated at the earliest. He said as surge has been witnessed in positive cases, vaccine can help in boosting the immunity.Setting the stage for Covid awarenessHelpline numbers for Covid patients||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/46-healthcare-frontline-workers-vaccinated-in-amritsar-district-220193
04-03-2021||---||Trains back on track, but no respite for auto drivers||Amritsar, March 3Resumption of trains at the Amritsar Railway Station (ARS) has failed to bring cheer to auto drivers who have been out of job for nearly a year.Jagpreet Singh, an auto driver, said: It’s been nearly a year that trains were suspended due to lockdown. He said initially, as many as 240 autos were allowed to enter the railway station but now, not even a single auto is permitted to go inside the railway station which has hit their livelihood.“When we went to meet a senior official at Ferozepur in this regard, they asked us to furnish some documents along with the road permit.” He lamented that the majority of the auto drivers do not have such permits but the railway officials are insisting for the same. He accused them of deliberately doing so to deny them the parking space inside the ARS.Rakesh Kumar, another auto driver, said, as per the new design, the railways is in the process of upgrading the seating arrangement at the site where we used to park autos before lockdown last year. It is also going ahead with the plans to set up a museum at the TTE rest house, situated behind the parking area. The railways had conveyed about the beautification plan to auto and taxi operators here. This would reduce the parking area, he said, adding that taxi operators were not against the plan, but it should not be at the cost of livelihood of auto drivers.Similarly, Manjit Singh, a leader of the taxi union, said, “As many as 40 taxi drivers have been paying Rs 1,200 per month as licence fee to the Railways for parking their vehicles.” Taxi operators were asked to restrict themselves to a 60-metre area, where only 10 four-wheelers can be accomodated. Earlier, they had been given an area enough to park about 40 taxis. Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Rajesh Aggarwal, said the beautification and development of the local railway station was undergoing. He added that all sections would be assigned suitable space in the station as per the norms.Their concernRakesh Kumar, an auto driver, said, as per the new design, the railways is in the process of upgrading the seating arrangement at the site where they used to park autos before lockdown last year. It is also going ahead with the plans to set up a museum at the TTE rest house, situated behind the parking area. The railways had conveyed about the beautification plan to auto and taxi operators here. This would reduce the parking area, he said, adding that taxi operators were not against the plan, but it should not be at the cost of the livelihood of auto drivers.2 weekly trains maybe restoredThe railways is likely to restore two weekly trains Amritsar-Kolkata and Amritsar-Dibrugarh from March 5. Four pairs of Janshatabdi, Paschim Express, Frontier (Golden Temple) and Shahid Express ply daily. Besides, two weekly trains of Amritsar-Jalpaiguri and Amritsar-Nagpur have also been plying. It was only recently that the daily Amritsar - Pathankot train was restored. All of them pass through Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas as the activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee continue to block Amritsar-Delhi rail route near Jandiala railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trains-back-on-track-but-no-respite-for-auto-drivers-220194
04-03-2021||---||Smart city? Crores spent, but Sakatri Bagh presents a picture of neglect||Amritsar, March 3 Contrary to the claims of the Municipal Corporation about swachhta pledge, Raminder Singh Bolaria Park, popularly known as Sakatri Bagh, presents a picture of neglect. Heaps of garbage, plastic glasses, bags and stray dogs can been seen on the main entrance of Sakatri Bagh.   A few years ago, the state government had sent Rs5 crore to facelift the garden. Now, the state government is constructing indoor multipurpose sports stadium at a cost of Rs18 crore inside the garden. Despite spending crore of rupees, the state government and the Municipal Corporation have failed to keep the garden clean.  It is worth mentioning here that the Municipal Corporation is making efforts to improve the ranking in the Swachh Survekshan of the Central Government. Amritsar was ranked 9th dirtiest city in the country, and first in the state, among 47 cities having more than 10 lakh population, as per the Swachh Survekshan 2020. After that Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal conducted public meetings to make aware the public about sanitation and claimed to clinch first rank in survey of 2021.  “The MC has streamlined door-to-door garbage collection in the city but there is no improvement in the public places. The sanitation condition of Sakatari Bagh has not improved, said Tarlok Singh, a visitor at the garden.  While, Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu claimed that after completion of construction work of sports complex, the MC would take care of other aspects of the park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-city-crores-spent-but-sakatri-bagh-presents-a-picture-of-neglect-220195
04-03-2021||---||A small step heralding a social change||Amritsar, March 3Launching its first community development and outreach campaign for the year 2020-21, FICCI FLO chapter, Amritsar, had adopted Bua Nangli, a village located in Ajnala tehsil. Carrying forward with their project post lockdown, FLO Chairperson Meeta Mehra and executive member Jasmeet Nayyar, sponsored the education of Komaljeet Kaur (7) daughter of a single parent from Bua Nangli. FLO will pay for the education of the girl till high school under their programme ‘Meri Bitiya’.Meeta Mehra, informing about the programme, said, “We had conceptualised and implemented several development drives in the village under Meri Bitiya project, where the village women will empowered and engaged in transforming Bua Nangli into a modal village. Our programme witnessed a hiatus due to lockdown but now, we plan to support Komalpreet with her dream of completing her education. Komalpreet’s mother works as a house help and is unable to pay for her schooling. We have pledged to take care of her education till high school and will further help if she wants to continue her studies.”Jasmeet Nayyar, an educator for the past 40 years, has been at the forefront to form a network of volunteers to identify and support more girls from poor families, who need financial help to complete their education.Under their campaign, general health and eye camp was also held at the village. Dr Ruchika Grover along with her team of medical experts tested and treated 45 patients at the eye camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-small-step-heralding-a-social-change-220196
04-03-2021||Neha Saini||The return of Punjabi literature||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 3There was a time when Amritsar was the hub of Urdu literature and breeding ground for many writers. “But now, we hardly sell four-five copies a month,” shares Kuldeep Singh, owner of Azad Book Depot, peering out at the crowd intermittently as he adjusts the publications at the ongoing book fair at Khalsa College.The former times, as old as before the undivided Punjab, had Urdu on par with Punjabi literature. But with time and the Partition, the demand for Urdu writings fell dramatically. A few years back, while addressing one of the events to mark the opening of the Partition Museum in Amritsar, noted writer and historian Rakshanda Jalil had said that the biggest loss to Punjab during the Partition was of Urdu language. She said that the legacy and history of prolific Urdu writers was lost after carving out lines in Punjab. Later at a literary event in city, eminent poet Surjit Patar, too, had once pointed out the decline of readership of Urdu literature.The fact is now backed by the handful of publishers left in city of Urdu literature as Kuldeep. Into publishing business from 1942, Kuldeep’s grandfather and father had started publishing Urdu books in Lahore. “Our business was shifted from Lahore to Amritsar post-Partition. Even 10-12 years back, we used to get a lot of readers asking for Urdu literature. But today, even the basic Urdu learning books get one or two takers,” he tells.Another publisher and retailer of book, Deepak, from Jalandhar, feels the decline in Urdu readership in Amritsar has been a direct result of modernisation of language. “Not just Urdu, Punjabi, too, was facing a readership crisis a few years back. There are not many who know Urdu and its publishers are moving to digital platforms to cut cost and reach out to more readers.”While Urdu may have lost its footing in the market-driven publishing business, Punjabi seems to have redeemed itself during the lockdown. Among the 50 odd publishers from across the region at the fair, 40 have been able to get good sales from Punjabi books. “The first day sales for Punjabi books had been between Rs8,000 and 10,000. The response for Punjabi writings, including all genres, has been encouraging. During the lockdown, a lot of people went back to reading and even the recent farmer agitation gave boost to readership of Punjabi books, especially among the youth, who wanted to participate and engage in knowing about the history of farming community,” said Gaurav, a young publisher from Gidderbaha, who launched his publishing house Azaad Publications six months back.Saheb Singh, another publisher from Barnala, indicates the uptick in Punjabi literature to the farmer agitation and as form of protest literature. “Readership increase in Punjabi literature recently can be attributed to farmer’s movement. A lot of young readers are now picking up Punjabi poetry and history books,” he said.The sidekicksThe other activities at the ongoing four day literature festival included a seminar on ‘Guru Teg Bahadur-Baani and Shahadat Da Gaurav’ and a poetry session. Professor Rana Nayyar, retired from Punjabi University, Patiala, called Guru Teg Bahadur’s martyrdom as a revolutionary step in the history of the country. Two books ‘Sri Guru Teg Bahadur – Baani and Shahdat’ and ‘Sri Guru Teg Bahadur – Life and Teachings’ were released during the seminar. A play ‘Vismaad’, written by Dr Devendar Singh and directed by Emanual Singh was also performed at the theatre department.Why Urdu isn’t in demand anymore?Urdu publications have failed to rouse masses’ interest. Interestingly, the demand for Punjabi writings has resurrected itself but its long-lost cousin has become more distant than ever. The most important reasons that have come to the fore are the Partition and modernisation of language. With the Partition, most of the writers moved across the borders, while modernisation did rest of the damage. The situation for today’s publishers is so festooned with scant takers and overwritten with the no-future-ahead belief in the line of publishing Urdu literature that its publishers have drifted to digital platforms to keep out of choppy waters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-return-of-punjabi-literature-220197
04-03-2021||---||Khalsa College to go ahead with scheduled exam today||Amritsar, March 3Khalsa College Governing Council has decided to go ahead with the scheduled examination to be held on March 4. Despite the call given by GNDUTA and PCCTU to boycott all examination duties on March 4, Khalsa College will hold examination as per the given schedule on the day. Informing about the same, Dr Mehal Singh, principal Khalsa College, said, “We have decided to conduct the examination as per schedule for students’ convenience. The students have already been facing lot of hassles due to delayed examination process because of Covid-19 situation. Further delay will be uncalled for.” Dr Mehal Singh added that they will be conducting the exam with ad hoc staff.“We stand in solidarity with the teachers in their cause for demanding their rights. I have asked teachers, who wish to join to protest march by various associations and unions on March 4, to do so. But then, student interest will also be kept in mind.” The college management has an autonomous body to prepare schedule for examinations, independent from GNDU’s schedule. The varsity has rescheduled the examination for March 4 to March 5.The examination for BA Mass Communication and Journalism, BSc (hons) chemistry, BSc (hons) maths and several other courses are scheduled for March 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-to-go-ahead-with-scheduled-exam-today-220198
04-03-2021||---||MC readies for summer,  plans to boost water supply system||Amritsar, March 3Even after the inauguration of the first phase of the canal-based water supply project by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the Municipal Corporation is still spending funds on existing ground-based water supply system in the city.There is a total of 400 tubewells in the city and these are insufficient to fulfill the requirement of residents. The MC installs more than 80 tubewells every summer and the same number of pumps get defunct. In 2019, the MC had installed 40 tubewells under the urban mission and 40 under other schemes. In 2020, the General House passed 24 tubewells and 38 were proposed under the AMRUT scheme. There are several proposals that got nod in the recent Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting for the existing groundwater system.The Punjab CM had announced Rs722 crore for its first phase for the canal-based water project. The entire project would cost around Rs2,200 crore and would help in providing clean and safe drinking water to the population of the holy city, while it would reduce dependence on groundwater which has been leading to the environmental degradation in the state. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the lending arm of the World Bank Group, would finance 70 per cent of the cost and the rest would be borne by the Punjab Government.As per the government’s plan the surface water system would replace the groundwater system in the urban areas of the state.When contacted, Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said: “The canal-based project would be implemented in two years. We have to fulfill the basic amenities to the residents and water is must for every household. So we have to spend funds on the existing groundwater system. Even after implementation of canal-based water system, we will keep the groundwater system functional as an alternative.”Canal system to tackle groundwater crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-readies-for-summer-plans-to-boost-water-supply-system-220199
04-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Booh, organises farm loan event||Two booked for stealing goldTarn Taran: Around a year ago, a married woman of Tharu village escaped from her in-laws’ house after stealing 100-gm gold and Rs 50,000 along with her paramour. The accused had been identified as Kulwinder Kaur and Karamjit Singh of Peeru Wala (Ferozepur). On Tuesday, the police booked the accused on the basis of the inquiry report. Father-in-law of Kulwinder in his complaint to the Senior Superintendent of Police said the accused ran away jewellery and cash on March 8, 2020. The accused have been been booked under Sections 380 and 34 of the IPC. OCGirl abducted, one bookedTarn Taran: Rajbir Singh, a resident of Deep Avenue, abducted a 20-year-old-girl from Fatehbad village on Tuesday. Father of the girl in his complaint to the police said the accused had abducted his daughter who after clearing IELTS exam, procured Australian Visa. The accused has been booked under Section 346 of the IPC by the Goindwal Sahib police. OCTeachers burn Edu Secy’s effigyTarn Taran: Members of different organisations of government school teachers, under the banner of the Sanjha Adhiapak Morcha, lodged a protest in front of the local District Administration Complex (DAC) and burnt the effigy of the Education Secretary. They also presented a memorandum to the district authority. Balkar Valtoha, Nachhatar Singh, Karaj Kairon, Prabhjot Singh and others, while addressing on the occasion, said, posts of 228 PTI teachers from different middle schools and 1,904 posts of the head teachers in the primary department had been abolished already and now hundreds of vacant posts were not visible in the department portal. OCOne held with 1.2-kg opiumAmritsar: The police have arrested a person with 1.2-kg opium on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Jarmanjeet Singh, a resident of Gohalwarah village. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said acting on a tip-off, Inderjeet Singh, in charge, Crime Investigation Agency, raided a hideout of the accused and recovered opium from his possession. A case under relevant sections of the NDPS Act has been registered at Sultanwind police station. The accused would be produced before the court on Thursday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/krishi-vigyan-kendra-booh-organises-farm-loan-event-220201
04-03-2021||---||Major fire breaks out at Bhagtanwala dump yard||Amritsar, March 3A major fire broke out at Bhagtanwala dumping ground on Tuesday evening. A trammel screen machine, which was being used to segregate garbage (bioremediation process) suffered extensive damage.The Amritsar Municipal Corporation’s officials claimed that machine worth Rs 50 lakh was completely damaged. Workers, who were near the trammel machine had a narrow escape. Some other machines were also on the site, but workers drove them away to a safer place.Irked residents cornered the MC and the latter claimed that they doused flames with the help of eight fire engines.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Health Officer, Municipal Corporation, said, “A minor fire broke out in the afternoon. High-speed wind was blowing in the evening, which resulted in major fire. Three fire engines were pressed into the service and fire was controlled after two hours.”Meanwhile, residents suspected that the solid waste management firm had been burning garbage instead of processing it (as bioremediation is costly affair). Talbir Singh Gill, in-charge, Shiromani Akali Dal, joined locals and protested at the dump yard.“One can’t breathe, when fire breaks out at the dump yard. It’s not for the first time when fire broke out here. The Congress government promised to shift the dump before the election, but failed. Now, they are befooling residents on the name of bioremediation. The MC is deliberately burning garbage to get rid of it. Local MLA is responsible for all this mess.”Sanjay Sharma of the Sanjhi Sangharsh Committee said, “We have been demanding to shift the dump yard out of the city. It’s the only solution. We are residing in terrible conditions. The private company set the garbage on fire. The incident should be investigated.”Dr Kanwar refuted the allegations and said, “It is a well- known fact that decade-old heaps of garbage produce methane gas. It often catches fire. Why will the company set its own machine on fire?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/major-fire-breaks-out-at-bhagtanwala-dump-yard-220203
04-03-2021||---||Office-bearers of CII Amritsar Zonal Council||Amritsar, March 3 Rajiv Sajdeh, proprietor, Tex and Twist, and Karan Verma, director, AAR VEE Traders, have been unanimously elected chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of the CII Amritsar Zonal Council for 2021-22 at the Amritsar Annual Zonal Session 2020-21 organised at the residence of outgoing chairman of the CII Amritsar, Naavniit Miterr.Naavniit Miterr, managing director, Emdet Engineers, highlighted various issues of local industry that CII had taken up and got them resolved through the intervention of local  as well as state authorities. The long pending demands of the textile industry to exempt the textile waste from the category of hazardous waste had been resolved through the CII intervention, he said. The CII had distributed around 15,000 face masks, 15,000 hand sanitisers and gloves, 250 PPE kits and over 1 lakh packets of biscuits to the needy in the city during the lockdown period, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/office-bearers-of-cii-amritsar-zonal-council-220205
04-03-2021||The homoeopathic services in the government dispensaries of the district are not up to the mark. There are four government homeopathic dispensaries and eight are running under the National Health Mission (NHM). In Tarn Taran town||Homeopathic services at dispensaries need care||Latest de-addiction tech at Civil HospitalWith the efforts of the Civil Surgeon Dr Rihit Mehta, a latest de-addiction technique has been started in the district Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran. Dr Swaranjit Dhawan (pic), SMO in-charge, said a special 15-bedded detox ward has been established in the hospital. The SMO said most of the patients under this method take medicines at their homes but the ward has been established for emergency cases. In Tarn Taran district, there are as many as 23,000 addicts getting treatment for free from two government de-addiction and rehabilitation centres, 14 OOAT centres and 3 OST centres under the substitution method.MLA vs Sarpanch: War of words on social mediasarpanch of Adda Chabal Avan Kumar, alias Sonu Cheema. GurbaxpuriWar of words between two politicians of the area has been a talk of the town as both leveled allegations and counter allegations against each other on the social media for the last two weeks. In-question is Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambir Agnihotri and sarpanch of Adda Chabal Avan Kumar, alias Sonu Cheema. Both came close to each other only in the last Assembly elections of February, 2017. Some days back, Sonu Cheema had organised a demonstration in the BDPO office, Gandiwind, where a number of sarpanches, including that of Sarai Amanat Khan village and other prominent political personalities, even Block Samiti Members too were present at the demonstration. Sonu, while addressing the protesters, condemned the delay in development works in some villages. He also raised some other issues. Just few days after MLA Dr Dharambir Agnihotri organised a meeting of his supporters in Tarn Taran. The MLA leveled counter allegations on the social media without naming anybody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/homeopathic-services-at-dispensaries-need-care-220206
