05-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Girl abducted, three booked||2 snatch purse containing Rs50KTarn Taran: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a purse from a woman near local bus stand in broad daylight adjacent a police naka here on Thursday. Victim Jasbir Kaur of Kaler village in her complaint to the police said that she withdrew the money from the a local branch of Punjab and Sind Bank and hired an auto to return village. Two miscreants came and took away her purse containing Rs50,000. OC‘Implement Sixth Pay Commission’Tarn Taran: On the call given by the UT Mulazam /Pensioners’ Sanjha Front, five employees from different departments sat on a chain hunger strike at the bus stand on Thursday. Gurpreet Singh Marimegha said implementing the Sixth Pay Commission, regularising services of contractual and other employees were theirkey demands. Oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-abducted-three-booked-220894
05-03-2021||---||GND varsity students flag errors in question paper||Amritsar, March 4Students who appeared for BA/BSc 1st semester exam (quantitative techniques) conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University on March 3, pointed out errors in the question paper as two parts carrying 15 marks were ‘factually wrong’. According to students, two parts of question 1 in paper I, were wrong; part 1 (a) pertaining to solve a linear equation and part 1 (c) related to solving a quadratic equation.Students had a choice to answer any five questions out of eight. Those who attempted the first question used more time in solving the equation, not realising that the question was wrong.“I attempted the question and spent 20 minutes in solving it. Later, I discussed the question paper with my mentor and he told me that the equations mentioned in both the questions had errors,” said a student.Sanjay Sharma of the Parents’ Welfare Association and a teacher said a few students approached him with the question paper. “The errors were brought to my notice while discussing the paper. I plan to take this matter with the university’s authorities as 15 marks are significant,” he said.Prof Amrik Singh, who teaches statistics at Khalsa College, and maths to postgraduate and undergraduate students for the past 37 years, said, “In question 1 (a) the equation is not a linear equation and 1 (c) is also wrong unless there is a sign of equality (=), which seems to be missing. Until it is not there, it is not an equation.”Meanwhile, GNDU authorities have been waiting for an official complaint to take up the matter into consideration. “We will take note of the matter when someone reports it officially. These are technical matters and action can only be taken after getting expert opinion of the Board of Studies Chairman and people who have set the paper,” said Prof Manoj Kumar, Controller Examination, GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gnd-varsity-students-flag-errors-in-question-paper-220763
05-03-2021||---||Jeweller robbed of Rs 5 lakh||Amritsar, March 4On Tuesday, armed persons robbed a jeweller (Rajesh Jewellers) of Rs5 lakh in Lopoke. The victim, Deepak Kumar, told the police that he along with his father, Ashwani Kumar, and uncle Rajesh Kumar were present at the jewellery shop when four-car borne armed persons entered the shop.He said around 5.45 pm, a car stopped a few meters ahead of their shop and four persons entered their shop. He said the accused looted jewellery and cash worth Rs5 lakh at gunpoint.He said when he resisted, they fired at him. The victim said after they raised an alarm, locals started gathering and the accused fled from the spot.Investigating Officer Angrej Singh said the investigation was underway. He said CCTV cameras were not installed in the shop.A case under Sections 307, 379-B (2) and 394 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against unknown persons.In another incident, Amrik Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Pura, Islamabad, was robbed by armed persons when he was returning home after leaving his wife at Pakhoke, Tarn Taran, on Tuesday.He told the police that he along with his wife, Amamdeep Kaur, went to his father-in-law’s house at Pakhoke village in Tarn Taran on a car. He said he was heading back alone around 9.30 pm and parked his car opposite Gurdas Filling Station to answer the call of nature.He said two unidentified persons came on a motorcycle and pointed a pistol at him. The victim said one of them sat with him in a car and asked him to drive the vehicle. He said they took him near Dera Nirankari Bhawan where their three accomplices were waiting for them. He said the accused robbed Rs8,500, ATM, Aadhaar and pan cards and sped away with his car.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and the Arms Act against unknown persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jeweller-robbed-of-rs-5-lakh-220765
05-03-2021||---||‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ reaches Pul Moran||Amritsar, March 4The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ on its journey from Khasa Military Station reached Pul Moran on Thursday, which witnessed a historic Battle of Pulkanjari in 1971 Indo-Pakistan war.The ‘mashaal’ was received by the Commander Dograi Brigade at Pul Moran War Memorial, located 35-km from here, on the Amritsar-Lahore road and was given a grand welcome by the 1971 war veterans, the Veer Naris, ex-servicemen and serving soldiers.The event began with wreath laying ceremony at Pul Moran War Memorial in which Commander Dograi Brigade and others paid homage to the martyrs of 1971 war. Gallantry awardees, Veer Naris and ex-servicemen were also felicitated during the ceremony.Among the attendees was also family of Lance Naik Shanghara Singh, MVC, who fought valiantly during the attack of Pulkanjari in December 1971. While advancing towards the well-fortified enemy, he neutralised two machine guns, including one with his bare hands, and made the supreme sacrifice in the highest traditions of the Army. The Indian Army team also collected the soil from the war memorial at Pul Moran which would form part of the National War Memorial at New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-reaches-pul-moran-220766
05-03-2021||Our Correspondent||22 years after marriage, kin of couple clash; 6 hurt, 16 booked||Tarn Taran, March 4Dispute between the family members of a couple took an ugly turn at Mannan village, 20 km from here, when six persons were injured in a clash. The Chabal police have booked 16 persons in this connection. The injured have been identified as Dhanwant Singh and Ninder Kaur, who got married in a court 22 years ago, their two sons Bikramjit Singh (21), Devinder Singh (20), daughter Tamanna (18) and their 65-year-old family member Charan Singh.The police said the incident took place on Monday when Charan Singh was ready to go collect junk from the surrounding villages. He was attacked by family members of Ninder Kaur.Ninder’s father Sarif Singh, mother Kaushlia Kaur, Chamkaur Singh, Gurmit Kaur, Devinder Kaur, Satnam Singh and 10 unknown persons have been booked under Sections 307, 356, 379-B, 148 and 149 of the IPC. The injured were admitted to the local Civil Hospital from where they were referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar.Inspector Jaswant Singh, SHO, Chabal police station, said the accused fled the spot after committing the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-years-after-marriage-kin-of-couple-clash-6-hurt-16-booked-220768
05-03-2021||---||Paediatricians pedal for a cause||Amritsar, March 4The Department of Paediatrics at Government Medical College in association with the Indian Academy of Pediatrics Punjab Chapter took out a cycle rally to mark World Obesity Day on Thursday.GMC Principal Dr Rajiv Devgan along with head department of paediatrics Dr Manmeet Kaur flagged off the cycle rally from the college premises. The rally moved through Majitha Road, Mall Road, Lawrence Road before culminating at GMC through Circular Road.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Devgan said the obesity is a mother of many diseases as hypertension, diabetics and joint pains. He added physical exercise especially cycling can help overweight people manage their weight and prevent knee joint pains.Dr Manmeet Kaur said in paediatrics department they see that many a children are overweight due to lack of physical exercise. “The parents must cut down the screen time of their children and ask them to play outside and cycle for entertainment and exercise,” she said.She added that in the recent times, the tendency to cycle has increased among the city residents, which is good sign. “In the days after the lockdown was imposed, there has been vast increase in the number of residents who can be seen using cycles,” she added.Assistant professor Dr Sandeep Aggarwal said a large number of faculty members joined the rally to create awareness. “We had also asked all the participants to bring their water bottles from home. It is a simple method of cutting down our carbon print. Everyone should carry one instead of relying on water bottles sold in markets,” he said, adding that these small efforts would go a long way in saving the planet from the scourge of plastic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paediatricians-pedal-for-a-cause-220769
05-03-2021||Tarn Taran||21,000 kg of lahan seized||The district police in its day-long search operation, launched under the command of Iqbal Singh, DSP (Operation), in the Mand area at Marrad village on Thursday along the river Beas, seized 21,000 kg of lahan. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said that Gobinda and Vicky, both residents of Kirian village, had been booked under Sections 61,1 and14 of the Excise Act , Section 24 of the Prevention of Water and Pollution Control Act. The accused had kept the lahan packed in plastic sheets to prepare illicit liquor. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/21-000-kg-of-lahan-seized-220774
05-03-2021||---||‘12.5 crore people are speaking Punjabi worldwide today’||Amritsar, March 4Hailing the move to make Punjabi as a language of medium in the Civil Services Examinations, senior IAS officer, writer and member, Punjab Education Tribunal, Jaspal Singh on Thursday said the matter is a moment of pride as it shows the progress and development of our mother tongue. He said he was one of the first candidates, who chose Punjabi literature as subjects in CSE and found that Punjabi literature was a rich treasure trove of knowledge.Speaking at the seminar on ‘Punjabi Bhasha Da Gaurav’, organised on the sidelines of ongoing ‘Amritsar Literary Festival and Book Fair 2021’ at Khalsa College. “Punjabi language is passing through very promising phase where more than 12.5 crore people are today speaking the language worldwide,” he said.Deputy Commissioner, Tarn Taran, Kulwant Singh too addressed the seminar, sharing that he cleared the CSE with Punjabi as a medium and planned meticulously to get a good score for getting the top job. “The way concepts get clear and understood in mother tongue cannot be possible in any other language. One can also give the interview in their mother tongue and this move has facilitated so many aspiring civil servants,” he said, adding that we must learn more languages but biologically we are tuned to assimilate best in our own mother tongue. In another cultural presentation, an ‘Amabarsari Sath’ was organised in which top theatre personalities, including legendry singer Gurmeet Bawa, actor Jatinder Kaur, comedian Rajbir Kaur, singer Harinder Sohal, writer Deep Dawinder, Sandeep Singh, Bhupinder Sandhu took part.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-5-crore-people-are-speaking-punjabi-worldwide-today-220786
