06-03-2021||---||YSCA face DAV Cricket Academy in final||AMRITSAR, MARCH 5Yuvraj Singh Cricket Academy (YSCA) will take on DAV Cricket Academy in the final of the Richcook Junior League cricket tournament on Sunday. YSCA won the second semifinal by beating Dashmesh Cricket Academy (DCA) by 131 runs under the Richcook Junior League cricket tournament played at the Gandhi Ground on Friday.After winning the toss, YSCA elected to bat first. Bowlers of the DCA struck early as YSCA lost two wickets in six overs. Harsharan Chadha and Rajpreet played a sensible innings sewing up a partnership of 136 runs. Harsharan contributed a meaningful 48 off 94 balls as Rajpreet amassed 85. Later on, Varundeep hammered 36 in 23 balls and Rajat Kaushal hit 28 runs for a target of 227/5 in 40 overs.Harmanjot and Rahul took two wickets apiece, while Kishan kumar and Jaskirat also nabbed one for the DCA.Chasing the target, DCA players fell like ninepins and the only glimmer of hope was Harmanjot who scored 25. Thus, DCA were washed away at 96.For the finalists, Krishna Kalyani and Varun scalped three apiece for 14 and 15 runs, respectively, as Nikhil Shoor took two wickets for 25.Earlier, Rajesh Gupta, AGM of State Bank of India was the chief guest, who met players and encouraged them to play wholeheartedly to elevate the standards of the game.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ysca-face-dav-cricket-academy-in-final-221080
06-03-2021||---||Fraudster dupes two Golden Temple ‘raagis’ in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 5An unknown person duped a ragi (devotional hymn singer) at Golden Temple on the pretext of taking him to USA for a religious programme with the promise that he would pay his visa fee.Jora Singh, the complainant, said that he got a call from the accused on January 1. He said the accused asked him to pay for embassy fee through PhonePe. He said that he paid Rs 13,450 on the account bearing name of Ravi Singh Bedi. He said he again asked him to pay Rs 2,100 more. He said the accused also duped his colleague Sandeep Singh on similar pretext.He said on January 28, the accused asked them to come to Delhi on January 30 as their visas were granted. The police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fraudster-dupes-two-golden-temple-raagis-in-amritsar-221089
06-03-2021||Earlier this week||Raman Bahl’s having a good time||Foreign intrudersGurdaspur police is witnessing a rather unusual phenomenon these days. Its villages, particularly those located near the international border, have been infiltrated not by Pakistanis but by Nigerians. The cops have arrested five Nigerian smugglers in recent weeks. They were suspected of bringing in heroin from New Delhi and selling it here at a premium. SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal has now formed a special team to keep a track on all foreigners, particularly the dark-skinned ones from Nigeria, who enter this district. On the other hand, he also wants more drug de-addiction centres to be established near the border. “A recovering addict without a rehabilitation centre is much like leaving dracula in charge of the blood bank!” said Sohal.No more bad daysAfter nearly a decade of remaining in a limbo, Gurdaspur’s bus stand will finally have a new address. The administration has decided to shift it from its present location near the Jahaz Chowk to the IT scheme on Tibri road. Tenders worth Rs14 crore have already been floated. This development comes as a major respite for locals who had been claiming that half of the town’s traffic woes were the result of the bus stand being located at a crowded place. There are reports, albeit unconfirmed, that the site of the old stand will be used as a parking lot. If this happens, the city will be devoid of any traffic jams at least for the next few years. As they say, “The wheels of a bus go round and round, all through the town.” — Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raman-bahls-having-a-good-time-221095
06-03-2021||Rupinder Singh Brar||Remembering ‘Father of Sikh Encyclopedia’ — Prof Harbans Singh||Popular perceptions being what they are, scholarship is not something that comes easily to mind when one considers the Sikh community. Yet, the community has produced some notable historians who not only left behind rich literary legacies, but exemplified in their personal lives what it meant to be a scholar sage. For example, in the 17th century, it was Bhai Gurdas, in the 18th Bhai Mani Singh, in the 19th it was Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha and Bhai Vir Singh and in the 20th, several names come to mind. Prominent among them is Professor Harbans Singh, whose birth centenary falls on March 6.Born in the village of Kotha Guru in Bathinda district, Prof Harbans Singh rubbed shoulders with intellectual giants like Wilfred Cantwell Smith of Harvard, yet carried himself with such casual grace that he left a lasting impression on all whom he met. Said a Canadian scholar once, "To know such a person is to emerge a bigger, better person oneself.”An embodiment of Nanakian virtue, his best lessons were delivered not through seminars or books but through example. When SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, together with Parkash Singh Badal, honoured him with a cheque for Rs 25,000, not a small amount in those days, he refused to accept any money, insisting that it be used for promoting Sikh studies instead.A prodigious mind, his first major university appointment came as head of the department even before he was quite 23. His heart, however, lay in scholarship, not administration. In 1966, he produced his first major work in English, a definitive biography of Guru Gobind Singh. Not only was the book translated into most Indian languages, its Sanskrit translation won the coveted Sahitya Akademi award. Three years later, he produced a biography of Guru Nanak. It was another major achievement. The Times Literary Supplement, London, called the book, ‘Guru Nanak and the Origins of the Sikh Faith’, “the best short study of Guru Nanak’s life, and an outstanding example of modern Sikh scholarship”.More similar works followed. He travelled extensively, lecturing in Japan, Belgium, the Netherlands, England, Ireland, and the USA. Most men would rest comfortably upon such laurels, but not him. In 1972, he set out to produce an encyclopedia of Sikhism. It was an unbelievably ambitious goal, even for him. There were many sceptics. Wrote Khushwant Singh, “I do not know where he will find 4,000 contributors who have the discipline required to write factual, accurate and unbiased pieces in the exact number of words prescribed.”Undaunted, Harbans Singh created a team of writers and researchers around him. He painstakingly collected and reviewed every paper, artifact, and bit of data, then edited and reduced all information into concise entries. Months turned to years and years to decades as the work stretched into the late 1990s, and yet he toiled away doggedly. Impressed, the academic and the lay communities finally took notice. Guru Nanak Dev University awarded him an honorary doctorate. The SGPC bestowed upon him a special award. By now, even Khushwant Singh had become an admirer. “A start has been made at Patiala to produce the Encyclopedia of Sikhism,” he wrote. “Harbans Singh… its editor-in-chief, is the right man for the job. How many professors are there who turn down offers of Vice-Chancellorships? Harbans Singh refused one that was offered to him on a platter.”It was true, but by then the Professor had sacrificed much more than a prestigious post in his magnificent obsession. Despite suffering a paralytic stroke and losing his loving wife, he slogge d on relentlessly. He breathed his last on May 30, 1998, literally days after completing his monumental work. He was gone but his legacy was secure. Later that year, the Prime Minister himself would release four volumes.Recognitions continued posthumously. In 1999, he was awarded the ‘Order of the Khalsa’ by the community and later still Punjabi University created a full-fledged Department in his name. However, the highest homage came from another, more familiar source. In 2019, another historian, Prof Nikky Guninder Kaur Singh, his daughter, came out with a book on Guru Nanak — a fitting tribute to a worthy father.The writer is a practising physician in Yuba City, California||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remembering-father-of-sikh-encyclopedia-%E2%80%94-prof-harbans-singh-221091
06-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Repair of All India Radio tower begins in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 5Two-and-a half years after the installation of the tilted 300-metre high tower of the All India Radio at Gharinda village, near the Indo-Pak border, the work on its rectification has been initiated.The 300 metres (approximately 1000 feet) tall steel frame tower, built for radio and television between 2007 and 2013, at Gharinda, on Amritsar – Lahore Grand Trunk Road, had dismantled, possibly up to 100 metres. When The Tribune team visited the tower site, officials posted there said: “Relevant machinery is expected to reach the site this month after which the upper portion will be re-built, correcting some inclination in its vertical alignment.”After finding the tower tilted, the Prasar Bharti had installed another stand-by 100 metre high tower, next to it in 2017. This short tower with 20 kilowatt FM radio transmitting antenna, which was originally installed on the 300-metre high tower, was commissioned in September of 2018.According to Civil Engineer Harjap Singh Aujla, who has a vast experience in sound and picture propagation, said due to low height of the tower, the range was reduced to barely 50 kilometre radius, compared to 100 kilometers radius with the 300 metre high tower. In simple words, the area covered has been reduced to 25 percent of the originally designed area and the population served has also been reduced from 3.5 crores to 90 lakh in Pakistan. In India too, more than half of the Majha region is not covered by this transmitter.Keeping an eye on Pak’s activitiesThe primary objective of the tower near the Indo-Pak border was to counter the propaganda of Pakistan in the border belt. The radio of Pakistan at Lahore has three FM transmitters targeting the Amritsar region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/repair-of-all-india-radio-tower-begins-in-amritsar-221092
06-03-2021||Amritsar||Adopted son kills woman, arrested in Amritsar||Youth booked for obscene videoAmritsar: The Jandiala police have booked a youth after he made obscene video of a girl and later sent it to her mother in order to pressurise them for marrying their daughter with him. The accused has been identified as Ramanpreet Singh, a resident of Jandiala Guru. The victim told the police that she used to work at a photography lab and around two years ago she came in touch with Ramanpreet. She said soon they became friends and started meeting each other. She said during this the accused developed physical relations with her and Ramanpreet made the alleged video. She said on January 27, the accused forwarded the video on her mother’s mobile and threatened that if they did not marry me with him, he would upload the video on social media. A case under Section 67-A of the IT Act has been registered against Ramanpreet. TNSThree booked for murder bidAmritsar: Nearly two months after the firing incident, the Jandiala police have booked three persons, including a woman on charges of attempt to murder. The case was registered following a probe conducted by the SP-rank officer. Mohan Singh, a resident of Nibbarwind village, in his complaint to the police on January 21 told that he had gone to Sadhpur village for some work. He said Dharam Singh; Surjit Singh, and Surjit’s wife Harman Kaur, intercepted him. He alleged that the accused attacked and fired at him and the bullets hit his car. A probe was conducted by the SP (Traffic and Security) who recommended registration of an FIR. Following this a case under Section 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the trio. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adopted-son-kills-woman-arrested-in-amritsar-221093
06-03-2021||---||1,160 persons inoculated, 44 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, March 5A total of 1,160 persons were inoculated at 11 different health centres in the district on Friday. Of these, 889 persons received their first dose, which included 457 senior citizens, 73 persons above 45 years, 120 healthcare workers and 239 frontline workers.A total of 271 people received their second shot (147 healthcare workers and 124 frontline workers) today.The district health authorities reported 42 fresh cases today. With this, the total number of positive cases reached 15,984 on Friday. Of these, 23 were found to be influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 19 were contacts of positive cases. Joginder Singh (72), a resident of Kot Khalsa, succumbed to the Covid-19 today. As many as 55 patients recovered and the district has 502 active cases.Helpline numbers for Covid patients||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-160-persons-inoculated-44-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-221094
06-03-2021||---||Victims’ family alleges threat by dismissed SI, her accomplices in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 5Family members of Vikramjit Singh, a jeweller and resident of Nawapind village, who had committed suicide in a hotel room in October last year, have filed a complaint with the DGP while alleging that they are being threatened by the dismissed Sub-Inspector, Sandeep Kaur, through her accomplices. The DGP has marked a probe to the IG Border Range, SPS Parmar, in this connection.Double suicide accused Sandeep Kaur was currently lodged in the jail. She was dismissed by the Punjab Government after Vikramjit and later his wife had ended their lives following extortion and harassment at the hands of accused former cop.In the complaint filed with the DGP, Harpreet Singh said two separate cases were filed with Mohkampura police station in Amritsar city and Jandiala Guru police station with Amritsar rural police after the duo ended their lives. He alleged the police did not probe the matter properly due to involvement of cops in the case. He alleged another cop Navdeep Sandhu got bail in the case due to this. He said now they were getting threats from the accused from inside the jail.He said on January 25, Sandeep Kaur through the mobile phone of her brother Shamsher Singh, who is also policeman, called them and threatened of dire consequences. He alleged another suspect in the case, Navneet Sandhu, was also threatening the family of implicating in false cases if they given any witness against him.Perturbed over the harassment and blackmailing, Vikramjit Singh, a jeweller, had committed suicide in a room of a hotel here on October 10. He had left suicide notes, video and audio messages before ending his life. The same day when his body was found in the hotel room, his wife also ended her life at her residence in Nawapind village on Mehta Road here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/victims-family-alleges-threat-by-dismissed-si-her-accomplices-in-amritsar-221096
06-03-2021||Amritsar||4-day literary fest at Khalsa College,  Amritsar concludes; sales worth Rs 30L recorded||The four-day-long ‘Amritsar Literary Festival and Book Fair-2021’ at Khalsa College today concluded with a lively folk dance performance as the book exhibition remained the most visited segment at the event. The book exhibition, in collaboration with the National Book Trust, managed to record sales worth Rs 30 lakh in four days.“The response has been tremendous and we sold a good number of books,” said Gurjant Singh, from the University Publications of Punjabi University, Patiala. The National Book Trust officials also hailed the sales boost for small as well as big publishers post lockdown, calling it the much needed push for business. “The interest shown by the book lovers speaks volume of reading habits that were inculcated during lockdown. This push towards reading sounds promising for the revival of publishing industry that had taken a hit due to pandemic,” said Dr Mehal Singh, Principals, KCA.Meanwhile, the cultural bonanza and seminars marked the concluding day functions as students of the theatre department of Khalsa College presented play directed by Immanual Singh, titled `Kade Dade Diyan, Kade Pote Diyan’. A seminar on `Sahit, Samaj and Patarkari’ discussed the growing concerns of the quality of the literature and journalism in the present context of commercialisation. Eminent panel of educators and sociologists, including Prof Dr Jagroop Singh, Dr Rajnish Bahadur, Balbir Parwana, Dr Kulwant Singh spoke on the subjects as Dr Atam Randhawa, head, Department of Punjabi Studies coordinated the talk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-day-literary-fest-at-khalsa-college-amritsar-concludes-sales-worth-rs-30l-recorded-221097
06-03-2021||Neha Saini||AMRITSAR: NOT LIVING UP TO THE EXPECTATIONS!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 5Amritsar’s ranking in the Ease of Living Index assessment, a citizen perception survey 2020 released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs blasted through all the efforts that the MC had been putting in, or claiming to, for the past one year for a better infrastructure. In the list of 49 cities assessed in the category of ‘population more than a million’, Amritsar ranked 45th.Jalandhar declared safest city in PunjabBesides the Ease of Index rank, the MC Performance survey was also done for the first time for each city and Amritsar’s was slightly better at 38.The parameters for the survey ranking were based on quality of life, economic ability, sustainability and citizen perception regarding various services, including health, education, planning and so on. The five verticals under Municipal Performance Index were services, finance, policy, technology and governance, with 49 indicators like electricity supply, air quality, safety and road infrastructure under 13 categories.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, responding to the ranking, said a lot of parameters were employed in the assessment. “It was primarily a citizen perception survey and the citizen involvement remained quite low from city. As far as the MC’s performance ranking is concerned, it was done for the first time and we are working towards improving the functioning and efficiency of our services. Despite the fact that we were badly hit financially due to the pandemic as the tourism revenue was severely affected, MCA managed to disperse salaries, continued with developmental works and carried out other services smoothly.”Citizen speakGunbir Singh, president, Dilbir Foundation, that has been actively engaged in collaborating with the MC on developmental projects, said, “As a city that hosts an average 40 million visitors per annum, it deserves attention, requisite funding and execution of its projects. Let this bottom listing be a revelation and a starting point for a sea change that cities such as Indore and Surat have witnessed after hitting nadir. Besides cracking the test of rankings, there is potential to excel for the holy city in all spheres whether it is economic, infrastructural, ecology or business and services. A wholehearted approach by the city from civic administration to responsible citizenship is the key.Rawal Singh Aulakh, assistant professor, Department of Architecture, GNDU, pointed out several loopholes in assessing cities on similar parameters in the survey. “The parameters taken into consideration while assessing city like Bangalore and Amritsar on a similar ground needs to be questioned as the two cities are different in character and socio-economic and cultural aspects. Nonetheless, these rankings must be taken in our stride and funds must be pumped into enforcing localised solutions for the problems rather than undertaking adventures.”Ludhiana residents find rank 14 hard to digestMandeep Singh, a retired railway employee and one of the participants in the citizen survey last year, too, pushed for reforms in planning and implementation of developmental works. “The bottom line is that key areas like sanitation, traffic management and encroachments need to be reviewed. Citizens also need to participate in improving the living standards and the MC must find solution to increase its revenue so that more is pumped into developmental works.”Less than 1% citizens participated in the surveyThe citizen responses for the Ease of Living assessment were conducted in February last year. Despite the MC’s best efforts, only 6,300 residents submitted their feedback for the Ease of Living Index assessment, a Citizen Perception Survey. It was less than 1 per cent of the total population of the city. Lower citizen engagement meant that scope for final assessment remained limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-not-living-up-to-the-expectations-221090
06-03-2021||Amritsar||New platforms to reduce waiting time: MP Shwait Malik||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik on Friday met senior railway officials to review the ongoing work at Amritsar railway station. This station is among six model railway stations, which are being transformed at a cost of Rs 400 crore and will offer facilities similar to those provided at airports.Under this project, both sides of the railway station would be renovated and a 27-storey mall would come up at the Golbagh end.Malik added that even after 74 years of Independence, there were only five platforms at Amritsar railway station and as a result, more trains could not reach Amritsar. “Five new platforms have been constructed. Now, passengers will not have to wait for hours at Manawala station. More new trains will reach Amritsar,” said the MP. Malik said granite was being used on platforms, along with installation of vending machines for drinking water and electronic ticket distribution system.Apart from this, new waiting and retiring rooms have been made, he said.A modern parking system with security cameras, two new escalators and five lifts for elderly would be installed, he said. LED lights were being installed and a vertical garden has been developed at the station. Scanners would be installed outside the station for security reasons, said the MP.DRM Rajesh Agarwal, Station Superintendent Akshay Kumar Pathania, CMI Pradeep Kumar, Chief Medical Superintendent Dr Ashok Kumar, ADME Abhinav Chandra, ADN Rajiv Bhasin, Dr Harvinder Singh Sandhu and Savan Nayyar were present during the meet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-platforms-to-reduce-waiting-time-mp-shwait-malik-221082
06-03-2021||---||Smugglers running drug biz from jails, says Amritsar district’s top cop||Amritsar, March 5A week-long drive against drug peddlers launched by the city police have led to the seizure of nearly 3-kg heroin.The investigations carried out in these cases revealed that the drug rackets were being run by the smugglers lodged in different jails.Dr SS Gill, Police Commissioner During the week-long drive, the city police arrested 47 persons, besides eight proclaimed offenders wanted in drug peddling. A total 2.81 kg of heroin, 1.2-kg opium and 6,349 sedative pills, besides Rs 1.12 lakh drug money were confiscated during the period.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations) Mukhinder Singh Bhullar said during the week long drive, the city police arrested 47 persons besides eight proclaimed offenders wanted in drug peddling.A total 2.81 kg of heroin, 1.2-kg opium and 6,349 sedative pills besides Rs 1.12 lakh drug money were confiscated during the period.Among the prominent smugglers nabbed by the police, included Lovepreet Singh, alias Prince alias Ganja of Guru Nanak Colony, Shiva Nashy of Gawan Mandi, Didar Singh of Gumtala Road, Simran Singh, alias Bagga of Fullarwal in Gurdaspur, Shamsher Singh of Gumanpura, Kanwaljot Singh of Tungpai, Batala Road, Varinder, alias Shelly of Chheharta, Seema of Ishwar Nagar, Germanjit Singh of Gohalwarh village in Tarn Taran and Yadwinder Singh Taju of Mohkampura.The Police Commissioner said the police were in the process of identifying the properties of as many as 60 proclaimed offenders in various drug-related cases.Following verifications, these properties would be frozen as per the procedure.Bhullar said that one of the proclaimed offenders identified as Jatinder Kumar of the Krishna Nagar area here, was hiding in Jammu and Kashmir over the past five years. “His preliminary interrogation revealed his connection with Pakistan-based smugglers across the international border. He along with his Pakistan-based accomplices were trying to push in drugs and sell the same in J&K,” he said.The interrogation of these drug peddlers held in past week had links with notorious smugglers lodged in various jails. These smugglers, having links with Pakistani smugglers, were running their networks from jail with impunity. These smugglers (lodged in jails) would be brought into custody for further detailed investigations, he added.Meanwhile, the Special Task Force also seized 1.455 kg of heroin and arrested nine alleged drug peddlers during the week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smugglers-running-drug-biz-from-jails-says-amritsar-districts-top-cop-221079
06-03-2021||---||BJP leaders Vijay Sampla, Shwait Malik face farmers’ ire in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 5Former MP Vijay Sampla, Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik and other BJP leaders faced the wrath of farmers during their visit here today.Raising anti-BJP slogans, the protesters tried to intercept Sampla at the Circuit House and later during his visit at the Ram Tirath temple. The same group tried to confront Malik at the Amritsar Railway Station where he went to review a project. Harjeet Singh Jheeta of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee claimed some of their colleagues received injuries when vehicles of leaders hit them. Nonetheless, the police detained six to eight farmers for a few hours before releasing them with no complaint registered against them.Sampla had paid his maiden visit to Amritsar after assuming charge as Chairperson of the National Commission of Scheduled Castes. He paid obeisance at the Golden Temple, Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath.Sampla said 67,000 cases stood pending with the commission and it would be his priority to clear them. He said the commission would soon launch an online portal for listening to the grievances and facilitating easy access to the commission that deals with the issues of social harassment, government injustice, violation of SC/ST Act, etc.Later, he held a joint meeting with senior police officers. Sampla took details of various welfare schemes being run by the government. Speaking on the post-matric scheme, he said no government or private college could refuse admission to a child under the scheme nor could it deny the degree of a student on the basis of non-payment of scholarship grant. On the issue of safai karamcharis, he said under no circumstances should a worker be forced to enter a sewerage septic tank. If he has to enter a tank, all safety measures must be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-leaders-vijay-sampla-shwait-malik-face-farmers-ire-in-amritsar-221105
