07-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Vehicle thieves’ gang busted, 5 bikes seized||Tarn Taran, March 6 A three-member gang of vehicle lifters was busted by the Chabal police on Friday. The police said one of the gang members Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Sursingh village, was arrested with a stolen bike of Friday in the area.  Four more stolen bikes were seized on the information given by the accused in the preliminary investigation. The accused said he had his two more associates namely Lakhwindr Singh and Angrej Singh of the same Sursingh village. The gang members have been booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vehicle-thieves-gang-busted-5-bikes-seized-221752
07-03-2021||---||Rural area residents reluctant to take Covid-19 vaccine shot||Amritsar, March 6While the Covid-19 vaccination for the elderly and citizens with comorbid conditions has been receiving encouraging response in urban areas, the people in rural areas are not so enthusiastic about the same and the administration might have to pull up its socks to convince people for vaccination.A Health Department official stated that apart from rural areas, the localities on outskirts of the city which are inhabited by lower socio-economic people are yet to give the response which was anticipated. However, he added, “The drive for senior citizens had started around five days ago. The people are a little hesitant. We feel that the response would increase in the coming days.”The sources in the department stated that people with less education are a little apprehensive but would come around in few days as they would see the benefit of the vaccination.The district authorities reported that a total of 1,940 persons were given the injections on Saturday. Though the administration has not released the category-wise details of the persons who were given the injections, the officials stated that 1,140 persons were given Covishied injections at government centers, 410 received Covaxin vaccines and 360 others received injections at private institutes.The district health administration has at present allowed 23 hospitals in the private sector and 15 in the government sector to administer the injections. The health officials stated that more private hospitals would be empanelled in the near future to cater to the huge demand for injections.The district with a registered health workers strength of 24,948 has so far given first dose of vaccine to 11,965 of them. Out of these 5,457 has been given the second dose. Of the 22,891 frontline workers, around 10,532 have been given the first dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-area-residents-reluctant-to-take-covid-19-vaccine-shot-221753
07-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Despite paying cow cess, bovine care remains in a state of mess||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 6Though many departments under the Punjab Government have been collecting huge funds in the name of cow cess, plight of stray cows is still dismal in the holy city. The recent two incidents bear testimony to this fact.The anti-crime and animal protection group, an NGO, today, rescued a cow that had fallen in a drain near Bhagtanwala here. An activist of the association, Dev Panday found the bovine after hearing her ‘cries’.He immediately sounded an alert and with the help of local people, members of his NGO and Municipal Corporation employees pulled her out of the drain.“The area has a number of dairies but nobody owns the cattle,” said Dr Rohan Mehra, chairman of the NGO, while adding that the cow had apparently fallen in the drain a couple of days ago and was even unable to stand. It was in poor health due to this.This is not the sole incident. Around nine days ago, a cow was hit by a vehicle near the Circuit House chowk. When the members of the association reached the spot after getting information, they found a 12-digit tag punched in its ear. Dr Rohan said they immediately informed the Animal Husbandry Department about this. However, till now, the department failed to trace the ownership of the cow.Dr Amarjit Singh, deputy director, animal husbandry, said a probe was immediately marked to senior veterinary officer to trace the ownership. Investigations revealed that the tag does not belong to Amritsar district.“Amritsar district has only six tags of the same series but the tag on the injured cow does not belong to here. The tag was issued in first phase in 2018-19 but it was not uploaded on the web portal of the department and therefore could not be traced,” he pointed out.Dr Rohan said if the tag was issued, it would have been in the records and it is impossible that the department could not trace the ownership of the cow. “If the department is willing, it can trace the ownership,” he said this, while adding that the police should also first register an FIR in this connection.Civic authorities said only one or two departments were depositing its share of cow cess while several other departments of Punjab Government failed to release its share for the past several years. Due to insufficient recovery, the welfare of stray cows and animals is suffering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-paying-cow-cess-bovine-care-remains-in-a-state-of-mess-221754
07-03-2021||---||Police remain clueless even after a month||Amritsar, March 6Even after elapsing of over a month, the Ranjit Avenue police were still clueless about the incident in which armed robbers snatched a car from local resident Jaideep Singh Dhillon on January 29 from posh Ranjit Avenue area here.The car was snatched from near Amrit Anand Park when the victim was going to drop his gardener near the park. The area around the park, also known as Beant Park, become a favourite destination for the robbers as a number of carjacking and robbery cases were reported from the area.In view of the repeated instances, a police station was established in the area, but it failed to solve the problem as such incidents became rampant.Jaideep Dhillon told that there was Rs 70,000 besides gold jewellery worth over Rs 5 lakh was there in the car. He said he was shifted to their new residential accommodation near Vallah focal point and were shifting the luggage. He said he had his passport, driving license, dissertation besides other important documents in the car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-remain-clueless-even-after-a-month-221756
07-03-2021||---||Recarpeting work in Ward No. 71 inaugurated||Amritsar, March 6 Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Prakash Soni inaugurated recarpeting work of a road in the Fatehpur area in Ward No. 71. “Almost 85 per cent developmental work in Ward No. 71 falling under the Central Assembly Constituency has been completed and the remaining development work would be completed in next two months”, said Soni. While addressing the gathering, Soni said, “Village Fatehpur has been provided all facilities like city. LED lights were installed in all village streets. New sewerage line, new drinking water pipes, installing interlocking tiles in street, drainage of rain water and tubewell have also been installed in the ward. For a long time people had been demanding construction of new road from Fatahpur to Gurdwara Bighemal to Jhabal Road”. He said this 1,250 meter long and 12 meter wide road would be constructed at a cost of Rs 85 lakh, which would bring a lot of relief to the people.  Soni said that there was a huge pond in the village and as per the demand of the people a good park would be constructed on this pond at a cost of Rs 50 lakh and swings for children and benches for the elderly would be installed in this park.  On the occasion, Soni presented a check of Rs 3 lakh to Baba Jeevan Singh Dharamsala. Soni said that earlier a check of Rs 2 lakh was also given to the dharamsala. He said that more funds would be provided for the repair of the dharamshala if required. Soni also announced a grant of Rs 2 lakh for the repair of the cremation ground.  Addressing the gathering Soni said that the people whose mud roofs were unsafe they should fill up the form and submit it to their area councillor, so that Rs 1.50 lakh  provided by the government for fixing the roofs of the houses could be given to the needy person. Soni asked the villagers to rise above from factionalism and come forward for the development of the village. He said that all promises made by him during the elections have been fulfilled. He said that the work of new power lines, transformers, school upgradation, dispensary etc. had been completed in all villages. The minister also felicitated Lakhwinder Singh who joined the Congress along with his colleagues and said that he would be accorded due respect in the party.  Councillors Vikas Soni, Lakhwinder Singh, Dilbag Singh, Dwarka Das, Davinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh Sethi, Lakhwinder Singh Hundal, Gursewak Singh, Swaran Singh and a large number of locals were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recarpeting-work-in-ward-no-71-inaugurated-221757
07-03-2021||---||Tributes paid to farmers’ leader||Amritsar, March 6 Thousands of farmers from various parts of the state paid tributes to their leader and Kirti Kisan Union president Master Datar Singh at Ranjit Avenue grounds here on Friday. Master Datar Singh had died shortly after speaking at a function in Virsa Vihar on February 21.  Dr Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, who especially arrived from Delhi, said that Datar Singh was an intellectual and orator par excellence. He said that Datar had lived for the cause of agriculture and died moments after explaining the demerits of the three laws to the gathering at Virsa Vihar.  On the occasion, district president of Kirti Kisan Union Dhanwant Singh Khatrae Kalan, proposed five resolutions which were passed by the gathering with a voice vote. Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla while speaking on the occasion said Datar Singh was very strong on facts on the farming issue.  Expressing grief over the untimely death of Master Datar, comrade Hardev Arshi said, “ Today our constitution is in danger, freedom of thought and democracy is also in danger so it is very important to have conscious people like Datar Singh at this time.”  Patron of Kirti Kisan Union Hardev Singh Sandhu said that Datar Singh was a scholar who used all his knowledge for the betterment of the people. Leaders of Samyukta Kisan Morcha Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, Darshan Natt, also spoke on the occasion||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-farmers-leader-221758
07-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Sheron-Jamarai road requires immediate repairs||Tarn Taran, March 6  Youths of the Dhotian area on Saturday protested against the stoppage of renovation work on the 15-km-long stretch between Sheron-Jamarai link road. Harpreet Singh Kot, Muhammad Khan, while addressing the youths said that condition of the road had gone from bad to worse in the past 10 years. In the past, 20 gram panchayats of the area had been demanding renovation of the road but their pleas fell on deaf ears. They had also passed a resolution to complete the work at the earliest.  He said Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill last year started renovation work of the road but it was stopped very next day and now the passersby had been facing clouds of dust whole day. The youths warned the administration that in case the road was not renovated immediately the residents would stage a dharna. Residents of Rakh Sheron, Dhotian, Naushehra Pannuan , Chaudhry Wala, Feloke, Dugalwala, Warana and other villages are facing the worst condition of the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sheron-jamarai-road-requires-immediate-repairs-221759
07-03-2021||---||State govt giving step-motherly treatment to Amritsar: AVM||Amritsar, March 6 The non-governmental organisation(NGO), Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM), has expressed concern over the step-motherly treatment meted out to the holy city. Office-bearers of the NGO claimed that the Punjab government had not released Rs 40 crore for the Patti-Makhu rail line. It also failed to acquire 35-40 acre land on the Amritsar- Attari road for the construction of the campus for the Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education, which was announced five-year back in 2015 by the Central government.    Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron, Amritsar Vikas Manch, said, “The state government is least bothered to establish international convention centre and exhibition centre at Amritsar pending since 2009. Amritsar is the oldest city which hosted many international cricket matches in 1982 and 1905 between India v Sri Lanka and India v New Zealand and produced famous cricket personalities like Bishan Singh Bedi and Amarnath. But instead of constructing international cricket stadium in Amritsar, the Punjab government is constructing second international cricket stadium in Mohali”.  “Amritsar has been selected as IT destination by the Punjab as well as the Central government and a software Software Technology Park of India (STPI) is near completion at Amritsar but the state government has not shown its interest to set up IT companies at Amritsar and every time IT companies are allotted sites in Mohali. Due to indifferent attitude of the Punjab government, not even a single IT company has set up its base in Amritsar. The state government is providing best infrastructure for IT industry at Mohali but not in Amritsar,” added Ankhi “Most of the textile industry of Amritsar closed after 1980 and shifted to Panipat, Ludhiana etc, but no efforts was made by the Punjab government to revive textile industry in Amritsar. The state government is acquiring around 3 to 4 thousand acres land all over Punjab and especially Mohali, but not even a single acre is acquired at Amritsar for the last five years”, claimed Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala, patron, Amritsar Vikas Manch. “The Central government had also sanctioned SEZ in Amritsar in 2004 and an MoU was signed between the Punjab government and DLF. But due to indifferent, biased and anti-Amritsar attitude of the state government, the SEZ project could not see the light of the day. In Mohali and other districts, the state government has acquired thousands of acres and still is acquiring land for mega projects but for Amritsar, it has no interest”, said Manmohan Singh Brar, president of the Amritsar Vikas Manch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-govt-giving-step-motherly-treatment-to-amritsar-avm-221760
07-03-2021||Amritsar||Jammu circuit has huge tourist potential: Official||In order to give a fillip to tourism in Jammu and Kashmir, Directorate of Tourism Jammu in association with Jammu Association of Tour Operators (JATO), organised an event to apprise the media of tourism potential and efforts being made to promote the places across the country here on Saturday.In a press conference Deepika Sharma, Raman Suri, General Secretary, Tourism Federation Jammu, Bilal Ahmad Mir, Assistant Director, Directorate of Tourism Kashmir, briefed about the historical connection between Jammu & Kashmir and Punjab.Deepika Sharma said that the Jammu tourist circuit has a huge potential for pilgrimage, leisure and adventure tourism. “J&K is a rich centre of heritage and home to shrines of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi, Shri Amarnath Ji, Shahdara Sharief, Shankaracharya Temple, Kheer Bhawani, Hazrat Bal, Mansar Lake and Dal Lake among others,” said Sharma.There are also ancient temples, forts and sites dating back to 6th century, which are awaiting exploration and admiration from seekers as well as tourists, she said.Chief Guest KL Malhotra, Forest Conservation Specialist, Department of Tourism, Punjab, in his address, said that he was highly impressed by the initiative of JK Tourism Department had organised road shows across the country for showcasing the real beauty and tourism potential of the area. He further said that he would also talk to the Tourism Department of Punjab regarding building a coordination and collaboration between Punjab and JK’s tourism industry in order to boost the sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jammu-circuit-has-huge-tourist-potential-official-221761
07-03-2021||---||Rs 3.47 crore disbursed under PMAY||Amritsar, March 6The Municipal Corporation on Friday transferred an amount of Rs 60 lakh into the bank accounts of 120 eligible beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna(PMAY). Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that an amount of Rs 3.47 crore had been disbursed under the scheme till date.He said under the scheme, 5,087 beneficiaries were sanctioned houses in the city out of which construction of 4,418 new houses and extension of construction in 669 houses was approved.“Every beneficiary is eligible for a financial aid of Rs 1.5 lakh in four installments on the basis of the level of construction work. In the city, 540 beneficiaries have received the first installment and 180 of them have received the second installment, while 50 beneficiaries have been given aid for extension of construction in buildings,” The Mayor said.Rintu claimed that the third demand-survey had received 4,108 applications out of which the MC had approved 2,105 applications and sent to the government for sanction. He said all councillors should inform the residents of their wards about the various government schemes and help them avail the benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-3-47-crore-disbursed-under-pmay-221762
07-03-2021||---||Victory Flame reaches Attari-Wagah border||Amritsar, March 6As part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh commemorating the military victory of the Indo-Pak War of 1971, on March 6, 2021, the Victory Mashaal was carried from Pul Moran to Attari-Wagah border, which witnessed the historic battle in 1971 Indo-Pak War.A grand reception ceremony was organised at Attari, where the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal team was received by Jaswinder Gill, son of Late Colonel SS Gill, Vir Chakra awardee of 1971 War. War veterans, dignitaries, NCC cadets, school children and locals gathered with full zeal and enthusiasm to receive the team. A patriotic cultural extravaganza followed by felicitation of martyr families, veterans and Veer Naris by General Officer Commanding Panther Division was organised. The event had presence of various local dignitaries from civil administration, army, state police, Municipal Corporation and Border Security Force. The Swarnim Vijay Mashaal from Attari is all set to travel to the battle fields of Fatehpur, Dera Baba Nanak, Tibri and Madhopur. The journey has been initiated to create awareness about the sacrifices of soldiers and inspire the future generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/victory-flame-reaches-attari-wagah-border-221763
07-03-2021||ibune News Service---||Field demonstration with happy seeder||Amritsar, March 6 To create awareness among farmers about the proper usage of happy seeder machine, a field day was organised by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) and Farmer Advisory Committee at Madhu Chhanga village on Friday. The experts demonstrated the correct usage of the machine in a demonstration plot under the guidance of the experts. Dr Narinderpal Singh, District Extension Specialist, discussed the environment and natural resource management issues.  He highlighted the need of good agriculture for sustainable development and better livelihood of the farmers. To improve the livelihood of the small farmers he requested to put some area under vegetables for more employment and regular income flow.  Dr SS Dhaliwal, Principal Soil Chemist, PAU, stressed upon the importance of biofortification of field crops with micronutrients for nutritional security. He highlighted the role of micronutrients for vegetable and horticultural crops.  Dr Vivek Sharma, Soil Chemist, PAU, highlighted the importance of soil testing and judicious use of fertilisers in wheat sown with Happy Seeder technology. He also stressed upon the role of residue incorporation on soil physical, chemical and biological properties and details of the technology. Dr Gurmeet Singh, District Extension Specialist (Entomology), emphasised the safe use of plant protection technology to raise the crops. Dr Sukjhjinderjit Singh of KVK, Amritsar, discussed the role of livestock in the farming systems for income and employment generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/field-demonstration-with-happy-seeder-221764
07-03-2021||---||Construct approach roads to facilitate easy passage to fire brigade, says MC||Amritsar, March 6Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Komal Mittal has asked officials of the solid waste management company, Averda, to construct approach roads to tackle fire incidents at the dumping yard.A major fire broke out at Bhgtanwala dumping ground on Tuesday night. A trammel screen machine, which was being used to segregate garbage (bioremediation process) gutted in fire.On Friday, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal visited Bhagtanwala dumping ground for inspection. She asked the company officials to make approach roads to tackle the fire incidents at the dump.According to the information, the fire brigade officials had reportedly struggled a lot to douse fire in the absence of proper approach road to heaps of garbage, where machines were functional. The MC Commissioner also asked the fire brigade officials to submit a detail report to tackle fire incidents on the dumping ground.Area Councillor Dalbir Singh Mamanke and residents led by Sanji Sanghrash Committee met the Commissioner and shared their issues. Mamanke said the company should keep the segregated material away from the residential area. He also asked to raise height of boundary wall toward residential localities.Office-bearers of the Sanji Sanghrash Committee alleged that the solid waste management company had set the garbage on fire instead of bioremediation. The MC officials, while refuting the allegation, said, “The decade-old heaps of garbage produces methane gas which often catches fire. The MC is planning to make serious efforts to curb the fire incidents at dumping yard.”The company officials were asked to conduct herbal spray regularly to get rid of stink from the dumping ground.Emergency vehicles struggle to reach the siteThe fire brigade officials had reportedly struggled a lot to douse the fire in the absence of proper approach road to the heaps of garbage, where the fire broke out. The MC officials said, “The decade-old heaps of garbage produces methane gas which often catches fire. The company officials were asked to conduct herbal spray regularly to get rid of stink emanating from the dumping ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/construct-approach-roads-to-facilitate-easy-passage-to-fire-brigade-says-mc-221765
07-03-2021||Amritsar||STF’s former cop booked||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stfs-former-cop-booked-221766
07-03-2021||Amritsar||Woman duped by phishing racket||Another local resident fell victim to the phishing racket. Shaifali Arora, the victim, stated to police that she got a call on her mobile and the woman on the other side introduced herself as an employee of the SBI bank.The accused told that her credit card request was approved and to complete the process, she sought her full details. She said as she gave full information, later Rs 2.27 lakh were debited from her credit card. The police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 66-C and 66-D of IT Act against unknown persons in this connection. Further investigations were underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-duped-by-phishing-racket-221767
07-03-2021||---||Back to basics: Give your home a rustic makeover with||Amritsar, March 6Celebrating the heritage looms and crafts of Punjab and the women, who have been promoting them through their skill, the three-day Virasat exhibition opened at Art Gallery on Saturday. Municipal Commissioner Komal Mittal inaugurated the exhibition which is being organised by Shramik Bharati under their pilot project, Virsa Punjab Women’s Craft.The products displayed include furniture, the famous panja dari, bean bags made from jute and natural fibres, jewellery, handmade baskets, embroidered cushion covers, crochet and organic food. Shramik Bharti has been pushing for empowering women in rural sectors through social entrepreneurship programmes, implementing holistic rural development in 12 villages in Amritsar and Ferozepur districts.Varinder Pal, project coordinator, Shramik Bharati, said, “Holistic rural development project works in the areas of infrastructure, natural resource management, livelihood, agriculture and education. The organisation hired four designers for scouting and identifying skills among rural women. Thereafter, the skill enhancement exercises started, which led to the production of the handicrafts and handloom items by 150 women in 12 villages that have been exhibited here.”After two years of extensive skill and product development, Pal’s team has got together women artisans and weavers and set up Virsa Punjab Women’s Craft. “The aim was to ensure that every woman earns at least Rs200 per day for 200 days per year and such exhibitions would be held in promoting the brand and give an opportunity to women to interact with the masses. The exhibition will give them hope and dedication to work for themselves,” he said.Heritage looms at the exhibition includes hand weaved ‘manjis or cots’ in contemporary designs and furniture, traditional ‘azaar-band’ or ‘naala’ made into statement jewellery pieces and accessories. Similarly, ‘panja dari’ craft has been modernised with innovative designs and mixed with crocheted embroidered work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/back-to-basics-give-your-home-a-rustic-makeover-with-221769
