08-03-2021||---||Ex-councillor held with illegal weapon||Amritsar, March 7  The police have arrested former MC councillor Gurwinder Singh, alias Vicky Kanda, and recovered an illegal weapon from his possession. Kanda was held along with Pawandeep Singh, alias Raju at a check point.   During their search, the police recovered a weapon, two magazines, five live cartridges, two mobile phones and a scooter. The duo could not produce any documents related to the weapon. Several criminal cases, including kidnapping, extortion, drug peddling and murderous assault, had been registered against Kanda, who has close links with the ruling party leaders. He’s currently out on bail. In 2013, he was arrested by the police for allegedly kidnapping and attempting to murder a property dealer.  Earlier, he was a Youth Akali Dal leader. He first won the MC poll as an Independent candidate in 2002 after his differences with the SAD, which did not give him ticket. In 2007, his mother won as an Independent. Kanda again contested as an Independent in 2012, but was defeated. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the investigation was underway to ascertain the source of the weapon. Kanda was produced before the Duty Magistrate who sent him on two-day remand. The Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations) said Kanda got the weapon from a gangster and further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-councillor-held-with-illegal-weapon-222192
08-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Women leave for Delhi to join protest||Tarn Taran, March 7 On the call given by the Kisan Sanyukt Morcha to reach Delhi on the International Women’s Day, jathas of women farmers from different villages left for Delhi on Sunday.  Nirvail Singh Daleke, general secretary of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, said jathas had departed from Mallhia, Dalake and Kadgill vilages. Besides Nirvail Singh, Sawinder Kaur Kadgill, Baljit Kaur, Daljit Kaur and other women speakers, while addressing on the occasion, condemned the three farm laws. The leaders said that it was the first agitation in the history of the country after freedom when large numbers of women were taking part in the agitation. They urged the common man to take part in the agitation.  The village elders extended best wishes for the women jathas.  The villagers raised slogans against the central government and demanded scrapping of the laws.   ‘Centre indifferent to farmers’ problems’ Amritsar: Addressing members of the Vegetable Growers’ Association, the All India Kisan Sabha, vice-chief, Lakhbir Singh Nizampur, on Sunday accused the Centre of being indifferent towards farmers’ woes at Dharar village. He said the farmers’ agitation has completed more than 100 days in Delhi, but the central government has failed to find a solution. He said around 250 farmers have lost their lives during the ongoing agitation to date. Nizampur said farmers would not accept anything less than revocation of the three agri laws.  He said if the government does not withdraw the laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha would mobilise people in five states to oppose BJP’s candidates where voting would commence by  March end. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-leave-for-delhi-to-join-protest-222193
08-03-2021||---||After 5 months, Amritsar district’s daily Covid count goes past a ton||Amritsar, March 7After a gap of five months, Amritsar district has reported more than one hundred positive cases on Sunday.The health authorities reported a total of 104 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Earlier, a three-digit figure was reported on October 7 when 103 persons tested positive.Later, the number of daily positive cases gradually came down. Officials said of new cases reported on Sunday, 69 were influenza-like illness cases and 35 were contacts of positive cases.In March 2021, a total of 428 persons tested positive and eight succumbed to the virus. In February 2021, the health authorities reported a total of 644 positive cases and 12 deaths. Most of the positive cases were reported after February 21, when the district along with other parts of the state witnessed a sudden spurt in the cases.The district health officials said they were constantly monitoring the situation and all efforts were being made to tackle the pandemic.Meanwhile, with many districts of the state already announcing the night curfew due to surge in the Covid-19 cases, the general community and traders were worried as they feel that it would hurt them economically.Also, 22 more school students tested positive in Jalandhar district on Sunday. With this, the number of cases among pupils reached 203 in the last three days. A total of 141 new cases were reported today, taking the district tally to 22,541. As many as 181 students tested positive till yesterday. In total 29 fresh cases were reported from schools/colleges today (22 school students, five teachers and two students from the PIMS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-5-months-amritsar-districts-daily-covid-count-goes-past-a-ton-222195
08-03-2021||---||Woman dies in scuffle||Amritsar, March 7 An elderly woman intervening in a monetary dispute was killed after armed persons attacked a man in Dhanoe Kalan village falling under Gharinda police sation here on Sunday evening. The police have started investigations after taking the body of the deceased into possession, said Narinder Singh, SHO Gharinda police station. Meenu Verma, a resident of Dhanoe Kalan village located near Indo-Pak border stated to police that she had come to the residence of her maternal grandmother Balwant Kaur and uncle Harpreet Singh, who used to load goods in the trucks going to Pakistan at Integrated Check Post at Attari. Due to holiday today all the family members were present when five armed persons entered the house. She alleged the accused pointed a pistol at her uncle and started demanding Rs5 lakh. When Harpreet resisted the accused entered in a scuffle with him. In the meantime, her grandmother Balwant Kaur came out of the house and tried to intervene and save Harpreet. Amid the scuffle she got injured and fell down. She died on the spot. The armed persons fled the scene in a jiffy. Police authorities said that investigations were underway in the case and appropriate action would be taken in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-dies-in-scuffle-222203
08-03-2021||---||DAV Cricket Academy win Richcook Junior League||AMRITSAR, MARCH 7DAV Cricket Academy won the Richcook Junior League cricket tournament after recording an easy victory over Yuvraj Singh Cricket Academy (YSCA) played at the Gandhi Ground on Sunday. DAV won the toss and elected to bat first. It was the right choice as Varinder Singh’s 73 off 83 balls, Krishna Chouhan’s 44 and Vansh Rishi’s quickfire 46 helped DAV put a formidable total of 189/6 in 40 overs. Chasing the target, players of the YSCA were bundled out for an ignominious 94. Barring Sahil Johal, who scored 42, his teammates never did really settle as DAV’s bowlers made life hell for them. DAV’s Sahil Johal, who was adjudged the man of the match, claimed five for 19 runs in six overs.Tilak Raj, executive member of the Amritsar Games Association (AGA), finely handled the commentary. Dinesh Bassi, chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), gave away the winning trophy and other prizes. He also announced a grant of Rs1 crore to the AGA for a ground and other establishments for the progress of the game.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-cricket-academy-win-richcook-junior-league-222205
08-03-2021||---||Revoke suspension of SAD MLAs: Majithia||Amritsar, March 7Former cabinet minister and SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia on Sunday demanded revocation of suspension of Akali legislators from the ongoing Budget session.He appealed all the MLAs cutting across the party lines to oppose Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s bundle of lies.Quoting the CAG report, he said Punjab’s debt was set to double and reach Rs 3 lakh crore.“The CAG report also mentions that hardly any expenditure has been done on health and education sector. This nails the lies of Finance Minister that the state economy will be brought back on track,” he said.Majithia asserted that his party’s legislators were suspended in a pre-planned manner because the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was befooling people during his reply to the Governor’s address. “Speaker Rana KP Singh took instructions from the CM through ‘Akh mataka’ and suspended the SAD MLAs.”He said they would continue to raise major issues, including complete loan waiver of farmers, jobs for youth, Rs 2,500 unemployment allowance, Rs 2,500 old- age pension and Rs 51,000 Shagun scheme, among others.“The Congress government can spent crores on defending Mukhtiar Ansari, but is not ready to protect human rights activists, Nodeep Kuar and Shiv Kumar,” he said.Majithia said the CM had played politics by hiding his role in finalising the agricultural ordinances and mischievously quoting a selected portion of a letter of the SAD chief to befool people, besides misrepresenting the role of former minister Harsimarat Kaur Badal, who rose to the occasion on the day of reckoning to resign from the Union Cabinet in solidarity with the farming community.He said the Speaker did not allow the SAD MLAs to have clarity on why Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had left the country purposely when the Agri Bills were tabled in Parliament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/revoke-suspension-of-sad-mlas-majithia-222207
08-03-2021||---||Two tractors stolen, 10 persons booked||Amritsar, March 7 Around 10 robbers took away two brand new tractors, which were to be delivered at an agency in Tarn Tarn. The accused tied driver and conductor of the canter near Umranangal village on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.The robbers also snatched cash and mobile phones from Davinder Soni and Sunil, both residents of Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.Soni told the police that he works as a driver with a Noida-based cargo firm Carrier Guarantor. He said he along with Sunil had come to deliver four New Holland tractors at different agencies in Punjab. He said they delivered one tractor in Sirhind and the remaining ones were to be delivered in Tarn Taran.Soni said on Friday around 10.30 pm they slept in the canter near Gagan Dhaba at Umranangal village. He said around 12.30 am three youth armed with pistols, swords and sickle tied their hands. He said seven of their accomplices unloaded two tractors and fled from the spot. They also took away our mobiles phones and Rs 7600, he said.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against 10 unknown persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-tractors-stolen-10-persons-booked-222210
08-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||'Modern gaushala' to be operational by month end||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 7 The holy city would soon get rid of the menace of stay cattle as the ‘modern gaushala’ will become operational by the end of this month.Constructed at a cost of Rs1.5 crore, the gaushala is near completion. It has the capacity of as many as 350 cows, while the volume would be increased as the civic authorities already planned for its expansion and the formalities for the same would be completed by the end of this year. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal on Sunday visited the site at Naraingarh area in Chheharta here. Talking to The Tribune, Rintu said that the gaushalas would have separate chambers for diseased animals, pregnant cattle and calves besides a godown for keeping fodder. A room has been constructed for the veterinary doctor and its staff for the treatment and care of stray cattle. The shed would also have a sanitisation yard for the animals. “Following the National Green Tribunal guidelines, we will be making this gaushala with an aim of zero waste. Though sewerage treatment plant has also been set for the same, we will also be taking expert’s advice for the same,” he pointed out. As per estimates, there were around 300 to 400 stray cattle in the city and this shed would solve the problem. “We have huge land near this gaushala and are planning to double the capacity by expanding the existing structure.’ He said after the completion it would be handed over to Kamdhenu Gau Dham Trust for upkeep of the cattles. Meanwhile, he said, the MC has got as many as 2,450 stray dogs sterilised in order the control the canine menace in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/modern-gaushala-to-be-operational-by-month-end-222211
08-03-2021||Amritsar||PCCTU decides to intensify protest||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pcctu-decides-to-intensify-protest-222213
08-03-2021||What steps should the administration take to prevent a second covid surge in the state?||Covid: An ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure||‘Test-track-treat’ strategy is imperativeIndia has been witnessing a considerable rise in the Covid-19 cases of late. Like some other states Punjab, too, has registered a spike in pandemic numbers in the last few days. This is really a worrying development for the residents as well as for the health officials as life was returning to normalcy. With the state’s Covid cases rising, the need to heighten surveillance in clusters, test more and look for potential mutants becomes all the more dire. In the last nine days of February, the district reported a total of 408 cases. Alarmed at this occurrence a central team was in Punjab on March 1 to determine the reasons behind the spike and help chalk out a strategy to control the situation. Till the reasons are found out and a strategy chalked out, adherence to guidelines should be made mandatory as people at large have thrown caution and precautions to the wind. There is no room for any complacency. The defaulters should be penalised heavily and brought to book without any leniency. People should be impressed upon to avoid any unnecessary movement and social gathering. Sanitation of all public and private places should be ensured. The proverb ‘a stitch in time saves nine’ implies that a timely action can lead to remarkable consequences. So, no laxity should be shown in dealing with the second surge in the state. Rather it should be nipped in the bud before it blooms. Similarly, keeping in mind that an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure, the entire state machinery should swing into preventive action to stem the rot. Vaccination drive should be pushed hard and everyone should be persuaded to take the jab coming out from their cocoons. Misgivings pertaining to the vaccine should be dispelled as doubts still persist in the minds of the people about the effectiveness of Covidshield and Covaxin in building immunity. Unless people are convinced to queue up for the inoculation shots the second surge is feared to continue to rage and ravage. Of course vaccines don’t stop one from getting infected but they do help one fight the disease if one gets infected. Therefore, strict vigilance and prompt action to arrest the recent spike in Covid cases should be adhered to. Besides, the government should implement the ‘test-track-treat’ strategy as deployed by some other states in letter and spirit. People should be exhorted to wear face masks, maintain social distancing. The surge in cases indicates that the war against coronavirus is far from over. So, guard against it should not be lowered rather ante against be upped.Tarsem S BumrahEveryone should Make mask a-must habitEven though the vaccination 2.0 drive has started from Monday, the rise in Covid cases may be the indications of the second dreaded wave. The inoculated people must keep in mind that wearing mask is still a first line of defence against the infection. The government is not making all-out efforts to improve or impose ‘mask is must’ law, despite it being the best safety even after the vaccine is available. If the significance of masks and testing was realised when cases were few and far between, there might not have been the need for the economically crippling lockdowns. While testing has been ramped up quite satisfactorily, this cannot be said for ‘mask is must’ discipline, when you see more mask-less people than mask-wearing persons on the roads and in crowded shops and stores. Such casualness towards is denting unlocking underway by rendering them greatly unsafe. Hefty fines for not wearing a mask may ease the situation, but poor people struggling to earn a livelihood, can also be a concern for the authorities. The government must look at options like free distribution of masks in public places. More awareness campaigns are solely needed and politicians posing in public without masks should be officially reprimanded, if not booked for violating rules. This will send a very clear signal and warning to the common people as well. Mask is must habit needs to be drilled into public mindset. In religious places like Golden Temple, an appeal by Akal Takht Jathedar and revered persons of other faiths, to the devotees to wear masks, can go a long way in making people realise the importance of this habit.LJ SinghEveryone should cooperate with govtThere are a lot of precautions that can be taken for preventing second surge in Punjab. I am a ninth grader and my final examinations will be taken in my school premises. My parents are very worried to send me to the school as they are concerned with my health. There are a lot of rumours, whether true or not, regarding Covid-19. In my opinion everyone should cooperate with the government to stay safe. The government is very much concerned about the pandemic and I can see a lot of pale yellow wearers for our safety. I contemplate that government should be much stricter and should fine the ones violating the guidelines. Finally, I request everyone to wear a mask every time you step out of the house to stay safe and sound. Also, keep on sanitising yourself to stay away from the virus.IzleenGet vaccinated as soon as possibleOne must begin with a sense of gratitude to the doctors and nurses who fought and are fighting against Covid-19. The second wave, a sort of anniversary is looming large. But understanding danger, whether it is from AIDS, Covid or some other microbe, is more important than getting scared because fear itself is perhaps more infectious and harmful. Once understood, our behaviour should be guided by knowledge to minimise infection. Fortunately, most of us, if not all, have now understood the route this virus adopts to look for a host, a human host and multiply. The efficacy of frequent soaping and washing hands or using a standard sanitiser to kill the same is now established and verified, thanks to persistent publicity by the state-controlled media. It should continue. Where this rudimentary awareness was challenged, the results were disastrous as in the USA. But fortunately this time, the vaccination against it is ready, available and forms the final thrust against this virus. No vacillation should be shown when our turn for vaccination comes. We must remember that viral diseases have absolutely no remedy or medicine. That’s what makes them different from bacteriological maladies. Hence, prevention is the best choice. Among the surfaces quite likely to harbour this nuisance are our frequently touched surfaces like knobs, door handles, steering wheels, keyboards, remote control devices and things like that. Hence, they should be frequently sanitised. Gloves are mandatory but only for the healthcare staff. Of utmost importance is to avoid bringing our hands close to our mouth or nose. Nail biters have to be doubly cautious. That is the reason why we must wear masks when in public places, including temples, mosques and gurdwaras and keep distance from others. Since such viruses are infectious even before any symptoms appear in a victim, the importance of wearing a mask acquires added importance particularly in crowded and air-conditioned places. A side benefit of the mask is protection from many other respiratory infections.Prof Mohan SinghNight curfews should be re-imposedIn order to prevent a second surge in Punjab, the state government needs to take effective measures. Wearing of masks and maintenance of distance in all places should be compulsory for all. Failure to comply with these two provisions should be very strictly dealt with. The state government should impose heavy penalties for violation of these two provisions. For this purpose, a special task force should be created whereby its main purpose would only be to check whether mask is being put by all and social distance in gatherings is maintained. There should be restriction on gathering of more than ten people at a single place. Night curfews should be reimposed.Sanjay ChawlaHave big expectations from governmentWe are living in the Covid-19 era. In the wake of increasing cases in Punjab, the government is expected to take both corrective and preventive measures, providing more easily available testing and vaccination facilities, and strictly enforcing wearing of masks and maintenance of physical distance by all in public places.TS BhattiIt’s time to rev up covid testingCovid negative reports should be made mandatory at each entry and exit point of the state including airports, railways and roadways. The need of the hour is to increase the number of testing in government and non-government approved laboratories.Randeep Singh KohliInto second stage, keep your guard upOur state is passing through the most crucial phase of the transmission of the disease. According to ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), we are passing through the second stage of transmission, ie, local transmission. To prevent the second stage in state, preventive measures like distancing, wearing of masks, especially when visiting busy, closed spaces such as grocery shops, shopping centres, when using public transport, certain workplace and professions that involve physical contact to many other peoples like cashiers in bank, etc sanitising hands, closure of all educational institutions like schools, colleges and universities, restricting cultural and social activities, restriction on opening of swimming pools as summers are coming, restriction on theatres etc, cleaning and disinfection, increase in testing capacity by the Health Department for detecting more positive patients in the community will also enable the reduction of cases with stricter quarantine rules. To reduce the risk of transmission in the community, crowded areas should be avoided. To increase awareness and attention among community, the Health Department and NGOs must distribute posters on the importance of hygiene, wearing masks and importance of distancing and isolation. This could help bring control over the spread of Covid-19 in second stage.Ankur GuptaNeed to spread more awareness about virusThe Punjab Government should try hard to first remove the misinformation and myths spread in masses about Covid-19. The most common misconceptions about Covid includes ‘it’s a conspiracy of central government to fail farmer’s agitation’, ‘wearing of face masks is not necessary’, ‘it’s a conspiracy of corporate to sell their vaccine’, etc. Positive change in people’s health-related behaviour becomes imperative through effective and active public enlightenment. The government can take help of NGOs, religious organisations, educational institutions, social groups, students, etc to spread awareness about the disease. Nukkad natak can be arranged to convince people to take strict compliance to the prescribed preventive measures.Sandeep KurlGatherings have to be avoided at all costsThe highest figure of 16,752 infected cases on February 28 in the last 30 days in our country is alarming. This data is released by the Union Health Ministry. Similarly, in Punjab there is three-fold rise in such cases in last three weeks. In our own city, situation is disturbing with an increase of 60 per cent cases in the last nine days. But as usual our central and state governments are ‘worried’ and taking all routine steps like releasing media advertisements for precautionary measures and sending health teams for surveys. But, this is not sufficient governments should avoid the gathering of people at their end. Since November 26, thousands of farmers are protesting at the outskirts of Delhi, the government should have accepted their genuine demands or have postponed the implementation of the controversial farm laws to their satisfaction so as to avoid such huge gathering. Similarly, big rallies and huge road shows are being arranged in poll-bound five states and UT attracting thousands of people in single go. Also, with great pump and show Mahakumbh at Haridwar is in progress and will continue till April in which daily thousands of people will take a holy dip in a limited space at Har-Ki-Pauri. In all the above cases, physical distancing norms or wearing of masks will be thrown to wind, which state and central governments should avoid. It is for the governments to set an example to be followed by the general public. We as responsible citizens should not forget that with our crippling economy we can’t afford another spell of restrictions, hence we should follow the norms to avoid the spread of coronavirus.Harsh N JoharAdhere to all orders of the governmentAs the rise in cases is on revival road, necessary steps by the government to prevent a second surge should be strict measures and action against the people who are taking it lightly. Firstly, wearing of masks should be made compulsory and penalise the offenders. Secondly, I would suggest that sanitisation, installation of hand-wash stations and use before entering the premises be made mandatory for all administrative offices. Thirdly, closure of schools for children of lower classes is necessary. Fourthly, functions and gatherings must be strictly restricted to the minimum and action on venue owners and the party if they do not observe the orders. Compulsory inspection by the Health Department of the kitchens of the eateries and time to time checking of the staff as well is equally important. The only precautions one can take are to adhere to the instructions of the government orders.Indu AuroraPeople need to respond swiftlyIn fact, the Government has taken all possible steps as per the advice of the technical team of medical experts to prevent the second surge in cases. But the problem is the indifferent and careless attitude of the masses that have lowered the guard. Very few people are seen in the cities, markets, malls, and stadiums observing the guidelines. People should understand that coronavirus is going to stay forever. It is we, the people, who are required to observe adequate precautions as per norms. As far as the government is concerned, it should give wide publicity through popular media like television, radio, newspapers, and panchayats and health workers regarding the ease and exponential with which it spreads. The government and the law enforcing agencies can’t be everywhere at all times. It’s only the vast public awareness that can contain the disease. The government should do well to declare such areas where the cases are found as the containment zones as soon as possible. But, prior information for such declaration from six to eight hours is a must. It is seen that people are afraid of the on-the-spot monetary penalty. Therefore, not observing norms be declared an offense punishable with a minor fine.AK JoshiHow to prevent a second Covid surgeWith a swelling number of fresh cases, India appears to mimic the characteristics of countries that have already witnessed or are witnessing the second wave of infections. The country reported 16,577 infections and 120 deaths in the last 24 hours, which has surpassed the average of below 10,000 cases and 100 deaths each day until last month. Thus, it’s high time that the government adopts the following measures to prevent further accentuation in cases:• Limit indoor/outdoor gatherings• Temporary suspension in containment zone• Mandatory quarantine of incoming travellers• Timely treatment of the affected people by increase in designated medical centres and provide for more isolation wards• Enforce curfew/weekend curfew• Ensure social distancing is being followed as people are growing casual and have started to act careless• Ensure that all sporting events, competitions and religious gatherings be postponed• Effective disinfection and crowd management be ensured in places like railway stations, metro stations, bus stands, etc.• People should be sensitised on appropriate use of masks.Suneet KochharFight virus in a spirit of nationalismThe increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab is alarming. At this juncture, all political parties must come together to jointly fight the scourge of this deadly virus, in a spirit of nationalism and national duty, instead of playing politics over it. This should stand true even for the politicians at the helm of affairs, at the Centre. The standard operating procedures (SOP) must be followed, and if need be, fines should be restarted to contain the uprising. At the same time more vaccines should be pumped into the state so that a faster inoculation drive can be taken on an emergency level.Rashmi TalwarPeople have not learnt anythingIt is needless to say that cases are increasing everyday and that is a perilous sign. People don’t want to understand the current situation and keep flouting the norms by not wearing masks at crowded places. Everybody is well acquainted with the fact that last year the government had become stringent with the public in regard to Covid and did not allow a single person to roam here and there. However, people have not learnt anything from last year and they do whatever they want. Public needs to be diligent by following the Covid norms and not pile suffering for others. It is the only way to get rid of the surge.SAAHIL HANSWiser than a year ago, to make aware and enforce1) Avoid three ‘Cs’ – Crowded places, close contact/close conversation and confined and closed places with poor ventilation.2) Practise three ‘Ws’ – wear masks, wash hands and watch distance (6ft)3) Encourage/accept vaccination as per guidelines, practising one and two despite this.4) Do not assume ‘it’s not Covid’ and test as per protocols at slightest suspicion.5) Incentives/honours for employees who follow the above by the employers (government and private) for acting responsibly.6) Imposition of fine (by the employers) for those not adhering to first and second pointers.7) Adverts and graphics (newspapers and media) for awareness regarding the effects of second surge and popularising the good practices.8) Popularise sentiments of survivors narrating their experiences for common public. Fear psychosis to be avoided and true picture provided with celebrities playing important part in awareness.9) Punjab along with other states should request the Centre to put the agricultural laws on hold till after the next General Election and also reach out to the farmers to act responsibly in the larger interest of the people.Dr Gurbilas P SinghQUESTIONCovid cases have been on a rise for the past two weeks and hundreds of students & teachers have got infected. Do you think that it is advisable to shut all schools to contain further spread of contagion?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (March 11).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-an-ounce-of-prevention-is-better-than-a-pound-of-cure-222221
