09-03-2021||---||Chased & barked at, visitors dread morning visit to holy shrine||Amritsar, March 8 An early morning visit to the Golden Temple is nothing less than a horrendous experience for visitors. A pack of dogs shoo away visitors at the stretch ranging from Jallianwala Bagh to the Golden Temple. The presence of canines has made this stretch quite precarious as they can be seen fighting with each other or barking at commuters. “It is a trouble which I have to face every day. The administration must find a solution to put a leash on them,” said Surinder Pal Singh, a 65-year-old resident who visits Golden Temple early in the morning every day.  The shopkeepers stated that as devotees feed the stray canines, they have no dearth of food at the holy site. “Some or the other person is always feeding bread or biscuits to them. The situation turns bad, when the dogs start barking at any random person. Once they started chasing a worker who was carrying a gas cylinder on his head,” said a shopkeeper Kashmiri Lal.  The exponential growth in the population of canines has resulted in a situation where their numbers in city alone are estimated to be around 40,000. With no proper dog sterilisation programme in place, the menace is further increasing. The administration’s plan to register all pet dogs and use the funds collected from the pet owners to conduct dog sterilisation programme has also failed.  The situation turned bad to such an extent that in January this year, a four-year-old daughter of a migrant worker was mauled by stray dogs near Malawali village behind the old jail.  With the local administration indifferent towards the issue, the incidents of the like of Rani-Ka-Bagh, where seven pups were poisoned to death by an unidentified person, too, are reported frequently. “Proper sterilisation of all stray dogs is the solution to the problem so that their population is controlled,” suggested a dog lover Sukhmeet Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chased-barked-at-visitors-dread-morning-visit-to-holy-shrine-222714
09-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Central Jail inmates easily connect to outside world||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 8Densely populated residential area around the high security Amritsar Central Jail has become a challenge for the jail authorities as mobile phones and prohibited material (drugs) continue to make their way into the prison.Despite a company of paramilitary force guarding the Central Jail, inmates have been having a free run when it comes to using mobile phones. In the last two months, the jail authorities confiscated around 40 mobile phones, besides prohibited material. In 2020, the figure reached around 300.The Central Jail was shifted to the existing complex four years ago and since then, the jail authorities had been struggling to tackle the menace. The Central Jail authorities had been continuously raising the issue with the administration.A jail official on the condition of anonymity said though involvement of some black sheep could not be ruled out, but the location of the jail complex inside the densely populated area is a major factor behind this issue. “The outer and inner walls are just 16 ft to 20-ft high and unscrupulous elements find no difficulty in throwing prohibited material, including mobile phones, cigarette and contraband from outside,” he added.Anti-social elements have devised new ways to counter security checks. At least, two instances were reported in the recent past in which the unscrupulous elements tried to slip in prohibited material, including cigarettes and even headphones with the help of kites.Intelligence agencies had repeatedly raised concern over the rampant use of mobile phones by inmates, which include gangsters, terrorists and smugglers.“Mobile phones were found from those who were held by the Punjab Police for allegedly running terrorist module, gangsters and smugglers, which is dangerous for the national security,” said the jail official. A senior jail official said, “We do not hesitate to take action against those found violating prison norms.”Intelligence agencies raise concern||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/central-jail-inmates-easily-connect-to-outside-world-222715
09-03-2021||---||Camp organised to identify women with comorbidities||Amritsar, March 8 While the Centre has announced to vaccinate persons aged between 45 years and 59 years with comorbidities, most people in rural areas due to absence of medical facilities are unaware of their health conditions. As a result, the Community Health Centre in Kalanaur, Gurdaspur, has adopted a novel method to identify women with comorbid conditions. A special camp was held at Ruliana village. Kalanaur Senior Medical Officer Dr Lakhwinder Singh Athwal said, “We have planned to hold such camps to identify women with hypertension and diabetes. We will motivate them to get the Covid shot.” “Most people in rural areas do not get to know about hypertension or diabetes until they fall ill. We are trying to make women aware of their underlying health conditions,” said Athwal adding that instead of any kind of hesitation, women should come forward. Meanwhile, 2,432 persons were administered vaccine in the district on Monday. Officials said out of them, around 1,384 received the shot at the government hospitals and 1,048 at private hospitals. Officials said 48.2 per cent of the 24,948 registered healthcare workers and 48.4 per cent of the 22,891registered frontline workers have been administered the vaccine. The health authorities said high-risk persons should take extra precautions and get vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/camp-organised-to-identify-women-with-comorbidities-222716
09-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Agriculture sector, employees cornered lion’s share: Experts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 8City-based experts and traders termed the last Budget of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government as an attempt to please all sections of society. They did not mince words from saying that the agriculture sector and employees cornered the lion’s share of the Budget.TS Chahal, former dean, faculty of agriculture, Khalsa College, observes: “Despite Covid pandemic, the Budget of over Rs 1,68,000 crore has tried to please all sections of population. The employees have been promised the implementation of 6th Pay Commission. On Women’s Day today, a gift of free travel to women in government buses has also been announced. The same facility has also been extended to students. The farming community, which constitutes 65 per cent of the population, has been promised Rs 1,712 crore for debt relief – Rs 1,186 crore for 1.13 lakh farmers and 526 crore for farm labour. By starting ‘Kamyab Kisan – Khushaal Punjab’, the government has tried to encourage crop diversification by establishing agro-industries and other facilities. It has also made provision to control water table. Making an arrangement for canal-based water supply for urban population is a laudable step. However, a huge subsidy to farming community, social sector and industry to the tune of Rs14,000 crore, which is even higher than bigger states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, etc and even Haryana falling in the capital zone is a big challenge. Further, proposal to opening new medical colleges, women colleges, sports stadium for youth and up-gradation of different institutions is dare to be managed. The objectives are laudable but their management will be an uphill task. How to manage the deficit of the budget and the increasing loan load against the state is also a big question.”Two schemes announced to fix base price for horticulture crops and payment of deficiency price as compensation are likely to mitigate the risk of horticulture farmers.Sukhdev Singh Pannu, president of the Pensioners Welfare Association, said, it was their long pending demand to implement the 6th Pay Commission. He welcomed its implementation from July 1. He added that -bound installments of arrears worth Rs 9,000 crore must also be made.Sunita, an old-age pensioner, said inflation on essential commodities had turned Rs 500 monthly pension meaningless. New pension of Rs 1,500 is not sufficient but still can be called a welcome step.Piara Lal Seth, President of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said, there is nothing for the entrepreneur ranging in the middle category. “The proposed Rs 150 crore for the Punjab Innovation Fund to invest in early stage start-ups is an insufficient amount for the sector, besides the government’s participation will not be more than 10 percent of the corpus is too low a support.”The extension of the GST incentive to October 17, 2022 is a welcome move. It is likely to attract investment. Earlier, an application submitted before March 31, 2020 was applicable. All districts will have a District Bureau of Industry and Investment Promotion office which is again a move in the right direction but entrepreneurs should be included in it. Subsidised power tariff to the industry should be frozen at Rs five at the delivery rate. However, there is nothing for middle segment traders. and the MSME sector, Seth lamented.Gunbir Singh, President of Dilbir Foundation, says: “Juggling social aspirations with fiscal imperatives and fulfilling election promises must have been a tedious task for Manpreet Singh Badal. But he tried to balance it all. Despite the fact that the state government has been reeling under debt and is dealing with the financial load of a lockdown, it remained committed to funding towards agriculture, education, infrastructure, which is commendable by any standard.Education sector also gained attention of the government as it announced to upgrade 250 schools, allocated Rs 140 crore for digital education, besides, fitness parks which would be up in all government schools and playgrounds. Another grant of Rs 100 crore for smartphones to students of Class XII is also laudable.Key announcements for city"There is nothing for the entrepreneurs ranging in the middle category. The proposed Rs150 crore for the Punjab Innovation Fund to invest in early stage start-ups is an insufficient amount for the sector, besides the government’s participation will not be more than 10 per cent of the corpus, which is again not a heartening contribution." —Piara Lal Seth, President of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal"The employees have been promised the implementation of 6th Pay Commission. On the Women’s Day, a gift of free travel to women in government buses has also been announced. The same facility has also been extended to students. Despite the pandemic, the government has tried to please all sections of the population with a budget of over Rs1,68,000 crore." — TS Chahal, former Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, Khalsa College"The government has robbed the employees of their dues in the Budget. The 6th Pay Commission should have been implemented from January 1, 2016. The government had not released DA of employees for the past 185 months. It has been framing such rules and formalities that it has become difficult for us to find jobs." —Ashwani Awasthi of Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha"Presenting a Budget must have been a tedious task for Manpreet Singh Badal. But he tried to balance it all. Despite the fact that the state government has been reeling under debt and is dealing with the financial load of a lockdown, it remained committed to funding every sector." — Gunbir Singh, President, Dilbir Foundation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agriculture-sector-employees-cornered-lions-share-experts-222717
09-03-2021||---||Farm women stage protest outside house of BJP MP||Amritsar, March 8 The women farmers staged a protest outside the residence of BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik in large numbers on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday.  The protest was organised on the call of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha spearheading the agitation against the three controversial agriculture related laws at Delhi borders. Standing in solidarity with the farmers, the women stated that the present government was ignoring the interests of the wider sections of society to benefit a few corporate houses. Women shouted slogans against the Centre and besides demanding the repeal of the three laws, asked the government to ensure safety of girls and women. They demanded that no political party should give tickets to persons involved in sexual crimes.  A separate function to mark the day was organised by Janwadi Istari Sabha associated with All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) at Choghawan town near here. Kawaljit Kaur of AIDWA said, “A large number of women from the economically backward sections, who work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, have been facing problems due to the gender issues.” She said they also handed over a memorandum to the local administration in this regard. Later, the women took out a march in the markets of the town.  Poor oppose hike in platform ticket price The farmers’ associations, united under the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, have announced to protest against the handing over of passenger facility management to the IRSDC during a visit of Ashutosh Gangal, general manager of the Northern Railway, at the station on March 12. The farmer leaders stated that the station has been handed over to a private company and they would oppose it with all their might. “The platform ticket has been increased to Rs 50. How would the poor masses who use railways be able to afford such high expenses,” said farmer leader Rattan Singh Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-women-stage-protest-outside-house-of-bjp-mp-222718
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Tarn Taran women condemn disparity, demand equal rights||Tarn Taran, March 8 Several functions were organised on the ‘International Women’s Day’ today in the district by different organisations and problems of the womenfolk were also discussed at large.  The Punjab Istri Sabha, in its function at Harike village, called upon the women to be aware of their rights to play a much more active role to bring equality in the society. Narinder Pal Kaur and Rajinder Pal Kaur, patron, and general secretary, respectively of the sabha, expressed their satisfaction for taking active part in the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi.  The leaders said the Modi Government tried to put innocent women behind the bars during the Delhi agitation. They said women played a key role in uplifting the society. They condemned the disparity with the women and demanded regularisation of the services of the ASHA, mid-day meal and Anganwari workers and give more job avenue, security to women. Seema Sohal, Rupinder Kaur Marimegha, Kiranjit kaur Valtoha, Prtithipal Singh Marimegha too addressed on the occasion .  Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh (Tarn Taran) celebrated International Women’s Day under the theme, “Women in Leadership in Agriculture: Entrepreneurship, Equity and Empowerment”. Anganwadi workers, farm women and farmers participated and interacted with panel of experts for opportunities of empowerment in agriculture, livestock and allied sectors. KVK scientist Dr Piverjeet Kaur Dhillon initiated the event by webcasting of inaugural session at Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Ministry of Women and Child Development. Dr Balwinder Kumar, associate director (Training) highlighted the significance of subsidiary occupation in women’s financial as well as financial emancipation. Baljit Kaur, Child Development and Project Officer (CDPO), Patti was among the others who spoke on the occasion. A seminar was also organised in the local Majha College for Women on Monday.  Women employees sat on a chain hunger strike in Tarn Taran. It was launched by the Punjab and UT Mulazam / Pensioners Sanjha Front against the state government to stress upon their current demands. Gurwant Kaur Chabal and Kulwant Kaur Vein Poin led the agitating women and demanded to consider ASHA, anganwari and mid-day meal workers at par with the regular government employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-women-condemn-disparity-demand-equal-rights-222719
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||KMSC protest unsettled police issues||Tarn Taran, March 8 Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, taking serious concern over not resolving issues related to the Police Department had launched its ‘Pakka Morcha’ (dharna for indefinite period) outside the local District Administration Complex (DAC). On the first day of the morcha, the organisation staged a dharna in which men and women farmers and the labourers participated. District president of the organisation Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Satnam Singh Manochahal were among the others who addressed the occasion. The leaders said that the Police Department was working as a political ‘wing’ of the ruling Congress and people with different political thoughts were being victimised by booking them under false cases. They said that the law and order situation is sniffy as snatching, looting, killing incidents were occurring unabated and touching new heights. The leaders said problems related to the police victims and such types of other issues had been brought to the notice of the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-protest-unsettled-police-issues-222720
09-03-2021||---||GNDU to submit SIA report||Amritsar, March 8The Capt Amarinder Singh led government, in the last Budget of this term, allocated Rs 24 crore for the proposed Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education (PGIHRE) at the GNDU. Kulwant Singh Ankhi of the Amritsar Vikas Manch, who has been lobbying for its early establishment, hailed the announcement for farmers of entire state.He said agriculture had reached a saturation point in cyclic pattern of wheat and needed which need to diversified. Research backed by guidance at the grassroots level by the scientists of the PGIHRE would bring tremendous changeGuru Nanak Dev University’s (GNDU’s) Social Sciences Department has finished the field study for acquiring around 32 acres for the proposed Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education (PGIHRE) at Chhiddan village on Amritsar-Attari Road.The Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had awarded the social impact assessment (SIA) study to GNDU on October 29, which had to be completed within a period of six months (April 30).The SIA study team comprises six experts, drawn from economics, law, sociology, environment, political science and environment, besides 20 research scholars. The team held field tours at Chiddan village, involving group discussions with the stakeholders.Project head of the SIA Dr Rajesh Kumar said the land acquisition process would be a smooth affair and the SIA report would be submitted to the government in time. He said it would be a rather hassle-free acquisition as around 28 acres belong to an individual and remaing land belongs to 60 families. The proposed land does not involve any discplacment and dislocation of dwellers.“It will be a hassle-free process as there is no concrete structure on the said land. Besides, there is no opposition to the project and people around the site are keen to see materialisation of the project,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-submit-sia-report-222721
09-03-2021||---||Firing in Kot Atmaram leads to panic||Amritsar, March 8Panic gripped Kot Atmaram, which falls under the jurisdiction of Division B police station, after several persons started indiscriminate firing outside a cosmetic shop on Sunday evening.Complainant Harpreet Kaur Kairon told the police that around 7.30 pm on Sunday three youngsters entered her shop in an inebriated condition (youth came to attend a marriage ceremony in the neighbourhood). She said the accused demanded a face cream and she asked them to visit another shop.She alleged the accused entered into an argument with her and used foul language. She said as her relatives tried to push them out of the shop, the accused started firing indiscriminately. The incident was captured on CCTV camera.SHO Division B police station Gurwinder Singh said they marked the probe. One of the accused was stated to be relative of a cop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-in-kot-atmaram-leads-to-panic-222726
09-03-2021||---||Sterilisation centre coming up to tackle stray dog menace||Amritsar, March 8In order to end stray dog menace in the city, a dog sterilisation centre is being set up near modern cow shelter at Naraingarh in Chheharta.At present, there are over 25,000 stray dogs in the city and the problem has taken alarming proportions, especially in the old-walled city.The MC has been sterilising strays in collaboration with the Animal Welfare Charitable Trust (AWCT).Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, said, “With the cooperation of the NGO, we have managed to sterilise around 2,500 stray dogs in the city.”He told that in absence of proper infrastructure, previous drives launched for dog sterilidation did not achieved the desired results. Therefore, we felt the need for setting up of the dog sterilisation centre, he said and added that the centre would be equipped with modern facilities.The centre would have a capacity to sterilise 200 dogs per week in the initial stage and it would be further increased to around 500 dogs weekly. With the help of the AWCT, we have started sterilisation of 5,000 stray dogs at a cost of Rs 45 lakhs, he said.In December 2018, the civic body had initiated a pilot project and spent Rs18 lakh on sterilisation of 2,000 stray dogs. Due to poor infrastructure, the MC could sterilise only 1,451 dogs in the last two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sterilisation-centre-coming-up-to-tackle-stray-dog-menace-222727
09-03-2021||Tarn Taran||In-laws seek dowry, booked||Honoured for cleanlinessTarn Taran: Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School received an appreciation letter for cleanliness, in a survey conducted by the local Municipal Council. Principal Ranjit Bhatia said the school received this honour from SDM Rajneesh Arora for cleanliness among all educational institutions of the city. President of the local committee Khalsa Diwan and member-in-charge of the school Harjit Singh and vice-president of the committee Gurinder Singh lauded their efforts. OC‘No pension for last six months’Amritsar: Retired employees of the Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad civic bodies have not received their pensions for the past nearly six months. A delegation of pensioners met MLA Raj Kumar Verka at his residence and demanded early release of pension. Nirmal Singh Randhawa, president and Manmohan Singh Baserke, general secretary of the employees’ association, said MLA Verka had assured them that he would take up the issue with Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Rural Development and Panchayat Minister. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-laws-seek-dowry-booked-222731
