10-03-2021||Amritsar||5 fall prey to virus in Amritsar||The health authorities reported five Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours in the disrtrict. With this, the death toll has increased to 608.It’s for the first time after September and October that the district has again reported such high number of casualties in a single day.2,512 persons jabbed so farWith 64 positive cases (average) reported daily till March 9, the Covid tally has reached 583. The deceased include Surjit Kaur (76), from Ranjit Avenue; Joginder Kaur (68), of Baba Bakala; Surjit Kaur (60), of Wadala Kalan village; Surjit Kaur (85), of Rayya, and Jagir Kaur (65), of Verka.The health authorities said people should take ample precautions. People can be seen flouting the health guidelines in market places.The health officials advised that unnecessary movement, including partying and dining out; especially by high-risk patients should be avoided.Meanwhile, a total of 2,512 persons were administered the dose (1,588 at government hospitals and 924 at private hospitals). The health officials said the drive would be intensified further and people were being motivated to get vaccinated. They said a total of 7,384 persons above 45 years of age, including senior citizens have received the shots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-fall-prey-to-virus-in-amritsar-223121
10-03-2021||Amritsar||PwDs irked for being ignored in Punjab Budget||People with disabilities (PwDs) are irked with the government for ignoring them in the state Budget. They say their plight does not figure in the priority list of the government. Leaders, irrespective of any political party, are invariably occupied in political slugfest so hardly leaving them anytime to spare for devising plans for the well-being of the physically challenged.Manmohan Singh Baserke (62), who completely damaged his left leg during a road accident in 1987, said it was their long pending demand that the complete travel cost in the state-run buses should be waived for the physically disabled persons. Since it was already being charged at half, this should not have added more burden to the exchequer.Non-friendly infrastructure for the physically disabled exists in the form of unstoppable traffic, and haphazard parking on roads, leaving little room for the physically challenged persons to move around in shopping markets. Even crossing a road is an uphill task.Manjit Singh, headmaster of the Institute for Blind, said: “There is only one Braille press in the state, which is situated in Ludhiana. Never any effort was put in to install at least one more press in the state. How can we expect one more Braille press in the state when the solitary press had remained closed for nearly two years and it recently resumed operation after repeated requests?”Dharampal, a visually impaired, said there was only a 3 per cent quota in jobs for Divyang, yet it was not being filled regularly. The government should clear the backlog of jobs and must be more liberal in granting jobs to the physically disabled. Pointing out shortcoming while moving on city roads, he said there were not enough toilets for the physically challenged persons.GMC staff burn copies of BudgetDemanding restoration of the old pension scheme, the employees at Government Medical College here burnt the copies of the Budget presented by the state government. The employees held the protest under the leadership of Jatin Sharma, Narinder Singh and Prem Chand.The employees’ leaders said the Budget did not mention anything about the old pension scheme, which was scrapped for employees recruited after 2004. They further said the Finance Minister had not made any commitment to regularise the services of contractual employees, fixation of minimum wages and release or arrears of dearness allowance. — TNSVOXPOPIt was our long pending demand that the complete travel cost in the state-run buses be waived for the physically disabled persons. Since it was already being charged at half, this shouldn’t have added more burden to the exchequer. — Manmohan Singh Baserke, damaged his left leg during a road accident in 1987There is only one Braille press in the state, which is situated in Ludhiana. Never any effort was put in to install at least one more press in the state. How can we expect one more Braille press in the state when the solitary press had remained closed for nearly two years and it recently resumed operation after repeated requests? — Manjit Singh, headmaster of the Institute for BlindThere are shortcomings while commuting on city roads and there aren't enough toilets for the physically challenged persons. — Dharampal, a visually impaired||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pwds-irked-for-being-ignored-in-punjab-budget-223123
10-03-2021||Amritsar||Recovering property tax an uphill task||The fiscal year will end after three weeks, but the property tax wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) is far from achieveing its target of collecting Rs34 crore.The MC has witnessed a shortfall of Rs8 crore in the recovery of property tax. Only Rs18 crore has been collected so far, which is 8 crore less than recovery of the last year.During 2019-20, the MC had collected Rs 26.34 crore till end March 31, but the department could collect only Rs 18 crore. This year, the MC had set a target of Rs 34 crore, but the Covid-19 pandemic hit the tax recovery.Even after easing of the lockdown, traders were reluctant to pay the property tax. A major amount of property tax comes from commercial establishments. All kinds of trades have been badly hit due to the pandemic. The tourism and hospitality sector was yet to revive.The MC had initiated a sealing drive against defaulters and sealed a few buildings in the last one week. “The hotel industry is one of the major revenue source of civic body. There were around 800 hotels in the city. These hotels closed in March last year and are still facing low occupancy. Thus, it affected the tax collection of the MC,” Pardeep Rajput, Nodal Officer, Property Tax Wing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recovering-property-tax-an-uphill-task-223124
10-03-2021||Amritsar||Police freeze Gulshan Jain family’s properties worth Rs 125 cr||Taking a stern action against proclaimed offenders, the Amritsar rural police on Tuesday freezed the properties worth Rs125 crore belonging to Gulshan Jain and his family, who owned Virumal Mulakhraj Rice Mill at Jandiala Guru.The caseThe family has been absconding for the past two years after allegedly bungling government paddy and taking bank limits worth Rs200 crore. They allegedly escaped out of the country in 2018. A case of fraud and forgery and under Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Gulshan Jain and his other family members including Nitin Jain (son), his wife Neetu Jain, Sudhir Jain and his wife Sofia Jain.The family has been absconding for the past two years after allegedly bungling government paddy and taking bank limits worth Rs200 crore. They had allegedly escaped out of the country after abruptly shutting down its operations in 2018. A case for fraud and forgery and under Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Gulshan Jain and his other family members including Nitin Jain (son), his wife Neetu Jain, Sudhir Jain and his wife Sofia Jain.According to a survey conducted by the Department of Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, around 400 wagons of government paddy worth Rs32 crore are missing from the mill godowns. During the search, it was found that the accused also duped Punjab National Bank of around Rs200 crore. The suspects showed the government paddy as their own before taking the cash credit limit from the bank. The probe in the case was later shifted to Punjab Vigilance Bureau.The Vigilance Bureau had arrested the then District Food and Civil Supplies Controller of Amritsar, AP Singh, who had allegedly duped the state exchequer of Rs40 crore in connivance with other officials and rice mill owners. Besides District Food and Civil Supplies Officer Raminder Singh Bath and Assistant Food and Civil Supplies Officer Vipan Sharma and Food Inspector Gurjinder Singh, were also arrested by the bureau.According to the police, the local court of Judicial Magistrate declared them proclaimed offenders and ordered freezing of their properties on March 5. Following this, after evaluation, the local police took action.Cops claimed that they freezed properties worth Rs125 crore. The police freezed a rice sheller at Dhirekot village, a bungalow, commercial lands near Raghunath College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-freeze-gulshan-jain-familys-properties-worth-rs-125-cr-223125
10-03-2021||Amritsar||House, shop burgled in Chowk  Farid||Several unidentified persons decamped with cash and jewellery worth several lakhs from the house of Anupam Gupta, a resident of Chowk Farid, on Sunday.Gupta told the police that he, along with his family, went to meet his relatives at Basant Avenue, while his father was at home. He said in the evening when they returned, they found the main door of the house open. He said when they went inside they found the house ransacked and valuables missing.He said the accused took away gold and silver ornaments worth Rs7 lakh and Rs80,000. The police have marked the probe. Similarly, around 10 unidentified women decamped with garments worth Rs5 lakh from a shop located on Tarn Taran Road in Jandiala Guru. The CCTV footage has gone viral on social media.Subhash Chander, owner of the shop, said he closed his shop and went home on Saturday evening. He said on Sunday when he went to open the shop, he saw the locks broken. He said around 10 women broke the locks of the shop around 3 am and took away garments worth Rs5 lakh. The police have registered a case under Sections 380, 427 and 457 of the IPC in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/house-shop-burgled-in-chowk-farid-223126
10-03-2021||AMRITSAR||JEE toppers from Amritsar: On top of the world||Chaitanya Gupta became the district topper by securing 99.95 percentile in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main phase-1 results which were announced by National Testing Agency (NTA).A student of DAV Public School, Chaitanya has been preparing at Aakaash Institute’s three-year classroom.Clearing four phases of the JEE Main will qualify them for admissions to the NIT, IIIT and many other colleges.Having secured a cut-off score in the first four phases of the JEE Main will make them eligible to appear in the JEE Advanced on the basis of which they will be admitted to the IITs.Hailing from a business family, he will be the first to join any engineering institute in his family. He wishes to pursue a career in mechanical engineering by gaining an admission at IIT Mumbai. A studious bloke primarily, he likes to watch cricket in his idle time.Manav Goyal of Shri Ram Ashram Public School, who secured 99.76 percentile, aspires to tread the IIT campus. The only mantra to crack JEE, according to him, is to get hold of relevant books and listen to teachers. “There is no shortcut to success and hard-work, regular study is necessary,” he told.Many students from the city have cracked the JEE Main which was held in February. The students have been waiting for the result making them eligible for its next four stages. Clearing four phases of the JEE Main will qualify them for admissions in NIT, IIIT and many other colleges. Having secured a cut-off score in the first four phases of the JEE Main will make them eligible to appear in the JEE Advanced on the basis of which they will be admitted to the IITs.Dinesh Paneri, centre head of FIITJEE, Amritsar, said, six students of FIITJEE Amritsar centre from long-term classroom programmes have scored more than 99 per cent and 26 students scored more than 90 per cent in general category. Six major scorers were Manav Goyal 99.76 percentile, Vaibhav Sobti 99.73, Aashish Rampal 99.63, Abhinav Jain 99.07, Sparsh Goenka 99.02 and Vanshita 99.Lakhs of students from across the country tested their skills in the JEE Main which had been conducted digitally last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jee-toppers-from-amritsar-on-top-of-the-world-223127
10-03-2021||Amritsar||Agri experts dwell on direct sowing of paddy||The Covid-19 pandemic forced Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to hold a virtual Kisan Mela to disseminate knowledge about newest farm practices and techniques to farmers. The event was organised by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) under the aegis of the PAU.Experts from the university and KVK discussed various issues concerning agriculture and allied occupations. A web link of the event was earlier released and circulated by the KVK to enable farmers to watch the panel discussions online.Connecting with farmers through webIn September last year, the PAU had to cancel the biannual event due to the pandemic. Experts said a large number of farmers would benefit from the virtual panel discussions.The event witnessed participations of experts, including DrTejinder Singh Riyad, Director, Skill Development Center, PAU; Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director, Research PAU; besides Dr Jaskaran Singh Mahal, Director, Extension Education; and Dr Parvinder Singh, in charge, KVK, Amritsar.Dr MS Bhullar, Dr RB Gupta, Dr Amarjit Singh, Dr BS Suri and Dr Satbir Singh Punia discussed direct sowing of paddy and quality production of basmati.The second panel discussion was related to the contribution and potential of allied occupations in agriculture. Dr Ramandeep Singh from School of Business Studies spoke on agribusiness, agriculture and contribution of women and rural youth.Dr Jaspal Singh, Senior Entomologist, while answering the questions of bee keepers, told about methods to control pests in bee hives. Microbiologist Dr Shivani Sharma informed about the cultivation of different varieties of mushrooms throughout the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-experts-dwell-on-direct-sowing-of-paddy-223128
10-03-2021||Tarn Taran||KMSC seeks withdrawal of cases against farmers||On the second day of the ‘Pakka Morcha’ launched by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC), the agitating workers staged dharna in the middle of the National Highways No. 54 on Tuesday and blocked normal traffic for two hours.District president Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra and state leader Sawinder Singh Chutala were among others, who addressed the demonstrators on the occasion. They said the Congress leaders were victimising their political opponents by registering fake cases against them on a very large scale. They said the organisation had been demanding the withdrawal of criminal cases registered against the farmers’ leaders. They said the officials in the meetings held previously had assured to take back the cases, but now the police had started presenting challans in the courts. The leaders warned that the organisation would fight till justice was not served to them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-seeks-withdrawal-of-cases-against-farmers-223129
10-03-2021||Amritsar||Upper Bari Doab Canal turns into a dump yard||Though the state government has recently inaugurated the canal-based water supply project for the city dwellers, the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC), which is the source of water, has turned into a dump yard. The canal is dried due to which heaps of garbage on surface are more visible.Moreover, a large number of ragpickers now segregate the valuables from the waste. The commuters on canal road are forced to take in the stink every time they pass by it.The Municipal Corporation (MC) in collaboration with Dera Kar Sewa Buri Wale constructed the green paths alongside it for morning and evening walkers but it remains empty – thanks to the mix of different miasmas suffused in the air.Ironically, a large number of residents can be seen dumping puja material in the stagnant water near the Taranwala Pul. Not only that, the residents also dumped plastic bags, sacks and packing material into the canal.The famous pakora seller on the bank is upset with the attitude of public. “People threw ideals of gods and goddesses, painting of religious personalities, posters and photos of cult heads and other religious material. It is not good for anyone. Whenever we asked someone to not litter the canal, people’s reaction is noteworthy,” said the worker of stall.The same water also supplies to sarovars at Darbar Sahib, Gurdwara Santoksar and three other gurdwaras. The MC has failed to curb the practice of throwing garbage. An iron grill has been installed on the Taranwala Pul to refrain the public from doing so.“Earlier, people used to throw the material by removing the plastic bag or sack. But after installation of grill people threw the material along with the bag,” said Kuldeep, a resident of Sultanwind. The residents demanded de-silting of surface of canal and some foolproof arrangements to curb this practice.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal has recently installed a warning board on Taranwala Pul to punish the violators. The warning board reads ‘dumping garlands, hawan samagri, coconuts, religious photos, calendars, junk or any kind of garbage in canal and its surroundings is prohibited. The action would be taken under Section 323 of the Municipal Act 1976. The culprit would be penalised or sentenced to jail or both’.However, no action has been taken against any violator till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/upper-bari-doab-canal-turns-into-a-dump-yard-223130
10-03-2021||Gurdaspur||Commuters irked as Sewerage Board shuts down state highway||Thousands of commuters have to face inconvenience every day as the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PWSSB) officials, after digging up the strategically important Gurdaspur-Mukerian state highway ostensibly to lay sewerage pipes, seem to have lost their way and are unable to figure out from where to start and where to end.Work has been going on since January and officials claim that it will be the last week of May, when the last of the pipes will be laid. “Imagine a state highway remaining closed for nearly five months! This can happen only in India. Incredible India,” remarked Nirmal Singh, a commuter, who used to travel to Mukerian to get medicine but can no longer go now.Tibri cantonment is located on this very stretch of road. Army men had taken this route when they had to travel to the Dinanagar police station to quell the July 27, 2015, terror attack. In this border district, where infiltrations are common, PSWSSB officials may well have to face the flak if some incident happens and the Army is unable to reach the site on time.A 2 km detour has been earmarked through Kothe Gharala village but this stretch of road, which in any case is barely wide enough to let two cars coming from opposite directions pass without one of them getting its paint peeled off, too, has caved in.“The road was bound to develop fissures because it has to bear heavy traffic in the form of sand and gravel laden trucks and tippers and sugarcane carrying tractor-trailers. What was meant to be a 5-minute diversion has become a nightmarish one hour drive,” said a truck driver.“Development comes at a cost,” said a Board official rather nonchalantly.Harinder Singh, Chief Engineer, PSWSSB, said he was apprised of the mater “and was in the process of taking action.” What action he would, or could, take remains in the realms of speculation because the road has already been dug up and there is little he can do at this stage.Satnam Singh, Executive Engineer of the Board, said action will be taken against the Contractor if he overshoots the target of March 30. “This is a justification which does not carry weight. Going by the sheer magnitude of work, the highway may not reopen at least till June,” said an official.Manmohan Singh, PWD XEN, said the Board had taken permission from his department. He said he never knew that things would come to such a pass where commuters would be at the receiving end for no fault of theirs.” He confirmed that a joint inspection of his department and PSWSSB would be held early next week to sort out the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commuters-irked-as-sewerage-board-shuts-down-state-highway-223132
10-03-2021||Amritsar||Women's day: SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur lays stress on right to equality||On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the first woman SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur emphasised the importance of ‘equality’ without gender bias.In a video message released while addressing women worldwide, Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “By strengthening women, we strengthen society, communities and the country.”She expressed that rights have to be obtained by efforts.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said first Sikh master Sri Guru Nanak Dev preached for equal right to women, about five-and-a-half centuries ago.“Today, the woman is at the forefront in every field, be it administrative or police services or flying fighter jets. If the government resolute to give 50 per cent reservation to women to contest elections at the posts of sarpanch, panch and others, then the government and society must ensure that this should not be limited on paper. They should actually be given opportunities on the basis of their ability, thinking and work skills,” she said.Meanwhile, a large number of state government women employees under the banner of Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha protested in Patiala against the ‘step-motherly’ treatment being meted out to them. The protesters burnt an effigy of the state government. They demanded regularisation of the services of Asha, mid-day meal and anganwari workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/womens-day-sgpc-president-bibi-jagir-kaur-lays-stress-on-right-to-equality-223133
10-03-2021||Amritsar||47 years on, Amritsar Vegetable Oil Corp workers still fighting for salary||For the past 47 years, workers of Amritsar Vegetable Oil Corporation Limited, had been fighting for getting their dues and salaries even after the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court decided in the favour of the employees.The mill was abruptly closed down in 1973 that brought the workers and employees on the road.Jaivardhan Arora, president of the Amritsar Sugar Mill Mazdoor Union, has now urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene and get the properties belonging to the mill auctioned and recover the dues.Arora said the Revenue Department had even published the advertisement in the newspaper for the auction at least for five times, but now Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has put a restriction on the auction and asked the respondents to approach liquidator for recovery. Giving details he revealed that after the company’s shut down in 1973, the central government took over it. However, it hired a new staff. The union headed by Tilak Raj approached the court for recovery of their salaries and bonuses.He said after the Labour Department failed to recover the dues, it sent the case of recovery to the Land Revenue Department. The district collector issued a recovery certificate and directed a tehsildar to recover the same as per the provisions of the Punjab Land Revenue Act.Arora said notices were issued to other party, but no satisfactory reply was received from the respondents and later he ordered attachment of the properties in October 2018 and asked for permission of auctioning from then Deputy Commissioner-cum-collector.He said the DC took permission for the same from Commissioner Jalandhar Division in January 2019. He said advertisements were placed in the media for the same. However, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) started building boundary walls around the said land.He alleged DC Khaira has neither stopped the CPWD from constructing the wall nor allowed the auction. Instead, he had advised the union to meet liquidator for the recovery. The union urged the CM to intervene and get their dues recovered after auctioning the land.On the other hand, DC Khaira pointed out CPWD authorities had approached the government for stopping the auction while also bringing to notice that a liquidator was appointed by the government for recovery of the dues. Following this, a committee was formed which was headed by an SDM and district attorney to look into the matter. The union was asked to approach the liquidator on the recommendations of the committee members.Arora said that already the union had met the liquidator in 2018, who had expressed its inability for the same, while adding that he had no amount to pay the arrears of the workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/47-years-on-amritsar-vegetable-oil-corp-workers-still-fighting-for-salary-223135
10-03-2021||Amritsar||Five booked for culpable homicide||Trader gets extortion msgAmritsar: A fertilizer shop owner, identified as Rajan Gandhi of Ajnala, got extortion messages on his mobile. The unidentified person demanded Rs55 lakh besides a mobile phone with active SIM. The accused threatened to blow his shop and house in case he failed to provide the same. Gandhi in a complaint to the Ajnala police said earlier, he got an extortion letter in September 2020, in which the accused had threatened to kill him if he failed to give the same. After his complaint, the police have registered a case under Sections 387, 511 and 506 of the IPC against unidentified person and launched further probe. The police authorities said the police were looking into the call details of the phone number, from where the victim got six extortion messages. The police said the accused would be arrested soon. TNSThree held with stolen weaponsTarn Taran: The district police on Tuesday arrested three persons on the charge of stealing arms and ammunition from Raju Gun House, Khadoor Sahib, on the intervening night of January 10 and11. SSP Dhruman H Nimble in a press conference on Tuesday said that the arrested persons had been identified as Gurpal Singh, Navdeep Singh Nav and Jagroop Singh of Sursing village. The police have seized nine air guns, 242 gun cartridges of different type from the arrested persons. The accused had stolen 12 air guns, one air pistol, 2,060 cartridges and other material from the gun house. A case under Sections 457, 380and 34 of the IPC had already been registered by the Goindwal Sahib police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-culpable-homicide-223138
