11-03-2021||Three unnatural deaths reported from Dhunda village falling under Goindwal Sahib police station in less than 10 days has raised many eyebrows. The latest causality of a 30-year-old man less than a week back was an alarming one. The relatives of the deceased latest said he was a regular addict and was found dead in the morning in his room. The two youths who died about 20 days ago in the village were reportedly habitual drunkards and often used to consume illicit liquor. A resident||Man on a mission||Exploited by the employerThe visit of Inderjit Singh, member, State Safai Sewak Commission, brought a ray of hope among the underprivileged safai sewaks who are allegedly been exploited by their employers. It was worth noting here that many contactors having the contract of the sanitation work in the Civil Hospitals and the MCs in the district have been violating the set norms regarding giving them their salary as per the DC rates. The safai sewaks shared their grievances with the state Safai Sewak Commission member. There were also reports that most of the employers deduct the due amounts from the salary of the safai sewaks as EPF and it was not deposited in the respective accounts of the employees. The commission member instructed the officials to abide by the norms strictly to give benefit to the safai sewaks. The commission also instructed to give details of the deduction by issuing them the slips.Helping the needy stand on their feetThe Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust donated artificial limbs to the needy around the border area Naushehra Dhala village of Tarn Taran district. At the function organised by the trust, 35 tricycles and three walking sticks were distributed to the needy. Dr SP Singh Oberoi, patron of the trust, was the chief guest during the function. Dr Oberoi, in his address, said the trust was dedicated to the social-economic transformation of rural and remote areas of India, especially the weaker and socially underprivileged groups. The trust accords priority to the physical, social, cultural and economic development of rural people, groups and institutions. The trust extended its helping hand during the Covid-19 pandemic in the district in a big way. Jagbir Singh Sandhu, sarpanch of the village, and Gulbag Singh Sandhu, while addressing on the occasion, appreciated the services of Dr Oberoi-led trust for the betterment of the weaker sections of the society.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-on-a-mission-223402
11-03-2021||Amritsar||Mobile, drugs found in Amritsar jail||Woman (50) sets herself on fireTarn Taran: A 50-year-old woman of Muradpur locality, who was mentally disturbed over the love affair of her daughter with a youth of the same locality, burnt herself on Tuesday. The victim has been identified as Bholi Kaur. Investigating Officer(IO) said Ramandeep Kaur, daughter of the victim, was in love with Lucky, which Bholi did not like . Bholi sprinkled kerosene oil on herself and set her on fire. She was brought to the local Civil Hospital from where she was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, where she died. Ramandeep and Lucky have been booked under Sections 306, 34 of the IPC. OCBSF seizes 4 kg of heroinAmritsar: The Border Security Force (BSF) in a joint operation with the Narcotics Control Bureau confiscated 4 kg of heroin from Sahran border outpost in the Ajnala area on Wednesday morning. The BSF personnel of the 24th battalion seized the drug during a search operation at 7.30 am. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mobile-drugs-found-in-amritsar-jail-223397
11-03-2021||---||Bank employees protest against privatisation in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 10Members of nine different associations under the banner of the United Front held a sit-in against the policies of the Central Government and its policies at Hall Bazaar here on Tuesday.Holding banners, they raised slogans against the announcement of privatisation of two public sector banks. They said the employees would hold a two-day strike on March 15 and 16 if the government did not take back its decision of privatisation.Accusing the government of dismantling the decades-old structure of the public sector banks, they said it was a major source of employment for younger generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bank-employees-protest-against-privatisation-in-amritsar-223398
11-03-2021||---||Saka Nankana Sahib: ‘Youngsters should know Sikh history’||Amritsar, March 10An event (Gurmat Samagam) dedicated to the centenary of Saka Nankana Sahib was organised at Gurdwara Shaheed Bhai Karam Singh in Amritsar.The programme was held on the instructions of Giani Harpreet Singh, officiating Jathedar of Akal Takht. Giani Balwinder Singh, Bhai Rajinder Singh Mehta, Talbir Singh Gill and Gurpartap Singh Tikka, among others, shared their views on the occasion.Giani Balwinder said martyrs of Saka Nankana Sahib were the assets of the Sikh community. Their lives and vision were inspiration for younger generation. “It is important to connect the present generation with the glorious history of the Sikhs and for this purpose, gurdwara committees should make it a point to organise such events,” he said.Bhai Rajinder shared the history of Saka Nankana Sahib with the congregation. A raagi jatha of the Golden Temple performed the kirtan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saka-nankana-sahib-youngsters-should-know-sikh-history-223399
11-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Constitute team for recovery of water, sewerage bills, says official||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 10In the wake of low recovery of water supply and sewerage bills, the chairman of Water Supply and Sewerage Sub-Committee has written to the Municipal Corporation Commissioner to constitute an enforcement team for the recovery of the bills.Mahesh Khanna, Chairman, Water Supply Sub-CommitteeA large number of water and sewerage connections are illegal in the city. I have written to the MC Commissioner to constitute an enforcement team for the recovery of bills and take action against illegal connections.Mahesh Khanna, Chairman of Water Supply and Sewerage sub-committee, wrote that officials and employees of the MC were asked to submit a report on illegal water and sewerage connections during several meetings. But the MC is not taking any action on the illegal connections and is not getting the recovery of bills.“A large number of water sewerage connections are illegal in the city. I have written to the MC Commissioner to constitute an enforcement team for the recovery of bills and take action against illegal connections,” said Khanna.The MC had set a target to collect Rs 35 crore from water and sewerage bills, but the Operations and Maintenance (O&M) wing has collected only Rs 12 crore till date. Only a few weeks are left for the fiscal year to end but would not able to achieve the target. Last year, the MC had collected Rs14 crore as water and sewerage bills.“The recovery of bills dipped during the Covid-19 pandemic. We will collect Rs 14 crore, which was previous years’ recovery. But efforts are being made to collect the pending bills and regularise the illegal connections to enhance the collection,” said Khanna.According to information, there were only 65,000 consumers in the record of the MC but the actual number of consumers was around four times higher. A large number of connection holders are using the services without any consent and without fulfilling the legal provisions which are required for using the services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/constitute-team-for-recovery-of-water-sewerage-bills-says-official-223400
11-03-2021||---||‘Mere joke’: Health employees burn copies of state Budget for third day||Amritsar, March 10The employees at Government Medical College and Guru Nanak Dev Hospital burnt copies of the Budget for the third consecutive day on Wednesday to express their anguish against the state government.The protesters under the banner of ‘Coordination Committee of Paramedical and Health Employees’ stated that the government has not regularised the services of over 100 safai sevaks who are working on contract basis at meager pays for the last 12 years.The employees also complained that 30 of the 60 multitask workers hired by the government during the pandemic have been relieved. They claimed that the remaining 30 would also be relieved before March 31.“On one hand, the government claims to provide jobs to unemployed and on the other, 30 people have been rendered jobless,” said committee’s convener Narinder Singh. He added that of the 609 sanctioned posts of safai sevaks at GMC, 254 are already vacant. “These poor workers could easily be adjusted against the vacant posts. Besides multitask workers should not be relieved and their services should be continued,” he said.Shouting slogans against the state government, the employees stated that the old pension scheme for employees, which was scrapped in year 2004, should be restored. “While the MP and MLAs are eligible for pension after serving for a single term, the government employees recruited after 2004 would not get any pension even after serving for three decades,” said an employee.While outrightly rejecting the state Budget, Sunita Rani, a female employee, said, “The government claims that on Women’s Day it has made travel free for all women in government buses. But where are the government buses? When there are no government buses left, the announcement is a mere joke.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mere-joke-health-employees-burn-copies-of-state-budget-for-third-day-223385
11-03-2021||---||NGO Phulkari CAN launches programme for youth in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 10Phulkari CAN, women NGO from city, launched Cervical Cancer Youth Ambassador Program in collaboration with Punjab Youth Development Board, Government of Punjab.This programme targets to keep women safe from cervical cancer all over Punjab, across cities and the hinterland, by mobilising the youth of the state from NSS and other youth clubs, recruiting them as ambassadors to spread cancer awareness.This programme will be conducted under the leadership of Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman Punjab Youth Development Board. Bindra, while launching the programme, said, “Punjab Youth Development Board is always committed to the welfare and development of the youth for their betterment. I applaud and appreciate the efforts of Phulkari CAN for the quantum of awareness they have done through the state to ensure a healthy future for the generations to come”Phulkari CAN has been running awareness campaign for cervical cancer since past one year under WHO’s Teal Ribbon initiative. The organisation has organised free cancer screening camps under their programme. Phulkari’s founder, Praneet Bubber said, “This programme takes us closer to our aim of making Punjab the first cervical cancer-free Indian state by increasing our outreach in spreading awareness among the youth, the target audience for the programme.”Phulkari CAN president, Nidhi Sindhwani, said, “We have been working to spread awareness since 2018. We have conducted 55 awareness sessions through which 2.6 lakh people have been impacted and conducted free screening for 150 underprivileged women. In this month alone we will be conducting free screening for 100 underprivileged women.” This programme has been spearheaded by programme head of Phulkari CAN’s ‘conquer cancer’ programme, Priyanka Goyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-phulkari-can-launches-programme-for-youth-in-amritsar-223403
11-03-2021||---||Online fraud: Two Amritsar residents duped of Rs 1.22 lakh||Amritsar, March 10Two residents became victims of the phishing attack. In the first case, the Mohkampura police have booked three persons for duping a person online.The accused have been identified as Pramehwar Mandal, Vikash Mandal and Mohni Devi, all residents of Giridih, Jharkhand.The victim, Sanjay Kumar, said he received a text message on January 13 on his mobile phone to download a mobile application ‘Quick app’. As he downloaded the application, Rs 59,489 got debited from his Punjab National Bank’s account. He found out that cash had been transferred to the account of Pramehwar Mandal, Vikash Mandal and Mohni Devi of Jharkhand.Mohkampura police station SHO Sukhdev Singh said a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 66-C and 66-D of the IT Act has been registered against the accused persons.In the second case, the Gate Hakima police have booked three persons for online fraud. The accused have been identified as Manjuntha Reddy, Raghu KB Baiaian and Inaholi V Swa, all residents of Bangalore, Karnataka.Shivam, who is complainant in the case, said the accused cheated him of Rs 63,000 on the pretext of selling a laptop on OLX. Shivam said he transferred the money from his account to buy the laptop, but the accused didn’t send the laptop and cheated him.The police have registered a case under Sections 420, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-fraud-two-amritsar-residents-duped-of-rs-1-22-lakh-223404
11-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Hooch tragedy: Fast by human rights council enters 19th day||Tarn Taran, March 10The indefinite dharna and chain hunger strike by the World Human Rights Protection Council outside the District Administrative Complex here entered 19th day on Wednesday.The council alleged that in the last seven months the police had sent 70 innocent men-women behind bars, while some persons close to the ruling government in the state, who were allegedly involved in the illegal liquor trade, were roaming free.Kewal Singh Pandori Gola, senior vice-president of the council, claimed that most of the persons sent to jails till now were innocent and there was no hope of their release as they were booked under Section 302 and other relevant sections of the IPC. He said the council had been demanding a high-level probe into the matter and release of innocent arrested persons.He said due to the negligence on the part of the administration, Narinder Singh of Pandori Gola had died in the Amritsar Central Jail on January 1.He alleged the police had not arrested even a single politician in the case.The council warned the state government of agitation if justice was denied to the arrested persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hooch-tragedy-fast-by-human-rights-council-enters-19th-day-223389
11-03-2021||Neha Saini||The one and only: Paramjit is working for revival of embroidered artworks & has created an elegant masterpiece, a one-of-a-kind with thread||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 10This piece is sure to leave you open-mouthed. So will its price tag — Rs25 lakh — that seems valid when the artist has rolled away five to six hours each day for a year. To top it, the artwork was done through with only a cotton thread, which only veneers its distinction.Ardhnarishwara, a half Shiva and half Parvati composite form represents the male and female energy and has been ever popular among artists. Its different variations and depiction through modern as well as folk art forms have been symbolic. But city-based handicrafts artist Paramjit Kaur has disintegrated from the lot to muster ardhanarishwara with thread embroidery.The meticulously done painting has been displayed at the art exhibition hosted by IAFA at the Art Gallery to mark the International Women’s Day. “In this painting, I used a cotton thread as medium and phulkari stitches in an attempt to popularise the traditional work from Punjab. This particular painting took six months of conception and attempts, as even one stitch gone wrong could impact the entire painting’s composition,” she tells.She has been involved in creating and designing handicrafts and handloom products for past 20 years. “The stitches used in the painting were complicated as I had to use thread for details like creating the conjoining of the two forms and even the body postures and hand gestures…these are very difficult to get using a thread,” Any artist who would dwell upon the end result would know what’s she’s talking about.The exquisite work is surely going to drill a deep hole in the pockets of those enamoured by it. But: “it’s the first and only ardhnarishwara painting done with thread,” justifies the recipient of the National Merit Award. The honour was given away by the Ministry of Textiles in 2018 for her painting, a 4X4 depiction of the Golden Temple along with 10 Sikh gurus using a silk thread.Paramjit is a woman on a mission working with embroideries and seeking revival of heritage embroideries of Punjab for past 10 years through various projects. She believes that purpose of art should not be forgotten. “Bebe Nanki had hand-embroidered the chola for Guru Nanak Dev and it’s still revered as piece of our history and heritage. Similarly, the handicrafts, especially the embroideries from Punjab must be preserved and given their due place today.” She has been working in association with Ministry of Textiles’ project to develop and promote handicrafts, as an empanelled designer with them.Through her self-help group — Gramin Vikas Handicrafts Women and Children Welfare Society — she has skilled and registered 2,000 women in this craft and continues to train more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-one-and-only-paramjit-is-working-for-revival-of-embroidered-artworks-has-created-an-elegant-masterpiece-a-one-of-a-kind-with-thread-223390
11-03-2021||Manmeet Gill||Just 10 days into March & cases, deaths surpass entire February figures in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 10With the health authorities reporting 124 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, the district witnessed a total of 707 cases in the first 10 days of March.The authorities reported two deaths today. The deceased have been identified as Tarlok Singh, a 35-year-old from Rayya, and Amarjit Singh, a 45-year-old from Khanpur village, near Baba Bakala. With this, the death toll reached 15 in March itself.In comparison, the district had reported 583 cases and 12 deaths in February. The figures clearly indicate that the situation has worsened in the district. With a total of 16,439 positive cases and 610 deaths, the district has a mortality rate of 3.71 per cent to date.Meanwhile, in the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 32,043 persons received their first dose, while 5,630 got the second shot. A total of 8,825 persons (senior citizens and those above 45 years) have been administered the dose. On Wednesday 1,207 senior citizens turned up for the vaccination.The health authorities said 12,153 (48.7 per cent of the total) healthcare workers and 11,065 (48.3 per cent) frontline workers have been administered the first dose.Officials said a total of 2,535 persons received the vaccination at 15 government centers and 32 private centres.36 fresh cases reported in various district schoolsOn Wednesday, 36 fresh cases were reported from different schools in the district. Among new cases, 25 were students, 10 teachers and one non-teaching staff.Theses cases were reported from several government schools in Lopoke, Tarsika, Verka, Ramdass, Chawinda Kala, Mustafabad and a few private schools in the city. While the Education Department and the Health Department are following several SOPs, including closure of schools from where cases have been reported for 48 hours, cases being reported from schools are on the rise. At present, several schools are conducting annual exams through offline mode for senior classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/just-10-days-into-march-cases-deaths-surpass-entire-february-figures-in-amritsar-223392
11-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||8,479 autos registered with RTO, but around 50K run on Amritsar roads||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 10At present, around 50,000 auto-rickshaws are plying in the city, but only 8,479 of them have been registered with the Regional Transport Office (RTO). Of these, 6,747 run on diesel, 1,076 on petrol/CNG, 596 use petrol/LPG as fuel, 54 run on CNG and six are electric.GS Khaira, DCThe Donald Thinks D-Day Is About HimThe issue related to the plying of outstation autos in the city was discussed recently and we found out that many of these auto-rickshaws were actually registered in satellite towns of the city and due to limited work they came here in search of livelihood. Thus, directions were passed on to the RTO and traffic police to restrict entry of outstation autos.In July 2009, The Punjab and Haryana High Court had banned new registrations of auto-rickshaws within the limits of the Municipal Corporations of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. Failure of the administration to keep a tab on ‘illegal autos’, which had been registered outside the MC limits, resulted in almost six times increase of autos in the city.Most auto-rickshaws can be seen having registration plates from towns outside the MC limits or even from other districts. As per norms, an auto can be only allowed to operate within the limits of the civic body, where it’s registered.The growing number of autos has led to chaos as they ignore traffic norms and safety of pedestrians to pick and drop maximum passengers from undesignated stops. Moreover, these auto-rickshaws usually have high emission levels. It has been observed that most auto drivers mix kerosene with diesel to cut on their fuel bills. However, kerosene burnt in diesel engine causes more pollution.Auto drivers can be seen violating the Motor Vehicles Act with impunity every now and then. Apart from not possessing valid documentation, these overloaded autos are driven by underage drivers, cocking a snook at traffic rules.Similarly, they ply even on those stretches where they have no permission. For instance, autos cannot ferry passengers on highways, but overloaded autos can be spotted on highways as well.According to the Motor Vehicles Act, autos can operate only within the municipal limits of a city where they are registered. In case of any mishap, no insurance benefit can be claimed under the law if they operate outside their limits.Making a mess||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-479-autos-registered-with-rto-but-around-50k-run-on-amritsar-roads-223395
11-03-2021||---||Activist red-flags green drive by Public Works Department||Amritsar, March 10Suresh Kumar Sharma, an RTI activist and former AAP leader, has accused officials of the PWD for fudging the number of trees, shrubs during their maintenance and installing grills and paint without calling tenders.Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, he claimed that it was a blatant attempt to loot the public money and defraud the exchequer. Elaborating the pattern he alleged that 155 trees were planted at a cost of Rs 38,638 on either side of the stretch from the Golden Gate to the Tara Wala Pul on the UBDC. However, when it came to upkeep, the PWD released Rs 15.50 lakh during the past five years while showing number of trees as 1,081 in 2015-16, 908 for next two years, 788 in 2018-19 and 807 for the fifth year.The activist alleged that 155 trees were planted at a cost of Rs38,638 on either side of the stretch from the Golden Gate to the Tara Wala Pul on the UBDC. However, when it came to upkeep, the PWD released Rs15.50 lakh in the past five years while showing number of trees as 1,081 in 2015-16, 908 for next two years, 788 in 2018-19 and 807 for the fifth yearSimilarly, 3,104 bushes at a cost of Rs 4.41 lakh were planted in 2015-16. However, when it came to their upkeep the number swelled to 4,398 bushes in the first year, the number remained the same for the next two years and it was 4,048 in fourth year and no cost was reflected on the fifth year.Similarly, PWD’s Ground Cover (grass) Department recorded that the grass was planted over 4,587 square metre at the cost of Rs 5,11,189 and their maintenance cost was paid over Rs 40 lakh for the next five years. However, in the maintenance figure it showed the cost was paid for 6,145 square meter during the first year, 6,119 for the next three and fifth years it came down to 5,113. Tender of all aforementioned projects were awarded to a company in 2015-16.Sharma blamed the PWD officials of getting iron grills worth Rs 9.74 lakh installed and 4,712 liters of paint at a cost of Rs 2.60 lakh without calling tender. He added that: “Surprisingly, these things did not figure in work order and tenders not called yet the bills of these amounts were passed in favour of the same private nursery which was engaged in carrying out upkeep of all aforementioned projects”.What officials sayInderjeet Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD, said: “Facts were misrepresented to show the maintenance cost as a scam”.Satinder Singh, SDO (Horticulture) of PWD, said 155 trees were planted in 2016-2017 as replacement for an equal number of the trees that had perished during the road widening. A year before this, over 1,000 ornamental and shady trees were planted on the same stretch. So, all of them were clubbed together for maintenance while giving away the contract. The 3,104 bushes were planted under the elevated road. While giving away the tender for maintenance, the cost also included the trees already planted over there, said he and added that no maintenance cost was reflected for the fifth year as per the agreement, the company had to upkeep the bushes for five years while getting maintenance fund for four years. So no extra amount was paid for the fifth year.He claimed that grills were not installed but repaired and painted under the elevated road. He said the entire work was carried out under a specific government project in which five years maintenance was also involved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activist-red-flags-green-drive-by-public-works-department-223401
