12-03-2021||Amritsar||Train services resume in Amritsar after farmers end 169-day-long dharna||Train services resume in Amritsar after farm union on Thursday suspended 169-day long ‘dharna’ on tracks ahead of the wheat harvest season.“Dharna at Jandiala Guru Railway Station suspended for the time being and passenger trains operational now,” the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh Khaira said while speaking to ANI.A group of farmers was squatting on railway tracks near Amritsar to protest against the Centre’s farm laws.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws—Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/train-services-resume-in-amritsar-after-farmers-end-169-day-long-dharna-224178
12-03-2021||The British changed the face of the city by constructing various edifices||Amritsar's colonial buildings: An English lesson||During the British rule, the city witnessed significant growth, in terms of infrastructure. Large buildings were constructed inside the walled city and outside from the Circular Road. Immediately after taking over the city, the British started raising European style of architecture. They demolished gates and boundary wall constructed by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Three years after annexation of Punjab, they constructed mission school in Bazaar Kaserian in 1852. About a decade later, the Clock Tower (Ghanta Ghar) was erected in the north of Darbar Sahib. It was later removed after opposition from Sikhs.St. Paul’s Church (1853)It was an elite church meant for the British officers and soldiers near Rialto Chowk. Its building is still intact and also one of the tourist attractions.DC office (1876)In 1859, Amritsar became the Commissioner’s headquarter and heads of various departments shifted here. The district court complex was constructed in 1876 in the triangle-formed Sialkot Road and cantonment. The main building of the DC office is being renovated and would be preserved.Bhai Vir Singh’s residence (1930)Residence of eminent Punjabi poet, novelist and scholar Bhai Vir Singh Niwas is located on Lawrence Road. The house was constructed when planned localities were developed on both sides of the Lawrence Road. As of today, the house has been converted into a museum-cum-library. The Lawrence Road is also named after the poet.Christ Church (Bait-Al Massih) 1852It is located adjacent to Ram Bagh Gate and constructed in 1864. The church was for native Christians as British used to visit other church on the Court Road. The church was expanded in 1866, 1875, and then 1880 to accommodate more visitors. It was attacked in 1919 before Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Government Medical College (1920)Government Medical College was established as Medical School in Lahore in 1864. It was later relocated to Amritsar in 1920. The triangle formed between the Circular Road and Majitha Road was allotted to the Medical School, hostel and principal’s lodge. The building of principal’s office building was completed in 1943. The principal’s lodge is being renovated.Victoria Jubilee Hospital (1891)The municipality of Amritsar erected this hospital during the year of the reign of the Empress Victoria in November 1891. Later, Civil Hospital, Maternity Hospital (1924) and Skin Hospital were also constructed on the same premises. A major portion of the hospital has been leased to a private firm, which is constructing a hotel on the site.Town Hall (1863)The first European style building, which exists in all commonwealth courtiers, constructed in 1863-64. It acted as nucleus around which the other buildings meant for administrative purposes were constructed. The statue of Queen Victoria in pure white marble was established in front of the building (Malkabutt Chowk) in April 1887, which was removed by the government in 1970. The Municipal Committee office was remained in the Town Hall building till 2016, before shifting to a new site at Ranjit Avenue. The Municipal Library is still in the same building. A large portion of building is handed over to Partition Museum and rest is being renovated to establish ‘Food Street’.Hall Bazaar (1875)It was the first broad carpeted road from Town Hall to Hall Gate constructed by the British. The area belonged to a jail, but shifted outside the wall in 1875. The shopping centre has been developed on both sides of the road. The bazaar grew up as an elite market and still is centre of attraction for tourists. The state government has been renovating the facades of shops to maintain its old glory.Circuit House (1863)It was constructed in 1863 near the post office building. It was near railway station, which was constructed in 1859.Chali Khuh (forty wells) 1940The British government dug 40 wells in the east of the city in 1904 and later converted these into tubewells for direct supply to the distribution system for tap water supply. Amritsar municipality got an advance loan from the Central Government in 1902 for the waterworks in the city. It was the first time, when the city residents got tap water supply. The Chali Khuh project became functional in 1904 but the supply was scanty and could not satisfy the need of half of the people. A lot of efforts were made, like in 1918-19 some tubewells were added to improve the capacity. It has been restored under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY). The government has spent Rs5 crore on the project with an objective to attract tourists but failed to implement the plan.Railway Station Bhagtanwala (1907)The railway line was constructed in 1907 by the North-Western State Railway with a station outside Bhagtanwala Gate in South. It used to act as chief loading and unloading centre of grains. Grain market and several agro-based factories established around the station.Alexandra School (1878)The school was founded in 1878 for the education of girls. Initially, daughters of British and upper strata of native Christians could study but later it was opened to all. The first girl, who matriculated from Punjab, was from this school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-colonial-buildings-an-english-lesson-224140
12-03-2021||Amritsar||One nabbed with illegal weapon||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-nabbed-with-illegal-weapon-224139
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Bike stolen from outside chowki||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bike-stolen-from-outside-chowki-224138
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Delhi couple robbed of Rs 50k||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delhi-couple-robbed-of-rs-50k-224137
12-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Man kills brother in Valtoha village||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kills-brother-in-valtoha-village-224136
12-03-2021||Amritsar||2 deaths, 97 new cases in Amritsar||With two more casualties reported in the district during the last 24 hours, the deathtoll has increased to 612 on Thursday. Those who succumed are Kashmir Singh, a 70-year-old from Kot Khalsa area, and Subhash Nischal, a 65-year-old from New Amritsar. With 97 more positive cases, the total count of infections in the district has also increased to 16,536. The district at present has a total of 737 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-deaths-97-new-cases-in-amritsar-224135
12-03-2021||---||Majitha police book Army man on rape charge||Amritsar, March 11An Army man has been booked by the police for allegedly raping a 20-year-old girl on the pretext of marrying her. The accused was identified as Manjinder Singh, a resident of Majitha.The victim told the police that the accused had been stalking her for the past five years. He had been forcing her for friendship and marriage. She alleged the accused also threatened her to eliminate her family in case she refused to oblige his advances and told the same to them.She said on March 5 when she was going for some personal work Manjinder, who had come on leave, fraudulently took her inside his house. She alleged the accused tied her hands and allegedly forcibly made physical relations with her. She alleged he threatened her to kill her family if she told them about the incident.She said she narrated the incident to her family members who along with some elderly persons approached him for marriage. However, the accused refused to marry her.The Majitha police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC against Manjinder Singh. The police said Army authorities had been informed about the registration of an FIR against Manjinder. They said further investigation was under progress and the medical examination of the girl was conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majitha-police-book-army-man-on-rape-charge-224134
12-03-2021||---||Roads under AIT requires prompt repairs||Amritsar, March 11Despite tall claims of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), the roads in the areas falling under the Trust are in a pathetic condition. The main road of New Amritsar locality witnessed major potholes. Residents and traders at these posh areas alleged that even after paying maximum tax to the government, they are being ignored. The AIT office-bearers have been claiming overall development of localities under the Trust but there is no change witnessed on the ground level.The residents of New Amritsar have been demanding recarpeting of the main road which links the locality with the GT road. LS Chauhan, a resident of B Block, said, “The condition of some of the roads is pitiful. The AIT should take care of them. The potholes in the stretch from main market to Housefed flats witnessed large cracks. During rainy season it is filled with water and leads to accidents.”Jatinder Singh, another resident, said, “The road is most basic requirement and core responsibility of civic bodies to provide it. Ironically, the residents have to struggle to get the roads recarpeted.”Dinesh Bassi, AIT chairman, said, “We have sufficient funds for the development. The project of roads delayed due to weather conditions. We are floating tenders of all the main roads in Ranjit Avenue and New Amritsar. The work will started in the coming months on all these roads. The central verges also maintained.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roads-under-ait-requires-prompt-repairs-224133
12-03-2021||---||Contractual employees of Punjab Roadways stage protest||Amritsar, March 11Contractual employees of the Punjab Roadways on Thursday organised a rally to protest against the state government over the issue of non-regularisation of the services of contractual employees. The Contractual Roadways Employees’ Union said they would be participating in the protest in Patiala on Friday in large numbers.The employees said in 2016, the government had announced that the services of contractual employees would be regularised on completion of three years of service. They claimed most of them had been working on contract for the last 12 years hoping that someday their services would be regularised.Terming the decision of the state government to allow free travelling in government buses to women, the union leaders said out of a fleet of 2,200 buses, at present only 300 buses were on road and many of them were in a deplorable condition.“How can the government arrange free travelling for women in 300 buses,” said an employee, adding that the roadways could have been the most profitable venture of the state government if it was not for the previous and present governments.Heera Singh, president of the PunBus Employees’ Union, said, “It was the last Budget of the incumbent state government and we had hoped that it would provide some respite to the contractual workers who have spent more than a decade and were waiting for regular jobs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contractual-employees-of-punjab-roadways-stage-protest-224132
12-03-2021||---||2 more held for murder of  SAD activist Jagdish Singh||Amritsar, March 11The Amritsar police have arrested two more persons who were wanted in the case of killing of SAD activist Jagdish Singh of New Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area. The victim was shot dead on Lohri.They were identified as Sukhchain Singh, alias Raja, and his brother Amanchain Singh, both residents of Sultanwind Road area. With their arrest, the police have arrested a total of five persons in the case so far.They were sons of another prime suspect Balwinder Singh. Balwinder along with his three sons Mandeep Singh, Sukhchain and Amanchain Singh, besides Dilbagh Singh and other unknown persons were booked by the police in the case.The police had arrested Balwinder Singh, alias Billa, on January 14, while another suspect Dilbagh Singh, alias Bagha, was held on January 29. Mandeep was arrested on February 26. Gurwinder Singh, SHO, Division-B police station, said Sukhchain Singh was arrested from the Delhi airport while trying to flee to Dubai. Amanchain was held in Amritsar, he said.Bhupinder Singh, father of the victim, had told the police that the accused were playing DJ at their rooftop while flying kites on the occasion of the Lohri festival. They had called their friends also. He said they were also using abusive language during this and Jagdish Singh had asked them not to do so. He said they got enraged and Billa challenged Jagdish and other accused attacked him. They shot him leaving him critically injured. He was rushed to hospital where he died.Owing to the death of municipal councillor Harpreet Singh Goldy of Ward No.37 in which the area falls, the by-election in the ward was announced to be held on February 14. Jagdish Singh, however, supported an Independent candidate after he failed to get the ticket from the party. According to the police, this became a bone of contention between the accused and the victim which led to the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-held-for-murder-of-sad-activist-jagdish-singh-224131
12-03-2021||---||Skeleton of woman who went missing 9 years ago exhumed||Amritsar, March 11Mystery shrouds the death of Ramandeep Kaur whose mortal remains were exhumed by the Mehta police from the cattle shed of her maternal uncle and aunt at Dayalgarh Buttar village here on Wednesday.Though the police have booked the couple, identified as Pargat Singh and Ranjit Kaur, in the case, they said the matter was still under investigation. They said a number of questions arose following the recovery of the mortal remains of Ramandeep Kaur after nine years of her missing.They were booked on the complaint of the victim’s brother Nirvair Singh who informed the police about the incident. The police exhumed the skeleton for getting the samples for DNA.ASP, Majitha, Abhimanyu Rana along with officials of the Mehta police station was present on the spot. He said the matter under investigation.Nirvair Singh told the police that Ramandeep Kaur had received Rs 4.50 lakh from her husband as a part of their divorce settlement. Her uncle Pargat Singh had taken the money from Ramandeep Kaur. When Ramandeep started asking for money, her uncle and aunt murdered her and buried the body in February 2011. He told the police that they killed her by hitting her head with an iron rod. He said he was younger at that time and was afraid as the accused had also threatened to kill him.According to information, Ramandeep Kaur went missing in 2012 when she was around 26 years old. Earlier, she got divorced from her husband and started living in her maternal home with her one-year-old son. Meanwhile, her brother Nirvair Singh suspected that his sister Ramandeep had an affair with a man from Chaudharywall village. An infuriated Nirvair Singh had put acid on the face of that person. A case was registered against Nirvair Singh who was also sentenced to seven years. About three years ago, Nirvair Singh completed his sentence and was released from prison.Manjinder Singh, SHO, Mehta police station, said Nirvair threw acid on her alleged lover’s face a day after her alleged murder. He said some relatives of the accused family had approached the police claiming innocence of the couple. They informed that the couple lived in the city from 2002 to 2015. They returned to live in the village in 2015, around four years after the murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/skeleton-of-woman-who-went-missing-9-years-ago-exhumed-224130
12-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Two outsiders mistaken for ‘terrorists’ make Pathankot cops sweat||Tribune News ServicePathankot, March 11The Pathankot cops were stretched to the limits for the last three days during which they conducted an intensive three-day and night search operation after some residents claimed to have sighted two terrorists.On late Tuesday evening, the police control room got a call claiming that “two suspicious looking backpackers” were seen making their way to the Pathankot Air Force Station which, in any case, is a high-security area.SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana was informed about the development. He immediately formed half a dozen teams, all of which were positioned at strategic places near the air base. The people who had made the call to the control room were contacted and more information about the ‘suspicious characters’ was ferreted out. The operation was kept under wraps as the cops did not want to trigger panic and rumours for it could have acted as an impediment.Khurana said he had called off the search on Thursday morning after identifying the ‘suspicious people’. They turned out to be residents from Jammu who were visiting the city to collect money for some religious activity they wanted to perform back home.“I congratulate the local residents for the alacrity with which they acted in informing us. As things stand, they were not terrorists but ordinary people who had lost their way. They actually had come to Pathankot for the first time. During the operation we had secured all the vital installations, including the ammunition dump, air base and the army cantonment. The operation was called off in the morning,” said the SSP.An officer said they were not in a position to take risks keeping in view the fact that the Jammu-based people were said to be moving towards the air station. Khurana added that a watch was also being kept on the villages located near the border.Past horrors||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-outsiders-mistaken-for-terrorists-make-pathankot-cops-sweat-224129
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Luxurious hospitality in offing for officials||Decks have been cleared for the state government’s multi-crore project of transforming the British era Amritsar Circuit House complex into a four-star luxury facility.The old heritage structure of the original Circuit House, which comprises eight rooms, will remain intact but will be renovated in a modern way.Conceived in 2015Optional facilities include retail shopping or branded showrooms, speciality restaurants, a gym, a health club or spa, jacuzzi for VVIP suits, specific commercial area for various exhibitions, underground car parking and a swimming pool.Spread over 3.94 acres, the project worth Rs 23 crore was conceptualised in 2015 and expected to be executed by October 2018. The structure was partially built by investing around Rs 11 crore, but the government backed out only to rope in private players to complete and operate it under the public private partnership model. The project is set to be completed within 18 months.There will be a provision of 70 rooms in the complex. Of these, 15 rooms and two VVIP suites will be kept reserved for guests of the government or the competent authority and the room tariff of these will be determined by the government. Tariff of the rest 53 rooms will be at the disposal of the concessionaire firm.The maintenance, operation and service will be the liability of the hired firm. A 50 per cent discount on food can be availed by government guests. The Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) has allotted the work on the build-operate-transfer (BOT) mode to a firm, M/S Chaman Lal and Sons, in consortium with M/S Sarovar Hotels Pvt Ltd.As per official documents, the firm in its quote had offered to pay Rs 1.05 crore concession fee for the first year of operations to grab the bid. The fee will be revised by 5 per cent every year till the tenure of the agreement ends after 30 years.Amid concerns over the sanctity of the heritage Circuit House structure, located adjacent to the new structure, PIDB assistant general manager Davinder Bajaj said its upkeep and preservation would be the liability of the firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/luxurious-hospitality-in-offing-for-officials-223867
12-03-2021||Amritsar||Farmers withdraw dharna on rail tracks near Amritsar after 169 days||A group of farmers squatting on railway tracks near here to protest the Centre’s new farm laws withdrew their agitation on Thursday after 169 days, as suspension of trains caused losses to them and traders.Savinder Singh, a leader of the Kissan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee which had been spearheading the stir, said they decided to withdraw the rail blockade at Devidaspura on the Amritsar-Delhi route after a meeting of all protesting farmer unions.Devidaspur near Jandiala station is about 25 km from Amritsar railway station.“Farmers were blocking only passenger trains, but the Centre decided to stop goods trains as well which caused huge losses to farmers, traders and industrialists. In the light of current circumstances, farmers have unanimously resolved to end the stir here,” he said.Officials said that with the farmers ending their stir here, normal movement of trains will resume within a couple of days. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-withdraw-dharna-on-rail-tracks-near-amritsar-after-169-days-223745
