13-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar police bust 12 illegal stills; seize illicit liquor, lahan||Amritsar rural police on Saturday busted 12 illegal stills running at Kotla Sakka village under the Rajasansi police station here. During the nine-hour operation, the police confiscated 360 litres of illicit liquor besides 1.26 lakh kg of lahan, and 1,830 kg of jaggery, and yeast for preparing lahan. The police also rescued two migrants—who were forced to distil the liquor—and upkeep the cattle. Following this, the owner of the house was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Bonded Labour Act.SSP Dhruv Dahiya led the operation that started around 6 pm and ended around 3 am. Twelve tarpaulins, 24 drums, 20 cans, 12 LPG cylinders, four bikes and two cars—which were used to transport liquor—were also seized by the police. This is the fourth raid conducted by the rural police in the past 15 days. Earlier, raids were held at Khiyala Kala, Lakhuwal and Chhapa Ram Singh villages."The accused had formed six concrete pits for storing lahan, which was further used for manufacturing illicit liquor," said the police authorities. The police have arrested 12 people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-bust-12-illegal-stills-seize-illicit-liquor-lahan-224669
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Creating a ripple effect||Helping some kids and parents by easing out the burden of buying new books for the new academic session, private schools and NGOs in the city are setting up book banks. Promoting the reuse of academic books, by collecting old books from students of exit classes, these book banks are reaching out to the needy students through a network of volunteers.While the government schools in Punjab had already set up small book banks in premises, private book banks are now coming up with support from NGOs and private-run schools. Guru Tegh Bahadur Public School, Khankot, asked its students to donate their old academic books that are in good condition to school for reuse. More than 25 students have already donated to the school’s book bank and many others are coming with more books. Parminder Kaur, said the initiative will help students from needy families, who cannot afford to buy new books. Similarly, Voice of Amritsar (VOA) had set up one through volunteers a few months back to promote reuse of books. Lot of private schools in city are flowing suit.“During our childhood, we used to get our school books through this hand-me-down concept. Now, that the books alone punch a big hole in parents’ pockets, creating book banks by collecting old texts, unused notebooks and other stationery material from students for those in need can help many families continue their kids’ education,” said Rakhie Vermani, member of Voice of Amritsar.The book bank has been set up inside an IELTS centre run by another VOA member Rajwinderpal Sharma opposite Khalsa College. “Students who want to donate their books in good condition come to our office. We also get students who want subject-specific books, like books from medical and non-medical streams that are expensive. They return them after using,” shared Rakhie. Their bank has over 200 books of all subjects from PSEB/CBSE /ICSE boards.Kora Kagaz Club, established at BBKDAV, is an initiative run by group of student volunteers, who get several schools and colleges to collaborate for the cause, donating notebooks while engaging students of the same school to work voluntarily towards collecting and segregating the discarded notebooks. The stock collected before the end of academic session last year is lying at their office space, ready for distribution as new session begins.Kajal, one of their volunteers, said: “Our distribution got delayed due to the lockdown, but we are now reviving our network before the new session begins. One of the purposes for promoting recycling and reuse of old school books is that it is a sustainable practice that is also cost-effective.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/creating-a-ripple-effect-224541
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar jailbreak: Escaped in Feb last year, third accused arrested from Ambala||The Amritsar police have arrested the third jail inmate who had escaped from high-security Amritsar Central Jail a year ago. Two of his accomplices were arrested earlier by the police.DCP (Investigations) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Vishal Sharma of Majitha Road was lodged in the jail in connection with a rape case.He along with Jarnail Singh, a resident of Hansawala village in Khadoor Sahib in Tarn Taran and his brother Gurpreet Singh, had escaped from the prison on the intervening night of February1-2, 2020. The incident had led to the suspension of several jail officials for the negligence.While Jarnail and Gurpreet were arrested within five days of the incident, Vishal has been evading arrest since then. Investigations revealed that Vishal Sharma hid at a dera in Goindwal Sahib after the incident before fleeing to Delhi. He shifted to Ambala around four months ago.“He was living in Ambala by changing his identity as Rajwinder Singh where he was involved in selling of flower seedlings,” said the DCP. He said recently the CIA staff led by Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa got a tip-off regarding his whereabouts which was developed further. Later, he was nabbed from Ambala.He said all three would be brought together to crack the entire scene and find the involvement of jail officials if there is any. In the intervening night of February 1-2, 2020 with the help of an iron rod, they made a hole in the wall of their barrack by removing 10 bricks. Carrying blankets, quilt cover and a hook, they went unnoticed while walking up to half a km to reach a point near Tower No. 10 where they scaled the inner wall. The area was not under CCTV surveillance.They used a hook made of steel bar and a thin blanket and quilt covers to scale the outer wall which is around 21 feet height. Preliminary investigations had suggested no evidence of outside help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-jailbreak-escaped-in-feb-last-year-third-accused-arrested-from-ambala-224542
13-03-2021||---||250 families in Majha join AAP||Amritsar, March 12The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) got a major boost in the Majha when 150 families of Awaan village and 100 families of Sarangdev village of Ajnala joined the party under the leadership of party leaders Sonu Jafar and Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal on Friday.Addressing mediapersons, the AAP leaders said people of the Majha region were joining the party. They said people were committing to bring about a change in the way governance was done in the state.The leaders further said the AAP would experience a wave of support in the 2022 Assembly elections as a large number of people were committing to work for the party. “The people are suffering due to the alleged misrule of the Congress and the Akalis. Wanting to be part of the change themselves, 250 families took an oath to fight for their rights and support the AAP and vote them to power in the 2022 elections,” said Dhaliwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/250-families-in-majha-join-aap-224543
13-03-2021||Amritsar||22-yr-old shot dead||A youth, identified as Jashanpreet Singh, alias Jassi (22), a resident of Bhindar Kalan village falling under the Khilchian police station, was shot dead by two bike-borne persons at Housing Board Colony here on Thursday evening.He had come to meet his maternal uncle when the incident took place. The firing led to panic in the area. According to the police, an old enmity was the reason behind the murder.Jassi had recently come out of the jail on bail as a number of prisoners were released from jail during the pandemic.Dilbagh Singh, father of the victim, told the police that he had come to meet his uncle at Housing Board Colony when two bike-borne persons shot him dead. The family members suspected that he might have been gunned down by notorious criminal Kaalu Chanchal, who was threatening him for the last few months. Around two years ago, he had a dispute with him.Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa, the Ranjit Avenue and Civil Lines police reached the spot and took the body into their possession and sent it for a postmortem. It also took several suspects into their custody for interrogation.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the police had nominated around three persons, including Kaalu Chanchal, on the basis of the statement of the victim’s father. He said raids were on to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-yr-old-shot-dead-224544
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Farmers vacate rail tracks at Jandiala Guru||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Friday vacated railway tracks at Jandiala Guru after 169 days, while farmers continue to hold agitation outside MP Shwait Malik’s residence and other parts of the city.Satnam Singh Pannu, chief, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said considering the upcoming harvesting season and to strengthen the protest at Delhi borders, the union has decided to suspend the agitation at Jandiala Guru.Sawinder Singh Chutala, general secretary of the union, said, “The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee is demonstrating against the black laws passed by the Center since June 5, 2020. We have conducted dharnas outside the DC office and blocked the railway tracks. Farmers associated with our union are sitting at Singhu border from November 25, 2020. We will continue the demonstration on other locations, but the tracks have been cleared.”Pandher said, “Harvesting of wheat crop will start next month. The government will send bags (sacks) to fill grains through trains and goods train will transport crop to other parts of the country. The harvesting season should not suffer. Thus, we suspended the protest. Moreover, farmers will be busy in harvesting and we will focus on strengthening the kisan morcha in Delhi.”After clearing rail tracks, the Engineering Department of the Indian Railways conducted inspection of tracks and asked to resume the railway traffic. Farmer unions were still demonstrating outside the Reliance store, house of MP Shwait Malik and at Mirakot Chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-vacate-rail-tracks-at-jandiala-guru-224545
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Paintings at art exhibition in Amritsar mesmerise visitors||An art exhibition was organised by the Post Graduate Department of Fine Arts of Khalsa College at KT Kala on Thursday. The exhibition was inaugurated by principal, Khalsa College, Dr Mehal Singh. He said that creative skills among students must be honed to full potential.He said that the students of fine arts department managed to manifest their skill on canvas despite the pandemic and this positive outlet was a sign of their determination. As many as 50 art works of students have been displayed at the exhibition that will be held till March 13. Prominent artists from city like Mala Chawla, Ravinder Dhillon, Narinder Singh, Gulshan Sadana, Kawal Sehgal, Gursharan Kaur, attended the exhibition and shared their critical reviews with students.Painting exhibition at BBK DAV CollegeThe PG department of Applied Arts, Fine Arts and Design of BBK DAV College for women organised a painting exhibition and recitation competition to mark the celebrations of International Women’s Day. Dr Tajinder Kaur Nagpal, director and chief consultant, Hartej Hospital, was the chief guest.Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia Sharma said a woman is the pillar of the society. She added that education is a pre-requisite for the empowerment of women as it instills confidence and ensures their financial independence.Dr Tajinder Kaur Nagpal emphasised the independence and safety of women. She also added that daily reports about the harassment of women are heart-rending and therefore it is important for a woman to learn security for her independent existence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paintings-at-art-exhibition-in-amritsar-mesmerise-visitors-224546
13-03-2021||Amritsar||GNDU signs two MoUs to give a push to research||Recognising the mutual benefits to be gained through a cooperative programme promoting scholarly activities and international understanding, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) on Friday signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with two different organisations to enhance research and promote entrepreneurial culture.The first MoU was signed with Aarhus University in Denmark and CTIF Global Capsule (CGC), developing research activities at the international level, for collaboration in academics, research and faculty development. This MoU was signed by GNDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu and president professor Ramjee Prasad of Aarhus University in Denmark. He is a technologist and holder of a Danish knighthood whose role includes the building of bridges between scientific research and the business world.The second MoU was signed with with ‘Indigram Labs Foundation’ to operationalise Technology- based Entrepreneurship Development Programme (TEDP).The collaboration between Guru Nanak Dev University and ILF can be leveraged to facilitate linkage opportunities for innovations and start-ups. The partnership will also serve as a platform for cross learning, sharing knowledge, best practices on innovation, and start-up eco-system development. It will also allow technology-based universities and institutes to undertake collaborative research and development in areas like agri-tech, agriculture, agri-business, etc. “This is an important collaboration between the two incubators as this will help agri-business focused start-ups and to learn international business,” said Manisha Acharya, CEO, ILF. Through this MoU, start-ups will get to know about the entrepreneurial university model and practices in different sectors like food technology, agriculture, etc.The Guru Nanak Dev University Vice-Chancellor said, “Today marks nothing less than the beginning of a new era of cooperation for our university and Punjab. By teaming up, our university is creating a unique alliance and leading the way in shaping the future of various research partnerships. I am happy to look forward to continuing our dialogue in the regard. The initiative will further cement our university’s position as one of the world’s premier locations for research and innovation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-signs-two-mous-to-give-a-push-to-research-224547
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Year-long I-Day celebrations kick off with cycle rally in Amritsar||Schoolchildren, volunteers of the Nehru Yuva Kendra, sportspersons and others took part in a cycle rally called ‘Aazadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ here on Friday.It commenced from Jallianwala Bagh and concluded at the Company Bagh. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the event was a part of the year-long celebrations of the 75th anniversary of Independence Day, which falls on August 15, 2022.As per the Union Government’s announcement of celebrations, programmes like conferences, kavi sammelan, blood donation camps, etc, would be held till the Independence Day next year.He along with the participants of the cycle rally took oath to take part in the development of the country and carry the memory of freedom fighters to the next generation. Earlier, Khaira flagged off a cycle rally from the historic Company Bagh. Upon reaching the Company Bagh, they paid floral tributes to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi.The Deputy Commissioner distributed certificates to the participants of the rally and stated that today’s event was first in the line of programmes to be organised in the next 75 weeks leading to the Independence Day falling in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/year-long-i-day-celebrations-kick-off-with-cycle-rally-in-amritsar-224548
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Stories of resilience from Japan for Amritsar students||Japan Foundation in collaboration with Bookaroo Trust, New Delhi, organised an online story reading event, ‘Stories of Courage’ in Hindi for the students of Senior Study II. The session was for students above seven and 10, respectively. The event was held to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the devastating Tsunami that struck Japan in 2011.Swati Roy, the festival director of Bookaroo, was the mediator for this event, where the students of various schools pan-India, including Senior Study II, got the opportunity to listen to the inspiring tales of valour, strength and resilience of Japanese in the aftermath of the quake. The translator from the Japanese Foundation, Dr Kikuchi Tomoko, PhD in Hindi, addressed the students and Priyanka Pathak, an alumnus of NSD, and Kapil Pandey, president of Kutumb Foundation, both storytellers, narrated short stories which were a perfect blend of fantasy and reality.The allegorical representation of several stories through fictitious characters when explained by Kikuchi Tomoko had a profound effect on listeners, understanding of the reality that not only the people of Japan faced but we all face sometime or the other when we lose our dear ones. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stories-of-resilience-from-japan-for-amritsar-students-224549
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Call of duty||During the peak wedding season, a wedding photographer cannot call in sick, go to relatives or find enough time to sleep, says Sunny Arora of National Photo Lab in Islamabad area. “On the days of functions we have to reach the house of the clients before they even wake up. And if we do not reach on time, the delay is blamed on us,” he said.Arora said the two and a half months-long wedding season is the busiest period in the entire year. “Sometimes you have to attend to a function in the day and at night another function is already awaiting you,” he said.Arora added that the competition in the field has increased manifolds as equipment has become affordable. “Besides, everyone who owns a DSLR thinks that he can be a wedding photographer. Being a wedding photographer means that no matter what happens, if you have committed to shoot a function, you have to be there in time.” The stakes are high and even family issues become secondary choice.During off seasons, the work of clicking and printing passport size photos, printing Aadhar cards and other documents and printing pictures on gift items as t-shirts and coffee mugs help them earn their livelihood. “This new fad of getting pictures on coffee mugs and t-shirts has been a shot in the arm for photography industry,” he claimed.He also shared that a wedding photographer and his records are much valuable at the time of marital disputes. “People often reach two or three years after the marriage to get un-edited video recordings. Sometimes they need these to file a dowry case and other times to prove a point.”The photography budget of the people for marriages has increased exponentially these days as a result of which they are very keen on quality of work. “Nowadays, you cannot promise a thing before making sure that you can deliver it,” he said, before going on, “presently a team of five to six persons is required to capture every moment during a function.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/call-of-duty-224550
13-03-2021||Amritsar||‘Global spurt in demand for indigenous products’||Rajiv Sajdeh, one of the partners in the Indo-German Yarn and Fibres Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), manufacturing technical textile, looks forward to take part in national and international technical exhibitions to upgrade the industrial unit this year.This is a year of upgrade for the industrial units. So, the tech-textile exhibition, which is held every two years, in Frankfurt, is on top priority and a similar exhibition in the same name is to be held in the USA. Their fresh dates would come anytime.“In order to keep pace with the technical upgrade taking place around the world in the industrial personal protection textile, it is pertinent to visit the technical exhibitions.”“Post Covid-19, the attitude of the western people has undergone a change which is reflected in more demand of industrial use fabric from India. Before the pandemic, exports used to form less than 20 percent of the entire industrial production,” he said“Now, it is almost doubling to nearly 40 percent this year. Surge in exports came from the European countries. New buyers from France, Turkey and the USA have also started procurement. Even those western companies, who have manufacturing facilities in China, are buying from them,” he added.The next agenda on his mind is to go as virtual as possible. This will help in swiftly updating the customers on the availability of new product development and holding web-conferencing to understand their new technical requirements.For instance, the new thought of carbon fabric being stronger than the steel has gone into the understanding of the top industrialists in the World. BMW has set up its own carbon manufacturing facility in Germany. To make electric vehicles lighter to enable them to run on a single charge on longer distance, carbon fabric is replacing the steel. Another use of the textile fabric is in covering sports grounds. So, it would not be wrong to say that carbon is going to be the future.They did not experience big fall in the sales during the last year due to pandemic as domestic companies started buying from them which they used to procure in China. He pitches for educational institutes to incorporate industrial education such as industrial personal protection textile in their curriculum and integrate these with the industry. He said he had already contacted the Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/global-spurt-in-demand-for-indigenous-products-224551
13-03-2021||Amritsar||Golden jubilee lecture||Five DAV College students get jobsFive final year students of DAV College— Ashutosh Thakur, Ravikant, Deepak Singh Rana, Ravish Sharma and Bhanu Sharma— have been selected in a placement drive at college campus by news-based organisations. Placement cell in charge Prof Vikram Sharma said that media institutes had become very professional. “In such a situation, it is necessary to present yourself as a package to make a career in this field and to establish yourself. Access reporting to a sensitive scene is a major challenge for the reporter,” he said. He advised the young aspiring reporters that by coming into the field of journalism, it is necessary that you are hundred per cent satisfied with the facts and figures while writing the news. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-jubilee-lecture-224552
13-03-2021||Tarn Taran||1 held with intoxicants||2 arrested with 475 gm of heroinTarn Taran: The police have arrested two persons from the Patti area and recovered 475 gm of heroin and seized arms and ammunition from their possession. The district police said the police party headed by Sub-Inspector Lakhbir Singh, SHO, Patti city, arrested a car-borne Gurchet Singh of Bangla Rai from the Assal road. The police party recovered 450 gm of heroin, two pistols, two magazines, 28 cartridges and two electronic weigh bridges from their possession. The accused have been booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25,54,59 of the Arms Act . Meanwhile, Sarmel Singh of Shahbazpur has been arrested with 25 gm of heroin by Kacha Pakka police and has been booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act. ocOne booked on charge of fraudAmritsar: The Tarsikka police have booked Jaswant Singh, a resident of Jahagir village near Jandiala Guru, for allegedly duping Sukhraj Singh of Tarsikka on the pretext of getting him recruited in PSPCL. Sukhraj lodged a complaint with the police in June 2020 alleging that the accused took Rs 6.5 lakh from him for the same. The matter was investigated by the Tarsikka police who recommended the registration of an FIR against the suspect. The police have registered a fraud case against Jaswant. TNSPlanning Dept’s staff honouredTarn Taran: The district has stood first in the country for uploading information required by the Union Government regarding different works undertaken under the Border Area Development Programmes since 2014-15. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the information regarding legacy data verification was uploaded by the Planning Department. The Deputy Commissioner appreciated staff of the department. He said services of Deputy Economic and Statistical Adviser Dr Amandeep Singh Saini were taken to upload the information. He said data entry operator Gurwinder Kaur was honoured on Friday for her services and remaining staff would be honoured soon. OCFather-son duo held with armsTarn Taran: The Patti police on Wednesday arrested a father-son duo moving under suspicious circumstances in the city. During checking the police seized two rifles, 38 cartridges and a magazine from their possession. They had been identified as Balbir Singh and his son Harchand Singh, residents of Nabipur in UP. The police said that the accused wanted to commit some crime. The accused had been booked under Sections 25,54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The duo was produced in a court, which sent them to the judicial lock-up. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-held-with-intoxicants-224553
