14-03-2021||P K JaiswarAmritsar||Emergency Medical Officer shot in firing between two groups at Amritsar hospital||An emergency medical officer in a local civil hospital was injured when two groups clashed at the hospital premises in Amritsar around 1 am on Sunday, said police.Dr Bhavneet Singh sustained a bullet injury in his thigh.Two groups had a dispute in the Luv Kush Nagar area in Putlighar last night.Rahul Nagi and his brother Madan Magistrate had gone to the civil hospital for treatment and to collect a medico-legal report. However, another group, including Raju, Sunny and their four unknown accomplices, also reached there and clashed with them. Rahul allegedly fired a gunshot in which the emergency medical officer sustained a bullet injury. Singh was rushed to a private hospital for treatment after he was given first aid.The police have registered a case in this connection while raids were on to nab the accused, said SI Narain Singh.Dr Rakesh Sharma, president of the employees association, said that the association and doctors have decided to boycott medico-legal cases from now onwards. He said they had raised the issue of security of hospital staff several times with the police authorities but no concrete steps have been taken by the police. He said similar cases were reported in the past in which people misbehaved and manhandled doctors and hospital staff.Indian Medical Association has condemned the incident and demanded the immediate arrest of the culprit. Dr KD Arora and Dr RS Sethi, President and Assistance Secretary, Punjab in a statement said the doctors at hospitals has become a target for the anti-social elements. They said security should be enhanced in the hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/emergency-medical-officer-shot-in-firing-between-two-groups-at-amritsar-hospital-225082
14-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Two cops die of heart attack||Honour for Retd pharmacy officersAmritsar: An event to felicitate the recently retired pharmacy officers and welcome the newly recruited pharmacy officers was organised by the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association at Virsa Vihar here on Saturday. On the occasion, the services of those who have reached superannuation were lauded while the new recruits were made aware of their roles and responsibilities. Speaking on the occasion, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said pharmacy officers were the backbone of health services. Association leader Shamsher Singh Kohri and general secretary Ashok Sharma said during the pandemic period 32 pharmacy officers retired while 28 new ones joined the office. They said the event was organised to boost the morale of the employees. TNSDrug peddler held with heroinAmritsar: The STF on Friday arrested Harjant Singh, a notorious drug peddler, and recovered 253-gm heroin from him. According to the police, he had around 25 cases of drug peddling, murder, attempt to murder and anti-national activities registered against him. DSP, STF, Vavinder Mahajan said he was produced in court and brought on police remand for further probe. He said Harjant Singh was held near the Amritsar bus stand following a tip-off. “The STF got a tip-off that he was coming to Amritsar’s ISBT for delivering some consignment. Following this, a checkpoint was laid near the bus stand and the accused was arrested,” he informed. During search, the police confiscated 253 gm of heroin worth Rs 1 crore from his possession. Investigation revealed that he was recently released from jail on bail. He said further interrogation was under progress to ascertain the source of the contraband and identify his accomplices. The STF also recovered two mobile phones from his possession. The police were analysing the call details and contact list in the phones. The police are expecting to identify his accomplices active in the border belt, including Tarn Taran and Ferozepur. The police suspect that he might have contacts with Pakistan-based cross-border smugglers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-cops-die-of-heart-attack-225028
14-03-2021||These days youngsters are more aware of the term ‘civic sense’ than ever before. Batala’s Qila Mandi resident Kanav Bhatia was a much harried man as he desperately tried to get the tubewell of his locality in working order. Around 10||Batala’s ‘Waterman’ Kanav Bhatia||Police come forward to assist senior citizensBatala Senior Superintendent of Police Rachpal Singh has initiated a drive wherein elderly people whose children live abroad are being identified. “Cops will regularly be in touch with such people. They will also provide medicines and other items of daily need. I have instructed all the SHOs to visit such residents. Another order that I have given is that if any elderly person gives an application in any police station of Batala police district it should not only be treated on an urgent basis, but I too should be immediately informed,” said the SSP. “The aged should not go in for face-lifting. Rather they should teach the world how to admire wrinkles which anyway are etchings of experience and character. The manner in which the elderly are treated these days, in some cases warehoused and medicated, rather than nurtured and listened to, is really distressing. That is why this drive is being undertaken,” said Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal, who says a similar drive is being launched in Gurdaspur police district.Voices grow to Make Batala revenue districtVoices to convert Batala into a full-fledged district from a sub-divisional town are getting shriller with every passing day. Earlier, this demand was taken up by senior citizens and politicians, but now more and more youths are getting involved. One such young man is Jagjot Singh Sandhu. He has already earned fame in his home town for ferreting out much-needed information from the government departments using the RTI route. He recently met SDM Balwinder Singh and submitted a memorandum seeking district status for Batala. He said he would be going to Chandigarh soon to take up this demand, which he calls as “100 per cent genuine”. On many occasions in the past when this issue surfaced, Gurdaspur-based advocates managed to scuttle it because it does not suit them. Now, cases from Batala are heard in courts of Gurdaspur. Once Batala becomes a district, it will have a separate judicial complex and Gurdaspur lawyers will be rendered redundant. Jagjot said he is aware of this development and hence is consulting the lawyers’ fraternity before he goes to Chandigarh. It is pertinent to mention here that Batala is already a separate police district. “We need a separate revenue district too. Gurdaspur has just 29 MC wards while Batala has 50. My city has a full-fledged Municipal Corporation, while Gurdaspur has a committee. My town has more than a thousand industrial units, while those in Gurdaspur can be counted on your fingers. More trains touch Batala as compared to Gurdaspur. Punjab Roadways has a bus depot here, Gurdaspur does not have one. My town is ranked among the 10 largest cities of Punjab, while Gurdaspur lags far, far behind. Is not my demand justified?” he asks. A point well made. Two years ago, Jagjot had made waves when he scribbled some interesting graffiti on a public toilet constructed by the municipal committee, but was lying in a state of neglect because the committee mandarins had failed to find a politician to inaugurate it. The graffiti read “I am a bathroom and I am waiting for some minister for my inauguration.” Jagjot said in the last two years he has written numerous letters to the Deputy Commissioner, the SDM and MC officials, but yet the bathroom has not been operationalised. Did somebody say the Punjab Government has enacted a law against red-tapism? If yes, the first thing it should do is to apply the new legislation to check its efficacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batalas-waterman-kanav-bhatia-225035
14-03-2021||---||Road accidents snuff out three lives||Amritsar, March 13Two persons lost their lives when a speeding SUV hit a scooter and a bike on the Jhabal road here on late Friday evening.The victims have been identified as Avinash Rani, her husband Vijay Mehta, both residents of Bhadarkali Temple near Gate Khazana and Mohinder Kumar of Adarsh Nagar area.Avinash Rani and Mohinder Kumar were killed on the spot while Vijay Mehta was rushed to a hospital in a serious condition.Ranjit Singh Dhaliwal, SHO, Gate Hakima police station, said Avinash and her husband Vijay were travelling on a scooter while Mohinder was riding a bike. The speeding SUV Mohindra Bolero (PB-02-CP-5172) first hit the bike, killing Mohinder Kumar on the spot and then the scooter on which the couple was travelling. Avinash was riding pillion and after the collision she fell on the road. She was run over by the SUV, killing her on the spot, he said.Dhaliwal said as per eyewitnesses, the SUV driver tried to speed away but could not control the vehicle and fell into a nullah. Taking advantage of darkness on the road, he managed to flee the spot after coming out of the drain.He said a case under Sections 304 (culpable homicide), 338 and 427 of the IPC had been registered against the unidentified driver of the SUV. He said the Regional Transport Office had been approached to identify the owner of the SUV.Meanwhile, Vinod Kumar, a resident of Basant Vihar located on Sher Shah Suri Road, was killed after his scooter was hit by a speeding car near Army Gate near Ghanupur Kale. Vinod was killed on the spot while the unidentified car driver fled the spot leaving his car behind.Vishal Sagar, brother of the victim, told the police that he was coming from the India Gate side by his car while his brother, who does a private job at Army Gate, was going ahead of him on a scooter. He said he was returning home. He said as his brother was taking a turn near Army cantonment gate No.3 for Sher Shah Suri Rroad, the rashly driven car (HR-26-AF-8930) hit his scooter. Vinod was killed on the spot while the accused fled the spot leaving the car behind.A case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC has been registered and investigation was under progress to identify the suspect, said the Chheharta police.Head constable killed in accident Tarn Taran: Sarabjit Singh (45), who was deputed at the Bhikhiwind police station, was killed in a road accident that took place on the Chabal-Bhikhiwind road near Sursingh village here on Friday night. The victim, who was on duty, was going to Sursingh village in his Swift car (PB-08 BF-2818). He was called by the SHO of the Bhikhiwind police station in Sursingh. On way to Sursingh village his car was hit by some unknown vehicle. He was brought to the Civil Hospital, Sursingh, in a serious condition. Taking into account his serious condition, doctors referred him to the local district-level hospital but he succumbed to his injuries on the way. A case under Sections 304-A, 427 and 279 of the IPC was registered against the driver of the unknown vehicle. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-accidents-snuff-out-three-lives-225014
14-03-2021||---||Amritsar MC finding it difficult to de-silt narrow sewer lines||Amritsar, March 13With the ban on manual scavenging remaining in force, the Municipal Corporation is facing difficulty in cleaning the narrow sewer lines in the walled city. According to information, some of the sewer lines are only six-inch-wide in narrow streets in interiors of the city.In February 2020, a sewer man in the Navi Abadi area died while working in a manhole. Then the MC had decided to stop manual scavenging in the city. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said there was a complete ban on manual scavenging in the city and no sewer man was allowed to enter a manhole. Even the MC has written to the Mohalla Sudhar Committees and societies of various localities to not ask anyone to enter manholes otherwise they would be responsible for any untoward incident.After the ban on manual scavenging, staff of the MC has been facing inconvenience in the walled city. The MC is regularly getting complaints of choking of sewer lines. Now, officials are seeking a mechanical solution to the problem.“All the main sewer lines in the city were de-silted last year. But we need small de-silting machines for narrow streets. We are planning to buy a mini truck or a jeep mounted super sucker machines for the city. Private machines would also be hired for de-silting the sewer lines,” said the Mayor.The state government had hired super-suction machines for de-silting all main lines in 2017 and extended the work till 2020. After the ban, mechanised solutions would be adopted for the narrow streets too. There are some streets in interior parts of the city which are only four-five feet wide. No machine-mounted vehicle can enter streets, which is a biggest challenge for the MC.Ban on manual scavenging creating hurdlesIn February 2020, the MC had put a ban on manual scavenging in the city after a sewer man in the Navi Abadi area died while working in a manhole. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said there was a complete ban on manual scavenging in the city and no sewer man was allowed to enter a manhole. Staff of the MC has been facing inconvenience in the walled city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-finding-it-difficult-to-de-silt-narrow-sewer-lines-225015
14-03-2021||---||‘Wings’ of change||Amritsar, March 13Sparing a thought about menstrual health and need to address it during lockdown, when a large number of women from the underprivileged families cannot get access to sanitary pads, two students of IIM Amritsar took it upon themselves to go door-to-door, distributing free sanitary napkins.Muskan Garg (22) and Prateek Sankhe, launched ‘Wings’ initiative in September 2020 to collect funds and distribute sanitary napkins to women living in the most deprived areas of the city.“The impact of the lockdown has not been equal for all, with menstrual health of many women compromised due to lack of access to sanitary napkins. I was in Kurukshetra, my hometown, at the time and I realised that this way I could contribute towards community during pandemic. I reached out to my family and friends to collect funds and went door to door distributing these to women in need. Later, my batchmate Prateek and I collaborated with an Indore-based NGO to expand our initiative in Amritsar,” Muskan said.They initially relied on limited funds collected from friends, family and teachers. “We have, till date, distributed sanitary napkins worth Rs9,000, and now plan to approach small businesses for funds and expand our reach,” she shares.Muskan said menstrual hygiene was otherwise a taboo in society and availability of affordable sanitary napkins was severely hit during lockdown. “Even now there are many women who have no access to sanitary napkins, especially young girls, who are forced to use unhygienic means due to lack of affordable napkins. Many people come forward to donate for the cause, but most times, these donations do not reach the end consumer. We have donated sufficient sanitary napkins to each woman to last for three months. I want to put in more resources to ensure that ‘Wings’ reaches to more women.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wings-of-change-225016
14-03-2021||---||Thanks to official apathy, SC/ST members deprived of medical aid||Amritsar, March 13Leave alone poor and uneducated beneficiaries, even the hospital authorities and the district administration are not aware of the Dr BR Ambedkar Medical Aid Scheme which provides a medical assistance of up to Rs3.5 lakh to the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The medical aid scheme is a programme of the Dr Ambedkar Foundation, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.In his RTI query filed with the Deputy Commissioner’s office to know about the beneficiaries and benefits accrued by them under the Dr BR Ambedkar Medical Aid Scheme in November last year, this information was received by local RTI activist Naresh Johar.About the schemeThe scheme provides a medical aid of Rs1.25 lakh to Rs3.5 lakh for treatment of kidney, heart, liver, brain, cancer and many other life-threatening diseases, including organ transplants and spinal surgeries. As per the scheme, the medical aid under it is available at hospitals recognized, funded and controlled by the Central Government and the state government, besides nine top medical institutes designated by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.“The Deputy Commissioner’s office forwarded the application to the Civil Surgeon’s office from where I received a reply that the scheme is not available at the hospital,” said Johar. He also received the similar replies from the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial and Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.The scheme provides a medical aid of Rs1.25 lakh to Rs3.5 lakh for treatment of kidney, heart, liver, brain, cancer and many other life-threatening diseases, including organ transplants and spinal surgeries. To become eligible for the aid under the scheme, a person belonging to the SC/ST category must have an annual income of less than Rs3 lakh.As per the scheme, the medical aid under it is available at hospitals recognized, funded and controlled by the Central Government and the state government, besides nine top medical institutes designated by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.“For a poor person, an aid of up to Rs3.5 lakh is life saving in case of a serious disease. If the hospitals and administration are not aware of the scheme, how can eligible beneficiaries avail of it,” said Johar demanding that the higher-ups in the administration and the Health Department must take the matter with the officials concerned and ensure that the financial aid under the scheme was made available to poor people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thanks-to-official-apathy-sc-st-members-deprived-of-medical-aid-225018
14-03-2021||---||Civic body effects major reshuffle in various depts||Amritsar, March 13After reviewing the performance of its staff, the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar on Friday evening transferred secretaries, superintendents and other employees of various departments.Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia has been transferred to the advertisement wing and he will also take care of scrutiny of property tax. The charge of estate wing has been given to Superintendent Dharminderjeet Singh. He will also take care of the land wing and parking lots. The charge of birth and death certification wing has been withdrawn from Dharminderjeet Singh and now it has been given to Secretary Vishal Vadhawan.Meanwhile, the charge of advertisement wing has been withdrawn from Superintendent Pushpinder Singh and he will take care of only property tax.Superintendent Daljit Singh would work at the Agenda Branch and House Tax Assessment Sub Committee.Besides, executive engineer Baljit Singh has been transferred to South Zone and executive engineer Ashwani Kumar would work in Central Zone. Some more works have been allotted to two building inspectors Angad Singh and Kuljeet Mangat.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal has instructed the employees working on property tax in various zones that they will keep working on the allotted tasks till further orders.“The transfers and adjustments have been made in view of the administrative arrangements. The orders have been sent to the departments concerned and employees,” stated the MC Commissioner.According to information, the transfers have been made after reviewing the performance of employees working on executive posts. Sushant Bhatia has been working as Estate Officer for more than three years. In a strange move, the MC took back the charge from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-effects-major-reshuffle-in-various-depts-225019
14-03-2021||Amritsar||200 street vendors get loan sanction letters||State Bank of India organised a credit linkage programme for distribution of sanction letters under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PMSVANidhi) scheme for the beneficiaries at Art Gallery here on Friday.   Municipal Commissioner Komal Mittal and Anukool Bhatnagar, Chief General Manager, State Bank of India, Chandigarh Circle, attended the function. In this programme, sanction letters to 200 PM SVANidhi beneficiaries of Rs 20 lakh were handed over by the chief guests. “PM SVANidhi loan of Rs10,000 is provided to street vendors and State Bank of India has been pioneer in taking this government initiative to ground route level”, said Bhatnagar.  He said the bank will keep serving the nation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/200-street-vendors-get-loan-sanction-letters-225021
14-03-2021||---||Approach Lok Adalats for speedy justice: DLSA||Amritsar, March 13 The District Legal Services Society (DLSA) has asked the litigants to avail the services of national Lok Adalat for speedy and economical resolution of cases. DLSA Secretary-cum-Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Sumit Makkar said the next Lok Adalat would be organised on April 10.  He said criminal compoundable offenses, cases under Section 138 of NI Act, bank recovery cases, MACT, labor disputes, electricity and water bills (excluding non-compoundable), matrimonial, land acquisition, services matters and civil matters would be taken up during the Lok Adalat.  Earlier in a meeting with the civil and police administration officials, he asked them to encourage people to put up their cases for hearing in Lok Adalat. He also asked them to bring the cases pertaining to their respective departments to the National Lok Adalat.  He specifically asked the police, power and bank officials to provide information on traffic related cases, power theft cases and loan cases so that these cases could be settled in the Lok Adalat. He added that benches would be set up at district courts Amritsar and sub-divisional courts of Ajnala and Baba Bakala.  Makkar said in the Lok Adalats, disputes are settled by mutual consent and both the parties go home happy. He said criminal cases in which there was a compromise could also come in the Lok Adalat. He said no appeal could be filed against the decision of the Lok Adalats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/approach-lok-adalats-for-speedy-justice-dlsa-225022
14-03-2021||---||Check forecast before irrigating crops: Agri Dept||Amritsar, March 13 Light rain and high-velocity winds lashed the city and surrounding areas on Thursday night. Farmers remained worried as harvesting of wheat crop is around the corner. Those who irrigated their fields in the last few days witnessed flattening of crops. The Agriculture Department said crop loss was not reported from most areas of the district. Some areas in the district received light showers on Friday as well. Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, Agriculture Development Officer, said, “The weather is favourable for wheat crop to date. We are expecting a bumper crop. The crop is on grain-filling stage. Farmers have been advised to check weather forecast before irrigating the crop to avoid flattening.” “The weather is expected to get clear by Saturday. No loss has been reported so far. There is nothing to worry about,” said Sandhu. Meanwhile, mercury plummeted due to showers. In the last few days, maximum temperature hovered around 29 degrees Celsius, which dipped to 24 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature also dipped from 15 degrees Celsius to 13 degrees Celsius. Naveen, a resident said, “Temperature was above normal after February. Showers made weather pleasant. We enjoyed cloudy weather today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/check-forecast-before-irrigating-crops-agri-dept-225023
14-03-2021||---||Girl kidnapped at gunpoint, 5 booked||Amritsar, March 13  A 23-year-old girl was allegedly kidnaped by five armed persons at Rokhe village on Thursday evening after the family of the victim refused a marriage proposal of the accused.  The victim, Manpreet Kaur, was yet to be traced, while the police have registered a case on the complaint of her father Pargat Singh, a resident of Rokhe village. The accused has been identified as Balihar Singh of Lashkari Nangal village, a resident of Rani Ka Bagh area. Pargat told the police that on Thursday evening, he along with his wife Amarjit Kaur, sister-in-law Rupinder Kaur, niece Amandeep Kaur and Manpreet Kaur, were out on a walk. He said when they reached near Parkash Rice Mill, an SUV stopped and four armed persons came out of the vehicle. He said the accused pointed a weapon at him and threatened to kill him. He said he entered into a scuffle with them, while his wife and sister-in-law tried to intervene and raised an alarm. He alleged the accused bundled his daughter in the car and fled away. He said they had refused the marriage proposal of the accused earlier. Police said they were conducting raids to trace the girl. The police have registered a case under Section 365 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-kidnapped-at-gunpoint-5-booked-225024
14-03-2021||---||LoP Cheema holds roadshow in Ajnala||Amritsar, March 13Supporting the farmers’ movement and raising their voice, senior leader of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema convened a road show at Ajnala on Saturday along with the newly inducted-member of the party Sonu Jafar.Addressing the massive gathering during the road show, Harpal Singh Cheema appealed to the people to show up for the AAP Kisan Maha Sammelan at Bagha Purana on March 21. He said the AAP was the first party to oppose the central farm laws.Later addressing a press conference, Cheema said the AAP always worked as a ‘sewadar’ for the protesting farmers. “When the farmers came at the doorstep of Delhi after facing tremendous hardships and torture, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had provided them with the help they needed.”He said AAP volunteers worked as sewadars day and night providing food, water and sanitation, and health facilities to agitating farmers.The LoP said however, forces had propped up again and were trying to weaken the farmer protests. He said Captain Amarinder Singh himself was trying his best to sabotage the farmers’ protest and weaken their movement; but the AAP will never let the farmers’ protest weaken.“To make the farmers’ agitation stronger and to make their voices heard, Arvind Kejriwal will come to address Punjabis at Bagha Purana on March 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lop-cheema-holds-roadshow-in-ajnala-225025
14-03-2021||---||48 hours on, cops fail to make headway in Jassi murder case||Amritsar, March 13Even though the police have booked eight persons in connection with the killing of Jashanpreet Singh, alias Jassi, at Housing Board colony falling under the jurisdiction of Ranjit Avenue police station on Thursday evening, the police was yet to arrest the accused in the case.Those booked include Chanchal, alias Kala, and Sunny Paddar of Sanjay Gandhi colony, Dani of Meeran Kot, Tuti of Chamrang road, Daddu of Faizpura, Sajan Tila of Sanjay Gandhi colony, Sandeep and Billa of Navi Abadi.Police found in the preliminary probe that Jassi was killed at the behest of Sandeep and Billa, who had an old enmity with the deceased.Jassi (22), a resident of Bhindar Kalan village, falling under Khilchian police station, was shot dead by two-bike borne persons at the Housing Board colony.He had come to meet his maternal uncle when the incident took place. The firing led to panic in the area. According to the police, an old enmity was the reason behind the murder.The deceased had recently come out of the jail on bail as a number of prisoners were released from prison due to the pandemic. He was lodged there in a murder bid, Arms Act and the NDPS case registered against him a year ago.Dilbagh Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that he had come to meet his uncle at the Housing Board colony when two-bike borne persons shot him dead. The family members suspected that he might have been gunned down by notorious criminal Kaalu Chanchal, who was threatening him for some time now. Around two years ago, he had a dispute with him.Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa said the police was conducting raids to arrest the accused. Deceased was released on bail due to Covid||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/48-hours-on-cops-fail-to-make-headway-in-jassi-murder-case-225026
14-03-2021||---||2 more deaths; 103 new Covid cases reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 13The district reported the deaths of two persons due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 23 on Saturday. The death count of this month is double the figure of last month.Besides, the district reported 103 new cases, pushing the tally to 1,019 against the total count of 644 cases in the previous month. As the number of cases of Covid-19 has seen a spurt recently, the district administration too has decided to act tough against those people who are flouting the guidelines like not wearing masks in public places. So far, the district has reported a total of 16,571 positive cases and 619 deaths.Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni had termed the situation as alarming and asked them to create awareness among the general public. The minister also hinted that night curfew could be imposed in the district if fresh cases continue to rise. He said the lab at the Government Medical College was testing around 13,000 samples from different districts of the state out of which 3,000 persons were being tested daily from Amritsar district.Meanwhile, a total of 35,319 persons have been given the first dose of the injection. So far, the district has vaccinated 12,836 health workers, 12,186 frontline workers from different departments and 10,296 persons above 45 years of age, including senior citizens. The authorities said on Saturday a total of 2,000 people were inoculated. These include 349 health workers, 249 frontline workers, 401 persons above 45 years and 1,001 senior citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-deaths-103-new-covid-cases-reported-in-amritsar-225045
14-03-2021||---||Offered 'laddu parsad’ by 2, devotee dies at Amritsar||Amritsar, March 13Two unidentified youths allegedly robbed a man after serving him “parsad” laced with some poisoned substance, leading to his death, at the Golden Temple complex here today.The police have registered a murder case against the two suspects and are analysing the CCTV footage of the complex. The suspects took away the victim’s mobile phone and a gold ring.The victim was identified as Payara Singh, a resident of Kalanaur in Gurdaspur. The incident occurred near Ghanta Ghar at Golden Temple plaza.Surjit Kaur, wife of the deceased, told the police they had come to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib last evening. She said after paying obeisance, they sat near the plaza when two unidentified persons came and sat next to them.The suspects befriended the couple and identified themselves as Bittu and Gurdas Singh.They claimed they had come from Batala to pay obeisance.The suspects later offered “laddu” as parsad, which her husband ate, while she kept it aside. The victim then went to the urinal and the two tailed him, claimed Surjit.When Payara returned, his condition deteriorated. He was taken to a hospital, but he died on the way.Gurmeet Singh, Station House Officer (SHO), Kotwali police station, said a murder case had been registered against the unidentified persons and further investigations were under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/offered-laddu-parsad-by-2-devotee-dies-at-amritsar-224782
14-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Buzz back at Amritsar railway station as Delhi Shatabdi returns after year||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 13Much to the delight and relief of passengers, vendors, porters and others, after a gap of nearly a year popular Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express arrived at the Amritsar railway station on Saturday. Passengers were upbeat about the resumption of trains from the railway station as it offered them convenient travel at moderate price.Harjit Singh, a passenger, said he and his family frequently visited the holy city to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and to meet close relatives living here. He said the central government should empathetically listen to farmers in distress.Traders relieved The resumption of direct trains, especially to Delhi, has brought a great relief to traders. Now we can travel regularly to the national capital and carry out our routine business as we used to do a year ago. —Krishan Kumar, TraderKrishan Kumar and Sandeep, both traders, said they had been travelling by car to Delhi from the holy city for the past one year which was expensive and tiresome. Sandeep said traders had heaved a sigh of relief with the resumption of train services. They stated that “sweeping changes like demonetisation, GST and three laws on agriculture, in a large democracy like India should be avoided. Similarly, Covid-19 lockdown and its restrictions were equally and even more massive”. The moment the train arrived at the station concerned staff was seen engaged in sprinkling disinfectant over it.Expecting livelihood, porters were seen running behind the train. However, most vendors did not open their vends at the railway station, demanding compensation in waiving rents during the past one year. They said vends had been closed since March last year following the announcement of Covid-induced lockdown in the country. They were being asked to open these without any assurance by the railway authorities in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/buzz-back-at-amritsar-railway-station-as-delhi-shatabdi-returns-after-year-224785
