15-03-2021||---||Exams for non-board classes begin today||Amritsar, March 14All arrangements have been made for conducting the final exams for non-board classes — from I to IV, VI, VII, IX and XI — of government schools here. The exams begin tomorrow (March 15) and the exams for those students, who tested positive for Covid, will be held later.The Education Department has made arrangements for conducting the examinations in two shifts — morning and evening — to ensure sufficient physical gap between students due to the rising cases of Covid-19 in the city.District Education Officer (Secondary) Satinderbir Singh informed that the timings of the morning shift would be 9 am to 12 pm and after a 20-minute break the evening shift would start at 12.20 pm which would conclude at 3.20 pm. The exams for the primary and secondary classes would be conducted in two shifts like Classes VI and XI in the morning and those of Classes VII and IX in the evening shift, he stated.District Education Officer (Elementary) Kanwaljit Singh said the exams of Classes III and IV would be held in the morning shift and those studying in Classes I and II will appear for the exams in the evening shift.They said the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for Covid-19 would be in place during the exams. As per the SOPs, all classrooms would be disinfected before the commencement of the exams. One student would occupy one desk, which would be placed at a regular distance from each other. In case of insufficient space in the classrooms, they would be made to sit in open spaces available in schools like in the verandah, ground, green belt, etc.All students and teachers would wear masks and each student would bring his own water bottle and stationery which would not be allowed to be shared, they stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/exams-for-non-board-classes-begin-today-225415
15-03-2021||---||Sweeping machine driver’s ‘negligence’ claims one life||Amritsar, March 14A helper of a mechanical sweeping machine died due to alleged negligence of the driver of the truck mounted machine at Sultanwind Road here on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Bikramjit Singh Vicky, a resident of Ramana Chak village near Khalchian. The accused truck driver has been identified as Satwinder Singh of Matheri village near Ambala in Haryana.Pargat Singh, brother of the victim, stated that he used to work as a helper (on the truck mounted vacuum sweeping machine) with a private firm, Piara Singh & Sons Company. The firm was hired by the Municipal Corporation to clean the city roads. As he was not well on Saturday, he sent his younger brother Bikramjit Singh to work.Around 10 am, when the driver of the truck mounted machine and Vicky were cleaning the road at Pettian Wala Bazaar on Sultanwind Road, the brushes were filled with dust. Bikramjit Singh started cleaning the brushes of machines by entering the hydraulic tank.Satwinder started the engine of the vehicle and pressed the lever of the hydraulic tank. Bikramjit Singh was crushed between the operating unit of the machine and the tank. Bikramjit raised the alarm but the driver didn’t hear him due to the noise of the engine. According to eyewitnesses, Bikramjit Singh was killed on the spot.On the complaint of the victim’s brother Pargat Singh, the city police have registered a case under Section 304-A of the IPC against the accused driver and nabbed him. The police also impounded the vehicle and initiated investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sweeping-machine-drivers-negligence-claims-one-life-225416
15-03-2021||---||Taking theatre route to breath new life into dying folk culture||Amritsar, March 14Putting indigenous theatre forms of Punjab such as nakkaals, bhands and genres like saang (a form of satirical dialogue) on the mainstream culturescape, Khalsa College’s Department of Theatre has been working with its students on the revival of folk theatre through research-based programmes as well as live productions.In its recent theatrical productions, the department has focused on presenting folk forms through modern themes, while its theory curriculum focuses on charting out road for revival strategies.Devinder Singh, head of Theatre Department, Khalsa College, says that keeping the folk theatre relevant is the biggest challenge. “Just like Bengal’s yatra theatre and UP’s nautanki, our folk theatre genres such as saangh, or mimicry and transition theatre such as behrupiye or nakkaals do not get much attention or visibility in the mainstream cultural landscape. There are so many sub-genres of folk theatre such as the tamasha that is performed in between giddha or saang that is done in Haryana that finds its roots in Punjab. Lack of modern theatrical platforms in rural belt meant that all these folk forms have been kept alive, though barely, in villages of Punjab. But if it needs revival, mainstream theatre devices will have to be employed to raise them to a bigger platform,” he said.He says that the folk theatre forms of Punjab need similar approach of theatre revival like that in Maharashtra, Assam or Bengal. “Their folk theatre has gone international because they managed to strike a balance between modern themes and originality of folk theatre. Though, in Punjab, bhands have managed to gain some visibility it has failed to transform their lives.”Emannual Singh, one of the teachers, at the Theatre Department of Khalsa College, and a noted theatre director, had recently presented a play Kade Daade Diyan, Kade Potte Diyan, that used kavishri as one of the narrative tools. Similarly, the department’s another presentation, a play titled Vismaad, presents Gurbani in form of absurd theatre. Vismaad was recently staged at the Singhu border and we have done 15-16 shows of the play in several cities in the past two years, except for 2020. Revival will only happen when these forms find their place on the stage, in productions that have large audience and commercial prospects,” said Devinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/taking-theatre-route-to-breath-new-life-into-dying-folk-culture-225417
15-03-2021||---||Fearing protests, official skips inspection at Amritsar railway station||Amritsar, March 14Fearing protests by farmers against the proposed handing over of the non-core functions of the Amritsar railway station to private companies, Ashutosh Gangal, General Manager of the Northern Railways, did not visit the ARS during his annual inspection held in the region on Sunday.Starting from the Ludhiana railway station his annual inspection concluded at the Beas railway station, which is situated over 30 km from the station.The local railway station used to be a part of the annual inspections of the GM in past. Earlier, his visit was scheduled to be held on March 12 and the station was a part of it. However, it was postponed at the eleventh hour to March 14 and the local railway station was also excluded.A group of farmers, seeking rollback of three farm laws, had held a protest at thestation during the visit of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik there over a week ago. They had warned of protest against any attempt to privatise the local railway station. They sought a ban on any kind of move to hand over the maintenance of the ARS to private concern.Non-core functions of the ARS are likely to be handed over to the Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fearing-protests-official-skips-inspection-at-amritsar-railway-station-225418
15-03-2021||---||Thieves target doctors at Govt Medical College||Amritsar, March 14 Some unscrupulous elements decamped with purse and other belongings of doctors posted at the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on Friday evening.Dr Chandan Sahi, a resident doctor, told the police that she came to duty at medical ward number 5 and kept her bag in the room of resident doctors. She said at 2.45 pm when she returned, she found her bag missing. She said it contained Rs 4,000, files of patients and car keys, besides an ATM and a voter card.Her colleague, Dr Sunil Suman, informed that some unknown persons have stolen his bag from his hostel room on Thursday, while Dr Insani Thukral also filed a similar complaint on March 9.Interestingly, the police have joined all the complaints in a single FIR. Cops said they have marked the probe and they were trying to identify the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thieves-target-doctors-at-govt-medical-college-225419
15-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Five booked for snatching Rs 6.4L||Tarn Taran, March 14The police on Saturday booked five persons, including three of a family, for snatching Rs 6.45 lakh from a Ludhiana-based person who had come to their residence for purchasing an SUV from them.Three accused, identified as Veera Sharma, her sons Lalit Kumar and Munish Kumar, are residents of the local Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar locality. The victim, Harshinder Singh, informed the city police that he had come to their residence for purchasing an SUV (Innova) and had brought Rs 6.45 lakh for paying them.He said his cash was snatched by two accused Lalit Kumar and Munish Kumar who disappeared from the spot. He said there were two more persons present there at the time of the incident.He said when he demanded the keys of the vehicle from Veera Sharma, she threatened to put his vulgar video on social media. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC against all the five accused, including two unidentified accomplices. The family has eight such criminal cases registered against them. Their modus operandi is they call an innocent person to their home and make a vulgar video to blackmail him.Old machinery stolen from canal storesAn old machinery of the canal system kept in the stores of the Canal Office at Rasulpur village here was stolen in the wee hours on Sunday.Residents of nearby houses said many persons came to the spot and loaded the iron machinery on to a truck and went away. The residents said some heavy parts of the machinery could not be loaded on to the truck and the miscreants left that on the way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-snatching-rs-6-4l-225420
15-03-2021||Amritsar||Sandhu Colony gets tubewell||Attempt to grab govt land foiledAmritsar: The estate wing of the Municipal Corporation foiled an attempt by encroachers to grab the government land near the Guru Nanak Dev University, on Saturday evening. According to information, an attempt was made by some persons to break the wall on the service lane outside the University Market in front of the GNDU. The encroachers wanted to capture the government land illegally. On the instructions of the MC’s higher officials, Estate Officer Dharmendrajeet Singh, along with Land Inspector Rajkumar, Davinder Bhatti and the other staff, reached the spot and stopped the people who were trying to demolish the wall. Estate Officer Dharmendrajeet Singh warned the encroachers who demolished the wall of strict action. tnsNodeep, Tikait to be honouredAmritsar: Tarsem Singh Sialka, member, Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, announced that they would hold Dalit mahapanchayat at Hargobindpur’s Grain Market on March 25. He said they would honour Nodeep Kaur, a 25-year-old labour rights activist, and farm leader Rakesh Tikait. Sialka said the duo would be felicitated for their role in the agitation against the Centre regarding the three farm laws. He called upon the Dalit organisations to take part in a large number in the mahapanchayat. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sandhu-colony-gets-tubewell-225423
15-03-2021||---||Organisers of gatherings will be Covid monitors, says administration||Amritsar, March 14In a new set of instructions, the district administration has announced to enforce ceiling on gatherings (indoors and outdoors) strictly, in the wake of a sudden spurt in the Covid-19 cases.The administration’s order reads that organisers of such events would be Covid monitors for ensuring pandemic appropriate behavior. “Any violation of Covid advisory at their organised event will be their responsibility,” mentions the order.The government had earlier imposed a ceiling of 100 and 200 persons for indoors and outdoors, respectively. Due to lack of implementation, much larger gatherings could be witnessed in the events.The order further states that the organisers shall ensure that any person attending an event should be either tested negative for Covid (72 hours prior to the event) or should have been vaccinated.Officials said the drive to issue challans to shopkeepers and customers who do not wear masks would also be conducted for which the police and the Health Department’s employees would work in tandem.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira asked all the SDMs and police personnel to ensure that these directions were strictly followed in their sub divisions, especially at marriage palaces and restaurants.The Deputy Commissioner said a fine would be imposed on violators found roaming in crowded places without masks. He said such persons would be tested for the Covid-19 on the spot.He said as fresh cases increased once again, residents were required to follow the health guidelines and ensure that people around them also practise social distancing and wear masks.Meanwhile, 110 fresh cases of Covid were reported in the district on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/organisers-of-gatherings-will-be-covid-monitors-says-administration-225426
15-03-2021||---||Woman kills self, in-laws booked||Amritsar, March 14The police booked three members of a family for dowry death after a married woman committed suicide in the Tunda Talab area in the walled city falling under the Division D police station here on Saturday.The victim, identified as Komal (28), ended her life by hanging from a ceiling fan of the house. The police took her body into possession and sent for a postmortem.Those booked were identified as Vishal Sehdev, his mother Santosh Sehdev and sister Poonam, all residents of Haripura area. A case under Sections 304-B, 306 and 34 of the IPC was registered against them.The victim’s father Rajinder Kumar, a resident of Tunda Talab, told the police that Komal was married to Vishal in February 2016. He said after a year of marriage, the accused started harassing her for bringing insufficient dowry. He said the couple had a son Kartik (4) from the marriage.He alleged on Diwali, the accused threw her out of the house and did not let her meet her son since then. He said Komal was upset over this and repeatedly urged them to let her meet her son. He said her son Kartik’s birthday was on March 11. Komal was disturbed as she could not meet him.He said on Saturday he went to the market for some work and when he returned he found her hanging from the ceiling fan. The police said efforts were on to nab the suspects while further investigation was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-kills-self-in-laws-booked-225429
15-03-2021||OPEN HOUSE||No need to worry as things will slot into place soon||Change in routine must if schools stay openSchool closures have clear negative impact on education and the overall economy. It is obviously clear that school staff and children are the ones who are likely at the risk to get infected. I am a student and in my opinion, shutting of schools will bring disruption to education. Taking precautions by wearing masks and sanitising working areas regularly can bring a relief for all of us. Schools’ closure for months has already hit education. Students are still struggling to catch up and cover the lost semesters. Moreover, if schools are closed, working parents will have much less time to supervise their kids. Many parents cannot manage to provide e- learning to children as the pandemic has affected people financially. If schools remain open, then a change in routine, increase in social distancing, more and regular hand-washing can be done. Yet again, the government’s poor planning and lack of strictness towards distancing in tourists attraction are making this difficult situation unnecessarily worse. Locals believe that the relaxation in crowded areas such as tourist spots should be tightened.Khushpreet Kaur BrarBetter to opt for digital educationIt is my suggestion to shut the school because in schools preventive measures are not taken carefully by children. It is better to shut down the school and start online exam and classes for children up to Class X.Jaswinder KaironAll kind of gatherings should be avoidedNo doubt, Covid cases are accentuating in Punjab but this disease is not confined to students and teachers only. Hence, it is not advisable to close down educational institutions only. We should take this pandemic as an opportunity, which political/religious leaders and social reformist can only lead. Since the outbreak, from local bodies to state assemblies election are held regularly, which attract lot of people in form of rallies and road shows. Thus, they throw to wind all norms like wearing of masks, keeping a distance and washing of hands. But as the elections provide bread and butter to the political class hence they play with life of the general public. Leadership is practical not so much in words as in attitude and in action. Also John C Maxwell said “a leader is who knows the way, goes the way and shows the way.” Political parties should avoid this expenditure and confine themselves for political propaganda on social media or state sponsored Doordarshan only. On similar lines, religious congregations should be avoided and social activists should come forward to convince general public for limited number of guests at social gatherings. Vaccination drive should be followed more rigorously and preventive measures like wearing of masks, distancing and washing of hands should be in place for all time to come.Harsh N JoharStudies can wait but health can’tIn my opinion primary schools need to be closed due to rising cases in Punjab. The immunity of children is weak to fight the Covid-19. Even after taking all the precautions, the cases are still rising in Punjab. Study can wait but health can’t. Health should be the first priority.Shiladitya ChatterjeeDisplay vaccinated family namesEven more than schools, we should be worried about religious places where they care two hoots for physical distance and employees are posted to get the devotees unmasked, lest the deity be displeased. We often see pictures of policemen posing mask-less before the camera. It sends a wrong signal. This does not in any way reduce the importance of schools or in other words our next generation. On the other hand, if the adults frequenting the institution and school staff viz teachers are vaccinated on a priority basis, exposure to the virus would be quite limited, for which hand-washing facilities may be extended and improved. Small bottles of sanitisers should be made available to all kids, in addition to the essential wetting at the entry gate. I am also concerned over avoidable wastage of water. Whether or not schools should be closed, however, should not be left to public opinion. It is a very serious issue but I think herd immunity against this microbe is now comparatively better than it was in the previous summer. Moreover, closure will not guarantee seclusion of the scholars. They will flit about in grounds, streets, markets and where not. Dependable and widely available testing for Covid-19 and vaccination is the only way out. Meanwhile, we should hope to have vaccinated groups like office staff. They can then move about freely, among themselves especially, without the mask, but only in that independent environment. For moving out, wearing a mask must remain for some more time. Parents should be convinced to get the jab and perhaps names of vaccinated families displayed in order to encourage others. It is an unprecedented hour in the history of mankind. No one is doing anyone any favour by washing hands and by wearing a mask. I am reminded of the 1940s when we, primary school kids, were inoculated at school with superficial incisions, with a sharp and pointed knife, and sent home with a ‘laddu’ or two each. That looked after the chances of any one crying. And there were baseless rumours that children were being ‘bled’ there. There are rumours galore even now. But the superspeed at which people are being vaccinated is another record of sorts and bodes well for the healthcare system. So, we need not close the schools but shouldn’t lower the guard. It is not a mistake to be over careful.Prof Mohan SinghOnly affected schools should be shutSchools have re-opened after remaining closed for almost a year. They and the School education boards have announced their schedule for conducting session-ending examinations offline. In the prevailing scenario it is not desirable to shut all schools though a number of students and teachers are said to have got infected. Only the affected schools should be closed for a few days and should be thoroughly sanitised before they are re-opened because it is feared that physical classes in such schools will be fraught with danger as it may cause an additional surge in cases. Teachers of such institutions should be frequently tested and inoculated. Rather teachers of all government and private schools should be vaccinated on priority basis. Schools have recently re-opened in UK where the re- opening has come as a huge relief to millions of parents who have spent months juggling work and full time childcare. It is the same here. However, the conditions are that primary school children have to follow Covid rules such as not socialising with children outside a strictly defined ‘bubble’, staggered arrivals and departures and frequent hand-washing. The requirements for secondary school pupils are more onerous as they are being mass tested and are required to wear face coverings in the class. Couldn’t it be done here in our schools? All government offices, buses and trains are working full time and running to capacity respectively with precautions (people are flouting Covid norms with impunity). Why can’t the same be carried out in schools? Students can be called to attend schools on odd-even basis to maintain distancing. The young scholars have faced a plethora of difficulties during the so-called digital session. They should be permitted to adapt to the prevailing circumstances. Keeping in mind the plus and minus points of every child from every strata of society, it is time not to close all the schools. If proper ventilation, regular cleaning and disinfecting all schools facilities, including means of transport, thermal screening , treatment and monitoring on day to day basis along with mask-wearing , hand-washing and physical distancing on school campuses can be ensured, then there is no need to worry as things will slot into place.Tarsem S BumrahRoll back Decision to open schoolsEver since the opening of colleges and schools has been allowed by the government, Punjab has registered a steep rise in positive cases. It is an irony that despite the Covid guidelines, the management of school and colleges didn’t follow the set protocols before opening the schools. Even teachers and non-teaching staff failed to get tested thus becoming super-spreaders of deadly virus endangering the lives of young students. It is high time that keeping in view of the sudden spike in positive cases across the country, Punjab is among five states accounting 86 per cent of total caseload. The decision to open educational institutions must be rolled back with immediate effect to save lives of younger generation.Anil VinayakWhy everyone is after education sector?Certain people hold the perspective that schools and colleges should remain closed once again owing to surge in Covid cases among students and teachers. However, this is not the solution to curb the virus. Every individual should be responsible to the Covid norms and following it. Students have already encountered massive afflictions in the studies during online sessions. Now, study institutes have opened for the students for their harmonious and holistic growth. In such a situation, schools and colleges should remain open since coronavirus will stay with us for long. Everybody is well acquainted with the fact on how to live in Covid times. Students are mature enough to understand the current situation and follow the norms. I would like to emphasise on other sectors like banks, Police Department, improvement trust, etc where there are Covid cases but nobody says to shut the offices. Now the question is: Why everyone is after education sector? Students are the future of the nation. Hence, there is no point to shut the schools and colleges. Students are taking precautions and will take in future also.Saahil HansSafety of students is of utmost importanceIn order to contain further spread, it is very much positively advisable to shut all schools. For more months only online classes should be allowed to be in school’s education curriculum. Teachers are guides for students and in case they keep on getting infected by the virus then who will cater to students’ needs of getting education from them in future? On the other hand if students get infected from virus, it becomes a cause of major tension not only for parents but also for teachers of the school. So safety of both teachers as well as students is needed. The only way out for this is to shut all schools indefinitely until virus is completely weeded out. Closure of all schools will help a great deal in preventing the spread in schools as there would be no contact, interaction between students and teachers and as virus cannot spread in empty spaces, they will be ultimately saved in this manner from being infected by virus.Sanjay ChawlaWait until vaccination drive is completedYes, schools should be closed as every day we are hearing news about Covid-19 cases in children and teachers in schools. The session is just about to end, so it is not required to put the lives of people in danger. Schools must be shut till the vaccination process is completed successfully as many people are reluctant to follow the Covid-19 guidelines in public places. Online classes and exams must be started to protect children from the pandemic.Jatinderpal Singh BatthOpen but take all precautionsEducation is the backbone of a country and schools and colleges are temples that make a person talented to read and write. The answer to the question posed is an emphatic ‘no’ but a rational ‘yes’. The coronavirus is going to stay forever like HIV and smallpox. Vaccination will help definitely but in such a dangerous situation it is advisable, that the schools should not be opened the way they were before during the pre-Covid period. But neither the people nor the government can afford to let schools remain closed for a long period because the students learn discipline, respect for time, earn life-long friends by attending schools which can never be acquired, learnt or taught online. So the temples of learning should be opened with strict guidelines as per the precautionary measures. The teams of medical experts and police should be appointed to check that the schools observe cautions till the normalcy returns. Human life is very precious.Ritu JoshiClasses should run on odd-even basisIncreasing number of cases have once again put the masses in dilemma, as no doubt the vaccine is now available and phase two of vaccination is in progress. The issue is relating to the schools, as earlier the schools were closed and the teaching was done digitally and the exams too. Now the need of the hour is that the schools should strictly follow the guidelines of Ministry of Health, try to vaccinate their staff and students rather than shut down schools. The need is of mechanism to be followed by alternative day of different sections and classes so that the rush in the schools can be diluted as the schools are modern temples of education.Simmi MohindruBetter to wait before it's too lateWith a surge in fresh Covid cases in the past few days, it seems the decision to re-open schools and colleges must be reviewed, especially when many teachers and students have contracted the disease. In my opinion, the pandemic is not over yet and with the new mutated UK strain of the virus, the threat still looms large. Perhaps, it would be better to wait for one or two more months till the vaccination drive has covered a large chunk of the population. Otherwise, the schools can become agents in the rapid spread of the infection due to large numbers and it might worsen the situation. Parents would also feel wary of sending their wards to school. Working together, we should strive to overcome this challenge.Seema JainClosure will do more harm than goodClosing schools at this point of time will likely do more harm than good and potentially lead to more deaths and use of hospital beds from infections. There is a lot we still do not know about Covid-19. What we do know is that children appear to very rarely have serious infections and complications compared to those in the older age groups, especially their grandparents. The data from a range of countries shows that children rarely, and in many countries never, have died from this infection. Children appear to get infected at a much lower rate than those who are older, although confirmation of that will need to await the roll out of larger-scale antibody testing, which tells you that you have had an infection in the past.Neel Kanth GroverWhy not face crisis intelligently?There has been a rise in the number of cases in Punjab recently. Hundreds of students and teachers have got infected. Some parents have expressed fear to send their children to schools. And some even have demanded the closure of schools. But is it the appropriate solution? I don't think so. The pandemic is worldwide and we don't know till when it's going to be there. The future is unpredictable. So, why not face the crisis with our intelligence? Let us educate and train our kids to wear masks, maintain social distancing and proper hygiene. Let us all learn to live with the present, hoping for a safe and healthy future. Schools should not be closed, especially when it is annual exam time. No doubt online platform is there but in classroom teaching, learning is more dynamic and interactive. The parents should not refrain from sending children to schools. The children should be trained to stay safe and healthy while being regular at schools. It needs collective efforts to fight against the crisis and at the same time not ignoring classroom education.Kavita SabharwalTime to fight, not take a step backIt is not necessary that we close the school once again due to the virus. Rather, teachers and students should follow the guidelines of Covid-19 properly so that they can keep the new strain at bay. As we know, this is a tough situation for all of us but this does not mean that we should be irresponsible with the students' studies and their future. If we keep the schools closed because of fear, what will be the impact on the student's education…has anyone ever thought? After all, how much syllabus can we provide to students through online studies? There are various issues like connectivity, internet speed and so on. I am not in favour of closing schools once again.Simran BhardwajDoubt clearing classes on voluntary basis can help QUESTIONThere is a surge in Covid cases in the city. Deaths are being reported on a daily basis. Night curfew has already been imposed in many districts. Do you think there is a need for another lockdown?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (March 18).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-need-to-worry-as-things-will-slot-into-place-soon-225430
15-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Doctor shot at as groups clash in Amritsar hospital||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 14A doctor was injured when a group of armed men attacked two persons at the local civil hospital late on Saturday night.Emergency medical officer Dr Bhavneet Singh sustained a bullet injury in the thigh and after first aid he was rushed to a private hospital.Medical services suspended across state for 2 hrs todayAs per information, Rahul Nagi and his brother Madan Nagi had a dispute with one Sunny Sahota at Luv Kush Nagar locality in Putlighar following a minor altercation.According to the police, Sunny, along with his accomplices Gattu, Gaain, Raj Kumar Raju and their four unidentified friends, clashed with Rahul and Madan, who were hit in the head, while their mother was also allegedly manhandled.After some time, Sunny and his friends returned to the spot and allegedly fired gunshots at Rahul, who escaped narrowly. A complaint was lodged at the Cantonment police station following which a case was registered against the accused.The police then sent Rahul and his brother to the Civil Hospital for treatment and medical examination report. However, Raju, Vijay Pardhan, Aman, Gattu, Sunny, Barinder Singh and six unidentified accomplices reached the emergency room and started quarrelling with Rahul.Sunny started firing randomly and a bullet hit Dr Bhavneet, who along with security persons, tried to intervene. After Dr Bhavneet was injured, the accused fled the spot.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said teams were formed and raids were conducted to nab the assailants. “Three persons — Aman, Vijay Pardah and Barinder Singh — have been nabbed,” he said, adding that armed policemen would now guard the emergency ward of the hospital.Meanwhile, concerned over the safety of the staff, the Employees Welfare Association barred medico legal report cases and issuing of no-injury certificates. They alleged that earlier, too, similar incidents were reported and the police had been informed. They had urged the police to install a permanent police post in the hospital but to no avail.“On March 4, several persons had misbehaved with Dr Manpreet Kaur over issuing of a medico legal report. A complaint was also lodged but no action was taken,” said association president Dr Rakesh Sharma. The association members said no medico legal cases would be taken up until a permanent police post was established on the hospital premises.The IMA condemned the incident and demanded immediate arrest of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctor-shot-at-as-groups-clash-in-amritsar-hospital-225338
15-03-2021||---||2 held for devotee’s murder on Golden Temple premises||Amritsar, March 14Hours after a devotee died on consuming ‘parsad’ allegedly offered by two men on the Golden Temple premises, the police today nabbed the suspects in connection with the case.They were identified as Bittu of Batala and Gurdas Singh of Quadian in Gurdaspur. According to the police, they were members of a gang that targeted people at religious places, especially in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab.Five-member gangPayara Singh, a resident of Kalanaur, Gurdaspur, had died at the Golden Temple complex after he consumed a ‘laddu’ laced with a poisonous substance.He along with his wife Surjit Kaur had come to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib on Friday evening. She said after paying obeisance, they sat in the ‘parikarma’ when two persons befriended them. They identified themselves as Bittu and Gurdas Singh from Batala.The two offered them a ‘laddu’ as ‘parsad’. On consuming it, her husband went to the washroom where his condition deteriorated. The two allegedly followed him and took away his phone and a ring.Harjit Singh Dhaliwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said after analysing the CCTV footage at the complex, the police zeroed in on the two. The police recovered the ring, mobile phone, ‘laddus’ as well as a powder, suspected to be poison, from their possession.Preliminary probe suggested the five-member gang was active at different religious places. He said the three others belonged to Ludhiana and raids were on to nab them. He said their sole motive was to rob Payara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-devotees-murder-on-golden-temple-premises-225345
