16-03-2021||---||A lesson in growing your own food, naturally||Amritsar, March 15A six acre green space that houses a miniature forest, an ayurvedic garden, a greenhouse for vegetables, a kids theme park and a splendid bonsai studio, ACE Agro Farms at Taran Tarn road is a dulcet sight for the sore eyes and breath of fresh air for lungs choked with city’s sullied air. The agricultural farm is practically a guided tour for new techniques in natural farming with short-term garden learning programmes now running for anyone with green fingers.Crops produced at the farm using natural techniquesFirst set up as learning ground for students of agriculture, the farms are managed and maintained under the guidance of Prof SM Bhatt, associate professor, Department of Agriculture, Amritsar College of Engineering and technology (ACET), the farm has several standout features. It has created a mini forest with over 100 species of native, indigenous plants, including jamun, mulberry, peepal, mango and bel. Aesthetics like a miniature bridge, huts and mud houses with figurines festoon the forest as it hosts kids for garden learning programme, making them familiar with natural farming techniques.Another striking feature is the mini ayurvedic garden that grows native varieties of medicinal plants. Variety of tinospora cordifolia (also known as giloy), cymbopogon citratus or staph also known as lemon grass, five types of basil, aloe vera and turmeric plant are grown. Introducing the technique of creating terrace farms and gardens, through aquaponic nursery, the farm uses fish water drip irrigation system to grow leafy vegetables like lettuce, cherry tomatoes and strawberries using coconut husk in planters and organic manure. “The future of gardening as well as farming needs to keep in mind the sustainability aspect with maximum output using limited natural resources. We have tried to create a space that represents a balanced ecosystem and is self-sustainable,” shared Prof SM Bhatt.The aesthetic corners of the farm come in form of a cacti garden and a bonsai studio inside the farm created by Ragini Sharma, director of ACET, has over 300 bonsai plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-lesson-in-growing-your-own-food-naturally-225896
16-03-2021||---||Cop ends life, seven booked||Amritsar, March 15A head constable attached with the counter intelligence wing of the Punjab Police allegedly committed suicide in his office at Mall Mandi here on Sunday.A suicide note was found from the spot following which the police have booked seven persons, including a girl, on the charge of abetment to suicide.Balraj Kaur, wife of the victim and resident of Rana Kala village in Jandiala Guru, said their younger son Lovepreet Singh had an affair with a girl of Mehta Chowk village here. She said she along with her husband and some close relatives approached her family and put the marriage proposal for the girl. However, they refused and threatened to kill her son.Balraj said on Saturday, they again went to meet a girl’s relative so that they could mediate. She said the accused were already present there and they did not listen and started threatening to kill them. She said her husband was very upset overthis.She said after that Manjinder Singh went to his office and did not return or even respond to their calls. She said she took her relatives and went to his office where duty officer ASI Satnam Singh took them to a room in his branch.The room was locked from inside and when they saw from above the door, he was found hanging from a ceiling fan. They found a suicide note in which he held the accused responsible for his taking the extreme step.Investigating officer Jaspal Singh said a case under Section 306 of the IPC was registered against Narinder Singh, his wife Ranjit Kaur of Rana Kala village, Rajwinder Kaur, her husband Shamsher Singh of Janduwala in Ferozepur, Laadi and his wife Mandeep Kaur, both residents of Mehta Chowk area. He said raids were on to nab the suspects who were at large after the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-ends-life-seven-booked-225897
16-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||MP Sunny Deol, MLA Dinesh Babbu stand up for jobless youths||Tribune News ServicePathankot, March 15Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol and his party colleague and Sujanpur MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu have taken up cudgels on behalf of unemployed youth of the area by urging the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to allow youngsters, who could not take the 2020 recruitment examinations which were cancelled, to sit in the examinations slated to be held this year.The BRO is a road construction unit of the Indian Army that builds and maintains the road network in border areas.Since the BRO has pegged 21 as the maximum age limit, students who were born in 1999 and who wanted to take the test last year but could not do so because of its cancellation due to the pandemic, find themselves automatically disqualified because of overage in 2021.Both Deol and Babbu want the BRO to declare 2020 as a ‘zero-year’ for 1999-born youngsters and as such allow them to sit in this year’s examination.About 2,500-3,000 youngsters appear for these tests every year from the Sujanpur, Bhoa and Pathankot assembly seats and roughly 10-15 per cent are absorbed.Deol has written a letter to Lt Gen Rajiv Chaudhury, Director General (DG), BRO, seeking his intervention. “I urge you to consider this relaxation as a one-time special case,” said the MP.Panjak Joshi, the man who looks after the MP’s affairs in the constituency, said Deol would personally meet the DG in New Delhi next week.Babbu said hundreds of youngsters from his assembly seat apply for BRO posts every year. “The BRO’s motto is ‘We will either find a way, or make one’. I urge the DG to find a way out of this vexatious issue. Already, unemployment is at a peak and this development will only complicate matters,” he said.He revealed half a dozen delegations of parents had met him in the last two months. Babbu said, “Every second household in Sujanpur, Bhoa and Pathankot has at least one of its members in the defence services. “The BRO is considered to be an extended arm of these services. Ever since it came into existence in 1960, it has always been a fertile ground for providing jobs to the residents of this area. If the need arises, I myself will go to meet the DG.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-sunny-deol-mla-dinesh-babbu-stand-up-for-jobless-youths-225898
16-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Left party workers hold protest, flay BJP’s anti-people policies||Tarn Taran, March 15 Mangat Ram Pasla, national secretary of the Revolution Marxist Party of India (RMPI), condemned the ‘anti-people’ policies of the BJP-RSS duo, which, they said were hell-bent upon the ‘corporate sector’. Comrade Pasla expressed his views while addressing a rural gathering on Saturday in the border township of Chabla, which was organised by the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha and Jamzhoori Kisan Sabha, jointly to pay tributes to the late communist leaders of the area, including Darshan Singh Chabal founder of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha. Palsa said the interests of the women, Dalits, minorities and downtrodden sections were not secured in the present set up. He asked all sections of society to come forward and secure rights of people.  He said the dreams of our freedom fighters and four-fathers who sacrificed their lives for the formation of an egalitarian society. He said all these acts were against the fundamental spirit of the secularism and also federalism. He also supported the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the agitating farmers for March 26.  He called upon all sections of society to extend their support to the agitation for the betterment of the general masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/left-party-workers-hold-protest-flay-bjps-anti-people-policies-225899
16-03-2021||---||Two burglars held, jewellery seized||Amritsar, March 15 Days after a house was burgled in the Chowk Farid area, the police on Saturday claimed to have cracked the case with the arrest of two persons.  They were identified as Sahil Kapoor, alias Lavish, of Dholi Mohalla, and Iqbal Singh, alias Ashu, of Roop Nagar Colony here. The police have recovered some jewellery from them. They were produced in court and brought on police remand for further interrogation.  Anupam Gupta, a resident of Chowk Farid area, told the police that on March 8 afternoon, he along with his family, went to meet his relatives at the Basant Avenue, while his elderly father was alone at home. He said When they returned in the evening, they found the main door of the house open. He said they immediately entered the house and found that some unidentified persons had burgled and decamped with valuables. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-burglars-held-jewellery-seized-225900
16-03-2021||Amritsar||Health Dept staff protest split in cadre||Employees of the Health Department on Monday initiated a pen-down strike to protest against the bifurcation of the cadre of employees. Divided into Health Department employees and Medical Education Department employees, they are seeking a common cadre.  The employees stated that they never made such a demand and a common cadre has been working well for both the departments since long. The government, as per a recent order, has asked the employees to opt for any one of the two departments with which they want to remain associated with, within next two days. “The spilt in the cadre and two separate seniority lists would be detrimental. The protest would continue till the government withdraws the decision,” said Punjab State Ministerial Staff workers association president Jagdish Thakur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-dept-staff-protest-split-in-cadre-225901
16-03-2021||---||Gorakhpur robbery mastermind held||Amritsar, March 15  The Uttar Pradesh Police arrested Santokh Singh Hira, an alleged mastermind in a looting incident, in which a jeweller was robbed in the Gorakhpur area of Uttar Pradesh on March 2. Hira, a goldsmith, was nabbed from his residence located in the Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area late last night. The accused is considered to be close to an MLA of the ruling party.  Amritsar-based jeweller Surinder Singh was robbed by some unknown persons in Gorakhpur when he was going to the guest house after selling jewellery. The accused looted ornaments and cash worth Rs 46 lakh from him on the gunpoint.  During the probe, the UP police zeroed in on Santokh Singh. They came to know that he was influential due to his close proximity with a Congress MLA and also has influence among the goldsmiths.  A senior police official revealed that taking no chances, the UP police took Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill into confidence and even did not inform the local police station about the raid and his arrest. Investigations revealed that the gold and silver ornaments which were looted from Surinder Singh were melted and the accused bought a car from the cash. The UP Police also nabbed two more persons from the Gorakhpur area in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gorakhpur-robbery-mastermind-held-225902
16-03-2021||---||Banking services affected as staff go on two-day strike||Amritsar, March 15On the call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, all employees of the local branches of the public sector banks went on two-day strike here on Monday.On the first day of the strike, all key economic activities associated with banks, including cash transfers, cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearing and business transactions, were crippled in the district.Local members of the UFBU even staged a protest against the proposed privatisation of two more state-owned banks in the Hall Gate. Holding banners, they raised slogans against the announcement of privatisation.Kishore Sareen, president, PNB Staff Union Punjab, said the government was adamant on privatising banks like Bank of India and Central Bank of India while PNB and Bank of Baroda were in the pipeline.He claimed that not even a single public sector bank was in loss. “Since Independence nearly 500 private banks have been closed and they cheated gullible public. Many of their customers even committed suicides,” he said.Kamal Dalmia, an industrialist, said, “Besides the two-day strike, the banks were already closed on Saturday and Sunday, so operations would be hit for four days causing inconvenience to customers as well as a huge loss to the government.” He said public in general and account holders in particular were harassed as all transactions were freezed. “People had to resort to e-transaction but most of them fear using it due to the rising incidents of account hacking,” he added.He favoured the enactment of a law that public should not be put to any inconvenience during such strike. He said banking services were put on hold like business transactions, loan process, cheque clearing, business transactions, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/banking-services-affected-as-staff-go-on-two-day-strike-225903
16-03-2021||---||Attack on doctor at Amritsar hospital exposes security issues||Amritsar, March 15The recent incident in which a doctor at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital was shot at has once again exposed the lack of security at the place.What happened on SundayIt is not the first incident and such acts of violence against the medical staff have been reported in the past as well.The Civil Hospital often examines and treats patients injured in drunken brawls and other clashes between people. Sometimes both groups come face to face with each other while they have arrived for medico-legal services and things take an ugly turn.Doctor shot at as groups clash in Amritsar hospital“In such circumstances when a large number of people are angry and are vouching for each other’s blood, the medical staff being the soft and vulnerable target has to pay the price,” said an employee at the hospital.The medical staff said even if the members of the security staff and police are present on the occasion, they mostly remain indifferent.After the condemnation of the incident by different associations associated with medical fraternity and the threat by the Civil Hospital doctors to not handle medico-legal cases, the police authorities deputed eight cops and a sub-inspector to guard the hospital.The hospital employees said the decision would instill confidence in the staff, but they demanded that strict punishment be given to those responsible for the violence, so that this acts as a deterrent for future.Meanwhile, the medical staff at Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Hospital, Majitha Road, boycotted medical services for two hours and demanded arrest of the culprits.Shamsher Singh Kohri from the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association and general secretary Ashok Kumar said they stand united with Dr Bhavneet Singh, who was injured in the incident, demanding security of medical employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attack-on-doctor-at-amritsar-hospital-exposes-security-issues-225904
16-03-2021||---||Drug peddler held with 1 kg of heroin||Amritsar, March 15The city police have nabbed an alleged drug peddler with over 1 kg of heroin worth Rs 5 crore in the international drug market her on Monday.He was identified as Ramandeep Singh, alias Romy, a resident of the New Azad Nagar area on Sultanwind road here. The police also confiscated his car in which he was travelling in.Jugraj Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said that Ramandeep was arrested following a tip off. Ramandeep had around 14 cases at different police stations. He was sentenced for life imprisonment in connection with a murder bid and dacoity case in Kurukshetra in Haryana in 2009 and recently came out of jail after completion of his sentence. He has another case of robbery against him which was registered in 2009 in Division B police station here. In this case he was released on bail from Hoshiarpur jail.He said during preliminary probe Ramandeep confessed his links with Sunny and Mani, both residents of Gawal Mandi and involved in drug peddling besides gangster Vijay Topi. Sunny and Mani were both currently lodged in jail. He said he was brought on police remand for further interrogation. He said his forward and backward links would be looked into.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-held-with-1-kg-of-heroin-225905
16-03-2021||---||Being feminine: Sahitya Akademi awardee Anamika’s writings have been blazing through the idea of patriarchal society||Amritsar, March 15Majha House organised a special online session with well-known and multi-award winning poet and writer Anamika. She has been a poet, writer, critic and translator and has recently been awarded with Kanhaiya Lal Sethi award and Sahitya Akademi award for 2020 for her poetry collection ‘Tokri Mein Digant: Therigatha 2014’.When I talk about me, I am not just a straightforward person but these are all different aspects of my complex personality. Just like a woman is only a woman, as well as a sister, wife, mother. Similarly, I found a poet, writer and critic inside me and promoted them all. I am an English literature teacher and I write in Hindi because it is my own language and we all use Hindi for conversation. So, I get more satisfaction writing in Hindi. — Anamika, multi-award winning poet and writerDuring the interaction, Anamika shared her childhood influences, the early impressions of her father’s writings on her. “A famous poet, he used to read to me poetry and excerpts from his favourite books. We used to play antakshri of poetry and when my limited stock of poetry got exhausted, I used make up my own. It eventually honed the poet in me,” she shared. Watching and observing women around her during childhood and grown-up years, she used the stories and pain narrated through those in her writings. Her work primarily highlights the plight of women and the patriarchal mindsets that still prevail.A teacher also, she said all these aspects of her personality are different components of herself. “When I talk about me, I am not just a straightforward person but these are all different aspects of my complex personality. Just like a woman is only a woman, as well as a sister, wife, mother. Similarly, I found a poet, writer and critic inside me and promoted them all,” she shared. She also talked about choosing Hindi as her language of expression. “I am an English literature teacher and I write in Hindi because it is my own language and we all use Hindi for conversation. So, I get more satisfaction writing in Hindi.”Referring to her awards and accolades, she said that no writer writes for awards, but for their happiness and fulfillment. “Even if you get the award, it is encouraging that you are doing something right,” she shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/being-feminine-sahitya-akademi-awardee-anamikas-writings-have-been-blazing-through-the-idea-of-patriarchal-society-225907
16-03-2021||---||Offline exams for non-board classes begin amid precautions||Amritsar, March 15 On the first day of offline examinations in the government schools of the district on Monday, students were seen following health safety protocols. The exams at various schools were conducted in two shifts — morning and afternoon — with only 12-15 students sitting in each classroom.  Teachers and mentors were stationed at the entry and exit points to ensure that no student was allowed to enter the examination hall without masks and the Covid safety guidelines were read out to students before the commencement of each shift. As per the PSEB schedule, the exams of non-board classes will continue till March 30. Students of Classes VI and XI sat for the exam in the morning shift while students of Classes VII and IX appeared for the exam in the afternoon shift.  “The first day of the exams passed smoothly. We had asked the students to bring their own stationery and water bottles and there were no lapses on their part. We plan to continue with same dedication for the remaining papers and would ensure the safety of students at all times,” said Balwinder Kaur, a teacher deputed on the exam duty at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road. The only absentees reported were those students who were on medical leave. This is the first time that government schools are conducting exams in two shifts in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases among school children and teachers. According to revised date sheets, the examination schedule for primary classes too has been divided into two shifts. Most students seemed relieved as their examinations were being conducted despite the pandemic. Meanwhile, those students who would not be able to appear for any examination due to Covid-19 would be allowed to appear for the same at a later date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/offline-exams-for-non-board-classes-begin-amid-precautions-225908
16-03-2021||Amritsar||Active cases on the rise in Amritsar||The active Covid-19 caseload in the district has reached to 944 on Monday which has started to increase the workload on the medical staff. The active caseload in the district in mid-February was around 100 cases.  The district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 621, while 147 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 17,008. The deceased has been identified as Dimple Kumar, a 38-year-old of Rajasansi and Ranjit Singh, a 61-year-old of Kot Mit Singh on Tarn Taran road. The district health officials stated that due to recent spurt in the cases, the active caseload has increased.  “Though most of the positive cases are home quarantined but it still increases workload as the employees have to monitor health of the patients,” said an official adding that patients are being provided kits to monitor their health condition and medicines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/active-cases-on-the-rise-in-amritsar-225909
16-03-2021||---||PO escapes from Guru Nanak Dev hospital||Amritsar, March 15A proclaimed offender identified as Jodha Singh, a resident of Pandori Warraich village, fled from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital after pushing the cops on Sunday. Wanted in an NDPS case, he was arrested by the Sultanwind police on Saturday. According to the police after his arrest Jodha Singh was produced in the court of Rajan Aneja, who sent him to judicial custody at Gurdaspur jail till March 26. ASI Hardev Singh, the complainant, said that as before taking him to Gurdaspur jail, his Covid test was mandatory and therefore he was locked in police lock-up in Sultanwind police station. He said in the night his health condition deteriorated and therefore a police team took him to the Civil Hospital where doctors referred him to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. The accused was admitted in the emergency ward of the hospital where ASI Hardev Singh and constable Harjit Singh were deputed to guard him. At around 10.30 pm, doctors asked him for a test in Bebe Nanki ward. ASI Hardev Singh went inside the laboratory for taking the report while Harjit Singh was guarding him. He said the accused pushed Harjit Singh down and fled away with the handcuffs. He said though they chased to nab him, the accused managed to flee taking the advantage of darkness.The police have registered a case under Section 224 of the IPC against Jodha Singh in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/po-escapes-from-guru-nanak-dev-hospital-225910
