17-03-2021||---||With 4 more deaths, Amritsar district toll for March reaches 30||Amritsar, March 16After four deaths were reported in the last 24-hours, the toll due to Covid-19 in the district increased to 625 on Tuesday.The district health authorities have also reported 118 fresh cases, with which the total count of infections has reached 17,126.The deceased have been identified as Hardev Singh (45) of Kotla Sultan Singh village, Palwinder Kaur of Sudhar village near Ajnala, Tilak Raj (83) of Green Avenue and Sushila Dhawan (95), a resident of Court Road. The new cases include 78 influenza-like illness cases and 40 contacts of positive patients.The district has reported a total of 1,394 cases and 30 deaths due to the disease in the month of March, so far. In comparison, the district had reported a total of 644 cases and 12 deaths in the month of February.While the cases and casualties in the district are on the rise, the district health officials said a total of 45,352 persons have been given the Covid-19 vaccine so far. The officials said 3,051 persons were given injections on Tuesday.The officials said till date 16,236 persons above the age of 45 years apart from health workers and frontline workers have received the jab. The district at present is providing vaccination at 44 private hospitals apart from 31 government hospitals.The officials said 56 per cent of the registered health workers and 50 per cent of the registered frontline workers have received the first dose of the injection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-4-more-deaths-amritsar-district-toll-for-march-reaches-30-226372
17-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Civic body unwilling to operate Metro bus||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 16Though the Department of Local Government has taken over the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) from the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) in September 2020, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has been unwilling to operate the Metro bus.Reason: The BRTS project is not financially viable. The state government spends around Rs3 crore every month on salary of employees, fuel and other operating costs. And revenue generated from the project was not enough to pay salary to staff.The company hired by the government to operate the Metro bus often pays salary late as the firm entirely depends on the government funding.The ridership has not increased during the last one year. At present, around 25,000 persons travel daily on Metro bus.The Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), a wing of the Local Government Department, had officially taken over the project from the PIDB on October 1, 2020.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu stated that the project was not viable and the MC cannot pay Rs3 crore to Rs4 crore every month. The civic body was likely to discuss the matter in the upcoming General House meet.Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said, “The PMIDC is operating the Metro bus. Financial liabilities of the BRTS are enormous. Thus, we have no plan to take over the project.”The BRTS was a dream project of former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, which faced numerous challenges since its inauguration on December 16, 2016. Despite tall claims, the Congress government, too, failed to make the project financially viable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-unwilling-to-operate-metro-bus-226374
17-03-2021||---||Day 2: Traders rue losses as bank services remain affected||Amritsar, March 16 Manufacturers and traders suffered huge losses on account of the two-day strike of the nationalised banks which concluded today.  Textile traders said they are finding it difficult to receive payments on account of bank strike. They state that about Rs 500 crore transactions take place every day in over 300 banks in the district. The banks are lying closed for the past four days. It meant that a transaction of nearly Rs 2,000 crore did not take place.  Traders involved in the FMCG sector said post GST, all their payments were routed through banks and closure for such a long period of time would upset their dealings. Economic activities associated with banks, including, cash transfers, cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearing and business transactions remained crippled on the second day today. The two-day strike of the public sector banks concluded today. All local branches remained closed. The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, had given a call for the strike against the impending move of the Union Government to privatise two public sector banks.  Rakesh Bajaj, senior vice-president of the Punjab Bank Employees Federation, said, all branches of the public sector banks were closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-2-traders-rue-losses-as-bank-services-remain-affected-226375
17-03-2021||---||Court to hear plaint against Kangana Ranaut for making derogatory remarks against farm women||Amritsar, March 16A local court has fixed March 19 as the next date of hearing in a case filed by a local resident against Kangana Ranaut for making derogatory remarks against farm women participating in the ongoing protest against three controversial agriculture laws at Delhi borders.The actress had courted a controversy in November last year with her tweet with a picture of an elderly farm woman from Punjab and misrepresenting that the same woman who had hit the headlines as Shaheen Bagh dadi and that she was available for Rs100.Jeevanjot Kaur, who has filed the complaint, said she had been actively participating in the protest from the initial days. She said thousands of other women who were attending the protest were deeply hurt by the allegedly malicious tweets of the Hindi film actress.Aam Aadmi Party legal cell in-charge and legal counsel, Kaur said: “Earlier, a legal notice was sent to Ranaut. The case was filed after the actress failed to apologise.” He said in the next hearing, the court has asked the complainant to file evidence regarding the complaint. Sethi said her client contends that the said tweet was made to discredit the peaceful and lawful protest by spreading malicious misinformation at the behest of some powerful anti-farmer lobby.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/court-to-hear-plaint-against-kangana-ranaut-for-making-derogatory-remarks-against-farm-women-226376
17-03-2021||---||Now, e-prospectus to boost enrolment in govt schools||Amritsar, March 16  After sprucing up infrastructural facilities, qualitative improvement in education, the government schools in district will now introduce e-prospectus. The Education Department has constituted “Enrolment Booster Teams” right from the state to block level to sensitise people about the massive improvement in infrastructure and quality in teaching -learning in government schools. Besides, the schools will now have e-prospectus to facilitate online enrolment.  “The e-prospectus is an innovative idea to showcase the revolutionary changes during the past four years in general as well as distinctive features and achievements of the government schools in particular,” said Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer- cum-State Coordinator, Enrolment Booster Team.   School campus will also implement educative Building as Learning Aid (BaLA) work, smart classrooms equipped with LED projectors to ensure optimum utilisation of e-content as well as latest digital applications, innovative teaching modules, techniques and activities. Consequently, the government schools witnessed about 15 per cent increase in enrolment during the academic session 2020-21.  Deepika Dean, Principal, Government High School, Abdal, said that the school had prepared e-prospectus and flexes to make the people aware about distinctive features of the school, including, optimum utilisation of digital applications, e content in smart classrooms, smart computer and science labs, “ A” grade sports facility in games of hockey and volleyball available in the school. “With the mobilisation of the village panchayat and community, the school has succeeded in getting donations in the shape of land and a community hall for extension of infrastructure facilities. The e-prospectus is being circulated among the target sections of the society by making use of the vast social media network being created by the Education Department. The schools have their own Facebook pages and WhatsApp groups of students, parents, sarpanches, anganwadi workers, SMCs and other sections of the society,” she informed.  Enrolment Booster Teams at the district and block levels are also mobilising school heads and teachers to come forward for massive public awareness activities including door-to-door enrolment campaigns, nukkad nataks, distribution of pamphlets, announcement via public address systems of religious places in their respective areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-e-prospectus-to-boost-enrolment-in-govt-schools-226377
17-03-2021||---||Four scooters, car stolen from Amritsar||Amritsar, March 16Vehicle lifters had a field day as they stole a car and four scooters during the last 24 hours in the city.In the first incident, some unidentified miscreants stole a car of a tourist. Complainant Vikas Singh, a native of Haryana, told the E Division police that he along with his family came to Amritsar on an MPV (Innova) and parked his vehicle at Telephone Exchange and went to the Golden Temple. He said next day around 7.30 am, he found his car missing. The police have registered a case.In the second case, Jaspal Kaur, a local resident, told the B Division police that her son, Krishna, went to school on an Activa and parked it outside the institute. She said the two-wheeler was stolen by unknown person. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered.In another case, Harjit Singh told the E-Division police that he parked his Activa outside Kashmiri Pandit Shivala Mandir Chowk, which was stolen by an unknown person. A case has been registered in this regard.In the fourth incident, Ahna Mehra, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, said her Activa scooter was stolen from a parking lot of B block. The police have registered a case in this regard.Meanwhile, the Civil Lines Police have arrested a motorcycle lifter. The accused has been identified as Kulwinder Singh Bao, a resident of Patti. Assistant Sub-Inspector Jaswant Singh said the accused was a habitual criminal and was driving a stolen motorcycle. He said the the accused was nabbed with a stolen motorcycle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-scooters-car-stolen-from-amritsar-226378
17-03-2021||---||Indian Air Force celebrates Swarnim Vijay Varsh||Amritsar, March 16 Air Force Station, Rajasansi, celebrated ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ to commemorate 50 years of 1971 War on Tuesday.  An event was organised to pay homage to the martyred air warriors at the War Memorial and Museum at the base. The “Swarnim Mashaal” was received by Group Captain Shirish Dhakate, Base Commander, Air Force Station, Rajasansi, and placed at the War Memorial. A wreath-laying ceremony was carried out by the Base Commander and veterans. A two-minute silence was observed to pay respect to air warriors. Defence personnel from the three services paid homage at the Station War Memorial. A video montage on the role of Air Force Station, Rajasansi, during the 1971 War was screened for participants. Veterans shared their experiences of war which was highly motivational, especially for NCC cadets. In 1971, the Indian Armed Forces secured a decisive and historic victory over Pakistani, which led to the creation Bangladesh. The war culminated in the largest military surrender after World War II.  From December 16, 2020, the nation started celebrating “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” 50 years of victory in the Indo-Pak War. Air Force Station, Rajasansi, is an important forward base of the Indian Air Force due to its strategic location near the International Border. The base was one of the most active bases in the 1971 War with continuous operations undertaken from the airfield.  The Pakistan Air Force continuously targeted the base, but could not cause any significant damage and the base remained operationally active throughout the war. A vote of thanks was presented by the Base Commander. He laid stress on the need to learn lessons from history and stressed on maintaining the highest operational readiness and vigil at all times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indian-air-force-celebrates-swarnim-vijay-varsh-226379
17-03-2021||---||Farmers’ stir: Youth to head towards Delhi on March 23||Amritsar, March 16A meeting of farmers under the banner of the Kirti Kisan Union was held at Kukrawala village near Ajnala on Sunday to discuss the ongoing agitation against the three controversial farm laws.Farmers observed a two-minute silence to pay tributes to Datar Singh, who had passed away recently. The union announced to send a jatha of young farmers to Delhi borders on March 23 to mark the martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh.Hardev Singh Sandhu, chief, Kirti Kisan Union, said they were mobilising farmers to participate in the protest.He said residents in villages were taking care of crops and families of those who have been agitating in Delhi.“In view of the prolonged agitation, village-level committees are working to ensure participation of farmers in batches,” he said.The union also elected its new executive body with Dhanwant Singh as chief, Prabhjit Singh Timowal as general secretary and Principal Baldev Singh as finance secretary, besides others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-stir-youth-to-head-towards-delhi-on-march-23-226380
17-03-2021||---||Park developed under MGNREGS||Amritsar, March 16 The district administration has developed a park and a playground at Safi Pur village under the MGNREGS.  Additional Deputy Commissioner Ranbir Singh Mudhal said that the park was developed at a cost of Rs10 lakh while Rs7 lakh has been spent on the playground.  He said,“ As many as 13 more parks and 10 playgrounds are been developed in Jandiala Guru constituency with a total cost of Rs2.5 lakh. The district has a total of around 80,000 job card holders under MGNREGA. The scheme has provided benefit of Rs17.55 lakh work days and disbursed an amount of Rs47 crore as wages”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/park-developed-under-mgnregs-226381
17-03-2021||Amritsar||Thieves target Virsa Vihar||Some unidentified thieves broke into the Virsa Vihar on Sunday night near the Guru Nanak Stadium here and decamped with some articles, including a video and a still camera and a 40-kg brass lamp. Kewal Dhaliwal, Virsa Vihar society president, said, the watchman had gone to his house after his daughter fell ill suddenly. He said some notorious elements targeted the centre after he left for his house. He said a complaint has been lodged with the Civil Lines police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thieves-target-virsa-vihar-226382
17-03-2021||---||Amritsar students bag Best Cadet award||Amritsar, March 16 Two DAV College students have received the Best Cadet Award at the NCC’s annual camp. The 10-day camp was organised at the NCC headquarters in Ropar.  Shiv Shankar and Manpreet Bawa of the college have been given cash prizes along with a trophy. Principal Dr Rajesh Sharma, said the main objective of the National Cadet Corps is to meet the test of time and is also to build the required skills among students in the current socio-economic scenario of the country. “The goal of the NCC is to develop the ideals of character building, comradeship, discipline, secular attitude, spirit of courage and self-service among the youth. I am glad that two of our students were able to prove their worth by bagging the award,” he said.  The 11 PBBN, NCC Commanding Officer, Ratnakar Trivedi, congratulated the cadets and said they had been selected among 200 students from all over Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-students-bag-best-cadet-award-226383
17-03-2021||---||Three-day gurmat samagam begins||Amritsar, March 16 The three-day gurmat programme, dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, commenced at Gurdwara Baba Bakala, associated with the ninth Sikh Guru, on Tuesday. Bhog of 5,000 sahajpath was offered and a month-long Gurbani path Bodh Samagam concluded on Tuesday.  As part of the quadricentennial celebration of the Parkash Purb, a programme on “Mata Gujri Istri Gurmat Sammelan” will be held tomorrow. SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb, a nagar kirtan will set out from Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal, the Guru’s birthplace, situated close to the Golden Temple, for Delhi on March 20. “The nagar kirtan will conclude at Anandpur Sahib after passing through historic places associated with the Sikh Guru.” She announced that all religious programmes would be organised while complying with the Covid-19 norms and the committee would organise such events in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-day-gurmat-samagam-begins-226384
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Exams for primary classes commence||Tarn Taran, March 16Officials of the Education Department visited various centres on the first day of annual exams of primary classes in the district. They also ensured that the Covid-19 related health guidelines were being followed.District Education Officer (Elementary) Sushil Kumar Tuli and Deputy DEO Paramjit Singh said school buildings were sanitised before the exam and masks were provided for staff and students.They said Punjabi language exam was conducted during the morning session and all protocols were followed.From Wednesday, exams of Classes III and IV would also start and held during the morning session. Exam of Classes I and II would be held during the evening session, said officials.The DEOs visited Chulata, Dial, Piddi and Jandoke centres. Every protocol was being followed at examination centres, the duo said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/exams-for-primary-classes-commence-226385
17-03-2021||Tarn Taran||4 arrested for issuing fake marriage certificates||Four members of a gang have been booked after an inquiry was marked by the Deputy Commissioner to bust fake marriage certificate racket. The district administration was already facing an embarrassing situation as hundreds of fake arms and driving licenses had been issued from the district offices from time to time. During the inquiry, it was found that the gang, in which employees of the Revenue Department were also involved, had been issuing fake marriage registration certificates by taking huge amounts.  The accused involved in the gang include Avtar Singh, reader to the Tehsildar Khadoor Sahib, Sarwan Singh, operator of the Sewa Kender Khadoor Sahib, Kulbir Singh, stamp paper vendor and Ashoka Kumar of Khadoor Sahib.  The Deputy Commissioner said the gang members had been releasing fake marriage registration certificates without depositing revenue fee in the treasury. The accused have been booked under Sections 420, 467, 468, 417, 120-B, 409 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-arrested-for-issuing-fake-marriage-certificates-226386
17-03-2021||Amritsar||Hargun receives SurJyotsna award||A city-based singer, Hargun Kaur, has received the SurJyotsna Award 2020 for her contribution as an upcoming playback singer. The annual awards are given by Lokmat group in memory of women’s rights activist Jyotsna Darda and Hargun received the award at an event held in Mumbai recently.  Receiving the award in the presence of who’s who of the Bollywood music industry like Anandji (of the Kalyanji Anandji duo), Udit Narayan, Hariharan, Anuradha Paudwal, Sonu Nigam, Roop Kumar Rathod, Kailash Kher, among others. Hargun also performed a 30-minute set and Marathi folk song ‘Aai Bhavani’. Gaining recognition after participating in reality show ‘The Voice’, Hargun had impressed many A-list composers with her voice. She is currently pursuing her career in playback singing and also released songs independently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hargun-receives-surjyotsna-award-226387
17-03-2021||Amritsar||Placement camp on March 18||Second phase of JEE Main beginsAmritsar: The second phase of the JEE Main was conducted today in two shifts with 246 students taking the exam in March. The JEE Main is being conducted in four phases, in the months of February, March, April and May this year, in the wake of the pandemic. The morning shift of JEE saw 121 students taking the exam with 19 students being absent. The evening shift of the exam had 125 students taking the exam with 15 absentees. City coordinator of JEE Main, Anjana Gupta said the exam was conducted in the city under strict Covid-19 safety measures and will be held on the next two days. The results are expected to be released on March 27. TNSSERB fellowship for GNDU facultyAmritsar: The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), New Delhi, has awarded a prestigious SERB-POWER fellowship for three years to Dr Vandana Bhalla of Department of Chemistry, Guru Nanak Dev University. Dr Vandana is among the first persons to get this fellowship of SERB. Dr Vandana will get a grant of Rs 10 lakh per year and a personal monthly fellowship of Rs 15000. Dr Vandana Bhalla works in the area of supramolecular chemistry and material chemistry. She has published 193 research papers in international journals of high impact factor. The h-index of her publications is 47 with nearly six thousand citations. Dr Vandana has delivered many invited talks/lectures in different national and international conferences in India and abroad. The SERB-Power fellowship has been started with an aim to promote opportunities for women in the field of exploratory research. Dr. Vandana Bhalla said that she was elated at being awarded the fellowship and that she owes this achievement to Guru Nanak Dev University and her research team. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/placement-camp-on-march-18-226391
17-03-2021||Batala (Gurdaspur)||Batala SAD legislator Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal puts his party in a fix||Batala SAD legislator Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal has upset his party’s equations in Gurdaspur by maintaining that he will contest from Fatehgarh Churian segment.This development is not only seen as a revolt against the party leadership but also a challenge to the Kahlon family. The area is the home-borough of former Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon and his son Ravi Karan Kahlon. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has made it clear that the party will be fielding Ravi from Fatehgarh Churian. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-sad-legislator-lakhbir-singh-lodhinangal-puts-his-party-in-a-fix-226359
17-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Uprooted from vicinity of Golden Temple, statues gather dust||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 16Bronze statues of folk dancers uprooted from the vicinity of the Golden Temple continue to gather dust at the office of the Punjab Heritage Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPB).Undue delay in their relocation irks people associated with the tourism industry.The tourism department is looking for a suitable space for reinstalling the statues depicting folk dances “giddha” and “bhangra”. Prospective places could be Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, local railway station and Attari-Wagah joint check post.Over a year ago on the instructions of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the Cultural Affairs Department had shifted statues of folk dancers from Heritage Street in the vicinity of the Golden Temple. Taking into account the religious sentiments of the Sikh community, the life-size statues depicting “giddha” and “bhangra” were shifted. Now, these are placed in the parking bay of the PHTPB, situated opposite the Gobindgarh fort.People associated with the tourism industry said these must be judiciously used to draw the attention of the tourists at the earliest. Post Covid-19, the industry is striving to regain its lost ground and each step would contribute in this direction.The PWD had got these bronze statues constructed from famed artists of Jaipur during the tenure of previous SAD-BJP government in 2016. Sikh bodies had objected to the location of the statues on the way to the Golden Temple as these “prompted youngsters to take selfies and vitiated the minds of devotees going to pay obeisance at the holiest Sikh shrine”.A few Sikh youth had even vandalised the statues and clashed with the police on duty on January 15, 2020. It had prompted the CM to take swift decision to remove the statues from the place. PHTPB project incharge AR Mishra said these statues would be installed at a place where tourist footfall was high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uprooted-from-vicinity-of-golden-temple-statues-gather-dust-226356
17-03-2021||---||Rs 230 cr for Amritsar railway station upgrade: Piyush Goyal||New Delhi, March 16Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday informed the Lok Sabha that the government had set aside Rs 230 crore for the Amritsar International Railway Station Project which was all set to roll now. Goyal was replying to a debate on the Budget demands for the Ministry of Railways.Thanking the minister, Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla sought to know the timelines for completion of the project. Aujla has been involved with the project since its inception and was part of a meeting held to prepare a detailed project report which was finalised in 2019.The project entails massive modernisation of the existing railway station in Amritsar.Fatehgarh Saheb MP Amar Singh speaking in the Lok Sabha today demanded that the diversion of trains to Sachkhand Sahib in Nanded and Hemkund Sahib be restored.Khadoor Sahib Member of Parliament JS Gill also raised pertinent demands during the discussions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-230-cr-for-amritsar-railway-station-upgrade-piyush-goyal-226346
