18-03-2021||Amritsar||Man found dead at Kukranwala||Safai sewaks seek pay parityTarn Taran: Safai sewaks of the Municipal Council protested on Wednesday. Romesh Kumar Shergill of the Safai Sewaks Union said due to the wrong policies of the administration, their monthly salary was not being paid in time. He asked to regularise contractual employees, end the contractual system, salary to be given on the DC rates, deduction from salaries of staffers to be deposited in EPF accounts and issuing of the ESI cards to safai sewaks. Dharam Singh also addressed members of the union on the occasion. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-found-dead-at-kukranwala-226977
18-03-2021||Sikh historian and reputed poet Lakhmir Singh Mast’s book “Sarav-Uch Sri Akal Takht Sahib” has been welcomed by all sections of the Sikh community. Resident of Kahlwan village in Tarn Taran district||Sikh historian’s book  on Akal Takht Sahib||Political parties & their same old manifestosEvery political party or organisation prepare manifesto to attract voters to win election. After the expiry of their tenure, the political parties claim that they have fulfilled all promises made to the people during election. It had been happening all the times. In the district like Tarn Taran, to woo voters, political parties raise the issue of providing electricity to residents at cheaper rates. About seven years back in a gathering organised by Capt Amarinder Singh, who was then president of the PPCC, a party leader and aspirant for the Congress ticket from here in his address said that after coming to power he would request Capt Amarinder Singh to allow illicit liquor in the border area. When the leader objected by the party leaders he felt sorry. Some were of the opinion that the cultivation of poppy husk should be allowed in the area.A congregation of sortsThe Kar Sewa Sect Baba Tara Singh Sarhali Sahib organised a three-day gurmit samagam at Gurdwara Gurpuri Sahib, Sohawa (Sarhali) under the patronship of Guru Granth Sahib. The farmers Delhi agitation against three-farm laws was focused in the samagam. The sect had served ration items in tonnes and winter wears for the agitators many a times. Head of the sect, Baba Sukha Singh and Baba Hakam Singh, said that kirtani jathas interacted with sangat. The sect replaced Nishan Sahib which was stalled in 1987 in the memory of Baba Tara Singh founder of the sect with the religious traditions. Sangat from far of areas participated in the samagam.Honour for Divyang Int’l cricketerRitesh Walia, a resident of Patti town of Tarn Taran district, has been selected for Divyang India cricket team. He was honoured by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh at a function organised at the District Administration Complex by giving him a cricket kit. Ritesh Walia had also represented India in 2019 in an international cricket tournament. Ritesh would take part in the Divyang Premier League to be held in Dubai (Sharjah) from April 1 to April 13. Rajesh Sharma, SDM Patti; Aman Sood, a social worker were among the others present on the occasion.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-historians-book-on-akal-takht-sahib-226976
18-03-2021||---||Thieves target 2 houses in Amritsar city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17Two houses were burgled during the last 24 hours in the city.Some unidentified persons robbed 3.60 lakh cash and jewellery from a house. The victim, Bhnu, stated that around 5.30 pm (on Tuesday), after locking the house his father left the house for the office of Satguru Travel near the bus stand. Around 9.15 pm, when he came back, he found the lock of the door was broken. He went to the first floor and found both room almirahs open.The miscreants entered the house and stole one set of gold (about 75 gm), gold mangal sutar (about 50 gm), 2 gold bangles (55 gm), 10 rings (about 50 gm), besides Rs 3.60 lakh from the house.E-Division police station Sub-Inspector Arjun Singh said a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against unidentified persons.Meanwhile, some unidentified miscreants struck at another house in the E-Division area.Harpal Singh, owner of the house, stated that around 12 noon (on Tuesday), he locked his house and went to Western Villa at the Vallah bypass to attend a marriage.At around 8 pm, he returned to house and found the lock of the door of the house broken by miscreants. He found Rs 2 lakh, one diamond ring, one set gold ring, one set of silver anklets and a silver necklace from his daughter’s almirah missing.The police have registered a case under Sections 454 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thieves-target-2-houses-in-amritsar-city-226975
18-03-2021||---||Central Govt’s agri laws anti-farmer: Brahmpura||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, March 17Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) chief Ranjit Singh Brahmpura condemned the centre for its alleged anti-farmers policies to favour corporates in the country and called all the sections of society to come forward and fight such policies.Brahmpura was addressing his party workers, besides farmers, commission agents and shopkeepers at his native village.He said the three controversial agri laws were not only affecting the farming sector, but would also ruin small scale industrialists and shopkeepers.He alleged that the Central Government was heading towards dictatorship by weakening federalism.Brahmpura said they would hold a state-level conference at Chohla Sahib on March 21 against the policies of the Centre, which were totally against farmers and small traders throughout the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/central-govts-agri-laws-anti-farmer-brahmpura-226974
18-03-2021||---||Scholarship for 3 Amritsar students||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17Three students of DAV Public School, Lawrence Road, will get ‘Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana’ scholarship.The scholarship is provided by the Department of Science and Technology. It aims at encouraging students to take up science. The scholarship is undertaken by the Indian Institute of Science, which provides academic support and mentorship for the programme.The students include Karsh Verma of Class XII, Chaitanya Gupta of Class XII and Nipun Nohria of Class XI. The trio are enrolled in science stream are now eligible for monthly fellowship for further studies as well as admission into premier institutes, including IISC and IISER.Principal Anita Mehra congratulated the students and said they have set an example for other students.Under the scholarship, the candidates will get a monthly fellowship of Rs5,000 each and annual contingency grant of up to Rs20,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scholarship-for-3-amritsar-students-226973
18-03-2021||---||Amritsar MC holds meet on surface water project||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17The Municipal Corporation (MC) on Tuesday conducted a meeting on a 24x7 surface water supply project and discussed various aspects of new arrangements of water supply.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal presided over the meeting in which detailed discussion was held on how to maintain a 24-hour supply of clean drinking water and proper sewerage system which would be framed for implementation in future.Rs 2,200 cr projectMayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal presided over the meet in which detailed discussion was held on how to maintain a 24-hour supply of clean drinking water and proper sewerage, which will be framed for implementation in future.It is worth mentioning here that Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had inaugurated the first phase of the surface water project worth Rs 722 crore on February 22. The entire project would cost around Rs 2,200 crore and will help in providing clean water.On the occasion, the Mayor said the incumbent MC General House had passed development works worth crores of rupees which were providing basic services to the citizens in every ward of the city. He said 24x7 surface water supply would be provided in the city for which discussion was being organised and the results would be seen in the near future.It is worth mentioning here that Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had inaugurated the first phase of the surface water project worth Rs 722 crore on February 22.The entire project would cost around Rs 2,200 crore and would help in providing clean and safe drinking water to the people of the holy city, while it would reduce dependence on underground water which had been leading to the degradation of the environment in the state.The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the lending arm of the World Bank Group, would finance 70 per cent of the cost and the rest would be borne by the Punjab Government.The meeting was attended by Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar, councillors Dalbir Singh Manmanke, Sukhdev Singh Chahal, Mahesh Khanna, Ashwani Kaleshah and MC officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-holds-meet-on-surface-water-project-226972
18-03-2021||---||Amritsar Mayor inaugurates new tubewells||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria inaugurated works related to new water supply pipelines and tubewells to provide clean drinking water and sewage system to residents of Ward Number 64, 66 and 67.These development works commenced at Gali Devi Wali near Chintapurni Chowk (Ward Number 64) where water supply pipelines would be installed at a cost of Rs19.71 lakh to provide clean water and Rs4.56 lakh would be spent on improving the sewage system in the area.Installation of tubewell was inaugurated to provide potable water at Bazar Pethewala, Gali Kuttanwali, Loon Mandi areas at a cost of Rs16 lakh. Another Rs2 lakh would be spent on streamlining supply to Katra Dal Singh and Gali Ark Wali. The work of laying sewerage was initiated at Gali Dhobian wali, Hakiman Gate, Khazana Gate and Gali Hatimtai at a cost of Rs16 lakh.The Mayor said the development works have been initiated to provide clean drinking water to residents of Ward Number 64, 66 and 67 and to improve sewerage of the area.Rintu said development works have been done in almost every ward of the city to solve problems related to water and sewerage.Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi, councillor Ashwani Kaleshah, SDO Rajinder Singh, Baljit Singh, JE Sukhraj Singh and JE Paras Chawla were also present on the occasion.F&CC nod to various development projectsA meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation (MC) was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Karamjit Singh to expedite development works in the holy city here on Tuesday.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, senior deputy mayor Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar, councillor Gurjeet Kaur and MC officials were also present in the meet.As many as 20 agenda items were discussed and cases of various development works costing Rs12.50 crore were presented. Development works such as replacement of old sewerage lines in different areas, construction of manhole chambers, installation of new tubewells, laying of water supply lines, laying of interlocking tiles in the streets and construction of central verges were approved by the committee. The F&CC also gave nod to buy a truck mounted road sweeping machine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-inaugurates-new-tubewells-226971
18-03-2021||---||178 fresh cases, one death reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, March 17The health authorities reported 178 fresh Covid-19 related cases on Wednesday, thus surpassing yesterday’s 118 cases. With this, the total number of cases reached 17,304.Out of the 178 new cases, 93 persons had influenza-like illness symptoms and 85 were contacts of positive cases.The health authorities reported one death in the last 24 hours and the death toll increased to 626 in the district. The deceased has been identified as Sohan Singh (65), of Jharu Nangal village.A total of 104 persons recovered, thus taking the number of recovery cases to 15,569. At present, the district has 1,109 active cases.A total of 1,572 cases and 31 deaths have been in March, so far. In comparison, the district had reported a total of 644 cases and 12 deaths in February.As cases and casualties have witnessed surge, the health officials said vaccination drive has been further intensified by roping in 22 private health clinics, besides 57 government facilities and 45 primary health centres. Officials said 2,949 persons were inoculated today.Health officials said 18,414 persons above the age of 45 years apart from healthcare workers and frontline workers have been vaccinated to date.Officials said 56 per cent of the registered healthcare workers and 50 per cent of the registered frontline workers have been given the first shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/178-fresh-cases-one-death-reported-in-amritsar-district-226970
18-03-2021||Neha Saini||Sufficient unto herself||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17Just when the dwindling farm incomes and burdening families in Punjab’s rural belt have become a national talking point thanks to the farmers’ agitation, self-help groups have been silently working to turn rural women into entrepreneurs. One such example is Ranjit Kaur, 28, who started ‘Suyani’, a self-help group at Mulleanwali village, in Batala, Gurdaspur, in 2011 with an aim to become financially independent.“I had taken training under the Centre’s STEP (strengthening, training and employment programme) back in 2009 and had started working with several self-help groups that used to market homemade products made by rural women and sold them at kisan melas and other farmer markets. Later, in 2011, I started ‘Suyani’ at my village and started training women in producing and packaging homemade goods,” shared Ranjit. ‘Suyani’ is among the many self-help groups in Punjab set up under National Rural Livelihoods Mission.Displaying her products at the three-day Spring Flower festival at GNDU, Ranjit, with her two kids in tow, said her husband takes time out from work and helps her with marketing. “I started with only Rs10,000 that I spent on making a range of pickles and chutneys. For a year, I used to travel to several kisan melas and sell my products, getting only minor profits. Later, other women also started to join me and today we have 12 members,” she said. They create a range of 50 products, including pickles, jams, chutneys, squashes and murabba and manage to generate consistent revenue throughout the year and each member of the group earns an average income of Rs12-15,000 per month. “It’s life-changing for most as they are not literate and were dependent on their husband’s income for support,” she added. Whatever profit they make is put back into training more women and expanding product range. Their best sellers include turmeric pickle and chutneys.For her efforts to empower women through her self-help group, Ranjit also received a merit award from Punjab Government in 2018. “My elder son was just one and a half years old when I received that award. It was a great encouragement for me,” she shared. She along with her husband has also transformed a mini-van into a mobile shop with all their products stocked inside. “We travel through different districts for a few weeks to sell our products as we do direct selling. It has helped us expand our reach to other cities.” 3-day Spring Flower festival on at GNDUA three-day Spring Flower festival was started in the premises of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan of the Guru Nanak Dev University. During these three days, several competitions, including flower show, rangoli making will be held. The event has also invited several self-help groups and organic farmers to display their products. Dr Jaswinder Singh Bilga, consultant horticulture, said this flower show and other displays will be open to public from March 18 keeping in view the Covid guidelines. Though the entries received in various categories have been less as compared to previous years, the health safety of participants and visitors have been put first.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sufficient-unto-herself-226969
18-03-2021||Amritsar||Day 2: 249 appear for JEE main in second phase||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-2-249-appear-for-jee-main-in-second-phase-226968
18-03-2021||---||13-year-old girl consumes poison in Bhikhiwind||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, March 17A 13-year-old girl of Bhikhiwind town attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance on Tuesday. She was perturbed over defaming her and family members by some mischievous elements of the town. The girl has been admitted to a private hospital where her condition continues to be critical, the doctor said.The Bhikhiwind police have booked Rohit Kohli, Lovepreet Singh, Gagan, Ashu and their three accomplices in the case.The police said the family of the girl was celebrating her birthday on March 15. The girl’s uncle went to the market to purchase burger for the celebration. The accused were already at the burger shop and told the uncle that they too were celebrating his niece’s birthday. Rohit Kohli said that he wanted to marry her. After knowing about the incident from her uncle she consumed poisonous substance on Tuesday. The victim’s father in his complaint to the police alleged that the accused had been molesting his daughter on her way to the school for the last several months. The accused had been booked under Sections 376, 511, 109, 120-B of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act, the police said.Meanwhile, on the complaint of a 40-year-old woman of nearby Khara village, the Sarhali police have booked Gurbhej Singh of Dhattal village for trespassing her house when she was alone. The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-year-old-girl-consumes-poison-in-bhikhiwind-226967
18-03-2021||---||7-kg heroin seized from Int’l border||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17In a joint operation, personnel of the Border Security Force and Special Task Force (STF) seized 7-kg heroin across the barbed fence along the Indo-Pak border in the Ajnala area.The STF recovered the heroin hidden in an empty battery of tractor. Officials of the STF claimed that they had a secret information that heroin was smuggled from Pakistan concealed in the battery. A search operation was organised in the agricultural fields at DS Border outpost. The Ajanala police have registered a case under various sections of the NDPS Act.Drug peddler held with 2-kg heroinThe rural police arrested a drug peddler and seized 2-kg heroin from his possession in the Gharinda area near Indo-Pak border on Wednesday. The arrested accused has been identified as Resham Singh, alias Gori, of Chicha village.The police got information that Resham Singh and another peddler Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, had smuggled heroin from Pakistan border and supplied in the villages of the area. Sukha died in February 2021.Following that Dhruv Dahiya, SSP Amritsar Rural, formed a team included Abhimanyu Rana, DSP Majitha; Gurinderpal Singh, DSP (Detective); Inspector Binderjit Singh, in charge, cyber cell; SI Narinder Singh and SHO Gharinda police station.On Wednesday, the police team raided at hideouts of Resham Singh and seized 2-kg heroin, Rs 35,000 drug money, two mobiles and one motorcycle. The police have registered a case under Sections 21, 25,27, 27-A, 29,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and further investigation of the case has been handed over to ASI Rajbir Singh, in charge, police post Kahangarh.During preliminary investigation, the police also nominated a girl and conducted raid at her residence. The police seized 10 gm of heroin, two mobile phones and tablets from her home. The police officers claimed that they were investigating Resham Singh’s forward and backward link so that his accomplice could be arrested. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the police had adopted a zero tolerance policy against drug peddlers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-kg-heroin-seized-from-intl-border-226962
18-03-2021||---||Three members of dattar gang arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17The police have claimed to nab three members of a “Dattar gang” on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Randeep Singh, alias Mota, a resident of Sohian village, Gauravdeep Singh of Jahagir village and Sukhpal Singh, alias Sukha, a resident of Sohian kalan.The police said the accused used to rob people with sharp-edged weapons, especially sickle. The Verka police had received a complaint that some persons used to target migrants with a sickle and rob their mobile phones and cash.Rajesh Kumar, who works at Gopi Kishan Factory on Pandori Road, said after completing his shift, he was heading back to home on March 15.He said as he reached near Sharma Concrete Plant, three unknown persons came from behind on a motorcycle and stopped him. One of the accused snatched his mobile phone and other took away Rs 200 from his pocket. The victim said he got afraid and went straight to home.He came to known that the police had nabbed some suspects, who used to rob migrant workers in Industrial Area. Later, Rajesh recognised the accused in the police custody. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-members-of-dattar-gang-arrested-226960
18-03-2021||---||28-year-old man shot dead on Dhapai Road||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 17In a shocking incident, three motorcycle-borne persons shot dead a man in Chota Haripura area on Dhapai Road here on late Tuesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Sahil Kumar (28) of Ekta Nagar on Dhapai Road.Sahil was walking outside his home after having his dinner at around 11.30 pm when the three motorcycle-borne youths came and entered into a scuffle with him. One of them fired four gunshots at Sahil.According to eyewitnesses, Sahil was injured badly. The accused fled from the spot. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital where doctors declared him dead.A police team led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police-1 Harjit Singh reached and pacified people who had gathered outside the hospital. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.After preliminary investigation, the police nominated two persons in the case while the third one has not been identified yet. The suspects have been identified as Simarjit Singh, alias Sunny, and Prince of the same area. Both accused are brothers. The police have launched raids to arrest the accused persons.Simarjit and Prince had some rivalry over trivial matters with the victim and they were at loggerheads for the past few months. The accused were aware of the routine of Sahil and targeted him at the same place where he used to walk daily after dinner. Sahil, who used to run a mobile shop, is survived by wife and a son.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/28-year-old-man-shot-dead-on-dhapai-road-226956
