19-03-2021||Amritsar||GNDU postpones ongoing examinations in view of COVID-19||Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar has postponed the ongoing exams as the Punjab government ordered closure of educational institutes in the state till March 31.The university in a notice announced that fresh dates for the examinations would be announced soon.The physical classes in the university departments, regional campuses and constituent colleges have also been suspended whereas online classes will be conducted.Meanwhile, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has also postponed its exams scheduled from March 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-postpones-ongoing-examinations-in-view-of-covid-19-227576
19-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Lahan, illicit liquor seized||Tobacco sellers violating normsAmritsar: The Health Department on Wednesday penalised tobacco sellers found violating the norms of the NTCP. Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the teams of the department raided tobacco shops situated in Ranjit Avenue and Liberty market. The team, led by Dr Sharanjit Kaur Sandhu, fined Rs52,500 for violating norms by tobacco sellers and they were also reprimanded for not adhering to norms. She said both sides of the tobacco packet must carry warnings that its consumption could lead to cancer and even death. TNSMan robbed of Rs48k, 4 bookedAmritsar: A collection agent, identified as Manpreet Singh of Dhurkot Kalan in Moga, was robbed by four armed persons near Jagdev Kalan village under Rajasansi police station here on Wednesday. The accused looted over Rs48,000 which he had collected from different villages. He said he was returning to Jagdev Kalan village from Chawinda Devi village, when four persons with covered faces on two bikes intercepted him. They were armed with weapons. He said they snatched his kit containing Rs48,877 and receipt books and fled away. A case was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lahan-illicit-liquor-seized-227430
19-03-2021||---||Amritsar district sees highest single-day spike of 231 cases since September||Amritsar, March 18In the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases since September last year, the district reported a total of 231 positive cases on Thursday, pushing the total count of infections to 17,535 in the district. Besides, the district also reported five deaths due to the disease taking the toll to 631.Considering the situation, the district administration has imposed night curfew which would be enforced from 9pm to 5am. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the decision had been taken in view of the spurt in infections. The DC said rail and air passengers, night shift workers at factories, essential service providers and medical emergency cases would be exempted.Officials of the Health Department said the new cases included 142 influenza-like illness cases and 89 contacts of positive patients. The deceased have been identified as Ninderjit Kaur (52), a resident of Kakkad village; Narinder Kaur (68), a resident of Ranjit Avenue; Rajwant Kaur (50) of Moole Chak village; Kashmir Singh (74) of Bandala village; and Mukhtiar Singh (58) of Fatehgarh Churrian.With the spurt in the number of cases which started during the last week of February, the active caseload is constantly increasing and at present it has reached 1,257. Health Department officials stated that the number of patients requiring critical support was also on the rise and the situation could turn for worse in a few days if the spread of the virus was not stopped.20 MBBS students +veAt least 20 MBBS students of Government Medical College here tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Around 50 students had gone on an excursion to Jaipur and returned recently. However, as their tests were conducted after their return, 20 of them tested positive. The college authorities have quarantined all other students and proper medical care was being given to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-231-cases-since-september-227297
19-03-2021||---||Come April, fly directly from Amritsar to Goa||Amritsar, March 18As summer schedule of airline industry starts from March 29, Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport will connect with more international and domestic destinations.FlyAmritsar Initiative convener Sameep Singh Gumtala said according to the schedule released by airlines on their website, the holy city Airport would directly connect to eight international and 13 domestic destinations. The number of weekly flights would also go up due to the increase in frequency of flights.Direct connect“Now, Amritsar is connected to more European destinations than ever before,” said Gumtala. Under the temporary air-bubble agreements, Air India has opened bookings for one-weekly flight to Birmingham and London’s Heathrow airport till the end of October 2021. At present, airlines were operating only from Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru to London due to the new UK virus strain.Air India has extended the booking of its one-weekly direct Amritsar-Rome flight till the end of May 2021. The airline would operate twice-weekly flights between Amritsar-Dubai till the end of October 2021 and operate one-weekly flight to Abu Dhabi.Indigo would operate six-weekly flights to Sharjah, three flight per week to Dubai and one-weekly flight to Abu Dhabi. Spicejet has also opened bookings for five-weekly flights to Ras-Al-Khaimah.Air India Express would also operate daily flights to Dubai and one-weekly flight to Abu Dhabi.Indigo would start new direct flight from the city to Goa in April. With the addition of this route, Amritsar would be directly connected to 13 domestic destinations; Delhi, Mumbai, Srinagar Nanded, Patna, Jaipur, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Goa and through connections to Hyderabad, Chennai, Guwahati, said Gumtala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/come-april-fly-directly-from-amritsar-to-goa-227299
19-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||No official concerned about my well-being, says doctor injured in civil hospital||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 18Even three days after Emergency Medical Officer (EMO) Dr Bhavneet Singh of the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital sustained bullet injuries in a clash between two groups at the hospital, he was still in trauma.Given the security scenario at the hospital, I would not perform the duty of the EMO here, said Dr Bhavneet.A bullet pierced his thigh and it took two hours to remove the bullet. Thankfully, the bullet did not damage his thigh bone or punctured any artery.“There were only five staffers, including me at the time of incident. There was no specialist to perform surgery. I asked a nurse and other employees to follow my instructions in order to stop the bleeding,” he said.Though the staff informed the Senior Medical Officer about the firing incident, it would have taken around an hour for doctors to reach and access the scenario, thus I called my family and shifted to a private hospital for the treatment, said Dr Bhavneet.Given the security scenario at the hospital, I will not perform the duty of the EMO here.There were only five staffers, including me at the time of incident. There was no specialist to perform surgery. I asked a nurse and other employees to follow my instructions in order to stop the bleeding. —Dr Bhavneet Singh, EMO, Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil HospitalNevertheless, what made the EMO’s family more upset that barring the night when the incident took place, no official from the district administration or the Health Department has asked about his well-being as he needs moral support to come out of the shock.Manmohan Singh, father of Dr Bhavneet, said, “He has been completely ignored by the district administration as well as health officials following the incident.”“Freshers have been asked to prepare medico legal reports, while ideally they should perfom duties under specialist doctors. It’s a sorry state of affairs,” he said.Dr Bhavneet was injured when a group of armed men attacked two persons at the hospital on Saturday night.Rahul Nagi and his brother, Madan Nagi, had a dispute with Sunny Sahota.According to the police, Sunny, along with Gattu, Gaain, Raj Kumar Raju and four unidentified persons, clashed with Rahul and Madan, who were hit on the head, while their mother was also allegedly manhandled at Luv Kush Nagar in Putlighar.The police had sent Rahul and his brother to the Civil Hospital for the treatment. Raju, Vijay Pardhan, Aman, Gattu, Sunny, Barinder Singh and their six accomplices reached the emergency room and attacked Rahul. Sunny allegedly started firing indiscriminately and a bullet hit Dr Bhavneet.The police arrested Aman, Vijay Pardhan and Barinder Singh, while the prime suspect was still on the run.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the police have launched a manhunt to nab Sunny Sahota and his accomplices. They would be arrested soon, he said.Cops stationed at HospitalA permanent booth for cops is being constructed in the emergency ward of the Civil Hospital following the protest by staff after the incident. Bhullar said a police team has been deputed at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-official-concerned-about-my-well-being-says-doctor-injured-in-civil-hospital-227301
19-03-2021||---||Day after seizure of 6.7-kg heroin, 2 held||Amritsar, March 18A day after the seizure of 6.7 kg of heroin from a tractor battery near the International Border, the rural police have arrested two persons, both residents of Tarn Taran, for their alleged involvement in the drug trade.The police recovered Rs 15 lakh of alleged drug proceeds along with four mobile phones from their possession. Further investigation was under progress to unearth their forward and backward links.According to the police, Vishal Sharma of Kot Buddh and Prabhjit Singh of Bowal were customers of the heroin seized from near the Indo-Pak border. The police got a tip-off that both the accused were waiting near Surjit Hospital on the Ajnala road in a car (DL-12-C-5431).The team, headed by DSP (D) Gurinderpal Singh Nagra and DSP Ajnala Vipin Kumar, raided the spot. On seeing the police party, they sped away in the car. However, they were chased and surrounded on the Maqbool road. During their search, the police recovered Rs 15 lakh of drug money from their possession, besides four mobile phones. Acting on a tip-off from the Special Task Force, the BSF confiscated 6.7 kg of heroin from near Kalam Dogar border outpost which was concealed in a tractor battery and hid under earth across the barbed fence and the Indian side of the border. The contraband was handed over to the rural police where a case under the NDPS Act, the Foreign Act and the Indian Passport Act was registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-seizure-of-6-7-kg-heroin-2-held-227302
19-03-2021||---||Movement around 200 mtr of exam centres banned||Amritsar, March 18In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and fresh restrictions issued to control the spread of second wave and ensure smooth conduct of Class VIII board exams, Parminder Singh Bhandal, Acting Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commisioner of Police, Amritsar, on Thursday issued orders restricting the movement of people within a 200-mtr radius of the PSEB’s allotted exam centres for Class VIII board exams.Issuing orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, anyone who is found within a 200-mtr radius of the allotted examination centres for the PSEB Class VIII board exams, will be penalised and punished accordingly.Parents not allowedExempting on-duty staff and officials, even parents of candidates would not be allowed to gather outside the examination centres. The orders came ahead of the start of the annual board exams of Class VIII that will begin from March 22 and conclude on April 7.He stated that there was a need to take immediate steps to prevent cheating in these exams and to ensure a smooth conduct of the examinations. The orders will be effective from March 22 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/movement-around-200-mtr-of-exam-centres-banned-227304
19-03-2021||---||Four booked for cheating, forgery||Amritsar, March 18The Chheharta police have booked four persons on the charges of fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy after they cheated a tourist vehicle company.Those booked have been identified as Sarabjit Singh, alias Sam, of Achint Kot village; Ravi, Prince bouncer and Raja. No arrest has been made so far and further investigations were under progress.Malviya Gabba, the complainant, said he runs a company which gives cars on rent. He said Jugraj Singh was his manger, while Sarabjit Singh has been his client for the last one year.He said for the past three months, the accused took nine vehicles, including three SUVs, from him on rent. However, he neither gave the rent nor returned the vehicles. They sold his cars to some other persons fraudulently.The police said investigation was on while a case under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-booked-for-cheating-forgery-227306
19-03-2021||---||It sure feels like  spring!||Amritsar, March 18Bidding goodbye to the gloomy winter days and welcoming the fresh spring breeze, the Spring Flower festival kicked off at GNDU with all nature’s glory in full bloom. The three-day festival was formally inaugurated here on Thursday by Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor of the university. The annual event is held to celebrate nature and to promote floriculture and horticulture as stalls are invited from across region. During the festival, various competitions in the category of potted plants, garden plants and rangoli are also held.A variety of spring flowers, succulents and indoor plants are displayed at the exhibition area while students from Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Ludhiana participate in other competitions. This year, though, in the wake of rising Covid cases again, the event participation has been nicked.Dr JS Bilga, horticulture consultant and curator of the festival, said, “Every year we host a large number of students from across the region for the festival’s competitions and events. This year, owing to safety concerns, the extent of the festival has been restricted but we have had a good response from public as we host them to visit our flower exhibits.”It is also hosting self-help groups and independent organic farmers who are producing naturally-made products. The university’s botanical gardens are also the centre of attraction as it is a dedicated space to preserving the natural techniques of growing garden plants as well as crops. A variety of medicinal plants, herbs, indigenous trees and a green house, the botanical garden hosts nature’s bounty during spring.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/it-sure-feels-like-spring-227393
19-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Chowkidars seek salary hike||Tarn Taran, March 18Village chowkidars under the banner of Lal Jhanda Pendoo Chowkidar Union, Punjab, protested against the state government over their demands at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Thursday. Women chowkidars too participated in the protest.The chowkidars under the leadership of Piara Singh, district president of the union, organised a rally near the DAC. Charandhoor Singh, district general secretary, was among the others who addressed the protesters. The leaders demanded increase in monthly remuneration, two uniforms in a year, one pair of shoes and authority for birth and death registration. The speakers condemned the state government for not taking their demands seriously.The union activists organised a protest march and burnt an effigy of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chowkidars-seek-salary-hike-227405
19-03-2021||---||Amritsar MC to conduct scrutiny of commercial buildings||Amritsar, March 18The Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) has prepared a list of 35 major commercial buildings for the scrutiny of property tax in Ranjit Avenue market, Circular road, Mall road and Lawrence road.Civic body officials have been suspecting that owners and tenants of these commercial establishments did not pay actual tax in their self-assessment.Nodal Officer for scrutiny of property tax, Sushant Bhatia, said some building owners have not paid tax for years. “A few owners have defaulted on taxes after 2017-18. During self-assessment, building owners claimed that their establishments are lying vacant, but in actual showrooms are occupied.”The MC staff will conduct physical verification of commercial buildings in the above mentioned area.“Our focus is on the North constituency. The verification will be conducted in other city markets too. In case of any difference between self-assessment and actual position, we will ask property owners to pay the rent. Else, notices will be issued and buildings of defaulters will be sealed,” said Bhatia.‘Withdraw chargefrom Nodal Officer’Office-bearers of the Nagar Nigam Karmachari Talmel Dal, has written to the MC Commissioner to withdraw charge of scrutiny of property tax from the Nodal Officer Sushant Bhatia. The union leaders demanded an inquiry in the incident in which Bhatia was allegedly taking officials files to his home on Wednesday. Bhaita refuted the allegations and claimed that he gave charge of the Estate Officer to the official concerned.Recarpeting of roads startThe Municipal Corporation has initiated recarpeting of roads with premix in the north constituency. The work of premix carpeting was stopped due to winter.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MLA Sunil Dutti on Thursday inaugurated the premix work for recarpeting of roads in Ward Number 12 and 13.The construction of the 27 feet road would offer respite to residents of Green Field, New Green Field, Diamond Avenue, White Avenue, Sri Harrai Avenue, Bhai Himmat Singh Avenue and Mahakali Mandir area.The Mayor said no area of the city was left untouched in terms of development and similar works would continue in other parts as well. He said due to far sighted thinking of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Amritsar was being developed on priority basis.He said new drinking water pipes and tubewells have been installed to address the problem of safe drinking water.Councillors Priyanka Sharma, Sameer Dutta, Riteish Sharma, Krishan Kumar Kukku and Goga, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-to-conduct-scrutiny-of-commercial-buildings-227420
19-03-2021||Amritsar||Dal Khalsa's Nanakshahi calendar dedicated to farmers||Dedicated to the farmers sitting at Singhu, Tikri and Gazipur borders spearheading the agitation against three agri laws, the Sikh Youth of Punjab, youth wing of the Dal Khalsa, released the original Nanakshahi calendar at the Golden Temple on Thursday.The calendar carried action-oriented 12 pictures related to the agitation including hoisting of Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort.Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh said the calendar released today was completely Nanakshahi in letter and spirit as the three dates of Guru Nanak’s gurpurb, Holla Mahalla and Bandi Chorr too has been fixed. Earlier, these three dates kept on changing every year as per Bikrami calendar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsas-nanakshahi-calendar-dedicated-to-farmers-227422
19-03-2021||---||Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni lists out govt’s achievements of 4 yrs||Amritsar, March 18Listing out the achievements of the four-year Congress rule in the state, Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni stated that the government strongly opposed the agriculture laws and if the President did not give his assent, the government would approach the Supreme Court.He said that these new laws would not improve the existing system but would destroy the agriculture sector.Earlier, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh addressed mediapersons through video conferencing and listed his government’s achievements.Soni said that agriculture was a state issue and the Centre had no authority to legislate in this regard. He slammed the Union government for trying to undermine the federal structure enshrined in the constitution by creating an obstacle in the powers of the state.Soni claimed that the state government had succeeded in breaking the backbone of drug supply. Citing the success of Operation Red Rose of the Punjab Police, he said that the drug situation in the state had improved a lot and large consignments of drugs were being recovered on a daily basis.He said that the process of eradication of various mafias like sand, liquor, transport, drugs was in full swing and their backbone had been severely broken during the last four years.Soni cited revenue generation from sand mining to establish government’s success. He said that revenue from sand mining has increased from Rs 35 crore to Rs 350 crore at present.He added that excise revenue from procurement of liquor which was Rs 4,300 crore during the previous government had gone up to Rs 7,200 crore in the current financial year.He said that all this was possible in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cabinet-minister-om-parkash-soni-lists-out-govts-achievements-of-4-yrs-227426
