20-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||10 illegal stills unearthed; Amritsar rural police seize 360 litres of illicit liquor||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 20The Amritsar rural police on Saturday busted 10 illegal stills at Jasso Nangal village on the border of Amritsar and Tarn Taran.The police seized 360 litres of illicit liquor besides 1.35 lakh kg of ‘lahan’ (raw material mixed for distillation of illicit liquor) from the village.It arrested five men -- Baljinder Singh, Gurmit Singh, Komal Singh, Paramjit Singh and Gagandeep Singh -- and registered six cases under the Excise Act.Rural police authorities said that as the village is located on the border of Amritsar and Tarn Taran, the accused used to supply illicit liquor to their customers and clients in Baba Bakala, Jandiala and Tarn Taran areas before the sunrise.They said the village is notorious for bootlegging and its name also came to light during the hooch tragedy that killed over 100 people in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala last year.Police authorities said the properties of these bootleggers were being identified.This is the fifth such raid and seizure of huge quantities of illicit liquor and ‘lahan’ in the rural belt during this month. Earlier, the police had raided Khiala Kalan, Lakhuwal, Chhapa Ram Singh and Kotli Sakka villages and made huge recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-illegal-stills-unearthed-amritsar-rural-police-seize-360-litres-of-illicit-liquor-227990
20-03-2021||---||Snatcher escapes from police lock-up in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 19  A snatcher nabbed by the Verka police managed to slip away from the police station lock-up after pushing cops on duty here on Friday. He was identified as Gauravdeep Singh, a resident of Jahangir village here. He was a member of the Datar gang busted by the police three days ago. The police had arrested three snatchers. They were Sukhpal Singh, alias Sukha, Randeep Singh, alias Mota, both residents of Sohian Khurd village, and Gauravdeep Singh in connection with a case registered under Sections 379-B, 34 and 411 of the IPC registered with the Verka police. They were produced in a court which remanded them in two-day police custody for further interrogation. Constable Charanamatbir Singh of Ruopwali village, who is deputed at the police station, said at around 9.45 am Sukhpal was brought out of the lock-up for answering the call of nature. He said while taking back to the lock-up, Gauravdeep suddenly came out and tried to flee. Though he, along with ASI Swarndeep Singh, caught hold of him and tried to put him back into the lockup, but he pushed the cops and fled from the police station. A fresh case under Section 224 of the IPC was registered against him and efforts were on to arrest him again, said police authorities. The Datar gang used to rob people with sharp-edged weapons. The Verka police had received a complaint that some persons used to target migrants with a sickle and rob them of their mobile phones and cash. Rajesh Kumar, who works at Gopi Kishan Factory on Pandori Road, said after his shift, he was returning home on March 15 when he was looted by the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatcher-escapes-from-police-lock-up-in-amritsar-227959
20-03-2021||---||Jassi murder case: Prime suspect held||Amritsar, March 19The police have arrested Kaalu Chanchal, a prime suspect in the murder of Jashanpreet Singh, alias Jassi, who was shot dead by armed persons on March 12.Ranjit Avenue police station SHO Robin Hans said the accused was produced before the court, which sent him to four-day police remand. Further interrogation was underway to recover the weapon used in the crime and arrest his remaining accomplices who were still absconding.Accused in netRanjit Avenue police station SHO Robin Hans said Kaalu Chanchal was produced before the court, which sent him to four-day police remand.During investigation, police found out that Jassi was killed at the behest of Sandeep and Billa.Jassi (22) of Bhindar Kalan village was shot dead by two-bike borne persons at Housing Board colony on March 12.Besides the police had booked Sunny Paddar of Sanjay Gandhi colony, Dani of Meeran Kot, Tuti of Chamrang road, Daddu of Faizpura, Sajan Tila of Sanjay Gandhi colony, Sandeep and Billa of Navi Abadi.Police found out that Jassi was killed at the behest of Sandeep and Billa.Jassi (22), a resident of Bhindar Kalan village, falling under Khilchian police station, was shot dead by two-bike borne persons at Housing Board colony on March 12.The deceased had recently come out of the jail on bail as a number of prisoners were released in the wake of the pandemic. He was lodged there in a murder bid, Arms Act and the NDPS case registered against him a year ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jassi-murder-case-prime-suspect-held-227960
20-03-2021||---||Woman booked for drug peddling in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 19The police have booked a woman in connection with seizure of 2-kg heroin from Resham Singh, a resident of Cheecha village, two days ago.The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kaur, a resident of Ladhewal village.Attari Deputy Superintendent of Police Gurpartap Singh Sahota said Sandeep has been booked and raids were on to nab her. The local police had earlier seized 10 gm of heroin, two mobile phones and sedative pills from her residence.Sahota said Sandeep was booked following the interrogation of Resham, who told that she was involved in drug peddling in the border areas.The rural police had arrested Resham and confiscated 2- kg heroin from his possession in Gharinda near Indo-Pak border on Wednesday. The police got information that Resham and another peddler, Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, had smuggled heroin from Pakistan and supplied in villages. Sukha died in February this year.The police raided at hideouts of Resham and seized the contraband along with Rs 35,000 drug money, two mobiles and a motorcycle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-booked-for-drug-peddling-in-amritsar-227961
20-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar railway station to undergo massive makeover||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, MARCH 19Railway Minister Piyush Goyal’s announcement of allocation of Rs232 crore for the Amritsar railway station has given hope to early commencement of another phase of development.Already, its infrastructure augmentation was carried out with Rs500 crore during the past five years.Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik, former member of the Parliamentary Committee for the Railways, informed that this sum would be used for adding five more platforms. Now, the Railways has decided to double the number of platforms from six (1, 1-A, 2, 3, 4, 5) to 12.What’s in the offing?On the anvil will be setting up of a five-star and another three-star hotel, a shopping mall, a multi-storey parking lot and another multi-storey administrative complex would be raised. All these projects would be developed under the PPP project.Residential quarters of the railway employees, situated opposite the Gol Bagh, will be demolished besides vacant and occupied land of the railway station will be utilised to raise airport-like infrastructure.Now, the Railways has decided to double the number of platforms from six (1, 1-A, 2, 3, 4, 5) to 12With cases rising, prices of ticket also go upThe Northern Railways’ Ferozepur Division has increased the platform ticket from Rs10 to Rs50 per passenger. In a release issued here on Friday, Divisional Railway Manager Rajesh Aggarwal said it was a pre-emptive move taken in the backdrop of the surge in the Covid cases in the region, indicating possible second wave. He informed that platform tickets were issued through the unreserved ticket system and online mobile app.He stated that it was one of the many instalments to be released for elevating its infrastructure. “Instalments will keep coming after submission of utilisation certificate.”On the anvil will be setting up of a five-star and another three-star hotel, a shopping mall, a multi-storey parking lot and another multi-storey administrative complex would be raised. All these projects would be developed under the PPP project.Malik said there will be no commercial outlet on the platforms. “All commercial activities would be shifted on the mall above the platforms,” he added.For this, residential quarters of the railway employees, situated opposite the Gol Bagh, will be demolished besides vacant and occupied land of the railway station will be utilised to raise airport-like infrastructure.The Amritsar railway station has undergone paradigm shift for nearly five years. It was for the first time in over 160-year long history of the railway station that the two platforms were added. Besides, the number of washing lines were raised from one to seven which included four at the Chheharta railway station, situated less than 5 km from the local station, now, this 5 km stretch is being electrified.These two steps ended the long-time complaint of trains being unnecessarily halted on the city’s outskirts, awaiting clearance from the local railway authorities.In addition, two more escalators, LED screens, granite floor of reception and platform No.1, besides kota stone and interlocking tiles were laid elsewhere. Five lifts were also installed.Retiring rooms, a waiting hall, a parcel room, one MW solar rooftop panels were installed to to illuminate the station. A railway overbridge (ROB) was constructed and another super ROB is under-construction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-railway-station-to-undergo-massive-makeover-227965
20-03-2021||---||Applications invited for Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship||Amritsar, March 19The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) in an initiative to upgrade the skill of the youth has invited applications for the Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship (MGNF) from across the country. The MGNF aims to strengthen the district-level skill ecosystem for decentralised skill development governance. In the course of their training the fellows would be an asset and resource person for the district skill committee (DSC) to develop, manage and coordinate the skill programmes at district level.Sharing information in this regard, Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Deputy Commissioner, said that as part of Sankalp, the MSDE has launched the phase-II of Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship (MGNF) programme with nine IIMs namely IIM Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Kozhikode, Visakhapatnam, Udaipur, Nagpur, Ranchi and IIM-Jammu as academic partners.The Deputy Commissioner further said that the selection of fellows will be done by IIM Bangalore through a common ongoing admission process. The last date for receipt of applications online is March 27. MGNF is a two-year academic programme, which combines classroom sessions at IIM with an intensive field immersion at the district level. The fellows would acquire academic expertise and technical competency in understanding the overall skill ecosystem and help the District Skill Committees (DSCs) to manage skill development planning at the district level by formulating district skill development plans (DSDPs). The last date for applying is March 27 and for details visit the online link at http://www.iimb.ac.in/mgnf/.The interested candidates must have a minimum graduate degree from a recognised university and should be citizens of India in the 21-30 years of age-group. Proficiency in the official language of state of fieldwork is mandatory. Fellows should not be employees of the Government of India. The selected fellows will receive stipend of Rs 50,000 per month in first year and Rs 60,000 per month in second year of their fellowship as compensation. Upon completion of the programme, the fellow will be awarded a certificate by the host IIM.All you need to know||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/applications-invited-for-mahatma-gandhi-national-fellowship-227966
20-03-2021||---||Dr Pal Kaur, Dr Ravinder Singh get the inaugural Akhar Sahit award||Amritsar, March 19 The Akhar Sahit Akademi and Indo-Punjabi Sahit Akademi, Australia, had jointly hosted literary award ceremony dedicated to the memory of late Punjabi poet Parminderjit.  Parminderjit was a noted Punjabi writer and editor-publisher of Akhar magazine, one of the few left Punjabi literary magazines of Punjab. The awards honoured eminent Punjabi writers for their contribution in the field of Punjabi literature. Among the recipients were Dr Pal Kaur and Dr Ravinder Singh.  Dr Pal Kaur (63) has a literary career spanning over three decades and has seven poetry books to her credit. She has also written poetry based on historical events titled Punjab de Itihaas. Her work is part of syllabus of under-graduate classes in several colleges and universities, including Panjab University, Chandigarh.  Among several awards and accolades to her credit, she has also won Bhai Santokh Singh Puruskar for her overall contribution to Punjabi literature. Known for her feminist writings, she said that her poetry comes from a deep personal space that reflects on her own resilience towards patriarchy.  “It was never acceptable to me that I bowed down to male dominated space and I lived my life on my own terms,” she said.  The second recipient of the award, Dr Ravinder too shared the process of writing and his experiences that find mention in his works. The ceremony had a line-up of eminent literary names, including writer Mukhtar Gill and Dr Harbhajan Singh Bhatia, as Parminderjit’s son Ravijit Singh led the proceedings. This was the inaugural edition of Akhar Sahit awards and it will now be continued annually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-pal-kaur-dr-ravinder-singh-get-the-inaugural-akhar-sahit-award-227967
20-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Employees seek old pension scheme||Tarn Taran, March 19 Employees of different departments of the state government under the banner of “Purani Pension Bahali Scheme Sangharsh Committee (Organisation for the restoration of old pension scheme ), Punjab” organised a protest demanding for the restoration of old pension scheme. Kulwinder Singh, district convener of the organisation led the employees while Sarabjit Singh was among the others who addressed on the occasion. The speakers condemned the state government for not implementing the demand regarding which Capt Amarinder Singh  had assured them at the time of the election campaign in 2017. The leaders said that the state Government had withheld the facility from the employees recruited after January, 2004.  The leaders said that the Supreme Court too was of the view that pension be given to the retired employees.  The leaders said that the organisation had already chalked out a programme to submit memorandum to the concerned MLA’s regarding remanding them the poll promise on March 21 by the deputations of the organisation. The employees raised slogans against the state government against not mentioning it in the recently passed state Budget .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-seek-old-pension-scheme-227968
20-03-2021||Amritsar||Spring Flower Fest concludes at GNDU||The three-day Spring Flower Festival organised by the Guru Nanak Dev University concluded here on Friday.  The HMV College, Jalandhar, was judged first with eight prizes and Khalsa College of Education, GT Road, Amritsar and Shri Guru Harkrishan Public School, GT Road, Amritsar, both shared the second spot. In flower petals rangoli competition APJ College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, was judged first. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spring-flower-fest-concludes-at-gndu-227969
20-03-2021||---||Rs 1.5 Lakh looted from salesman in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 19Two armed persons looted Rs 1.5 lakh from a petrol pump near Jahajgarh on Thursday. Sunny, the complainant and owner of the petrol pump, said that he was at home when he got the phone from his salesman Udhan Pandey that he was looking after the cash, when two bike-borne persons came and snatched Rs1.5 lakh at gunpoint.The police registered a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC against unknown persons while further investigations were under progress. The police said they were analysing the CCTV grabs of the petrol pump and the nearby areas. Meanwhile, Division B police booked two persons for allegedly snatching mobile phone of a local resident, identified as Dinesh Kumar of Judge Nagar. The complainant alleged that Ajaypal Singh and Sukhbir Singh snatched his mobile phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-1-5-lakh-looted-from-salesman-in-amritsar-227971
20-03-2021||Our Correspondent ||Minor sexually assaulted  in Bhuchar Kalan||Tarn Taran, March 19 Two residents of Bhuchar Kalan village , 35 km from here, sexually assaulted an 11-year-old girl when she had gone to the village shop to buy some eatable articles .The police said that the accused have been identified as Partap Singh Mota of the same village and Jeewan Singh shopkeeper where the victim had gone.The victim in her statement to the police said that in the evening she had gone to the village shop where the accused Partap Singh was already in the shop. He dragged her in the shop and the accused Jeewan Singh downed the shutter of the shop. The accused abused her sexually in the shop. Lady ASI Kulwinder Kaur incharge of the local women police station who recorded the statement of the victim said that a case under Section 376-D of the IPC, 8- POCSO (Prevention of children from sexually offences) was registered the accused who absconded from the spot.The crime was committed on Wednesday but the case was registered on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-sexually-assaulted-in-bhuchar-kalan-227973
20-03-2021||---||Finally, Amritsar civic body plans to reconstruct Ahluwalia Gate||Amritsar, March 19 Around 17 years after laying the foundation stone of the reconstruction of the Ahluwalia Gate at the Gheo Mandi entrance of the walled city, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is going to execute a plan to construct the gate there. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu stated that project was in the pipeline and it would be executed soon. “We have conducted meetings in the regard. We will try to start the project soon,” said Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. It is worth mentioning here that on November 19, 2003, then Congress MLAs Jugal Kishore and Harjinder Singh Thekedar had laid the foundation stone for the reconstruction of the gate. Earlier, the Municipal Corporation passed a unanimous resolution for the construction of the gate on January 17, 2003. The efforts were made by some local residents and office-bearers of the Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society to reconstruct the gate. The gate was demolished by Britishers after the annexation of Punjab in 1849. The heritage of the city was vandalised by the Britishers and re-constructed some of the gates with colonial architecture in the 1860s. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was born (1718-1783) at a village called Ahlu or Ahluwal near Lahore. Under the leadership of Jassa Singh, the Dal Khalsa took over Lahore, the capital of Punjab, for the first time in 1761. When Afghan invader Abdali demolished the Darbar Sahib, Ahluwalia repaired the building and constructed a fort to protect the holy shrine. The entry towards the quilla was named after Ramgarhia. A number of historical documents, including maps of the Municipal Committee, Amritsar, depict 12 historical gates, including Darwaza Ramgarhia and Darwaza Ahluwalia. On the basis of these old maps of Amritsar Corporation (1849 and 1947) Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society initiated the activism to reconstruct the gates around 20 years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finally-amritsar-civic-body-plans-to-reconstruct-ahluwalia-gate-227962
20-03-2021||Amritsar||After govt directions, night curfew from 9 pm in Amritsar district||After the release of fresh guidelines by the state government, the district administration on Friday clamped night curfew from 9 pm (from today night). Earlier, the district administration had imposed the night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira stated that night curfew was enforced to curb the rising cases of Covid-19 in the district and all residents should follow the guidelines.The number of cases of Covid-19 has seen a spurt in the last week of February and the district witnessed highest single-day spike of 231 cases since September on Thursday. Moreover, five deaths were also reported on Thursday. Following which, the district administration decided to start the night curfew from 9 pm instead of 11 pm.Meanwhile, no death was reported today and the district witnessed a slight decline in the number of cases. The district reported 181 new cases, pushing the tally to 17,716 in the district. So far, the district has reported a total of 17,716 positive cases and with new 77 recovery cases the number of recovered cases stands at 15,724. Now, 1,361 cases are reported active. A total of 631 deaths have been reported in the district till date.The health department vaccinated 2,674 persons in the local government hospitals and health centres. Apart from this, 524 persons were vaccinated at private hospitals of the city. Out of a total of 29,677 cases, 16,158 healthcare workers have been vaccinated till date, which is 54.45 per cent. Out of 25,126 registered frontline workers, 15,327 were vaccinated which is 61 per cent of the total. Till date, 23,984 persons aged above 45 and senior citizens got the jab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-govt-directions-night-curfew-from-9-pm-in-amritsar-district-227963
20-03-2021||---||Colleges, schools shut till March 31 in Amritsar district||Amritsar, March 19Following the fresh instructions by the Punjab Government for all educational institutes, all schools and colleges would remain closed till March 31 in the district.Guru Nanak Dev University has also postponed all examinations and offline classes till further notice. The teaching work in all departments of the university, at regional campuses and affiliated/constituent colleges will remain suspended till March 31. “However, the classes will continue through the online mode. The teaching and non-teaching staff will continue to work as no directions have been received in this regard,” informed Prof SS Behl, Dean (Academic Affairs), GNDU.Classes VIII, X & XII exams postponedThe PSEB Class VIII exams scheduled to be held from March 22 have been postponed. The Classes X and XII exams that were earlier supposed to begin on April 9 and March 22, respectively, will now be held from May 4 to May 24, while the Class XII board exams will be held from April 20 to May 24. The state government had declared preparatory leaves for the students in the government, government-aided and private schools in the wake of increasing cases of Covid-19.Before the state government took a decision in the regard, offline examinations for the constituent colleges and affiliated colleges were underway. Meanwhile, Dr Manoj Kumar, Professor in-charge, Examinations, said the theory examinations of annual and semester system (including examinations for courses being run under Credit Based Evaluation and Grading System) being held from March 20 to 31 had been postponed as per the decision of the Government of Punjab in view of Covid-19 situation in the state.The new dates of examinations will be informed in due course of time. More information can be taken from Principals of the colleges/heads of the departments concerned, Centre Superintendents and from the university website. The time and venue of the examinations will be the same.Meanwhile, confusion prevailed in various private schools in the city as to the guidelines regarding teaching and non-teaching staff. In middle of conducting offline exams for various classes, all schools, government and non-government have now suspended the exams, with possible re-scheduling after March 31.“Till now, the directions received state that all examinations, including the PSEB Class VIII examinations that were scheduled to be held from March 22, will remain suspended till March 31. We are still waiting for instructions regarding continuation of duties of teaching and non-teaching staff in schools,” said Satinderbir Singh, DEO (Secondary). He said the online classes, if any, would continue as per the earlier procedure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/colleges-schools-shut-till-march-31-in-amritsar-district-227964
20-03-2021||---||Amritsar residents upbeat over six-lane road to airport||Amritsar, March 19The announcement of six-lane roads to the airport and Attari in Parliament session has brought cheer to local residents. Responding to a query posed by Amritsar Lok Sabha MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Union Minister of Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari stated that the road from Amritsar to Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport and from Amritsar to the Attari border would be expanded to six lanes.Appreciating the Union Government’s move, Manmohan Singh Brar, a senior citizen, stated that the proposed construction of the six-lane elevated road to the airport was the need of the hour. He said since the project was in the DPR stage its pace should be expedited as its implementation would diminish the number of accidents.He said it was a good sign that the Union Minister was well aware of four vulnerable spots, besides unsatisfactory maintenance work by a company whose contract was already terminated.Kulwant Singh, a retired principal, said allocation of Rs 260 crore for rectification of four black spots, would bring about a change for better.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-upbeat-over-six-lane-road-to-airport-227957
20-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja---||Parks, green belts in Amritsar crying for attention||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 19 Despite civic body renovating parks under the Smart City project, a number of them still continue to be in a dismal condition.  A park and green belt outside Gurdwara Saheedan has become a safe haven for dogs and stray animals. The green belt, which was developed between inner-ring road and outer-ring road, has been in pathetic condition. Apart from this, parks in various localities were crying for attention. The MC officials claimed that most of these parks would be redeveloped under the Smart City project. The Smart City officials said a total of 13 parks have been developed in Phase I and 25 parks would be developed and beautified in Phase II. Parks, including Municipal Park Tungbala, Company Bagh, Guru Ramdas Dental College, Park Number One, Two and Three in front of GT road, Kot Karnail Singh Park, Tikauni Park Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Fatehpur Village Park and Fatehpur Singh Colony Park, Berry Gate Park, Bhushanpura Park 2, Arya Samaj Girls School Park 2, Subhash Park 2 Hall Gate road, Tanky Park of Nikka Singh Colony, Shourie Nagar Park, South City Park Dhapai, Friends Avenue Park Ajnala road, Park 1 Bhalla Colony Chaharta, Paradise Colony Park Narayangarh, Dhakka Colony Park (Near Chintpurni Temple), HIG Colony Park, Sunrise Park, Janata Colony Park Green Avenue, Behind Tangra Colony Park (DTO Office) ) and a park in front of Jagatjyoti School (Rani Ka Bagh) would be developed in Phase II. Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu, said, “Development work of almost all the parks under Phase I is almost complete. Under Phase II, development and beautification work of 25 parks will be done. Tenders were issued in September last year and a contractor has also been selected. Work orders will be issued soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parks-green-belts-in-amritsar-crying-for-attention-227958
20-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar hospital firing: Prime suspect, aide held||The city police have arrested the prime suspect and one of his accomplices in a firing incident that took place at the Civil Hospital here around 1 am on Sunday. Emergency medical officer Dr Bhavneet Singh had sustained a bullet injury in the incident.No official concerned about my well-being, says doctor injured in civil hospitalThe prime suspect has been identified as Sunny Sahota and his accomplice Ganju. DCP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar confirmed their arrest and said raids were on to nab their other accomplices. Rahul Nagi and his brother Madan Nagi, both residents of the Putlighar area, had a dispute with Sunny Sahota at Luv Kush Nagar locality followinga minor altercation.According to the police, Sunny, along with his accomplices Gattu, Ganju, Raj Kumar Raju and their four unidentified friends, clashed with Rahul and Madan, who were hit in the head. After some time, Sunny and his friends returned to the spot and allegedly fired gunshots at Rahul, who escaped narrowly. A complaint was lodged at the Cantonment police station following which a case was registered against the accused.The police sent Rahul and his brother to the Civil Hospital for treatment and medical examination report. However, Sahota, along with his accomplices Raju, Vijay Pardhan, Aman, Gattu, Sunny, Barinder Singh and six unidentified persons, reached the emergency room and started quarrelling with Rahul. Sunny allegedly fired around three gunshots and a bullet hit Dr Bhavneet, leaving him injured. Three persons — Aman, Vijay Pardah and Barinder Singh — were nabbed the next day while the remaining were still absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-hospital-firing-prime-suspect-aide-held-227768
