21-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh looted||Gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh were looted by holding a family hostage in the Civil Lines area of Amritsar on Sunday, police said.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik said four to five people gained entry into a house located near the district courts and made a family hostage at gunpoint.He said the family told police that the accused took away gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh besides some cash. A case has been registered and further investigation is on, police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-gold-ornaments-worth-rs-25-lakh-looted-228489
21-03-2021||---||238% rise in cases as compared to Feb||Amritsar, March 20With four more casualties reported on Saturday, the death toll in the district has increased to 635. The district health authorities have also reported 195 new cases springing the total count to 17,911.The deceased have been identified as Narinder Singh, a 58-year-old from Ranjit Avenue, Manpreet Singh (42) of Shareefpura, Jasbir Kaur (67) of Heir village and Balbir Kaur (70) of Ajnala. The officials stated that the fresh cases include 130 influenza-like illness cases and 65 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, the health officials reported recovery of 79 patients – recovery count has also improved to 15,803 – but the active caseload in district is continuously on the rise since the start of recent spurt in cases since the last week of February and reached 1,473 on Saturday.The government has undertaken various actions in view of the rise in cases. With night curfew in city and restrictions on malls, cinema halls, and gatherings, the chances of spread of infection will decrease. People should also take proper precautions while going out and should avoid unnecessary movement. —Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil SurgeonThe district has witnessed an increase of 238 per cent in the number of new cases in March with 2,179 cases till date as compared to 644 cases in February. It has also registered a 250 per cent spike in deaths with 42 deaths in March as compared to only 12 deaths in February.The health officials stated that around 58,000 people in the district have been inoculated at different government and private vaccination centres. The officials stated that a few of the private hospitals are yet to start vaccination and have been asked to do it at the earliest. The number of residents being vaccinated in rural areas is also low as compared to urban areas due to lack of awareness.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the government has undertaken various actions in view of the rise in cases. He added with night curfew in city and restrictions on malls, cinema halls, and gatherings, the chances of spread of infection would decrease. He said that people should also take proper precautions while going out and should avoid unnecessary movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/238-rise-in-cases-as-compared-to-feb-228103
21-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||People adopt ‘ignorant’ attitude towards Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 20The police have been on their toes to ensure successful implementation of the night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am following the directions of the Punjab Government in order to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.Cops along with the health teams organised joint nakas for testing those who failed to wear masks and violated other health guidelines.Despite the surge in new cases, which has also resulted in more casualties, residents have adopted an ‘ignorant’ attitude towards the pandemic.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said, “Along with laying stress on creating awareness among residents to follow the health guidelines, we are also taking stern action against violators.”On Friday, the police challaned 235 persons for violating safety protocols. A total of 650 persons have been challaned after March 17 when the guidelines were issued. If people do not learn a lesson, more and more offenders would face the music, said the Deputy Commissioner of Police.Bhandal said in order to implement curfew, four additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, 12 Assistant Commissioner of Police, 20 SHOs and 37 chowki in charge have been deputed at 60 points in the city.“Forty nakas are installed in different parts of the city during the day to distribute masks to commuters and create awareness,” he said.The Health Department has also set up camps for taking samples. Bhandal appealed residents to cooperate and behave in a responsible manner to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-adopt-ignorant-attitude-towards-covid-228104
21-03-2021||---||Teachers to attend school as usual||Amritsar, March 20As the state government has directed to shut down schools, colleges and other educational institutions till March 31, no clear instructions regarding teaching and non-teaching staff had put private institutes in confusion.In a meeting chaired by Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday, it was maintained that teaching staff will attend school and tend to perform their duties.The virtual meet was attended by School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, who further issued directions regarding the proceedings in the government and non-government schools.The School Education Secretary also reviewed various schemes being run in the interest of students in the government schools.The District Education Officers, Deputy District Education Officers, District Mentors, Nodal Officers, Principals and District Media Coordinators, also participated in the meet.Meanwhile, teaching staff of private schools attended school as per their daily schedule. As most schools suspended examination till March 31, no online examinations would be held till further directions.Kumar also discussed the schemes undertaken by the Education Department in the interest of students in the government schools to enhance credibility and impart quality education.“Number of students securing above 90 per cent marks in the board exams have increased consistently and several other schemes, including enrolment drives and preparatory online classes are being run efficiently,” he said.Satinderbir Singh, DEO (Secondary), Amritsar, shared details related to number of enrolments till March 18. “In pre-primary classes, 30,383 enrolments took place; in primary classes, 22,505 enrolments were done and middle classes saw 33,302 enrolments. In secondary classes, 10, 577 new students were registered. Secondary classes saw 3.59 per cent more admissions than previous years,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-to-attend-school-as-usual-228106
21-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Pending dues: Civic body to cut power supply to LED screens at Heritage Street?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 20The advertisement wing of Municipal Corporation is chewing over the thought of disconnecting the connection of LED screens installed at the Heritage Street due to non-payment of dues.The advertisement wing in-charge Sushant Bhatia on Saturday visited the Heritage Street and called the officials of Jaipur-based firm NS Publicity Private Limited and asked them to deposit the pending dues. According to information, a major amount of the private firm, which operates the LED screens, is pending. Bhatia said that failure to pay their dues would result in discontinuation of the power connection.Apart from the Heritage Street, the advertisement officials also visited several other areas and verified the unipoles.It is worth mentioning here that the MC had set the target to collect Rs12 crore as revenue recovery from advertisement in the city. However, the advertisement wing has collected only 1.17 crore till date. There is a great potential of revenue in this business but a mafia is reportedly active in the city.“Today, I have physically verified the unipoles and gateries in the city. We will check the record of the advertisement company not paying the dues, strict actions would be taken to augment the process of recovery,” said Bhatia.The MC Commissioner Komal Mittal recently reshuffled the in-charges of various departments, including advertisement wing. The officials would also check the display boards being installed on the private buildings. By all accounts, the owners are also violating the norms on large scale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pending-dues-civic-body-to-cut-power-supply-to-led-screens-at-heritage-street-228107
21-03-2021||---||Dance is prancing on razor’s edge||Amritsar, March 20Sharing interesting anecdotes and giving a glimpse into the history of dance in India, dance historian and critic Ashish Khokhar was at his candid best during the virtual session hosted by the Majha House. In conversation with former IAS and noted scholar Chiranjiv Singh, Ashish talked about the past, present and future of dance forms in India in context to the current times.“The first ever PhD on Indian dance was done not in India but at Sorbonne in Italy. This conveys the popularity Indian dance forms enjoyed globally and this was decades back. Today, we just might have compromised on our traditional forms of dance in the name of experimentation,” he said.Talking about the earliest influences on traditional dance forms, he said classical dance forms gained mainstream popularity when they were used in cinema. “The curious fact is that since classical dance was used in cinema, initially the training of dance took place in Madras and the South Indian touch can be discerned in films like Kalpana. Indian dance and its popularity were not limited to India alone. Of course, it spread to Lahore, Pakistan and featured in cinema there. South Indian influence is clearly present in Hindi cinema when Sandhya danced with Gopi Krishan in V Shantaram’s Jhanak Jhanak Payal Baaje. South Indian stars also featured in cinema and became everyone’s beloved icons like Vyjanthimala, Hema Malini, Sridevi and many others. If we talk about contemporary dance then stars like Rekha, Meena Kumari and Sridevi were all trained in one dance form or another.”His house is a museum of sorts with memorabilia and dance-related literature. As a custodian of dance’s history, Ashish said that originality of traditional dance forms needed to be revived and preserved. “Countries like Japan have carefully and painstakingly maintained and upheld their traditional forms of dance. I think where India falls behind is that people do not have the required time or patience. Earlier, the trainee would go to villages and spend years there learning the art but people today just don’t have the dedication and time so they make do with what they pass off as ‘experimentation’.”Ashish touched upon rigidity that has come to play in our lives which wreaks havoc upon dance and its popularity. “Earlier, dance was openly performed, viewed and learned in open public spaces like temples and chaupals and no one minded. But nowadays, we have become rigid in our outlook and dance has been secluded to private spaces. A limited view of religion also limits the spread of dance. That has also restricted the learning of dance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dance-is-prancing-on-razors-edge-228108
21-03-2021||---||Illegal kiosks mushroom outside GNDU||Amritsar, March 20Some vendors have set up illegal kiosks outside the shopping complex in front of Guru Nanak Dev University by demolishing the boundary wall of the market.Some mischievous persons had demolished the wall and following that officials of the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) had visited the spot on March 12.Dharminderjeet Singh, Estate Officer of MC, had stopped demolition of the wall but did not reconstruct the boundary. Moreover, senior officials of the MC had asked to register a police case against the persons responsible for demolishing the wall, but no action has been taken in this regard.The failure of the MC to implement the street-vending zone project is leading to chaos and nuisance in various areas of the city.More than 10 vendors have established their kiosks in the market outside GNDU. Now, more kiosks have come up in the same market.Resident of Kabir Park and shopkeepers in the market alleged that it was all with the connivance of MC employees.Dharminderjeet said no vendors would be allowed to demolish the wall and establish vend. “We will take strict action against the persons responsible for demolishing the wall, the EO said.It is worth mentioning here that even after identifying the locations for street-vending zones, the smart markets have not been established till date. Meanwhile, the mushrooming of illegal vends can be spotted anywhere in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-kiosks-mushroom-outside-gndu-228109
21-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Harike farmers leave for Delhi to be part of protest||Tarn Taran, March 20Under the leadership of Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, a group of farmers of Harike township left on tractor-trolleys to take part in the Delhi agitation here on Saturday.While addressing a rally at the time of departure, Satnam Singh Manochahal and other leaders called upon the farmers and mazdoors to unite in fighting against the anti-farmer policies of the Union Government. The leaders said the Union Government was working for the welfare of the corporate sector.They said the Union Government would face defeat one day as the countrymen had joined hands to repeal the three controversial farm laws as they had understood that these were not only anti-farmers but also anti-people. They said the Union Government was planning to finish micro businesses just for the growth of the corporate sector.The leaders said the farmers wanted a repeal of the three farm laws and the guarantee of the MSP through government procurement system. The farmers left for Delhi with mosquito nets and drinking water.It was the ninth jatha of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee that left for Delhi. It was blocking a road at the Singhu border.Meanwhile, workers of the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) held a protest against the closure of schools and colleges and the postponing of the annual exams due to the Covid-19 threat. Nachhatar Singh, district president and other leaders, said it was a political stunt of the state and the Centre to snub farmers and the other working sections for their agitations. The leaders warned that at this junction the people of the country had observed that it was the government’s diplomacy to divert the attention of the masses who were fighting against the alleged wrong policies of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harike-farmers-leave-for-delhi-to-be-part-of-protest-228110
21-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Display delimitation map, says SAD||Tarn Taran, March 20The SAD leaders have taken a serious note of the administration’s laxity in not displaying the map showing delimitation of the wards for the coming Nagar Council elections. The leaders also alleged that the administration was not ready to give the photostat copies of the map to general public to lodge objections if any over the delimitation of the wards.The election for the Nagar Council was expected any time as it could not be held with the election of other local bodies.The SAD leaders, led by Bhupinder Singh Khera, a former president of the Municipal Council, said the district administration through an advertisement published in a Punjabi daily on Friday had invited objections over the delimitation of the wards from the general public to be submitted within seven days from the publication of the notice.The SAD leaders said that the authorities had neither displayed the map of the delimitation of the wards on the public places nor the administration was ready to give copy of the map to study the ward limitations.The local self-government had increased the number of wards of the Municipal Council from 23 to 25.The Bath Road called Malhia Khurd and a well established colony on the Amritsar road in Kakka Kandiala village had been included in the Nagar Council, Tarn Taran.Kamaljit Singh, Executive Officer of the Municipal Council, said that it was not possible to display the delimitation map as it was big in size and could be stolen. He said the map had been shown to SAD leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/display-delimitation-map-says-sad-228111
21-03-2021||---||MC offices stay open for collection||Amritsar, March 20With 10 days left for depositing the property tax, the Municipal Corporation (MC) offices remained open to collect tax here on Saturday. The property tax wing has collected around 19.50 crore tax till date and is making effort to motivate people to submit their tax before March 31.However, the MC is far away from achieving its target of collecting Rs 34 crore, but officials are hopeful that they will reduce the shortfall difference.The MC has witnessed a shortfall of over Rs 6 crore in recovering property tax as compared to last year.During 2019-20, the MC had collected Rs 26.34 crore till March 31. This year, the MC had set a target of Rs 34 crore, but the Covid-19 pandemic hit the tax recovery.Pardeep Rajput, Estate Officer, said, “We have initiated the sealing drive to enhance the recovery of property tax. We are focusing on commercial buildings. Owing to Covid-19, the markets associated with tourism and hospitality witnessed major a setback. The hotel industry is reluctant to pay the tax. Our offices were open on Saturday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-offices-stay-open-for-collection-228112
21-03-2021||Amritsar||400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur: SGPC postpones event at Anandpur||The SGPC has postponed various religious events to be organised as part of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at Sri Anandpur Sahib from March 24 to 28. SGPC president Jagir Kaur on Saturday said the new dates would be announced after April 1.She said Hola Mohalla celebrations would be held as usual. The decision to postpone the March 24-28 event was taken at a meeting. Officials said the decision was taken in the wake of the Covid-19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-sgpc-postpones-event-at-anandpur-228113
21-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Man robbed of car at gunpoint||SAD (Taksali) cancels meetingTarn Taran: The Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) has postponed its today’s (March 21) meeting which was to be held at Chohla Sahib here due to the Covid-19 threat. Karnail Singh Peermohamad, spokesman for the party, said here on Saturday that the decision was taken with the consent of party president Ranjit Singh Brahampura. He said as the state and the Union Government had imposed restrictions, the party decided not to conduct the meeting. OCSuv, four bikes stolen in 2 daysAmritsar: An SUV and four motorcyles were stolen from different parts of the city in the last two days. Vehicle thefts have become common in the city despite the police arresting unscrupulous elements. Inderjit Singh of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar told the police that he had parked his SUV (Tata Safari) outside his house, which was stolen on Thursday. Shivam of Chheharta, Surjit Singh of Guru Nagar Verka, Rahul Kumar of Lahori Gate and Satish Kumar of Preet Nagar, lodged separate complaints with their respective police stations related to stealing of their motorcycles. Satish Kumar told the police the he used to sell goods on his bike. He said he found his motorycle missing from the spot where parked. Shivam, Surjit and Rahul, had parked their bikes outside their houses, which were stolen by unknown persons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint-228114
21-03-2021||Although the Assembly polls are a year away||All set for 2022 Assembly poll||18-year-old wins Miss PTC Punjabi-2021Batala’s Apneet Kaur (18), a Class XII student, has done the city proud by winning the Miss PTC Punjabi-2021 beauty pageant held in SAS Nagar last week. Brimming with youthful exuberance, Apneet, who these days cannot venture out of her house without being noticed, said she had been preparing for the big day for the last one year. The lockdown, a bane for many but a boon when it came to Apneet, came in handy as she used this time to prepare herself mentally and physically. It was also during this period that she honed her giddha and bhangra skills and also worked on her knowledge of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiat. On the D-day, she was fired left, right and centre with questions pertaining to Punjabi language, culture and folklore. Finally, she kept her nerve to revel on the big stage on the big day. Her father, Kanwal Manbir Singh, a government school teacher, was speechless when he got to know about her daughter’s success. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said the administration would be facilitating her soon. One thing is sure. That is the girl has not been carried away by success. “There are no secrets to success. It is the result of hard work, preparation and learning from failure. If you can be the best then why not be the best,” she remarked. Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal‘Atrocities’ against SC communityA three member team of the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission visited Bhagatpur village falling under the jurisdiction of Ghuman police station of Batala district after a Dalit woman complained that the local SHO “dragged her out from her home at midnight”. The issue was highlighted in the media following which a team comprising Gian Chand, Tarsem Singh Siyalkha and Prabh Dyal visited the village. They were accompanied by senior civil administration and police officers. The team recorded the statements of the aggrieved woman, villagers and a DSP-rank officer. The SHO’s statement was also taken cognisance of. Later, members of the panel marked the probe to the Director, Punjab Bureau of Investigations. The team also recommended the SSP to suspend the SHO till the inquiry was completed. An officer claimed that atrocities against the SC community were common in the area. However, only those cases are taken note of which are highlighted by the media. All others get swept under the carpet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-set-for-2022-assembly-poll-228115
21-03-2021||Involving in social work during the peak of the pandemic in May 2020||‘ Keep calm, remain positive in every situation’||It was shocking at that time as full precautions were being taken, but having a positive frame of mind besides maintaining a routine is the key to fight with the virus, according to Kanwarmeet.“My wife had earlier survived the cancer by maintaining positivity and we know exactly what to do in such crisis,” he said.I picked up necessary goods and shifted to the top floor of the house for quarantine. I preferred not to wake Tejinder as she might get shocked. In the morning, when she woke up, I informed her over the phone and asked to shift with me. —Kanwarmeet Sandhu, Govt teacherHe said he lost his smelling power following which he decided to undergo for test. The department was also asking the staff and teachers for the same. Therefore, he and his wife got tested. Three days later, in the midnight, both received the report.“Ipicked up necessary goods and shifted to the top floor of the house for quarantine. I preferred not to wake Tejinder as she might get shocked. In the morning, when woke up I informed her over phone and asked to shift with me,” he said.As it was getting problematic how to kill the time, they decided to make a time-table and set our routine for keeping our mind occupied in constructive works. “We read books on freedom fighters like Kartar Singh Sharabha, Subhas Chandra Bose, besides clean our rooms, exercised twice a day and listening to hymns to keep ourselves positive.” “I also kept in touch with the health staff and took prescribed medicines regularly. After 12 days, the doctors declared that we have recovered and after 14 days we got retested again and reports came negative.” It was also the blessing of the people and support of family that kept them going. “Our elderly parents and children assured that we have a healthy diet during that period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/keep-calm-remain-positive-in-every-situation-228117
21-03-2021||Amritsar||More farmers from Tarn Taran, Amritsar leave for Singhu||A convoy of tractor-trailers and other vehicles with protesters from Tarn Taran and the holy city on Saturday left to take part in the ongoing farmers’ protest against the central agricultural laws at the Singhu border. It was the ninth jatha from Tarn Taran district which left from the Harike Pattan area.They would take part in the programmes to mark the martyrdom of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on March 23.“Around 40 per cent protesters at the Singhu border hail from the Majha region. A large number of them are from Amritsar,” said Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC).Pandher accused the Capt Amarinder Singh government of playing politics with agitating farmers. He alleged “under the garb of Covid-19 restrictions, public assemblies are being prohibited to prevent the farmers from reaching protesting sites at the Delhi border.”Similarly, the Manohar Lal Khattar government was trying to stifle the voice of the common man, alleged Pandher, adding that the Property Recovery Loss Bill was recently introduced to put pressure on the peasant movement in Haryana.Similar charges were levelled by leaders of the Democratic Teachers’ Front. One of the front leaders, Ashwani Awasthi, said the government was trying to gag all democratic protests, including farmers’agitation, under the garb of Covid-19 management.Meanwhile, activists affiliated to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) of Attari carried out a motorcylce rally to impress upon the central government to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws.The rally started from Nangali village and concluded at the Jallianwala Bagh. With banners of martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev installed on the tractor-trailers, the rally passed through various areas of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/more-farmers-from-tarn-taran-amritsar-leave-for-singhu-228126
21-03-2021||Amritsar||Nagar kirtan marks Gurpurb festivities||Amid showering of petals and chanting of Gurbani, a nagar kirtan, dedicated to the fourth centenary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur, commenced from his birth place Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal on Saturday.Before this, Golden Temple’s Hazuri Raagi recited kirtan. Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “The motive of the nagar kirtan was to make the sangat aware of historic occasions and link them with the Gurmat philosophy.”“We are fortunate that the centenary has fallen in our lifetime and we must utilise the occasion to pray before the Almighty,” SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-marks-gurpurb-festivities-228137
