22-03-2021||Amritsar||US Sikhs offer to set up solar power plant in Golden Temple complex||With the assistance of US-based Sikhs, the SGPC has initiated to install a solar power system in the Golden Temple complex.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday held parleys with a delegation from California-United Sikh Mission led by Rashpal Singh Dhindsa and Sikh Lens Foundation president Vicky Singh and the members of coordination committee for installing solar power system, including coordinator Baldev Singh Kang, technical experts Balaur Singh, director retired PEDA (Punjab Energy Development Agency) and Dr NP Singh, retired Dean Punjab Technical University (PTU), Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh.Bibi Jagir Kaur said the SGPC executive had decided to put the power supply mechanism on solar system mode and United Sikh Mission volunteered to do the service.“After exploring all the technical feasibility, it was decided that a solar power system of at least 1 megawatt (MW) capacity could be installed as a pilot project. The equipment would be fixed on the rooftop of buildings located in the Shrine complex. Thereafter, it could be replicated in Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh, Takht Damdama Sahib and other gurdwaras,” she said.Rashpal Singh Dhindsa said the project would cost around Rs 8 crore and it would take around four months to fit the equipment.“Abiding by Gurus’ teachings, the US Sikh sangat spared their dasvandh (one-tenth of the earnings) for the noble cause. The project would be executed in a phased manner and our aim was to illuminate the whole shrine complex uninterruptedly. This 1MW solar power plant would produce about 14 lakh units of electricity per year and it will reduce electricity expenses of SGPC at Sri Darbar Sahib by about 50 per cent i.e. about Rs 1.25 crore annually,” he said.Meanwhile, Vicky Singh also showed gratitude towards the SGPC which gave them an opportunity to contribute for the Shrine.“We had received proposals from seven top solar power companies based in India and the best was chosen to execute the job,” he said.During the meeting, Sikh Lens Foundation also presented a set of books to Bibi Jagir Kaur with information of gurdwaras and Sikh heritage in Pakistan and Afghanistan.On this occasion, senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, SGPC member Bhai Manjit Singh, Amrik Singh Vichhoya, Gurmeet Singh Booh, assistant secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, Golden Temple manager Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, OSD Dr Sukhbir Singh were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/us-sikhs-offer-to-set-up-solar-power-plant-in-golden-temple-complex-228934
22-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Armed robbers hold goldsmith’s family hostage, loot Rs25L gold||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 21In yet another incident, several armed persons robbed a goldsmith after holding his family hostage at gunpoint in the posh Mall Road area near Kitchlew Chowk here on Sunday. Police officials reached the spot and started investigation. This is third such incident in the holy city in the recent past though the police had solved the earlier two cases.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh Sandhu said the armed persons with covered faces entered the house at around 11 am and remained there for at least an hour. They were five in number.The victim, Ashish Arora (goldsmith), along with his father SK Arora, mother and grandmother, was present in the house when the accused entered the house. They pointed guns at the family members, held them hostage and later took along Ashish Arora.They decamped with a box containing over 700 gm of gold ornaments worth around Rs 25 lakh. They also took away Rs 50,000 cash from the family. Before escaping, they locked the family in the bathroom so that they could not call the police immediately.The ACP said Ashish somehow broke open the bathroom door and informed the police. The house has two entry points — one from the main Mall Road and other from the Kennedy avenue side. However, there was no CCTV camera installed at the entrance points or in the house. The police have registered a case and launched further investigation.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jugraj Singh said different teams had been formed to conduct raids. He said the police were working on different theories to crack the case. He said the role of an insider could not be ruled out.A preliminary probe found that the house has four servants, including two maids. A servant had recently left his job. Being Sunday, these servants had not come to house. Police officials said they were summoned by the police for interrogation.Earlier, similar incidents had rocked the city when unknown armed persons robbed a trader’s and a doctor’s family after holding their families hostage. The police had cracked the cases while claiming the involvement of a single person behind these two lootings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-robbers-hold-goldsmiths-family-hostage-loot-rs25l-gold-228799
22-03-2021||---||5 deaths, 184 fresh cases reported in dist||Amritsar, March 21The district on Sunday witnessed five more deaths due to the Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, pushing the toll to 640. Besides, the district also reported 184 new cases, taking the total count to 18,095.The deceased have been identified as Baljit Kaur (53) of Friends Avenue, Subhash (58) of Sundar Nagar, Sukhwinder Kaur (49) of New Amritsar, Parampreet Singh (24) of Othian village and Sudesh Kumar (80) of Garden Enclave.The health authorities stated that new cases included 124 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 60 contacts of positive patients. Officials also reported the recovery of 80 patients with which the recovery count had increased to 15,883. The active cases stood at 1,572 in the district.Meanwhile, the district administration has started getting tough with those do not wear masks in public places. The administration on Sunday started a drive to check violations and collected samples of 240 persons who were stopped at check points for not wearing masks.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said all 240 samples tested negative. “The drive would help as people would wear mask to save them from the hassle.” He said testing would be further increased to check the spread of the disease.The DC said policemen had been asked to work in association with the Health Department and stop people who were not wearing masks. “The samples of such persons would be collected on the spot and sent for testing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-deaths-184-fresh-cases-reported-in-dist-228800
22-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Tung Dhab — a bane for city residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 21Despite the issue of Tung Dhab’s (drain) toxic industrial effluents adversely impacting lives of thousands of people living around it being raised in Parliament, residents do not expect any positive outcome.Recently, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla raised the matter in the Lower House. Locals rued that the matter hogged limelight at various levels, but no solution has been found to date.After passing through the city, the drain crosses Radcliffe Line and falls into Lahore’s Hudiara drain, which merges in Ravi river. Years ago, Pakistan had lodged a complaint against India in the United Nations against polluting their rainwater drain.Avtar Singh, a resident of Anmol Enclave, situated near Tung Dhab drain, said they had contacted the district authorities numerous times, but to no avail. He said,“Drain releases stench throughout the year. The problem gets intensified in summer as toxic gases lead to malfunctioning of electronic gadgets, including refrigerators, air-conditioners (ACs) and televisions, which need frequent servicing.”Balwinder Singh of Amardas Colony said smell emanating from the drain makes it impossible to breathe. We have been hearing announcements of the government from decades, but nothing has been done to fix the problem.Earlier, former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, had approached the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). However, the NEERI backed out of the ambitious project of cleaning the drain citing high-toxic elements.Dharminder Singh, a resident of Swiss City, said the drain emanates strong pungent smell throughout the year, which becomes unbearable during summer.Highly-contaminated groundwaterDug up in 1955 to prevent floods, the drain originates from Gurdaspur. Its toxic effluents made it a fit case to study, which has been done by multiple agencies. All these studies pointed out that persistently toxic industrial effluents were being released into the drain, which resulted in highly-contaminated groundwater and poor air quality around it. Heavy metals, chemicals and industrial effluents have percolated into sub-soil and aquifers, which adversely affect human health.The studies were conducted by PGIMER, Chandigarh, Chemistry Department of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) in collaboration with Aquatic Biology Laboratory of GNDU. These studies found evidence of eye and skin ailments, endocrine disruptions, cancer and congenital defects among people, besides damaging children’s DNA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tung-dhab-%E2%80%94-a-bane-for-city-residents-228801
22-03-2021||---||GST clauses affecting biz: Beopar Mandal||Amritsar, March 21The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) raised concern over major clauses of the GST upsetting their businesses during a meeting held here on Sunday.  Piara Lal Seth, president of the PPBM, said over 1,000 amendments took place in the GST which  deflected it from its objective of unification and simplification in law. He said the government had not been giving heed to their persistent efforts to flag trouble points in the new tax regime. As per the changes, traders will receive input tax credit (ITC) only on those items details of which were uploaded on portal by the seller one month in advance.The claims of ITC are not likely to be released soon as registered dealers file either monthly or quarterly returns. Consequently, huge sums of the traders are entangled with the government and the traders will be forced to pay more in terms of taxes. The business houses with Rs 50 lakh monthly turnover cannot claim 100 per cent ITC. Those houses with less than Rs 5 crore turnover have the advantage of filing quarterly returns but they have to deposit 35 per cent tax on the basis of their previously filed return. The process of getting GST number has been made more cumbersome as officials will carry out physical verification and biometric inspection. Distance limit of e-way bill has been increased from present 100 km per day to 200 km per day. It was causing e great inconvenience to merchandise while on their way to delivery. Officials have been given the power to cancel the GST number of the traders without assigning any reason and offering any opportunity for appeal. A provision for demand has been added in the GST as per which the property of GST registered traders can be confiscated. On the line of 22 per cent income tax for the corporate houses, partnership and proprietor companies must be given the same facility as they are paying 30 per cent. They demanded onetime settlement scheme for VAT returns before July 2017. The government must extend hundred percent guarantee of the amount of the GST traders lying with banks. Petrol and diesel should also be brought under the GST to provide relief to all segments of the society. They warned the government that ignoring the interest of traders would compel them to hold public agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gst-clauses-affecting-biz-beopar-mandal-228803
22-03-2021||---||MC Budget meet on March 26||Amritsar, March 21 The Budget general house meeting of the Municipal Corporation will be held on March 26. It will be held in the conference hall of Ranjit Avenue office of the MC. The agenda for the budget meeting has been prepared. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu will chair the meeting. Agenda branch superintendent Daljit Singh said the process of distributing the Budget agenda to all house members would be started on Monday. The proposal for the general house meeting is yet to prepare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-budget-meet-on-march-26-228805
22-03-2021||---||Minor girl alleges rape, one booked||Amritsar, March 21The police have booked a ‘social media star’ for allegedly making physical relations with a minor girl of Ludhiana on the pretext of marriage. The accused has been identified as Sagar Sidoria of Amritsar.The police have booked the accused under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Saturday.The victim told the police that her friend had introduced her to the accused as a ‘TikTok’ star and model. She said on February 27, she met the accused when he proposed to her and she accepted his marriage proposal.She alleged on pretext of marriage, the accused took her to Chandigarh where they stayed for around four days and Sagar made physical relations with her. She said later the accused called her at Amritsar on March 7 and he took her in a car (PB-18-U-6007) near the bus stand.She said due to darkness she could not identify the place. She alleged the accused raped her there. She said now the accused had refused to marry her.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma said the matter was under investigation following a complaint lodged with the police by the victim. He said Rani Ka Bagh police chowki in-charge Khushbu Sharma had been deputed to probe the case. The medical examination of the girl would be conducted soon and raids were on to nab the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-alleges-rape-one-booked-228807
22-03-2021||---||Dattar gang member rearrested||Amritsar, March 21The Verka police have rearrested a member of the dattar gang who escaped from their lock-up two days ago.The accused has been identified as Gauravdeep Singh, a resident of Jahangir village.Verka police station SHO Nishan Singh said Gauravdeep was heading from Mudhal village to Fatehgarh Shukarchak village when they got hold of him.Earlier, the police had arrested three snatchers, including Sukhpal Singh, alias Sukha, Randeep Singh, alias Mota, both residents of Sohian Khurd village, and Gauravdeep. The trio was on two-day police remand and Gauravdeep somehow managed to escape from the police lock-up.Constable Charanamatbir Singh said he took Sukhpal out of the lock-up at around 9.45 am to answer the call of nature. He said Gauravdeep suddenly came out and tried to escape. Charanamatbir said he along with ASI Swarndeep Singh caught Gauravdeep, but the latter pushed them and fled from the spot.A fresh case has been registered under Section 224 of the IPC against Gauravdeep.Dattar gang used to rob people with sharp-edged weapons, especially sickle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dattar-gang-member-rearrested-228808
22-03-2021||Tarn Taran||One arrested for theft bid||NCC cadets visit Army unitAmritsar: NCC cadets gained exposure of defence lifestyle while staying with an Army unit. NCC cadets of the 24 Punjab Battalion got the opportunity to live with army unit. Commanding officer of the battalion, Col AS Chauhan, said they enjoyed the infantry life. They even drove in military tanks and saw other sophisticated weapons. Colonel Chauhan said this lifetime experience in the growing age would encourage them to carve out their career in the armed forces. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-for-theft-bid-228810
22-03-2021||Do you think there is a need for another lockdown to contain spread of contagion?||If not a Covid warrior...at least don't be a carrier||Is India ready for another shutdown?It is a total waste of time to sit back in denial of the fact that we have already been knocked on by the second wave of the deadly virus. Till the entire population gets vaccinated, the only way to escape steadily increasing cases is precaution. Knowing that the virus has not disappeared, decisions such as opening schools and colleges, opting for offline exams over online seem completely lunatic. People treating masks and sanitisers like another fashion trend and not as a lawful obligation is nothing short of an open invitation to the virus in the coming times that perhaps will call for the lockdown for which country is not ready at all. The nation is still recovering from last year’s hasty implementations that contrary to the intentions led to chaos and panic amongst the public. Also, the word ‘lockdown’ is engulfed with fear of economical and psychological strain. Daily wagers who are not left with much savings in their banks are the most vulnerable section to face the setbacks. Nobody wants a second trail of this Covid-induced prison, but if protocols are not followed, I fear we don’t have any option.Dinkle PopliHeavy fines, night curfew can workIf things don’t improve and continue to go downhill then the lockdown’s a reality and not a choice, to stem the flow of cases. A population, unwilling to follow SOPs (standard operating procedures) has to be handled differently. Here imposition of fines could work well and alongside generate substantial sum, to go forward as incentives to police personnel for exemplary vigil duties. At the same time such impositions would have a deterrent effect on the common man who would then be pressured by his employer to follow the SOPs. Even now, the fear of fines could be re- imposed. Alongside a night lockdown to deter nightlife and dines could be imposed. Gatherings of not more than six persons, at a table with masks, at enclosed restaurants could be imposed. Failure should result in a heavy fine for eatery owners and not clients. Similarly, wedding party of 20 with masks, with owner of restaurant or marriage area disallowing any flouting of rules (as he could be paying a massive fine for the demeanour), could prove a very strong deterrent. Countries like South Korea, used a policy of:1. Testing every staff member working in the industry by companies themselves.2. Masks were mandatory3. Social distancing followed while working4. Hand hygieneAnd thus, it saved livelihood and lives by successfully checking the spread. In India many unorganised sectors remain employer-less and out of this ambit, thus continue to remain unchecked.Rashmi TalwarNo need for locking the nation downThe world is battling the most severe global outbreak of recent times. Undoubtedly, cases had started declining in India in October last year. Unfortunately, the recent data by the Health Ministry shows a sudden upsurge in the cases. Similarly, deaths in India increased by 28 per cent recently; here is a debatable topic – whether there is a need for another lockdown? So, I opine that there is no requirement to lock the country down again because India is firmly fighting the virus. Some people had predicted that its impact would be very severe. But, recovery rate is much better here. Firstly, middle-income groups are hurt disproportionately more perhaps because they are most likely to be dependent on sources of income that are hit due to the lockdown. Secondly, the migrant workers as well as other people stranded in different parts of the country countered a host of unforeseen challenges. Primarily, the core reason behind lessening the spread is population’s strong immune system and power to resist diseases. Also, environment and food habits could provide some degree of resistance to infection. Further, the persistent usage of BCG vaccination in India could have provided a boost to develop robust innate and adaptive immunity against infectious agents. During my visit to Canada, I saw the way its disaster management committee tackled the pandemic by applying certain precautionary measures instead of locking the whole country.Guriqbal Singh JohalVaccination drive has to hit top gearYes, there is a surge in cases in the Amritsar but another lockdown is not the answer to bringing Covid under control. A few months ago, during my Dubai visit, I saw daily life has largely returned to normal in restaurants, malls and night clubs with citizens cooperating as they followed rules to wear mask, using sanitisers and social distancing. Compared to other countries, they have faced minimal economic damage. This virus is practically harmless to those under 55 – have found a willing audience in a frustrated and fatigued society. Many of these arguments can be grouped together under terms such as ‘herd immunity’, ‘focused protection’ or ‘shielding the vulnerable’. If the virus is seemingly only a risk to the elderly or those with preexisting conditions, they argue, why not shield the vulnerable and let everyone else get on with normal life? But if we think about farmers who are sitting on dharna in Delhi many of them are above 55, they have strong immunity. In India the recovery rate is also 96 per cent, there is no scope for another lockdown if vaccines are easily available at the government hospitals as well as in private government and administration should control gathering on wedding, cremation, swimming pool, theatre only and keep an eye on railway stations/bus station. Only workplaces should be opened and it must follow norms. I fully agree with that decision to get those attending events should be tested 72 hours prior or vaccinated ... hats off to this mastermind decision. We are not disposed towards the lockdown and there is no reason for imposing one either in Punjab. While infections are on the rise, fatalities have not, fortunately, risen correspondingly. We still have enough hospital beds to cope with emergencies. But the rate of vaccination needs to be increased.Baljeet Kaur JohalWear masks, practise social distancingI think there is no need for another lockdown. Already our city is facing various crises, including economic and social ones. Wearing masks and following social distancing is the way. Strict actions must be taken on these two. Education must be online till the vaccine drive reaches everyone. Children are more likely to get infected soon due to low immunity level. Night curfew should be imposed. Deaths are increasing on a high-scale because people are neglecting wearing masks and the aged ones should stay at home until they are vaccinated. Vaccination drive is going on and these steps are sufficient according to me if followed rightly.Radhika SananThink about other ways to tackle virusTo cope with the surge in cases in the city, instead of imposing another lockdown, there is an urgent need to expand vaccination campaign, compulsory wearing of masks at public gatherings, particularly political ones and maintenance of personal hygiene.TS BhattiThe unwanted history could repeat itselfCovid–19, a virus we could never imagine could shake the whole world is still prevalent and continues to harm our fellow beings. It has affected in every aspect, whether be it economy, education, health and the much-needed normalcy in our life. In the beginning of the lockdown last year, everyone was over cautious and took utmost care, wore masks and maintained social distancing to wipe off the virus. But now, people have started becoming careless as if the virus has already wiped away. This carelessness has forced our government to impose night curfews and the lockdowns in some highly affected areas. The lockdown will definitely help in controlling the sudden surge of cases but one must keep in mind the adverse effect on various sectors. During the lockdown, virus will be in control but the rest will be put at stake. People should not take lightly the spread of the pandemic and should continue to follow all precautions and take mandatory steps to be safe and make the world a better and healthy place for all.Manvi MalhotraNobody likes the lockdownWe will soon complete a year of virus after the infection was found in March. No doubt, the cases are increasing rapidly in the state and deaths are being reported on daily basis. Many states have decided to impose the lockdown due to second wave. Cities like Nagpur have already imposed the lockdown for a week in the state, but I don’t think that it is a good decision because it will severely affect many businesses and economy of the country. We know that people are irresponsible, they are not following any guidelines but rather than the lockdown, strict rules should be made and people who are not following norms should be punished. People should be guided so that they can become responsible and can fight against this pandemic situation. Nobody likes the lockdown but we have to follow some restrictions.Shivani AroraFollow norms to keep the lockdown at bayThe resurge of Covid cases is an issue of grave concern. People have been flouting the norms and not taking adequate precautions. Even the ‘vaccine scare’ was rife and many shirked from getting the jab fearing adverse reactions. The result is the resurge in cases with death toll gaining ground. Covid appropriate behaviour is mandatory for one and all, vaccine doesn’t give immunity until two weeks post- second shot and moreover the efficacy is around 70 per cent. Masses must adhere to guidelines. One must learn to live with the virus. Till the herd immunity is achieved, the invisible enemy is going to target the unarmed and vulnerable. People with comorbidities and old aged need to be extra-cautious. Everybody must go in for the vaccine shot as early as possible. If people do not resort to adequate precautions, avoid contacts and gatherings, government shall be forced to re-impose curfews and eventually the lockdown.Dr Raman GuptaIt will ruin everybody’s lifeNo, there is no need for another lockdown. Instead of it, we must impose a high penalty for those who not wearing masks and maintaining distance. If we imposed another lockdown, it will not be good for everyone – especially for students.Bhawna SharmaThe lockdown has been a saviourYes, surely I think now is a high time to implement the lockdown again cause it’s only a way out as people are so careless regarding masks and gatherings. Now it’s our responsibility being a citizen of India, we have to wake up otherwise Covid will spread its wings to the core. I know the lockdown has already damaged the whole system but at least we are alive. The government should fully implement night curfew so that people cannot roam around and it will stop weekend gatherings too.Richa MahajanThe vaccine should be taken seriouslyWe all know how fast the cases are increasing day by day and death rates too. As a human being and educated person we must know our good and bad. We should take care of ourselves. Yes, I believe that there should be a lockdown but not a complete one as before. As we all have seen how people were dying with the hunger and poverty. It should happen accordingly like night curfew as from 10pm to 6am or weekend curfew. Kindergarten schools should be closed. Higher classes should be reduced to three days a week. Mask should be compulsory. There should be heavy challan. Even in marriages or functions there should be a gathering of 50 people only. People should take the Covid-19 vaccine very seriously and follow all the government rules.Kirti Rohit SehdevAnother lockdown can save livesThe surge in Covid cases is due to carelessness attitude of general public towards coronavirus. People have openly started flouting the norms. Nobody is wearing masks and distancing is also not being maintained at public places. There is a great rush of people in cities because all have come out on roads to do one or other thing. In such scenario, the virus is spreading very easily and toll is increasing day by day. So, the necessity of another lockdown has already arisen. Since the masses, even the educated, are openly flouting the norms. It has become inevitable to impose another lockdown. Only another one can save lives.Sanjay ChawlaA new formula is required nowThe re-emergence of Covid infection’s new hotspots in some states has brought back lockdowns in many regions. Many districts in Punjab, including Amritsar are reporting a spike. But from last year’s experience, even the long lockdowns had not been able to stem the rising tide of infections. Many people were deprived of their livelihoods had to restrict their expenses on their normal diets, whichmade them more vulnerable to the infection due to decrease in their immunity to figh virus. The reimposing of restrictions can slow down the spread if norms are strictly followed by people, but cannot eradicate it. However, any lockdown can be used to improve health infrastructure. But, presaging past experiences enormous damage to livelihoods of the poor population happened. Another lockdown, if it becomes unavoidable, must be utilised to ramp up testing, arranging enough beds with oxygen support and streamline quarantine facilities, if not, the new outbreak of infections can become harder to control.LJ SinghLockdown is like a pause buttonThough there is a surge in Covid cases, the lockdown is not a panacea to surmount the monster of coronavirus. If it had been, it would have eliminated the virus when it was first clamped down. Rather the ramifications of the lockdown were disastrous as the unemployment rate shot up steeply hitting several key job areas. The lockdown is primarily like a pause button, the importance of which is mostly in the initial stages. It can prevent a little in spreading the virus but it cannot act as a long term solution. Earlier its unplanned imposition, it is alleged, impinged upon the right to freedom of movement and forced the poor labourers into penury. Perhaps the think-tank of the government has run out of ideas. It should scratch its head to know how the virus has again raised its ugly head in four-five states of the country and how to tame it without resorting to the lockdown. There is no sword in the war against the virus as yet but face mask can be used as a reliable shield. People should follow Covid appropriate behaviour and safety norms in letter and spirit. People should bid adieu to negligence. If we cannot be Covid warriors, we should not become Covid carriers too.Tarsem S BumrahWe will crumble if it happens againThere is no lockdown needed, But strict Covid norms to be enforced and follow all SOP’s related to Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks, social distancing, sanitisation of hands. The government must be sympathetic to their plight. According to the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), our state cannot sustain the burden of a lockdown for much longer. It will affect the livelihood of individuals which includes casual workers, daily-wagers, salaried workers, self-employed workers and also disruption of both demand and supply of the economy. Substantial efforts have to be made to give daily-wage workers assistance. Vaccination drive for citizens above the age of 60 years and persons aged 45 to 59 years who are suffering from hypertension and diabetes should be of utmost importance.Ankur GuptaAdhere to Covid norms pleaseThe lockdown last year was necessary as there was no vaccine available at that time to treat Covid-19 patients. Now that the mass vaccination drive has begun, the lockdown would cause more harm than good. Many would lose jobs and the economy will suffer greatly. The need of the hour is that the Covid-19 guidelines be strictly enforced by the authorities and sincerely followed by the people. People should consider mask to be more important than vaccine as prevention is better than cure.Jatinderpal Singh BatthEveryone must cooperate with govtThere is a sudden surge in the cases. Besides Covaxin and many precautions, many cases have surfaced in a couple of months. Night curfew in many of the states has been imposed to keep the cases in check. The government is very regular in their duties and giving more attention to their work these days. We see a lot of pale yellow wearers in every corner of the road fining every person not following the Covid norms. After almost a year, everything is coming to normalcy. The big institutions like schools, malls have opened so far after a year. These need a lot of precautions and safety. In my opinion, life, after a hiatus, is coming back on a track. Concluding, there should be no imposition of lockdown considering the underprivileged. Everyone must cooperate with the government.IzleenIt could do more harm than goodThe lockdown is not a panacea for all illness. It could inevitably do more harm than good. While it would matter little to the ‘haves’ it would spell doom for the ‘have-nots” specially the daily-wagers. They have barely got over the first blow, a second one would floor them. Rather than the lockdown, need of the hour is to go strict with the norms such as compulsory masking, handing penalties to offenders, assuring strict head counts of 100/200 on indoor/ outdoor functions, social distancing at public places, etc. This will help avoid spreading of virus while providing enough opportunities for the poor daily-wagers to make both ends meet.MS AnandDist administrations to blame for cases?There is not even an iota of doubt about your statement in regard to surge in cases in our city and state. Punjab is one of the five states of the country where cases are in ascending order. On March 4, Punjab reported 1,071 cases after a gap of five months. This is due to complacent attitude of the district administrations. They have shown a door to surveillance, containment and RT-PCR testing. Political leadership is more concerned about elections than following preventive measures to control the virus. Leaders are daily leading road shows and huge rallies in election-bound states and lakhs of people taking bathe in Haridwar on auspicious occasion of Kumbh, they don’t care for preventive measures. It is in the interest of the people also to follow preventive norms to control coronavirus as economy of our city is dependent on tourism and spreading of the disease is a great obstacle in promotion of tourism.Harsh N JoharCitizens need to pull their socks upWeeks after India eased its lockdown, the caseload is sky-rocketing day by day. It feels there is a dire need for another lockdown in the country as the rising death toll is disturbing to witness. But at the same time, we cannot afford to overlook the fact that India’s economy was already sputtering before the pandemic. Thus, the country cannot afford another crushing lockdown that would shut businesses and put more people out of work. That is why India has to work hard at containing the infection. Following suggestion can be considered:• Strict implementation of Covid safety guidelines. Inspection teams do random checking at relevant places more frequently and impose heavy fines to defaulters.• Increase sanitisation activities• Increase mobile Covid testing vans to do random checking• Identify containment zone and restrict movement thereSuneet KochharOnly if people were following norms…No doubt, the Covid cases are increasing in India day by day. In India, the total number of cases is 11,438,734, while the number of recoveries is 11,045,284. In my opinion, the need for another lockdown depends on the situation in the state. Irresponsible behaviour of people against the pandemic? Then there is a need to impose one. If the people have to follow some guidelines and wear mask then there is no need. This is a war against virus… This is the Third World War. Mask is an effective shield to protect ourselves from the virus. The government can impose night curfews for all the states due to higher rate of cases on daily basis. The government of all the states wants our country and all its citizens to be safe. If the people are safe, the country is also safe. It is high time to resolve this big issue so that people do not have to face futile challenges.Manmeet KaurNo political rallies, No need of lockdownFestival crowds should be strictly monitored for physical distance. The forthcoming 'hola mohalla' should not be allowed to become a virus pump.                                    — Prof Mohan SinghQUESTIONIssue of contaminated water and limited water supply has troubled the residents in various parts of the city. Is the municipal corporation acting on the complaints and taking swift action?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (March 25).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/if-not-a-covid-warrior-at-least-dont-be-a-carrier-228811
22-03-2021||Amritsar||Administration removes AAP hoardings in Amritsar||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Amritsar on his transit visit before proceeding to attend a farmers’ event at Baghapurana in Moga.Prior to his visit, the boards and hoardings of AAP were removed by the civic authorities in the wee hours, leading to AAP workers raising slogans against the civic administration.On removal of AAP hoardings by the civic authorities here, AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann said, “Kejriwal can never be detached from the hearts of the people by removing the boards and hoardings.” When asked about the restrictions imposed by the state government for holding a gathering in the wake of a spurt in Covid cases, Mann said, “The Congress has been contesting Assembly elections and holding rallies in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Assam, was the Covid threat taken under consideration then? Why did they do so when AAP was holding an event, that too for the farmers? All health guidelines are being followed at the venue,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/administration-removes-aap-hoardings-in-amritsar-228624
