23-03-2021||---||Ray of hope for revival of textile mills in district||AMRITSAR, MARCH 22Union Minister Smriti Irani’s assurance of subsidies for reviving textile mills and appointment of Textile Commissioner for the holy city has raised hopes of local industrialists.Responding to the demand of Amritsar Lok Sabha MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla in Parliament, she announced that various steps were in pipeline to revive the textile industry of the city. She informed that a Textile Commissioner would be appointed and subsidy would be given for its revival.Earlier, Aujla had raised the matter of ignoring the textile industry of the border city, which used to be hailed as Manchester of India. He said it used to offer employment to a large number of people.Textile Merchants Association (TMA) stated that the Union Government had not announced the textile policy which has been pending since 2016. Its members demanded that the New National Textile Policy should be framed to meet its requirements and redressal of shortcomings.There are two components of textile sector – organised and unorganised sector. Most of the units here fall in unorganised sector which come under the MSME category. The problems gripping this sector are very much different from other.Basic raw material for textile sector in India is polyester and woollen and worsted yarn. Woollen yarn, which is also called, greasy wool, is being imported from Australia and other countries. It said these raw materials should be made available at international price and particularly at the rate prevalent in Chinese market which could increase the textile export manifold. Improvement in the quality of wool in India either by importing merino goats from Australia or its sperm be arranged.SK Wadhwa, a textile manufacturer, said, free import of textile readymade and made-ups under SSARC from Bangladesh in particular has crippled the domestic industry. So amendments are required. “Export Promotion bodies should organise international seminars, conferences during winters in the holy city, which boasts of international airport and the best of road and rail connectivity,” he said.He demanded upgradation in the syllabi of IITs and polytechnics and direction to export promotion councils to arrange study and promotional tours overseas for textiles particularly shawls, Wool Research Center in Jodhpur may also improve research and development for innovation. “Setting up of a ‘wool technology centre’ at GNDU where courses can be offered to train students for wool exclusively,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ray-of-hope-for-revival-of-textile-mills-in-district-229053
23-03-2021||Amritsar||Intermittent showers bring respite to residents||Intermittent showers in the city and its surrounding areas on Monday gave a respite to residents from rising mercury. “If it had not rained, people might have been forced to use air conditioners at night,” said Sukhbir Singh, a shopkeeper. He said demand for cold drinks has also started picking up. Another resident, Kewal Kumar said, “As it had not rained for quite a long time, dust particles were there in the air. Now, rain has settled down dust particles and trees look greener.” As far as wheat crop is concerned, farmers heaved a sigh of relief as rain did not damage the crop. An agriculture official said, “Harvesting of crop will begin after April 15. In most areas, the crop is still green.” “In fact, cool weather at the time of ripening of grains helps in increasing yield. In extreme cold, grains dry up fast and shrink, which impacts yield,” he said. Those farmers who grew vegetable said weeds would grow in their fields due to rain and they need to spend extra to remove wild plants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/intermittent-showers-bring-respite-to-residents-229054
23-03-2021||---||Four deaths, 209 fresh infections in district||Amritsar, March 22With the Covid-19 claiming four more lives in the district in the last 24 hours, the toll has reached 644 on Monday. The health authorities also reported 209 new cases pushing the total count to 18,304.The deceased have been identified as Pinder Kaur (40), a resident of New Amritsar, Poonam (25), a resident of Jandiala, Rajinder Puri (68) of Sundar Nagar and Jawahar Lal Kapoor (80) of Kishan Kot area in Islamabad. The new cases include 134 influenza-like illness cases and 75 contacts of positive patients.With a total of 2,572 cases in the month of March so far, the district has reported an average of 116 cases per day. With 49 deaths, around 2.2 per cent deaths have been reported on a daily average.While the cases are increasing, the active caseload in the district has gone up to 1,665. The health officials have reported recovery of 112 patients taking the count to 15,995.Meanwhile, in the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 62,700 persons have received the shot. These include 17,059 healthcare workers, 17,115 frontliners and 28,526 persons above 45 years of age. Of the total, 11,410 health and frontline workers have been fully vaccinated and received the second dose. On Monday, a total of 3,636 persons were incoulated.Helpline numbers for Covid patientsCity Control Room Numbers: 0183-2500398, 2500498, 2500598Health Department helpline: 0183-2535322, 0183-2535323Medical helpline:104Contact a doctor:1800 180 4104Bed availability and status: Punjab Covid App (updated daily at 5 pm)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-deaths-209-fresh-infections-in-district-229055
23-03-2021||---||Consider teachers as frontline warriors, inoculate them: RASA||Amritsar, March 22Demanding that teachers be treated as frontline warriors, the Amritsar unit of the Recognised and Affiliated Schools’ Association (RASA) has urged the government to carry out vaccination of teachers, non-teaching staff in all schools.Considering the current situation and keeping in mind the decision of the government to shut schools till March 31, Kamaljot Singh, president, Amritsar unit of RASA, said the schools could not be kept shut forever. “The government has to consider that teaching process is being hindered as the closure of schools is affecting students as well as educational institutions. A more viable solution is to vaccinate teachers by sending health teams to each school and considering them as frontline warriors. After vaccination, the schools should be reopened so that examinations can be conducted smoothly,” he said.Post reopening of schools in February, most schools had started with the examination process that got halted after several Covid-19 cases were reported from schools. Fearing that schools would become hot spots of second wave of Covid-19, the state government ordered the closure of all educational institutions, abruptly halting the offline examinations of non-board classes.He, along with other members, demanded that the government machinery might ensure that the schools receive the fee remittances that had been pending for the duration of lockdown as per SC order. “Still a lot of parents have not cleared the dues during the period of lockdown, putting financial burden on school managements,” he said.Closure of institutes: Protest onAmritsar: Students of Khalsa College and Guru Nanak Dev University on Monday blocked the road in front of Khalsa College to protest against the government’s order to close the universities and colleges till March 31.While the government order comes in wake of rising number of Covid cases in state, the students alleged that the decision has nothing to do with pandemic situation. Members of Punjab Students Union (Lalkar), Ravinder and Gagandeep Kaur while addressing the protesters said underneath the veneer of the pandemic, the government is trying to shut down civil protests against anti-people policies. “By implementing restrictions of social gatherings and other activities under pretext of pandemic, the government wants to keep people locked inside their homes and pass anti-people bills and policies,” said Gagandeep.She said the government has also accelerated the privatisation and commercialisation of educational institutions. “By keeping students away from institutions is the very ground for shaping young minds, the government wants to take away our right to protest and mobilise against such policies,” she added.The students pledged to remember the martyrs and in this regard, a candlelight march would be organised tomorrow and the struggle would be intensified. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/consider-teachers-as-frontline-warriors-inoculate-them-rasa-229056
23-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Heritage well of Bhai Veer Singh at risk of encroachment||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 22Some persons are trying to encroach upon a heritage well near the ancestral house of Padma Vibhushan awardee and eminent poet Bhai Veer Singh at Kucha Devi Wala, Jaure Pipal in Gilwali Gate. The heritage well is a property of Bhai Veer Singh’s family.“The well should be covered as someone can fall in it. Grills should be installed,” said a local resident.Reliving Kashmir through Bhai Vir Singh’s verseA few persons who claim to be relatives of Bhai Veer Singh said some locals want to encroach upon the land, thus their intention behind covering the well is to demolish the original structure.Gunbir Singh, an office-bearer at Bhai Veer Singh Residence Committee, urged the Commissioner of Police to protect the well from encroachers.He said, “Bhai Veer Singh was born at Kucha Devi Wala and the well belongs to his family. It is heritage of the city and it should be preserved under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY). We will also discuss the issue with the MC Commissioner and other officials concerned to protect the heritage well.”Bhai Veer Singh, who is known as a father of modern Punjabi poetry, was born on December 5, 1872, at Kucha Devi Wala. Family and neighbours of Bhai Ver Singh used to get water from the well, which is in a shambles. Bhai Veer Singh also mentioned about the well in some of his writings.Dr Balwinder Singh, former head of Guru Ramdas Planning Department, Guru Nanak Dev University, demanded that the well of Bhai Veer Singh should be preserved. “Lakhs of devotees visit the city. Bhai Veer Singh contributed to Punjabi and Sikh literature. If administration preserves the well, it will be a tribute to the great poet,” he said.Bhai Veer Singh shifted from Devi Wali Gali to Lawrence road in 1930. The Lawrence Road has been named after Bahi Veer Singh and his house has also been converted into a museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heritage-well-of-bhai-veer-singh-at-risk-of-encroachment-229057
23-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Over 4,000 violators tested, 14 turn out +ve||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 22Over 4,000 persons were tested for coronavirus by joint teams of police and medical staff during past four days in Amritsar district as well as city areas, out of which 14 persons tested positive.The police teams along with mobile health teams have been conducting tests of those who were found violating government guidelines from not wearing masks.Amid the second surge that the medical experts believe would be severe than the first wave, the police administration has tightened the noose around the offenders. The district administration has imposed night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am following the orders from the Punjab Government in order to contain the spread. Nevertheless, the people have adopted a lax attitude towards the pandemic. AIIMS experts had pointed out that lack of precautions leading to the surge.Parminder Singh Bhandal, DCP (Law and Order) said 775 persons were tested during the drive to check those who spare no thought for wearing masks. He said that out of them 11 tested positive who were immediately quarantined and their contacts were being tracked down by the health officials.The police have issued challans to 850 persons for not wearing masks and has collected Rs7.80 lakh as fine.Similarly, Amritsar rural police tested over 3,300 persons in the last three days and out of them three persons were positive. Rural police authorities informed that the police challaned over 300 persons and collected over Rs3 lakh as fine from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-4-000-violators-tested-14-turn-out-ve-229058
23-03-2021||Amritsar||Robbers target petrol pump||Bid to steal cash from gurdwaraTarn Taran: The Patti Sadar police arrested two persons for allegedly attempting to steal cash and other valuables from Gurdwara Baba Gajjan Singh in Chuslewar village on Saturday. The accused had been identified as Mandip Singh of Doburji and Devinder Singh Rattoke, while two of their accomplices fled the spot. Gurlal Singh, a resident of the village, said the accused came to the gurdwara in a Mohindra Bolero. The accused, Mandip Singh and Devinder Singh, entered the gurdwara and tried to break open the golak with an iron road and made a bid to take away the inverter when Gurlal Singh raised the alarm. Village residents caught two of the four accused. A case was registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-target-petrol-pump-229059
23-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Variety is important in life||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 22The lockdown period, when life came to a standstill in the country, people found different ways to connect with life itself and also with the nature. Many spent considerable time in maintaining their green heavens, including lawns and terrace gardens whether small or big.Rakesh Bhrany is no different. A trader by profession and a resident of Majitha Road area, he maintained his fruit trees and started growing vegetables in an organic manner in his backyard.“Though we have been growing vegetables for past couple of years but were not getting satisfying results. The lockdown gave us an ample of time for experimenting and learning about different steps of kitchen gardening. I learned through a video-sharing platform about organic manure and pesticides. I had procured a cow and kept it in a vacant space in the factory. Besides getting fresh milk, I prepared ‘jeev amrit’ using cow’s dung and urine. We also prepared organic pesticides to keep pests away,” said Bhrany.“Believe me, it does wonders…the production of vegetables in the kitchen garden increased manifold. The taste and nutrition value of these vegetables also enhanced,” he shared.Before this there was wild growth in the backyard making it a breeding ground for mosquitoes and other insects. Around five years ago, we cleaned the land and mixed three trolleys of manure in the soil and started kitchen gardening. Reddish, onion, potato, tomato, brinjal, cauliflowers and creeper tomato are some of the veggies.When asked how it all started, he said gardening was not his childhood hobby, though his parents do love plants. “Earlier, they used to have an exotic garden in the house that still boasts of fruit trees in the front as well as the backyard.” Due to his busy schedule he could hardly find time for the same. But after the lockdown, he had made it a point to give some time daily to his garden and other plants.They have two chakodra fruit (pomelo, citrus maxima) trees, two trees of plum (aalucha), two Indian figs, two Australian figs, around 80-year-old mango tree, nine trees of kinnow, five lemon, a sweet lemon, a custard apple, seven pappya, three banana, two narangi trees besides guavas and a ber (Indian jujube) tree.Bhrany added that his mother, Rajni Bhrany, and wife Sunita also helped. “They maintain and upkeep the garden in my absence as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/variety-is-important-in-life-229060
23-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Activists burn effigy of police||Tarn Taran, March 22 Members of trade unions affiliated with the Centre of Trade Unions (CTU) protested against the police for registering a false case against residents of Tur village.  The protesters burnt an effigy of the local police and leaders of the ruling party. Baldev Singh Pandori alleged that the police on directions of their political bosses registered a case against residents of Tur village. Protesters alleged that the ruling party leaders were prohibiting panchayat of Tur village from doing development works and demanded withdrawal of the case. Pandori warned that if cops fail to withdraw the case, they would be forced to sit on an indefinite dharna from March 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activists-burn-effigy-of-police-229061
23-03-2021||---||Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla reviews development works in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 22While reviewing the ongoing development works, Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla asked heads of all the departments to use their skills and experience to ensure public welfare schemes reach every resident in the district.He said money spent on projects was public money and it should be used wisely. Taking note of non-utilisation of funds for sarpanches and development works in some villages, Aujla said no one has the right to obstruct work of elected representatives.He also directed officials concerned to repair Chogawan and Amritsar-Ramdas-Sohiyan road and explain the reason for delay.Showing concern about poor condition of drains, he said industrial units dumping waste into drains should immediately stop this practice.Aujla said the Amritsar Cantonment model should be tried in selected areas to improve cleanliness in the city.The MP also asked the police officials to check consumption of alcohol in vehicles in markets. MLA Sunil Dutti, who was present in the meet, demanded quality execution of gas pipeline work, decrease in BRTS fares, installation of LED lights, shifting of high-tension wires and repair of Majitha road. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira directed officials to ensure that all traffic signals were in working condition and to rectify technical (timing related) faults at some intersections.The MP reviewed various schemes, including water supply, smart city, Pradhan Mantri Housing Scheme, Ayushman Bharat Scheme and use of panchayat funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lok-sabha-mp-gurjit-singh-aujla-reviews-development-works-in-amritsar-229062
23-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Clerical staff seek dearness allowance||On the call given by the State Ministerial Services Union, clerical staff of the government departments wore black badges on Monday and held a rally at the District Administrative Complex (DAC). Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu , district chief of the union, said employees from revenue, finance , irrigation, social security and horticulture departments attended the rally.  Sandhu, Iqbal Singh, Tarsem Singh and Karwinder Singh Cheema among the others addressed the protesters. Speakers said they had been demanding implementation of the 6th Pay Commission report without delay and dearness allowance at the earliest. They condemned the government for decreasing ministerial staff in the government schools and offices. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clerical-staff-seek-dearness-allowance-229063
23-03-2021||Amritsar||Hansli, source of water to 5 sarovars, to be cleaned up||The hansli (source of water channel) located at Tara Wala Pul that supplies water to five holy sarovars, including the one at the Golden Temple, would be cleaned. The sewa (service) would be performed by Baba Amrik Singh of the Kar Sewa organisation.Baba Amrik Singh said about two centuries ago, a special canal was constructed from Madhopur Headworks that sourced water to the pool of nectar at the Golden Temple.In 1990, a separate hansli was built on the canal and a new underground pipeline was laid in various directions for carrying the water up to the five sarovars — the Golden Temple, Gurdwara Santokhsar, Gurdwara Kaulsar, Gurdwara Ramsar and Gurdwara Bibeksar. Massive filters had also been installed for the purification of water.Over the passage of time , civic body’s apathy, the water reservoirs were obstructed with mud and sand that was accumulated around it.“With the help of the SGPC, the hansli and the water reservoirs need to be cleaned. The service would start from March 31. The water supply from Madhopur has been temporarily suspended to do the job. Once it gets dried up, the mud and other obstructions would be removed for free flow of water to the designated sarovars. The pipeline will also be cleaned in the same manner. It is about 15 feet deep, 185 feet long, and 55 feet wide.Meanwhile, to meet the required water supply for five sarovars for the emergent situation, two special bore holes were also drilled at the Ghee Mandi side. In case of shortage of water supply, this bore route also supplies the water. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hansli-source-of-water-to-5-sarovars-to-be-cleaned-up-229065
23-03-2021||---||Cops suspect handiwork of interstate gang of robbers||Amritsar, March 22The sensational robbery at a goldsmith’s house in the posh Mall Road area on Sunday might be handiwork of interstate gang of robbers helped by local gangsters.Though preliminary probe has yielded nothing and the police are still clueless in the case, they strongly believe the involvement of interstate criminal elements in the dacoity.Around five armed robbers with covered faces entered the house of Ashish Arora, the goldsmith and made the entire family hostage at gunpoint.They decamped with a box containing over 700 gm of gold ornaments. They also took away cash to the tune of Rs 50,000 from the family. Before, escaping they locked the family in the bathroom so that they could not call the police immediately.The house has two entry point—one from the main Mall Road and other from the Kennedy Avenue side. It is located just a few meters from the residence of a ruling party MLA.They gained entry from main entrance when one of servant went out for buy something.The police interrogated the servants including two maids and found nothing concrete from them. The police are examining the CCTV cameras in the nearby to find some clues. The police showed the pictures of the history-sheeters and notorious criminals to the family so that they could identify the suspects.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh Sandhu said, “The police are yet to get any clues while it has been working on different theories to crack the case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-suspect-handiwork-of-interstate-gang-of-robbers-229066
23-03-2021||---||CII announces new office-bearers||AMRITSAR, MARCH 22  During the first meeting of the newly elected State Council, new incumbents of CII Punjab were announced here on Monday.  Bhavdeep Sardana and Amit Thapar have been appointed chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of CII Punjab for the year 2021-22.  Sardana is the senior vice-president and CEO at the Sukhjit Starch and Chemicals Limited. He is responsible for successfully implementing repeated expansions at various units. He is actively engaged with state and central government policies effecting agro-processing industry and ease of doing business reforms. He is also a member of Punjab State Planning Board. He will head the CII Punjab which comprises Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh and Mohali.  Elaborating on the priorities, Sardana said: “Our initiatives for the year would primarily focus on enhancing industry competitiveness, fostering ground for favourable industrial policies, skill development and inclusivity, adoption of contemporary technology and innovations and working towards provisioning opportunities for industrial growth and development. A wide array of new initiatives and activities are planned and some innovative ideas would be auctioned over the course of this year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cii-announces-new-office-bearers-229067
23-03-2021||Amritsar||Government schools offer English  medium of learning||In an attempt to cater to the growing need of learning English language and on the demand of the students, the government schools in district will now offer English medium education facility in all its schools. Earlier, this facility was optional for few subjects and only available in selected government schools in particular district.Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer, said as per the Education Department, English as a medium of learning was made available in government schools on optional basis. “Now, all schools in the district, including primary, middle and secondary, will offer English as a medium of learning. In addition to the science stream in the senior secondary classes, any student can voluntarily choose English medium in the lower classes from new session onwards,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-schools-offer-english-medium-of-learning-229068
23-03-2021||---||Hoteliers rue fresh restrictions||Amritsar, March 22In the wake of the fresh spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the state government has taken some drastic steps to restrict the number of guests at parties, mall, multiplexes and other gatherings.On the other hand, proprietors of hotels, restaurants and resorts rue the imposition of the restrictions again.Surinder Singh, a hotelier, said barring those hotels which were situated close to the Golden Temple all others were struggling to gain even 25 per cent occupancy.He said the government’s order of restricting the number of tourists and attendees at a party had led to a fall in the number of customers visiting the holy city.Surinder Singh said nearly 3 lakh people were directly and indirectly employed in the sector. He said the industry had started re-employing sacked staff. As 80 per cent of the staff was either laid off or sacked in the state last year, he asserted. “The process of recruiting them had just started taken off that the brakes were once again applied.”Vishal Sareen, managing director of Festyn Era and Festyn Royale Resorts, said restricting the number of guests to 20 in the wedding ceremonies had made their profession economically unviable. He said non-occurrence of any mass Covid-19 cases among the participants of any party point towards enough precautions taken inside the premises. “Availability of enough open space in resorts and implementation of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) ensured the safety of participants in the parties organised there.” Besides, hotels and resorts were opened with restrictions only in June last year.An executive at a mall said restriction of not more than 100 persons would be allowed in the malls, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and others at anytime had once again put them in economic mess.Navdeep Singh Grover of Astoria Food Pavilion said night curfew starting from 9 pm had moved away customers of dinners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoteliers-rue-fresh-restrictions-229069
23-03-2021||Amritsar||Golden Temple to have solar plant||With the assistance of US-based Sikhs, the SGPC will instal a solar power system in the Golden Temple complex.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur today held parleys with a delegation from California-United Sikh Mission led by Rashpal Singh Dhindsa, Sikh Lens Foundation president Vicky Singh and members of the coordination committee for installing the system.Bibi Jagir Kaur said the SGPC executive had decided to put the power supply mechanism on the solar system mode and United Sikh Mission volunteered. “At present, the monthly power bill of the shrine comes around Rs 30-50 lakh. We required a system of generating at least 1-MW power. The California-based Sikhs offered to do the service,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-temple-to-have-solar-plant-229018
23-03-2021||Amritsar||BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla-Arvind Kejriwal meet triggers speculation||Senior BJP leader and former minister Prof Laxmi Kanta Chawla’s meeting with Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal yesterday has triggered a debate in the political circles.Prof Laxmi Kanta Chawla, BJP leaderRumours baselessI was taking a walk and noticed VVIP movement. On learning it was Kejriwal, I expressed desire to meet him out of courtesy. The picture taken on my mobile was posted on the social media, triggering baseless speculation.The meeting took place in the evening at the Circuit House complex. Kejriwal had reached Amritsar after attending ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Baghapurana to take a flight back to Delhi. Amritsar was his transit route. He had arrived at Amritsar by air and gone to Bhagapurana by road.The meeting came to light after a picture went viral on the social media, showing the two and AAP MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur having tea.In a bid to clear the air, Chawla said it was an “accidental” meeting that had attracted baseless rumours.She claimed during a routine evening walk in the complex, she noticed the arrival of some VVIP guest. “When I came to know it was Kejriwal, I expressed my desire to meet him out of courtesy. He was kind enough to come out and receive me. I sat with him for a few minutes. I got the picture taken on my mobile. It was posted on the social media, triggering baseless speculation,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-leader-laxmi-kanta-chawla-arvind-kejriwal-meet-triggers-speculation-228979
23-03-2021||---||Four bank employees booked for Rs 6.45L fraud||Amritsar, March 20Four employees of a private bank allegedly defrauded a local resident on the pretext of getting a loan worth Rs 6.45 lakh passed.Though the police said a case had been registered on the statement of the victim, identified as Sonia Rani of Guru Ram Dass Nagar, Kot Khalsa, after preliminary probe, while further investigations were under progress.Those booked were identified Shaurya Bhatt, Anurag Kashyap, senior manager, Aditya Bansal and Sudakar Gupta, all employees of a private bank.A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC, Sections 66-C and 66-D of the Information Technology Act was registered against them.Sonia Rani in her complaint lodged with the police in October 2020 stated that in September last year, a relative of her neighbourer said that if she wanted any type of loan, she can contact 8428132481. She said as she called the person on the other side introduced himself as Shauraya Bhatt from Reliance Financial Group Mumbai. She said he informed that her loan would be passed under the government’s Jan Dhan Yojana policy and he asked her for submitting file charges of Rs 4,350 along with Aadhaar Card and PAN card details. She said she deposited the amount in Indian Overseas Bank. The account was in the name of Govind Tanvar.She alleged after a few days Shaurya again called her and informed that the loan worth Rs 6.45 lakh had been cleared. He asked her to deposit another amount of Rs 12,200 and she did the same. She said that accused further asked her to transfer cash Rs 1.14 lakh in different accounts which was in the name of other accused. Despite this, the accused did not give the loaned amount and thereby cheated her.Further probe in the case was marked to Assistant Commissioner of Police, licensing, Sanjiv Kumar in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-bank-employees-booked-for-rs-6-45l-fraud-228105
