24-03-2021||Amritsar||Three succumb to virus, 246 test positive in Amritsar||The district health authorities reported three deaths due to the Covid-19 on Tuesday. With this, the death toll has increased to 647. The authorities reported 246 positive cases in the last 24 hours and the total count of positive cases reached 18,550.The deceased have been identified as Ram Barikshpal (60), a resident of Neevi Gali, Mahinder Singh (65), of Baba Bakala and Kawaljit Kaur (55), a resident of Chhehharta.The new cases include 159 influenza like illness cases and 87 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 103 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 16,098. At present, the district has a total of 1,805 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 4,270 persons were administered the vaccine today. Out of them, 456 persons received the second dose. The district health officials said a total of 1,716 senior citizens were given shots apart from 466 healthcare workers, 1,001 frontline workers and 663 persons between the age group of 45 years to 59 years.A total of 147 healthcare workers, 296 frontline workers and 13 senior citizens received the second dose on Tuesday. While the administration is urging residents to wear masks, a complete disregard for the health guidelines can be seen at hospitals (see pic), including sample collection points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-succumb-to-virus-246-test-positive-in-amritsar-229677
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Proposals passed in 2019 yet to see the light of day||Recently, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation installed boards on the Guru Nanak Dev Marg from Canal office to Custom Chowk stretch, which was earlier called Albert Road.However, numerous proposals passed by the General House in November 2019 on the birth anniversary of the the first Sikh Guru have not been implemented yet.In December 2020, the Opposition in the General House raised an objection related to the functioning of the MC, which failed to implement the decisions.On November 7, 2019, the House unanimously passed several resolutions, including naming the road leading to Fatehgarh Churian, which further connects to Dera Baba Nanak and Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan and spread his teachings.The civic body had also decided to renovate Guru Nanak Auditorium at a cost of Rs50 lakh, but failed to float a tender to the date. As per the proposal, seats at the auditorium were supposed to be replaced.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said, “We got some proposals under the Smart City project to construct convention centre. We are planning refurbishment of Guru Nanak Auditorium under this project.”The MC had also passed a resolution to buy books related to Guru Nanak Dev for Pandit Moti Lal Nehru Municipal Library. The House had proposed Rs2 lakh for the purpose. “We will consult experts and provide books to the library,” said the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/proposals-passed-in-2019-yet-to-see-the-light-of-day-229682
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Rallies, tributes mark martyrdom day||On the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call, several farmer organisation’s youth wings on Tuesday took out marches to mark the martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Dedicating the farmer’s movement to the memory of the freedom fighter, Kheti Kisan Union, general secretary, youth wing, Jagbir Singh, said the young martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the ideals they believed are the source of inspiration for many in current farmer struggle. Through the protest marches, the organisations also sent out a message of ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on March 26 given by Samyukt Kisan Morcha.Meanwhile, several other student organisations also took out rallies and paid tributes on the martyrdom day. Youth wing of Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha remembered him by hosting a commemorative event at the Khanna Smarak. Punjab Student Union (lalkar), too, held a rally to raise the voice against anti-student policies. City colleges and schools also hosted webinars and lecture to remember the youth icons Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev.An online lecture on Bhagat Singh, Mahatma Gandhi and Congress was organised by the PG Department of History, Travel and Tourism, DAV College. The keynote speaker was Prof Kamlesh Mohan, Prof Emeritus, Department of History, Panjab University, Chandigarh. Explaining Bhagat Singh’s sacrifice, Prof Mohan said the courage with which he fought the powerful British government for the independence of the country will always remain a great role model for the youth. “It was said that the ideologies of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhagat Singh were of contradictory nature. The original ideology of Gandhi ji was based on truth and non-violence, while Bhagat Singh used force to fight injustice. Yet, both remained instrumental in inspiring the independence movement,” he said.DAV Public School, Lawrence Road, too, conducted a special programme to pay homage to Bhagat Singh. The schoolteachers highlighted the sacrifices made by him and his associates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rallies-tributes-mark-martyrdom-day-229683
24-03-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Homage paid to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru & Sukhdev||Farmers and a large number of people on Tuesday paid homage to freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev at a function organised at toll plaza Usman under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab. Sukhwinder Singh Dugalwala and other leaders of the organisation said that their sacrifices would remain an inspiration for every generation of the country.The leaders condemned the Central government for its adamant attitude not to repeal the three controversial farms laws and warned the government that the farmers would continue their fight till the withdrawal of the laws. The farmers dharna at Usman toll plaza entered its 167th day on Tuesday.ExpertspeakThe courage with which he fought the powerful British government for country’s independence will always remain a great role model for the youth. It was said that the ideologies of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhagat Singh were of contradictory nature. Yet, both remained instrumental in inspiring the independence movement. — Prof Kamlesh Mohan, Prof Emeritus, Dept of History, Panjab University, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/homage-paid-to-bhagat-singh-rajguru-sukhdev-229684
24-03-2021||Amritsar||In memoriam: Farmers take out march||Farmer organisations took out an impressive motorcycle march in city to mark the martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on Tuesday. Hundreds of farmers marched through different markets of the city and appealed shopkeepers and traders to help them in their fight against the three controversial agricultural laws.The march started with farmers paying tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. The farmer leaders stated that Shaheed Bhagat Singh and his companions, too, were terrorists in the eyes of the laws of government. But for crores of Indians, who were fighting against the colonial government, they were role models and heroes.“They still are the idols for people of all generations and different socio-economic-religious classes. We all must try to learn from them that how mere existence on this earth is not sufficient and why one should fight for his own rights and of the masses,” said Rattan Singh Randhawa, a prominent farmer leader.The march moved through Kotwali, Bharawan da Dhaba, DAV College, Khazana Gate and many more markets on outer ring road before culminating at Bhandari bridge through Chitra Talkies. It took over three hours for the farmers to complete the march.The event which was organised as part of the programme announced by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) witnessed participation of different sections of society as writers, teachers, students, traders and farm workers. The leaders stated they are encouraged with the response of the traders and shopkeepers who have assured us of complete support.Young farmer leader Harjit Singh Jheeta said, “The bandh would be total and peaceful. We would not force anyone to close shops or businesses as is usually done by political parties. Our earlier bandh calls too were peaceful.” He added that with income of the agriculture sector dissipating, the traders and shopkeepers would be directly hit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-memoriam-farmers-take-out-march-229685
24-03-2021||Amritsar||6 cops dismissed from service||Dhruv Dahiya, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Amritsar Rural, dismissed six policemen from service on Tuesday. Five policemen went abroad on leave but did not return to duty, while the sixth dismissed cop was addicted to heroin and caught red-handed. A case was filed against him under various Sections of the NDPS Act.It was stated that all these police personnel had tarnished the image of the Punjab Police by violating discipline.The Punjab Police are a disciplined force and every employee should be disciplined, the SSP said. But when a police officer violates discipline or if he tries to do so, it is necessary to take appropriate action against him, he further added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-cops-dismissed-from-service-229686
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC’s sweeping statement||The health wing of the Municipal Corporation is making efforts to improve the ranking in the nationwide cleanliness survey ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’. Various teams of the Centre are now visiting the city to check the infrastructure and arrangements for the ranking. The city department officials are hopeful for the improvement in ranking in the survey.Following the improvement agenda, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal had visited the each ward of the city and organised functions to educate the residents about the various parameters of Swachh Survekshan ranking.Dr Ajay Kawar, Municipal Health Officer, stated that they have made major improvements in various areas and are hopeful that teams visiting from Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA) would recognise our work.A solid waste management firm hired by the MC has cleared a large portion of Bhagtanwala dump yard through bioremediation process. According to the officials, around 80,000 metric tonnes of garbage has been composed in the last four months.Apart from this, a compost pad has been prepared for decomposing green waste to produce manure. The segregation of garbage on source level has also been initiated and interior city areas were being covered with e-rickshaws.The compost pits is functional and the Municipal Health Officer claimed they are making green manure from it. Material Recovery Facility (MRF) is also a major component of Swachh Survekshan and the MC officials said it is also being implemented to improve the ranking.This January, the city got open defecation-free ‘plus plus’ status (ODF ++) from the MOHUA under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The central team had visited the city to check infrastructure and awarded the tag. Rintu stated that an inspection was conducted by the Quality Council of India, an agency of the Central Government, and awarded Amritsar with the status a few months back.The MC has built community toilets in slums and public toilets at several markets of the city. As per the guidelines of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, the MC has to construct public toilets after a gap of every 500m. A large number of toilet booths were installed on the roadsides and markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mcs-sweeping-statement-229687
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Petrol pump staff robbed  at gunpoint||Two unidentified robbers snatched Rs23,000 cash and two mobile phones from workers of a petrol pump on Sultanwind Road at gunpoint late on Monday.Petrol pump owner Sanjeev Kumar told the police that around 10.30 pm, two motorcyclists came to the pump with faces covered with masks. There were three employees at the pump — Ajay Kumar, Vijay Kumar and a watchman. The motorcyclists first filled petrol worth Rs400 and later snatched the bag containing cash at gunpoint. After snatching the bag, the robbers also snatched two mobile phones of the pump workers.On the complaint of petrol pump owner, the police have launched an investigation, but no arrest has been made so far. The police have examined the CCTV footage. The action of robbers was recorded but their identities have not been revealed.Inspector Gurwinder Singh SHO B Division police station said investigation was underway and the miscreants would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/petrol-pump-staff-robbed-at-gunpoint-229688
24-03-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Rain, hailstorm lash dist, damage wheat crop||Unseasonal rain accompanied by strong winds and hailstorm lashed all the parts of the district on Tuesday morning causing damage to standing wheat crops.Power supply to a large number of villages and urban areas was badly hit. Though officials and workers of contractors remained busy in restoring the power supply throughout the day, it could not be restored in more than 100 villages in the district.As per the information, Chabal, Gandiwind, Sarai Amanat Khan, Sursing, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Valtoha, Harike, Chohla Sahib, Naushehra Pannuan, Khadoor Sahib villages and Tarn Taran and Patti towns were lashed by strong winds followed by heavy rain and hailstorm bended standing wheat crops.Pargat Singh, a farmer of Chamba village, said standing wheat crops in Chamba, Ruriwala, Chohla Sahib, Karmunwala, Gharka and other villages suffered heavy loss.Kuljit Singh Saini, Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO), said loss to wheat crops was estimated at around 25 per cent. He said teams of the department were sent to some of the affected fields to access loss to crops. He said certain villages were lashed by hailstorm. He failed to give information about the rain.Bal Krishan, Deputy Chief Engineer (DCE) of the local Powercom circle, said more than 300 electric poles fell down in the storm. He said though employees and officials tried their best to restore power supply to all the affected areas but fault in seven to 10 feeders was detected till the filing of this news reports. The DCE said Sursing, Bhikhiwind, Khemkanan and other parts in the border belt were worst-affected areas.Farmers are a worried a lot as the weatherman has forecast bad weather in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-hailstorm-lash-dist-damage-wheat-crop-229689
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Jan andolan  to control TB  launched||A campaign to create awareness regarding tuberculosis among the general public in the district was launched by the Health Department on Tuesday.The year-long campaign named ‘Jan Andolan’ is aimed at helping India achieve the dream of TB-free nation by 2025.District TB control officer Dr Naresh Chawla said as part of the launch, the posters of the campaign was released by Cabinet minister OP Soni, MLAs Sunil Dutti, Raj Kumar Verka and Inderbir Singh Bularia, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, ADCs Dr Himanshu Aggarwal and Ranbir Singh Mudhal on Tuesday.He said the elected representatives and senior officials have affirmed their commitment to wipe out TB and they have committed to display the posters in their offices, so that the general public can see it when visiting any such office.Chawla said in 2020, the district detected total 5,299 TB cases and patients were provided free treatment. He said Rs52 lakh were disbursed in the accounts of patients as part of the government plan to provide nutritious diet to patients. He said Rs23 lakh was given to DOT providers, who helped in treatment of TB patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jan-andolan-to-control-tb-launched-229691
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Phulkari assists inmates of Nari Niketan||Phulkari CAN, a wing of Phulkari-Women of Amritsar, conducted a donation drive at the Nari Niketan in partnership with Team Raksha, Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA). Sanitary kits and refreshments were distributed to the mentally challenged women and children, who were inmates of Nari Niketan.Their campaign Help the Helpless launched in the middle of the lockdown last year, has been expanded and in collaboration with Team Raksha (IRIA) Phulkari will be working to empower the girl child. ‘Raksha’ is a pan India flagship programme by IRIA meant to support and empower mothers and daughters. It was launched on June 14, 2020 by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The recent donation drive was conducted under the patronage of Dr Sonali Soni, a member of Phulkari and IRIA members Dr Ramesh Chander (professor and head of radiodiagnosis at Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, Jalandhar) and Dr Amandeep Singh, professor, department of radiodiagnosis and Imaging at SGRD Institute of Medical and Research, Amritsar.It was supervised by District Social Security Officer Asisinder Singh. Phulkari CAN president Nidhi Sindhwani said, “We are happy to partner with Team Raksha of IRIA as a part of our Help the Helpless campaign aimed at helping the needy and destitute in uplifting them. We have been engaged in many philanthropic activities like educating underprivileged children, creating environmental awareness, establishing libraries, spreading cancer awareness.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phulkari-assists-inmates-of-nari-niketan-229693
24-03-2021||Amritsar||Mahan Singh Dhesi memorial lecture organised at GNDU||Department of history, Guru Nanak Dev University, organised Mahan Singh Dhesi annual memorial lecture online. Sardar Mahan Singh Dhesi was a pioneer Punjabi in California on whose name the annual lecture has been instituted by his family. Dhesi was one of the founder members of the Gurdwara at Stockton, famously known as Gurdwara of Ghadris.The lecture was delivered by Prof Mridula Mukherjee, a former professor at centre for historical studies, Jawahar Lal Nehru University and Director, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, New Delhi. She spoke on the peasant-political protests in pre-independence Punjab. Prof Mukherjee has devoted most of his life to the study of kisan movements in pre-independence Punjab. According to her, the peasants all over the world have their distinctive way of life and culture. Speaking on farming community of Punjab, she said, “Punjab peasants also have their distinctive way of looking at life, their sense of community, their bhaichara, which is different from the peasants in rest of India. People here rarely used caste or clan names. Most of the heroes of the Akali movement, Ghadar movement and of Left political parties used their village names and still do. It is their heritage, an intangible cultural heritage.” She found many parallels in farmer protests of present and that of pre-independence Punjab.According to her, the present fight of farmers is not only about production, but a certain way of life and for preserving their past and culture.Prof Sarbjot Singh Behl, Dean, academic affairs, in his concluding remarks said agriculture was the foundation of any civilisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mahan-singh-dhesi-memorial-lecture-organised-at-gndu-229694
24-03-2021||Amritsar||‘Will protect Bhai Vir Singh’s heritage well from squatters’||Taking note of an attempt to encroach upon a portion of land (heritage well) belonging to Padma Vibhushan awardee and eminent poet Bhai Veer Singh at Kucha Devi Wala, Jaure Pipal in Gilwali Gate, a team of the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) led by its president Nirmal Singh visited the spot.Nirmal assured family members them that the CKD would do everything to preserve the heritage site.“Bhai Vir Singh’s legacy is a heritage for us. We will ensure to safeguard it from any harm. We have sent a team of experts from the CKD to take a stock of the damage done to the heritage structure,” he said.The CKD team also met Brinder Singh, grandson of Bhai Vir Singh, in this regard. Bhai Vir Singh was the founder member of the CKD and several other Sikh institutions and was an influential name in the Singh Sabha Movement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-protect-bhai-vir-singhs-heritage-well-from-squatters-229695
24-03-2021||Amritsar||MP seeks int’l stadium for Amritsar||Man killed in road accidentAmritsar: An unidentified man was crushed to death by some vehicle on the Majitha-Verka bypass road here on Monday. Sardual Singh, a watchman at a marriage palace on the bypass road, stated that at 9.30 pm, he was on duty at Maharaja Palace. An unknown person was crossing the road to reach the palace. Meanwhile, a rashly driven car hit him. The accused driver fled towards Majitha Road. He was killed on the spot. The police reached the spot and initiated investigation. TNS26-yr-old Woman crushed to deathAmritsar: A 26-year-old woman was crushed to death by an overspeeding truck at Majitha Road on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Sweeti (26), a resident of SG Enclave. Manjit Singh, father-in-law of the deceased, told the Kambo police that around 3.30pm, he along with his daughter-in-law was heading towards the city to enquire about IELTS centre on a two-wheeler. He said when they reached near Naushera, a speeding truck coming from Majitha hit their scooter from rear. He said Sweeti fell down on the road and truck passed over her. The truck driver fled from the spot along with the vehicle. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC and initiated investigation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-seeks-intl-stadium-for-amritsar-229696
24-03-2021||New Delhi||BJP MP Shwait Malik for rail link between Amritsar,  Ayodhya||BJP Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik today asked the government to consider establishing a rail link between two pilgrim centres of Amritsar and Ayodhya, as this would help promote religious tourism in a big way.Raising the issue during zero hour in the House, Malik said Ayodhya, the birth place of Lord Ram, had a special place in the hearts of people, irrespective of their “caste, community and religious belief”. “People had for long wanted a grand temple of Ram Lalla in Ayodhya and now it is coming to reality,” Malik said.Similarly, Amritsar, he said, “is a Guru Nagari and famous for Harminder Sahib. Therefore I demand between these two special pilgrimage centres, the government should consider running a train. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-mp-shwait-malik-for-rail-link-between-amritsar-ayodhya-229566
