25-03-2021||Patiala||300 farmers pitch tents outside police station in protest of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway land acquisition||Farmers protesting against the acquisition of their land for the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway on Thursday held a protest outside the Passiana police station on Sangrur road, here. Over 300 farmers associated with the Sangharsh committee pitched a tent outside the police station. They raised slogans against the state government. Earlier, the protesting farmers blocked the entire road, but later allowed the traffic to pass through. The farmers said that they have established a permanent protest at the site, and refuse to move. “We will sit here until our demands are met. If the district administration does not listen to us, we will hold a march toward the CM residence in the city”, they said.The farmers have pitched tents on the road to hold a sit-in. The farmers added that they are against the acquisition of land for the Expressway, and that weren't getting adequate compensation for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/300-farmers-pitch-tents-outside-police-station-in-protest-of-delhi-amritsar-katra-expressway-land-acquisition-230350
25-03-2021||Fatehgarh Churian||Covid norms go for a toss as devotees make a beeline to offer liquor at shrine in Amritsar||Notwithstanding the surge in COVID-19 cases, several devotees without face masks and not adhering to social distancing norms converged to pay obeisance to Baba Rode Shah shrine in Punjab's Amritsar district and offered liquor bottles to seek his blessings.The unusual fair, being held for the last 90 years, ended on Wednesday in Bhoma village, situated on the Amritsar-Fatehgarh Churian Road.A relative of Baba and sarpanch of Bhoma, Gurnek Singh, who manages the shrine, said Baba used to collect liquor in a vessel and offer it to his devotees, but he himself never drank.Though liquor is offered at the shrine throughout the year, the offering increases during the fair."It is a gathering of animated devotees who thronged the samadhi of Baba Rode Shah, clutching bottles of liquor as offerings for grant of a boon," said Gursewak Singh of same village.Earlier, the first day of the fair was reserved for male devotees while the second day was for women, but with the passing of time, both men and women offer liquor to the 'samadhi' at the same time.During the course of the fair, it is quite common to see devotees making their way to the 'samadhi' with the bottles and other containers full of liquor which is offered at the shrine. It is then distributed among the devotees, male and female, who drink the liquor as 'prasad'.The uniqueness of this shrine is that only liquor is accepted as offerings from the devotees. The devotees scramble to reach the shrine where liquor is distributed in glasses.The Baba, who belonged to Dhawaan village in Gurdaspur district, left his family and settled in Bhoma in 1896. According to the legend, the Baba, who became a saint, was once approached by a farmer of the same village as he was childless despite being married for a couple of years. With the blessings of the saint, a male child was born to the couple, who offered Rs 500 to the saint for his blessings. But the saint refused to accept the money and asked the couple to purchase a bottle of liquor and offer it as parshad to his devotees.The Baba died in 1924. Since then, a fair is held in his memory every year and people from Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh visit the shrine to seek his blessings by offering and getting liquor as 'prasad'. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-as-devotees-make-a-beeline-to-offer-liquor-at-shrine-in-amritsar-230289
25-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC Estate wing seals 13 shops||Talk on IEEE Xplore Digital LibraryAmritsar: The Department of Electronics Technology of Guru Nanak Dev University organised an online technical talk on Effective Usage of IEEE Xplore Digital Library Platform here on Wednesday. A large number of students and faculty participated online. Ritesh Kumar, Senior Training Manager, IEEE Client Services and EBSCO Information Services in the Northern Indian region, conducted the workshop. He briefed different initiatives taken by IEEE during Covid-19. He focused on learning different time-saving features and functionalities of IEEE platform which can help budding researchers who are doing research in various domains. The lecture was followed by a question-answer session. The webinar was concluded with a vote of thanks by Dr Hardeep Kaur who thanked distinguished speaker and lauded the efforts of the ESF team that helped in making this event successful. TNS60-yr-old killed in road mishapTarn Taran: A man (60) was killed in a road accident near Machhike village in the Khemkaran border area on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Virsa Singh of Rattoke village, who was returning home on his bicycle after looking after his fields. A speeding car (PB-11 8518) coming from the front hit him, killing him on the spot. IO ASI Kulbir Singh said the car driver managed to flee. A case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC was registered. OCBooth-level officer honouredTarn Taran: Navjot Kaur, a teacher of Government Elementary School, Chohla Sahib, being a booth level officer (BLO) at Polling Booth No. 214 under the Vidhan Sabha constituency of Khadoor Sahib, was honoured for her best performance in the district for downloading the maximum number of e-EPIC. Two-day special camps were organised on March 6 and 7 by respective BLOs at the polling booths. BLO Navjot Kaur was honoured by DC-cum-District Electoral Officer Kulwant Singh with a certificate and a cash award. The DC said the new voters may download this e-EPIC on their mobiles. OC2 bikers snatch purse, arrestedTarn Taran: Two miscreants were apprehended after they were trying to run away after snatching a purse from a woman on Jandiala Road outside a HDFC Bank branch here on Tuesday. The victim, Rupinder Kaur Gogi of Gokalpur locality, had just come out of the bank when the motorcycle-born miscreants snatched her purse and were ready to flee when her son with the help of nearby people held the snatchers. The accused, identified as Sajan Singh and Ravi Singh of Kajikot Kalan, were handed over the police. The purse contained Rs500 while the cash withdrawn from the bank was with her son. ASI Gurmit Singh said a case under Section 379-B of the IPC was registered. OCBurglars strike at govt schoolAmritsar: Miscreants decamped with computers and other material from Government Elementary School at Jajjeani village falling under the Majitha police station here on March 16 though a complaint was lodged only on Tuesday. Pawandeep Kaur, head teacher of the school and resident of Bhoma Wadala village, said on March 16 when she reached the school, she found the locks of three rooms broken. She said when she, along with other staff members, searched the classrooms, she found six computers along with keyboards and monitors, DVR of a camera and a digital thermometer missing. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC and started investigation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-estate-wing-seals-13-shops-230217
25-03-2021||Gurmeet Singh||Long gone||Worked upThe renovation work of 25x75 ft area of the Guard Bazaar in Tarn Taran done by municipal authorities has been pain in the neck for the commuters and the devotees coming to visit Sri Darbar Sahib in Tarn Taran. The residents said the road of the bazaar was broken here and there for more than four years and had been demanding for renovation time and again. The authorities laid interlocking tiles just ten days back. The shopkeepers said more than half of the tiles have chipped up in this short period. They said the work was not done according to the norms. Turning into small speed bumps, it is making life hell for commuters. The residents alleged the tiles used in repairing works were not up to the standard. The width of the tiles, too, was not of original size. The people demanded that the MLA visit the spot to know the standard of the work.Hurry, save HarikeThe Union Government had released a grant of Rs15 crore for developing eco-tourism to the neglected wetland Harike, also known as the ‘Harike Wildlife Sanctuary’. The state government also had reserved a grant of Rs7.56 crore in the recently passed Budget. Harike borders Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Jalandhar and Ferozopur district. Migratory birds come from the other countries, including Siberia, in the winter season every year. Due to the changes in weather every year the number of migratory birds has been decreasing for more than 20 years now. The encroachment in the sanctuary area was one of the main reason and the negligence at the part of the state and the Union Government to provide peaceful atmosphere the other rationale. It’s a fact that the number of nature lovers was increasing here day by day. Most important in the state Harike Wildlife Sanctuary, the wetland ecosystem of Harike lies on the confluence of the Beas and Sutlej, it came into existence in 1952. It was declared as Ramsar site by the International Body of Wetlands in 1990 wherein a total area of 86 sq km was declared wildlife sanctuary in 1984. The nature lovers had been demanding for peaceful atmosphere in the Harike bird sanctuary by checking trespassing in the area through fencing. The site may also increase the revenue for the government if it’s properly developed as a tourist spot.Party for animalsThere was no one to save the commuters from the nuisance created by the stray animals. The strays were seen moving on the roads round the clock causing accidents. Interestingly, the menace has gone beyond the powers of officials it seems as these were seen on the premises of the Municipal Council and office complex of the SDM, Tarn Taran, and the administration was helpless to resolve the issue.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/long-gone-230214
25-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar Group of Colleges hosts national-level webinar||Amritsar Group of Colleges in collaboration with Niti Aayog and Bhartiya Shikhsan Mandal held a webinar on ‘Teachers’ Role in NEP Implementation’ on Wednesday.Dr VK Banga, principal, ACET, emphasised on the practical training in the light of New Education Policy. He is of the view that in the coming times the role of a teacher is going to be more challenging. “One has to be multi-talented, multi-tasking and multi-faceted personality to be accepted as a good teacher,” he said.Prof (Dr) Kuldip Chand Agnihotri, VC, CUHP, was the keynote speaker. Dr Agnihotri spoke about the importance of teachers for the implementation of NEP 2020 in ground level and discussed vital educational issues and concerns. He suggested that producing employees should not be the aim of the education and also mentioned that the mantra has to be ‘don’t be a job seeker, rather be a job producer’.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-group-of-colleges-hosts-national-level-webinar-230211
25-03-2021||---||Rail passengers suffer as monthly service traveller still not restored||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Train passengers are a harried lot as the Railways has not restored the monthly service traveller (MST), which offers them economical and convenient daily journey. Though many trains have started operations, the majority of passenger trains have not started operation.The suspension of train services due to the Covid-19 pandemic for the past one year, restrictions and rail blockade by farmers have adversely affected a large number of daily passengers who have to either discontinue or change their profession owing to high travel cost involved. Most of them were working as salesmen selling dress material, readymade garments, sports equipment, imitation jewellery, herbal medicines and others.Amardeep Singh, who is working at a factory manufacturing machines for garment printing in Ludhiana, said he observed a large number of co-passengers leaving their jobs or changing professions due to being unable to bear high travel costs. Citing his own instance, he said he was somehow managing his job while earning nothing in all these months.“The MST for travel between Amritsar and Ludhiana charges Rs 750 from a passenger which means Rs 25 per day. On the other hand, up and down travel in a bus costs Rs 400 and car sharing costs Rs 300 per day. There is time issue. Train takes two hours to reach Ludhiana from Amritsar, the same distance is covered in 2.30 hours by car and three hours by bus.Davinder Singh Gill, another daily passenger, said he had been travelling to Jalandhar for the past 10 years. “The last 12 months have been most trying. I have to part with lion’s share of his monthly salary to foot the travel cost. The MST charges used to be an economical Rs 585 per month. Apart from the increase in the passenger tariff, journey by road consumes a lot of time.”He said the railways was operating four trains between Amritsar and Jalandhar, but the MST facility had not been extended on one of these.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager of the Ferozepur Division, said: As per the directions of the Ministry of Railways, the division was operating only special trains and the MST service is introduced in regular trains. The MST service will be restored with the operationalistation of the regular trains.Start direct train from Ayodhya to Amritsar: MP MalikAmritsar: Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik made a request to run a direct train between Ayodhya (birthplace of Lord Rama) and Amritsar (the holy city ) in Parliament. If train chugs between these two cities, tourists can travel with ease and conveniently. Malik said Ram Janmabhoomi and Golden Temple are the two places where faith and emotions of the entire country find solace. He said direct rail journey between these two places can prove helpful for devotees. Terming the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya a historic step, he said it was a 500-year-old demand of every Indian, irrespective of religion, caste and creed. He said, “Amritsar is considered sacred because of the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir. The city has a glorious history and has been famous for its culture and battles.” Malik said Amritsar also witnessed numerous tragedies, including the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. “Now, the Jallianwala Bagh remains the centre of attraction among tourists and is under renovation. There is a summer palace built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Beating the Retreat Ceremony, which takes place at Attari-Wagah border.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rail-passengers-suffer-as-monthly-service-traveller-still-not-restored-230208
25-03-2021||---||RTI activist flags LED streetlight project in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24An RTI activist alleged embezzlement in LED streetlights installed by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation under the Smart City project.Jagdish Singh, RTI activist, filed a complaint with various departments, including technical adviser to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.“LED streetlights installed under the Smart City project are not up to the mark. I received information through the RTI that streetlights were not passed from technical adviser to the Chief Minister. Moreover, LED lights are not branded and thier price is high. I have written to the technical adviser and he has initiated the investigation in this regard, said Jagdish.Meanwhile, on the complaint of an office-bearer of the MC, a vigilance team reportedly initiated probe in the LED steetlights installed under the Smart City project.The vigilance team questioned some officials of the MC and the Amritsar Smart City limited (ASCL).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rti-activist-flags-led-streetlight-project-in-amritsar-230205
25-03-2021||---||Just a teenager, she hopes to compete on Oly mat someday||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Veerpal Kaur, a budding wrestler dreams of representing the country at the Olympics someday. But for now, she is happy celebrating small feats. The 16-year-old player from Tarn Taran has won a silver at the Junior National Games in 57kg category.Visiting city ahead of her prep for the Asian Games, she met her local guardians. Her father is an auto-rickshaw driver and mother’s a housewife. She and her two sisters are local sports stars of sorts as all of them have been making their mark in the field of sports. One of her sisters, Rajwinder Kaur is already an international-level hockey player and the other one Mandeep Kaur is a national hockey player.Veerpal is currently undergoing training in Lucknow for a training camp for the upcoming Asian Games. “My father has limited means to support our dreams. So, we ensure that we excel in our field,” she said. Her dreams have found support from Channan Singh Sandhu, head of Punjab Development Party and an ex-serviceman, who has adopted her. He is providing financial assistance to the player for her food and other necessities.Channan Singh said he believes that she has what it takes to win gold at the Asian Games. Earlier, she won silver in junior national in the 50-kg weight category in wrestling achievements in the field of sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/just-a-teenager-she-hopes-to-compete-on-oly-mat-someday-230202
25-03-2021||---||Sanitation staff protest corruption in Amritsar civic body||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Various unions of sanitation workers and employees of the Municipal Corporation raised their voice against the alleged extortion by the sanitary inspectors from safai karamcharis in the city here on Wednesday.The employees led by union leader Ashu Nahar, Sanjay Khosla, Rajkumar Raju and Surinder Tona gathered at the auto workshop and decided to hold a strike if MC officials failed to take action.The union leaders had submitted a memorandum to Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal on Tuesday and asked to fulfil their demands within 72 hours, otherwise they said they will stop lifting garbage.Sanjay Khosla, president of Nagar Nigam Safai Mazdoor Union, alleged that a sanitary inspector of the MC took Rs1lakh as bribe from a safai karamchari to make him rejoin his duty after his medical leave.“The union leaders alleged that the sanitary inspectors first transfer the sanitation worker and then demand bribe to cancel the transfer orders,” Khosla said.Apart from this, the union leaders have other pending demands.Ashu Nahar, president, Municipal Employees’ Union, said: “Yesterday, we had submitted a memorandum to the Mayor and MC Commissioner regarding our demands. If the demands are not met, then the garbage lifting in the city will be completely shut down. No sanitation worker or vehicle will work. We will also stop the functioning of private companies.”“The unions have been giving memorandums to the Mayor and Commissioner regarding their demands for the last three years, but these are being ignored. Corruption is dominant in the MC. We are asking to improve the auto workshop, but nothing has happened. Now, we will not compromise on our demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-staff-protest-corruption-in-amritsar-civic-body-230201
25-03-2021||---||Prime suspect in abduction case arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Two weeks after a youth was kidnapped from his house, thrashed and later dumped at Vaniyeke village by several armed persons, the Chheharta police have arrested the prime suspect in the case.Daljit Singh, alias Prince, was also wanted by the Chheharta police in three criminal cases, including fraud, registered with them in the recent past, said Sukhbir Singh, SHO Chheharta police station. After kidnapping and thrashing a youth, Amanpreet Singh, he had injured another person a couple of days later. His name also figured in the fraud case a week later.Amanpreet Singh was abducted from his house on March 11. On the complaint filed by his father, Kamaljit Singh, the police booked Daljit Singh, alias Prince, a resident of Jawahar Nagar in Chheharta, Sandeep, Ravi and Jimmy. Kamaljit had told the police that he, along with his sons Gursimran Singh, Amanpreet Singh and wife Paramjit Kaur, was at home when an SUV stopped in front of their house. The accused broke open the door of his house, barged in, bundled Amanpreet Singh in the SUV and fled away. They had fired two shots before kidnapping him. Around 11.15pm, his son called him from some mobile number and told that he was brutally thrashed by the assailants who had thrown him out of the vehicle at Vaniyeke village. He said they brought him back. The police have registered a case under Sections 364, 365, 452, 427 and 336 of the IPC and 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act against the four suspects.On March 17, the police booked Sarabjit Singh, alias Sam, of Achint Kot village, Ravi, Daljit Singh, alias Prince bouncer, and Raja in a fraud case, in which the accused took loans after mortgaging vehicles of a travel company.Malviya Gabba, the complainant, had alleged that he runs a company which gives cars on rent. He said Jugraj Singh was his manager, while Sarabjit Singh was his client for the past one year. He said for the past three months, the accused took his nine vehicles, including three SUVs, on rent. However, he neither gave the rent, nor returned the vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspect-in-abduction-case-arrested-230199
25-03-2021||Neha Saini||Breaking stereotypes about govt school education||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, March 24As hundreds of parents facing financial hurdles are considering shifting their wards to government schools, the district Education Department, too, is taking the lead and is set to break the stereotypes against government school education.Adopting innovative ideas to make the ‘Each One, Bring One’ drive, currently underway in the state, successful, enrolment booster teams have also been constituted.Reaching out to parents, these teams are adopting methods such as staging nukkad nataks, recording songs, making shortfilms highlighting the achievements of government schools to spread the message. While the bottom line is to increase the enrolments in government schools, the exercise is also helping change the perspective towards these.Devinder Kumar, social media coordinator, Amritsar, who has been spearheading the creative campaign, says the idea was to instil confidence in government school education.“Rather than just capitalising on the current financial pressure that private school education is putting on parents, we aim to make people aware about the infrastructure we have and academic achievement. We have performed street plays at public spaces such as Company Bagh and Anand Park, where we have received a good response. We have also recorded songs and made shortfilms that will be released soon. All this exercise will help in getting the facts right about facilities that government schools offer,” he said.The officials of the department, school heads and teachers have been going all out and carrying out door-to-door campaigns to highlight extension and augmentation of infrastructural facilities, innovative teaching techniques, activity-based learning, smart classrooms, educational parks, e-content, option of English medium as well as welfare schemes such as free books, uniforms, mid-day meal, scholarships to eligible beneficiaries. Apart from awareness rallies, nukkad meetings, nukkad nataks, affixing hoardings at public places, e-prospectus, announcements through public address system of religious places, enrolment camps are offering on the spot registration.Deepika Dean, Headmistress, Government High School, Abdal, has also been carrying out such enrolments camps in her block.“Prior to organising enrolment camps, announcement through public address system of the village Gurudwara is made to make people aware about it. The move will help people gain first-hand knowledge about our academic programmes and extracurricular activities. There is a chance for us to break the stereotypical attitude about government schools and also make people realise that public education system has much more to offer,” Deepika said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/breaking-stereotypes-about-govt-school-education-230198
25-03-2021||---||Amritsar MC to book firms, painters for defacement||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24The Amritsar Municipal Corporation painted illegal wall advertisements black in the city on Wednesday. The civic body took such a step for the first time after a couple of decades.Walls of several government hospitals, offices, schools, factories and power colonies can be seen defaced.The wall advertisements are a cheapest mode to advertise the product as there’s no need to pay charges to anyone. Travel agents, quacks, astrologers, corporates, private schools and hospitals, among others, use walls to advertise their products and services.Sushant Bhatia, a newly appointed in-charge of the advertisement wing of the MC, initiated the drive to paint the wall advertisements.“I read the rules about wall advertisements. It is illegal and punishable as it leads to defacement. So, I have decided to paint the wall advertisements black. Posters and flex boards can be removed, but there is no other solution without painting walls black,” said Bhatia.The MC officials said legal action would be taken against firms and painters, which deface walls.“We will curb the practice by registering police cases against painters and firms. There is a provision under the law to book such persons. A notice will be served on painters to check no-objection certificate of the MC before going ahead with the work,” he said.It’s pertinent to mention that some wall advertisements mislead public about health and spread irrational belief among masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-to-book-firms-painters-for-defacement-230196
25-03-2021||---||Youth shot at, 4 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Four armed persons fired at a youth in Gehri Mandi village leaving him critically injured here on Tuesday evening. The victim, identified as Shubham (24), a resident of Gehri Mandi village, was rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for treatment. His condition is stated to be serious but out of danger.The police have booked four persons — Ghudda, Rana, Ghuggi and their unidentified accomplice. They were on the run. Sub-Inspector Balraj Singh, who is investigating the case, said raids were on to nab the suspects. A preliminary probe hinted at an old enmity between them that led to the incident.Deepak Kumar, father of the victim, said he ran a liquor vend and tavern on Johan Road while his son Shubham worked with him. He said on Tuesday evening, his son was standing outside the vend when four persons came on two bikes and three others on another motorcycle. He said Ghudda allegedly fired in the air and fled from the spot. Rana, who was on another bike, came behind and fired at Shubham. While a bullet pierced his left arm, another bullet hit Shubham on a thigh.He said he rushed him to the Manawala government hospital from where he was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. He said the accused had a quarrel with his son a few days ago. Sub-Inspector Balraj Singh said a case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the four suspects and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-at-4-booked-230195
25-03-2021||---||Heart patients shouldn’t ignore their condition amid Covid, says expert||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Highlighting the hazards of Covid-19 on cardiovascular health, Dr Yadvinder Singh, an interventional cardiologist said heart patients must seek timely treatment and not ignore worsening of their symptoms or heath conditions out of fear of Covid-19.He said heart patients must not neglect or delay their heart related procedures as it may prove fatal.“In many cases, patients develop serious complications such as formation of blood clots or thrombus, which can lead to 100 per cent blockage of coronary arteries,” he said.Singh said independent studies from Italy, France, USA and China have corroborated a 50 per cent decline in admission of patients with heart ailments due to their or their family’s reluctance to go to a hospital during the pandemic.Referring to this alarming trend, he said: “Heart patients must be aware that they have a cardiac condition that requires monitoring and in case of any symptom of a heart attack, they must immediately report to a hospital for proper diagnosis and treatment.”Adding that all multi-specialty hospitals have strict protocols to keep Covid and non-Covid patients in separate wards, he said: “Like other viral respiratory tract infection, Covid-19 can cause worse outcomes in patients with pre-existing cardio vascular disease (CVD) risk factors or in those with established CVD. This is due to low cardio-respiratory reserve of these patients or by worsening of the underlying CVD due to systemic effects of the illness.”Covid-19 patients with pre-existing CVD have increased case fatality rates compared to others, he said. Case fatality rates reported are 6 per cent for hypertensives, 7.3 per cent for diabetics and 10.5 per cent among those with CVD, while the overall case-fatality was only 2.3 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heart-patients-shouldnt-ignore-their-condition-amid-covid-says-expert-230193
25-03-2021||---||2 more succumb to virus, 290 +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, March 24The district tally of Covid positive patients increased to 18,840 on Wednesday after 290 persons came out positive. The district health authorities have also reported two fatalities in the last 24 hours.The deceased have been identified as Satnam Singh, a 50-year-old resident of Doburji and Gurjit Singh, a 52-year-old resident of Manjpur village. The new cases include 195 influenza-like illness cases and 95 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 110 patients, the recovery count has also increased to 16,208. The active case load in the district has increased to 1,983 within the last four weeks, as the district has witnessed a sudden spurt in infections.68,747 persons jabbed in district so farThe district health authorities said a total of 3,352 persons received vaccination on Wednesday. So far, 68,747 persons in the district have received the first dose of the injection, which includes 17,836 healthcare workers, 18,470 frontline workers and 32,441 persons above 45 years of age.6 more from Kairon school positiveTarn Taran: Six more staff members of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Kairon, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Principal Neemal Rani said six staff members whose report came out positive include four teachers and a chaukidar and a senior laboratory attendant. A lecturer and one from the computer faculty tested positive on Saturday as well. The infected staff members have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the district administration received the report of 1,112 samples on Sunday and 51 were detected positive. He said 17,479 persons have been given the Covid-19 injection. There were 397 active cases in the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-succumb-to-virus-290-ve-in-amritsar-district-230192
25-03-2021||GS Paul||Screening, social distancing given go-by at Amritsar shrines||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24Despite a spurt in Covid cases, scant precautionary measures are being adopted at the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir in Amritsar. When a Tribune team visited both shrines, it appeared the devotees did not see much reason in taking precautions against the pandemic.It was left to the ‘discretion’ of the devotees to follow the guidelines. Six feet physical distance and face mask was not mandatory. No screening of devotees was being done. Though the SGPC has set up a sanitising tunnel at the Ghanta Ghar side, the main entrance point of the Golden Temple and another one at the sarais (inns) side remain neglected.Unlike last year when ample arrangements were in place to check the health of devotees before letting them in, this time no thought was effort was made to set up a health checkup counter or arrangement for hand sanitisation. A sewadar at the entrance of the Golden Temple said, “Earlier, we used to ask the devotees to take off the masks before entering, but now, there is no restriction. It is devotees’ own will whether to wear a mask or not.”Another sewadar also joined in to express his viewpoint. “It is ‘babe da dwar’ (a place of faith) and people come here to seek blessings for good health and prosperity. No one can be forced to do anything,” he said.SGPC honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said though no visitor could be forced to wear a mask, but from today, the sewadars would be directed to encourage the visitors to wear one. We will shortly hold a meeting with the Deputy Commissioner for engaging health teams and take other preventive steps,” he said.At Durgiana Mandir, absolutely no arrangement has been made to comply with the guidelines. Mandir committee president Ramesh Sharma said, “We have sanitisation tunnels. These will be installed soon. Also, the devotees will be asked to wear masks and maintain social distancing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/screening-social-distancing-given-go-by-at-amritsar-shrines-230043
25-03-2021||Amritsar||Farmers’ sacrifice won’t go in vain, say Sikh leaders||A programme to pay homage to Navreet Singh, who died during the tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day, and others who lost their lives during the course of the farm agitation was organised in the Golden Temple complex today. Sikh organisations held an ardas and ‘shardhanjali samagam’ for the success of the agitation against the three central farm laws.The grandfather, father and mother of Navreet Singh, father of Jugraj Singh, who unfurled Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort, and Ranjit Singh, who was arrested from the Singhu border on January 29 and released from Tihar jail recently, were honoured on the occasion. Various organisations backed the Bharat Bandh call. Sikh leaders said farmers’ sacrifices wouldn’t go in vain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-sacrifice-wont-go-in-vain-say-sikh-leaders-230047
25-03-2021||Amritsar||Pandemic takes toll on sale of tweed||In the Bollywood movie Bhaag Milkha Bhaag, Milkha (played by Farhan Akhtar) runs to earn a blazer with ‘India’ written on it. Pride associated with blazer makes it part of dress in educational institutes, investiture ceremony of sports persons and reputed organisations like defence forces. Emblem emblazoned blazer is a part of uniform of many reported institutes.However, most people may not be aware of the fact that blazer and high-quality tweed are manufactured only in this part (holy city) of the country.According to Sudarshan Kumar Wadhwa, one of the oldest manufacturers in the city, “Since the schools did not open due to the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions last year the stocks of blazers remained unsold and they were compelled to stock them. There are nearly 50 units manufacturing tweeds in the city and some of them also fabricate blazers.”Another manufacturer Bipin Wadhwa said: “Nearly 40 per cent of the entire 60 lakh metre tweed manufactured in a year in the city meets the demand of people living in the Kashmir valley. Residents of the valley wear Phiran, a loose upper garment worn by men, women, children and elderly people during harsh winter. It is stitched from locally spun tweed. It is also used in stitching coats, purses, bags, beach bags and other things.”Here most of the units are in the unorganised sector and the solitary plant in the organised sector is 98-year-old OCM. SK Pandey, plant head of OCM, said his company was currently rolling out high-end segment tweed, polly wool suiting and all wool suiting. Out of the entire production, 30 per cent used to be exported to Europe, Russia and the US. The share of export was negligible in the last fiscal. Now, it has managed to retrieve only 3 per cent. “As Europe was still under lockdown due to the second wave, customers are hesitant. Our marketing executives and sales executives are not travelling overseas to showcase samples to fetch new orders,” he commented.“With nearly 1,800 employees, including 1,500 workers, OCM manufactures about 16,000 metres suiting-shirting daily. For this, we have France-imported 24,000 spindles, German-imported 122 hi-tech looms and most machines for giving finishing touches are Italian. It has one of the largest storage capacities of 10 lakh metres,” said SK Pandey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-takes-toll-on-sale-of-tweed-229692
