26-03-2021||Amritsar||In Amritsar, farmers protest bare-chested; roads, railways blocked around 165 places in Punjab||An overwhelming response to Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ call was witnessed in the Majha region. In Amritsar, the farmers—under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC)—contested bare-chested against the three agricultural farm laws. They blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi railway track, the Jodha Phatak in Vallah, Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road while raising slogans against the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) led Centre government, demanding to repeal the farm law, the Straw Act, and the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, unconditionally. They insisted on the implementation of the law of Minimum Support Price (MSP) guaranteeing government procurement, and cancelling the false notices issued to the farmers. Remove the condition of taking fards (land record) by the government, and stop issuing challans on fines in the name of coronavirus. Barring the essential, and emergency services—a total Bandh was observed and the streets wore a deserted look with a heavy vigil by the police at least at 40 different points. In Tarn Taran, the Amritsar-Khemkaran, the Amritsar-TarnTaran-Beas rail route remained blocked. The milk supply, fodder, and vegetable supply too were suspended.Though the government offices and Public oriented services were operational, there were scant applicants in public offices. Similarly, the rail track to Pathankot to Amritsar was blocked. Except for the banks and medicine, all services were stopped.  KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher claimed that thousands of farmers, labours with their family members, and youth took to jam the road and rail network.“In Punjab’s 12 districts the trains and roads were disrupted at over 165 places. Besides in Amritsar where the main rail track was blocked, in Tarn Taran at 32 places, the rail and roads were blocked, in Gurdaspur, the blockade was being observed at 18 places, Ferozepur at 15 places, Hoshiarpur at two places, Kapurthala at five places, Jalandhar at five places, Moga at two places, and also at Fazilka, Muktsar and Faridkot”, he said.Senior Vice President Sawinder Singh told that the Centre government attempted to discourage the farmers from agitation at Delhi borders under the pretext of the COVID-19 threat.“Where was Covid spread threat factor when massive political rallies were being conducted? Moreover, nobody should bother as farmers were accustomed to doing hard physical labour and their immune system was enough to scare away any pandemic”, he added.Farmer leaders said that the Modi government was not withdrawing the Agriculture Act under the pressure of WTO. “The ongoing struggle is not only against the Modi government but also against the imperialistic policy. It is a line that is drawn between the peasants-labour and the big corporate houses which intend to enter agriculture sector to gallop our land”, said another farmer Gurbachan Singh Chabba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-amritsar-farmers-protest-bare-chested-roads-railways-blocked-around-165-places-in-punjab-230773
26-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Patti resident dies in accident||‘Accomplice’ of Jagga arrestedAmritsar: The counter intelligence (CI) wing of the Punjab Police has arrested Gurpreet Singh, an alleged accomplice of Khalistani operative Jagdev Singh, alias Jagga, who was arrested from Lucknow on February 8. Gurpreet was arrested from Panipat and he was brought on transit remand. He was produced in the local court which sent him to police remand for further interrogation. Jagga was nabbed from Lucknow following the interrogation of his accomplice Jagroop Singh, who was arrested from Rampur Cheete village. The police had recovered five pistols from him. The CI wing had also brought a notorious gangster, Jasbir Singh Anngarhiya, on production warrant. Jasbir has as many as 30 criminal cases, including attempt to murder, robbery and the NDPS Act registered against him. According to police sources in CI, Gurpreet was allegedly in touch with anti-national elements in Dubai through social media. Further probe is on. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-resident-dies-in-accident-230619
26-03-2021||Amritsar||Workshop on SDS–PAGE organised||Course on LaTex inauguratedA week long online course on LaTeX- Tool to prepare scientific documents was organised at the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre of the Guru Nanak Dev University. This one-week online workshop will provide introduction and hands on experience on LaTeX for writing scientific documents. At the end of the workshop the participants are expected to learn to use LaTeX to write scientific papers, thesis, presentations, articles, and books.The workshop will consist of a number of worksheets, each worksheet focused on specific tools in LaTeX. Prof Adarsh Pal Vig, Director UGC-HRDC emphasised the importance of such short-term courses in profile development of faculty and research scholars. Prof Arvind (IISER Mohali) and Prof RC Singh (GNDU) applauded the efforts made by the course coordinators, Dr Aman Mahajan (Department of Physics, GNDU) Dr Bindiya Arora (Department of Physics, GNDU) and Dr Harjot Kaur (Department of Computer Science GNDU Regional Campus, Gurdaspur). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workshop-on-sds%E2%80%93page-organised-230618
26-03-2021||---||Ministerial staff hold rally against government||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, March 25On the last day of the three-day agitation regarding the current demands of the ministerial staff of different departments of the state government, employees wore black badges and lodged protest rally here on Wednesday.The employees under the banner of the Punjab State Ministerial Services Union have been demanding implementation of the 6th Pay Commission, releasing of due instalments of Dearness Allowance, arrears of the DA instalments given already during the last four years, stopping of abolishing clerical posts in schools and offices.The rally organised at the District Administrative Complex was attended the ministerial staff of the Revenue, Education, Health, Irrigation, Health, Employment, Agriculture, Horticulture and other departments.Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, district president of the organisation, Angrej Singh, Iqbal Singh, Tarsem Singh, Karwinder Singh Cheema were among others, who addressed employees and called them to be ready against the agitation against the state government which was in no mood to redress their genuine demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ministerial-staff-hold-rally-against-government-230616
26-03-2021||---||SAD asks Sunil Jakhar to quit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 25Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday asked Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar to submit his resignation to party’s de-facto leader Rahul Gandhi after being upstaged by the CM’s new adviser Prashant Kishore who had abrogated all powers and functions of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.Majithia briefed media after handing over 20 battery operated state-of-the-art wheelchairs to handicapped persons of the constituency at Gurdwara Baba Budha Sahib here.He said another lot of 20 wheelchairs would be distributed to needy persons soon. “We are committed to providing battery operated wheelchairs to handicapped persons in the constituency in a phased manner and I am grateful to donors who have stepped up to help in this humanitarian gesture”, the SAD leader said.Taking a dig at a recent meeting Prashant Kishore held with 37 first time legislators, Majithia said since he had abrogated Sunil Jakhar’s role, the latter had become redundant and should put in his papers immediately. “Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee had turned into the Punjab Pradesh Corporate Committee with Prashant Kishore being at the centre stage to interact with legislators directly. Jakhar now does not have any role to play and should quit”, he said.Meanwhile, answering another question, the senior SAD leader said Capt Amarinder could not escape the fact that he swore a false oath in the name of the holy Gutka Sahib.He said the CM would also have to reply as to why he indebted farmers further by refusing to waive off their loans completely as promised which resulted in them not paying their loan installments resulting in subsequent recovery proceedings against them as well as more than 1,500 suicides.“How can the CM run away from the fact that he got forms filled from the youth promising them government jobs? How can he deny that he promised unemployment allowance of Rs 2,500 per month to youth and ‘ghar ghar naukari’ to them? Why the CM had not given power at the rate of Rs 5 to both the domestic and commercial consumers”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-asks-sunil-jakhar-to-quit-230614
26-03-2021||---||Open institutes, libraries demand varsity students||Amritsar, March 25Led by the Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkar), students from different colleges affiliated to GNDU and the university, sat outside the varsity gates in protest against the state government’s decision to shutdown educational institutions till March 31. Stating that students have already suffered academically and financially due to the pandemic, Ravinder Kaur, a Punjab Students Union (Lalkar) State Committee Member, who led the protest, said prolonged closure of universities and college has had an impact on the future plans of a lot of students.“Educational institutions were the last ones to be reopened after a year-long lockdown and after students had deposited fee and other dues for the new sessions, once again they have been shutdown. While every other sector, including offices and recreational centres remain open, why only the schools/colleges have been shutdown in the name of Covid-19. Moreover, students who have lost a year of academics, look forward to use facilities such as public libraries to get access to books and research papers. A lot of student activities have also been hampered due to this abrupt decision. One has to think about how students with limited means will continue with online classes,” she said.During the protest, the students also raised issues of rising economical burden on the common man while the government hid behind insensitive decisions. “The curfew and restrictions again have hit so hard that 200 million people, already have lost their jobs and are looking at a grim future. At the same time, the state coffers are being filled by forcibly issuing challans. The life of the common man has become miserable, whether it is petrol prices, gas cylinders and other daily necessities, the prices have skyrocketed and imposing curfew or restrictions in the name of Covid-19 is a way to curb any civil movement or protest by people against anti-people policies,” said Ravinder.Seen with books in hand, the students sat in protest for over two hours outside the GNDU gates. “We urge government to open colleges and universities after March 31. If not, we will continue the protest,” said Ravinder. They also supported the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers on March 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-institutes-libraries-demand-varsity-students-230612
26-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Now, cops to record fingerprints of criminals||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 25To take fingerprints of all suspects arrested by the police, the city police have procured and distributed fingerprint kits to all police stations here.This is the first of its kind step that has been taken to keep a track of criminal elements involved in different crimes. A centralised data of the fingerprints of all criminals would be created, which would help in solving crimes.“This would help the police in identifying the suspects behind crimes occurring in the city,” said Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (investigations).The department trained a cop in each police station during three-day training programme at the Police Lines for taking fingerprints of criminal elements. Rashpal Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (forensic and technical support) along with SI Sukhbaz Singh, in-charge, forensic and fingerprint branch, imparted training to the cops.A headquarter has been created at Rambagh police station in this regard. Every fingerprint would be sent there for further recording and creating data. These would be further sent to Phillaur for making centralised data.The police distributed kits at 24 police stations including two women police stations and CIA staff here.Harminder Singh Sandhu, Assistant Commissioner of Police (investigations) said fingerprints would be taken even of those criminals, who would be released on bail.“Once a centralised data from all over Punjab is created at the Fingerprint Bureau, Phillaur, it will also help in establishing in how many criminal incidents he was involved in the past,” said Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-cops-to-record-fingerprints-of-criminals-230606
26-03-2021||---||Clerk in BDPO office of Chogawan block booked for bungling||Amritsar, March 25An accounts clerk with the Block Development and Panchayat Office, Chogawan block, allegedly bungled over Rs 43 lakh from the government fund. The accused identified as Gurdialpal Singh transferred the amount on different dates to his personal account after making fake signature of a former Block Development and Panchayat Officer.The case was registered following a complaint lodged by Director Village Development and Panchayat Department in this connection.The Lopoke police have registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC against Gurdialpal Singh. The accused was yet to be arrested as he went underground after the bungling came to light.Amandeep Sharma, BDPO, Chogwan, said that the accused had been transferring money to his personal account on different occasions since 2017.He said that he transferred the money through public financial management system (PFMS).A total of Rs 43.88 lakh were allegedly misappropriated by the accused.Police authorities said that investigations had been launched and efforts were on to trace and arrest the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clerk-in-bdpo-office-of-chogawan-block-booked-for-bungling-230604
26-03-2021||---||Kamalpreet honoured for her selection in Olympics||Amritsar, March 25Kamalpreet Kaur, a Sikh athlete selected in discus throw event for the July 2021 Olympics to be held in Tokyo, Japan, has been honoured by the SGPC. She was presented a cheque for Rs2 lakh and a siropa (robe of honour).Kamalpreet hails from Kabarwala village of Sri Muktsar Sahib district. She graduated from Desh Bhagat College, Dhuri. SGPC also announced to assist her in her higher education. While honouring Kamalpreet, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the SGPC has always encouraged Sikh youth to excel in various fields.“The Sikh community is proud of talented girls like Kamalpreet Kaur. The young generation should take inspiration from her. We acknowledge her achievements and if she intends to study in an SGPC college, no fee would be charged. If she chooses any other college, SGPC will help her in bearing her education expense,” she said.She said the SGPC was committed to providing better opportunities to Sikh girls in the field of sports and under this, a separate sports directorate for girls has been set up and an academy opened.Kamalpreet expressed her gratitude towards the SGPC and appealed to the Sikh youth to come forward for the betterment of the community.Meanwhile, the SGPC also honored Kamalpreet Kaur’s coach Bibi Rakhi Tyagi with a cheque for Rs21,000.SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, member Amrik Singh Vichhoa, Amarjit Singh Bhalaipur, former MLA Amarpal Singh Bonny Ajnala, assistant secretary Tejinder Singh Padda, manager of Golden Temple Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, OSD Dr Amrik Singh Latifpur, Dr Sukhbir Singh and the family members of Kamalpreet Kaur were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kamalpreet-honoured-for-her-selection-in-olympics-230597
26-03-2021||Amritsar||Pak delegation visits Golden Temple||Members of the Permanent Indus Commission delegation from Pakistan, who held talks with their Indian counterparts at New Delhi, visited Golden Temple today, before returning to their country.The two-day meeting of the commission was led on the Indian side by Indus Water Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Saxena. Led by Pakistan’s Indus water commissioner Syed Muhammad Mehar Ali Shah, the Pakistan delegation had arrived through the Wagah-Attari border on March 22 for the first talks in over two-and-a-half years.Talking to mediapersons, Shah said: “Golden Temple is a sacred place. This is my first visit to this shrine and am overwhelmed by its ambience. This place signifies peace and mutual brotherhood. The issues pertaining to waters and others could be resolved through dialogue in a peaceful manner.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pak-delegation-visits-golden-temple-230432
26-03-2021||---||Prime suspect lands in police net||Amritsar, March 25The city police arrested the prime accused in the incident in which a youth identified as Sahil of Ekta Nagar area was shot dead in the Haripura area on the Jhabal road on March 17. The police recovered a country-made weapon, along with two bullets, from him.Harjit Singh Dhaliwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, said, Saranjit Singh, alias, Sunny had shot Sahil dead over an old enmity. He said raids were on to nab the remaining accused, including Sunny’s brother Prince, aka, Panchhi. Among others who were booked in the case included Sandeep Singh Gattu. He was Sunny’s brother-in-law.Sahil was shot dead by three motorcycle-borne persons in Chhota Haripura area when he was walking outside his home after having dinner. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital where doctors declared him dead. After preliminary probe, the police named Saranjit Sunny and his brother Prince Panchhi for murder. Simarjit and Prince had some rivalry with the victim and they were at loggerheads with each other for the past few months. The accused were aware of the routine of Sahil and targeted him at the same place where he used to go for a daily walk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspect-lands-in-police-net-230596
26-03-2021||---||2 fall prey to virus in Amritsar district, 297 fresh infections||Amritsar, March 25The health authorities reported 297 fresh cases in the district on Thursday. With this, the total count of positive cases in the district reached 19,137. The authorities also reported two deaths in the last 24 hours and the toll increased to 651. The deceased have been identified as Jagir Kaur (55), a resident of Udhor Kalan village, and Salwinder Kaur (70), of Sultanwind Gate. The new cases include 199 influenza like illness cases and 98 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 147 patients, the recovery count increased to 16,355. The active caseload in the district has also gone up to 2,131. The district health authorities said 3,700 beneficiaries were vaccinated today. Around 72,000 persons have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-fall-prey-to-virus-in-amritsar-district-297-fresh-infections-230595
26-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur cops up the ante against violators||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, March 25Rakesh Singh, a government employee, was dressed-up as usual and ready to leave for his office. As he was driving his motorcycle to his workplace, he was signaled-down at a check post by the cops. He thought the police want to see his registration papers, hence he shoved them into the hands of a constable.The cops, however, had other thoughts. He was asked to sit in a police vehicle and 10 minutes later, he found himself standing inside the Civil Hospital instead of his office.The young man’s fault was that he was not wearing a mask. In these days of Covid, it is considered a cardinal sin. Two hours later, his Covid sample was taken and later he was dropped at the very spot from where he was picked up.About 200 people like him are being taken to health centres for testing every day or are tested for Covid at the police check posts itself through rapid or RT-PCR procedures.The drive to ensure residents follow Covid-appropriate behaviour was started by SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal before he was transferred yesterday. The gauntlet has now been picked up by his successor Dr Nanak Singh, an IPS officer, who is likely to be as strict as his predecessor was on Covid infringements.The cops may be doing yeoman’s service to society by checking the spread of the virus. However, they could do better if they visit the RTA office and the District Administrative Complex (DAC), which houses top officials, including the DC. These two places, say doctors, are the worst offenders, as seldom does anybody wear masks. Officials here give two hoots to wearing masks.Dr Vijay Kumar, officiating Civil Surgeon, waved the red-flag when he said that among people brought by the police for testing in the last 48 hours, a significant number had tested positive. “This is an alarming trend. It needs to be checked immediately. Otherwise, there could be virus-induced chaos all around us. We have now stationed several sample-collection teams at the check posts to help the police,” he said.Yet another disturbing phenomenon witnessed in the city was that not many people are coming forward for inoculation claiming “they do not trust the vaccine.”“This mistrust is because of widespread rumours about the efficacy of the vaccine,” a doctor said.The police are making efforts to educate locals on the importance of getting vaccinated.SSP Sohal said the drive to forcibly test people was reaping rich dividends. “On Day 1, we took nearly 250 people to the hospital. On the succeeding days, we saw a lot of people wearing masks. Earlier, these very people seldom adhered to Covid norms including those pertaining to social distancing. Even then, a lot needs to be done. Without doubt, maintaining a distance from others is the only way to maintain your equanimity and, of course, to avoid catching the virus,” he said.Sohal said keeping in view the fresh spike in the number of cases and the upcoming festivals, including Holi, it is important to ensure compliance of guidelines and also strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-cops-up-the-ante-against-violators-230593
26-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||High alert in Amritsar ahead of Bharat Bandh today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 25The Punjab Police are on high alert in order to thwart any untoward incident during the Bharat Bandh to be observed on Friday.The bandh call was given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint platform of various farmers’ union, agitating against controversial three farm laws passed by the Central Government. The farm unions were demanding repealing of these laws while the Central Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had failed to address their demand so far.The police department has made elaborate security arrangements for the peaceful demonstration in the city as well as in the rural belt.There are over 40 points in both city and rural belt where farm unions would be holding protest and indulged in the blockade of roads. While the farmers will be holding protests on all highways many major parts including railway station and Bhandari Bridge would also witness protests. The police have appealed to the people to travel on the roads only in case of any emergency.A senior official of Amritsar rural police said that SSP Dhruv Dahiya would personally supervise the security arrangements during bandh tomorrow. He said there were over 30 points in the rural areas where farmers would be holding agitation and block road. He said five SPs and all DSPs, besides SSP Dhahiya would remain on road to thwart any untoward incident.Parminder Singh Bhandal, DCP, Law and Order, Amritsar city police, said that companies of armed police battalions and commandoes were also pressed into service for the elaborate security arrangements chalked out for tomorrow.“The city has been divided into two parts and each would be supervised by a DCP-rank official. The area around 12 points in the city includes railway station, Bhandari Bridge and Golden Gate, where farmers have planned to stage protest against three farm laws,” said Bhandal.He informed that Additional Deputy Commissioners of Police, besides Assistant Commissioners of the Police have been asked to remain on road and different check points and places where farmers will be organising protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/high-alert-in-amritsar-ahead-of-bharat-bandh-today-230592
26-03-2021||---||Carved with a heritage tinge, DAC opens for Amritsar residents||Amritsar March 25Hung in balance for several years, the new state-of-the-art District Administrative Complex is now a reality.Constructed at a cost of Rs93 crore, this project was designed by GNDU’s architect team and carved with a heritage tinge, resembling the historic Khalsa College.While inaugurating it, Cabinet minister for Medical Education and Research Om Prakash Soni said the residents of Amritsar would furnish their official formalities under one roof.This project was conceived by erstwhile SAD-BJP government in 2013 and the construction was started the following year. It will have two wings — civil and police. While the civil services would be offered first, the police departments would be made operational in due course.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said 12 administrative wings, including his office, would be shifted to the new premises. Others are Education, Revenue, Excise and Taxation, District Attorney, Department of Labour, Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development among others.For the convenience of people, a service centre has been set up on the ground floor.“The total covered area of this complex is around 6.10 lakh sq feet. The two basements have also been constructed for parking. There would be a large meeting hall, two video-conference rooms. Four lifts have been installed besides the fire hydrants and alarms. There would be separate entry for VIPs and the public,” he said.Earlier, Sukhmani Sahib prayers were recited by the employees of DC office in the presence of MLAs Sunil Dutti, Harpartap Singh Ajnala, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himansu Aggarwal, SSP Rural Dhruv Dahiya, Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal, Chief Administrator PUDA Palvi Chaudhary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carved-with-a-heritage-tinge-dac-opens-for-amritsar-residents-230590
