27-03-2021||Amritsar||Another haul of illicit liquor, Lahan busted in Amritsar's rural belt||Another haul of illicit liquor has been recovered during a late-night swoop.  In the Chak Mishri Khan village located near the Indo-Pak border, as many as 10 illegal working stills were busted by the local police.This is the fifth seizure this month. During the three-hour-long search operation, the Amritsar rural SSP Dhruv Dhaiya, and other officials confiscated 400 litres of illicit liquor, along with 1.16 lakh kg of Lahan.  The police also recovered 16 tarpaulins, a water tank of 1000 litre capacity, 20 drums, seven gas cylinders, and a car that was used to supply illicit liquor to their clients.  Balwinder Singh, Karnail Singh, Shamsher Singh and Sukhdev Singh, all residents of Chak Mishri Khan were among the few arrested during the raid.  The police have registered eight cases of excise act following the seizure. Earlier, the police seized a huge quantity of illicit liquor from Khiala Kala, Lakhuwal, Chhapa Ram Singh, Kotli Sakka and Jasso Nangal village. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said that till now the police have confiscated 5.25 lakh kg of Lahan, and 1,891 litres of illicit liquor in the past month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-haul-of-illicit-liquor-lahan-busted-in-amritsars-rural-belt-231299
27-03-2021||Amritsar||Kriti Arora tops Amritsar in JEE Main||Workers stop lifting garbageAmritsar: Safai sewaks and sanitation staff of the Municipal Corporation on Friday stopped lifting of garbage in the city. The union leaders have given an ultimatum of 72 hours to Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu and MC officials to fulfill their demands otherwise they will go on an indefinite strike from Wednesday. The leaders of the employee unions claimed that no tractor-trolley or other garbage lifting vehicle would be allowed to go out from the MC’s auto workshop. Sanjay Khosla, president, Nagar Nigam Employees Union, said, “We have several pending demands but the MC officials and Mayor are not ready to hear our grievances.” TNSMan held with 6-kg poppy huskTarn Taran: The Valtoha police arrested Baljit Singh of Mehmoodpur village with 6 kg of poppy husk on Thursday. The accused has been booked under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. Meanwhile, the Patti Sadar police arrested Pawandeep Singh of Kutiwala village with 35 kg of lahan. The accused has been booked under Sections 61,1 and14 of the Excise Act. In another case, Sarabjit Singh of Fatehbad was nabbed by Goindwal Sahib police on Thursday with 500 intoxicant tablets. ASI Naresh Kumar, Investigating Officer, said that the accused confessed that he had purchased the tablets from Heera Singh of Bhail Dhai Wala to be sold in the open market. The accused has been booked under Sections 22,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act, the ASI said. OCThree booked for attack on youthAmritsar: A youth was brutally thrashed and left critically injured by three persons at Pandora village over a trivial issue of rubbing of shoulders. The victim has been identified as Tinku, a resident of Pandora village. The police have booked three persons, including Baba, Gichi and Rohit on charges of attempt to culpable homicide. According to the victim’s family, the accused were under the influence of liquor. Assistant-Sub Inspector Sukhpal Singh (Investigating Officer) said as per doctors, Tinku’s condition was serious as he suffered grievous head injury. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kriti-arora-tops-amritsar-in-jee-main-231272
27-03-2021||It is after a long time that Gurdaspur has finally got an IPS officer as its SSP. As far as policing goes||No more bad days?||It takes two to tangoTwo Batala cops – DSP Gurdeep Singh and ASI Baldev Singh – were conferred upon the ‘DGP’s honour for exemplary sewa to society’ for proving their mettle in the ongoing fight against the ubiquitous virus. Both these officers were felicitated by SSP Rachpal Singh at a ceremony held in his office on Thursday. “The virus does not care about the borders. It is a worldwide killer having spread its deadly tentacles far and wide. So let us put aside our conflicts, our hands together and fight the disease if we have to serve and save humanity,” remarked DSP Gurdeep.A point to be notedThe Bharat bandh call evoked a good response in Gurdaspur district. Not even a single shop opened. Rail traffic was disrupted at several places with the result that the Pathankot-Amritsar passenger was halted at Pathankot itself. However, not many were impressed. A young student, Manjinder Singh Dala, whose family owes scores of acres of land, said, “I belong to a farmer’s family hence I have a lot of sympathy for my protesting brethren. Having said that, I would also like to say such calls like the Bharat bandh one given today serve no purpose at all. By shutting down businesses we are walking down a blind alley. Life comes to a total standstill. Transport services are affected. People who need treatment cannot reach hospitals. By halting railways, thousands of people are unable to reach their respective destinations. Students cannot reach their examinations centres. We should find other ways and means to ensure the Union Government looks into the farmers’ demands instead of going in for bandhs,” he said. A point well made, Manjinder.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-more-bad-days-231271
27-03-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC approves 25 proposals||After the budget meeting, the Municipal Corporation conducted its general meeting and gave nod to 25 proposals for development works on Friday. Some other proposals of councillors were also tabled during discussion. Most of the proposals were related to development and desilting of sewerage lines in various areas of the city.Raising the objection on hiring private firm for desilting, councillor Mahesh Khanna stated that he had advised to buy the super suction machines last year. The hiring of super suction machines is not viable option and moreover it is our primary need for desilting of sewer lines.Jatinder Kaur, councillor from ward number 5 demanded to develop greenbelt along with Tung Drain, which turned into nullah and posing serious threat to human health. Senior deputy mayor Raman Bakshi and councillor Mahesh Khanna also raised the objection on the firm hired for the maintenance of tubewells. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-approves-25-proposals-231270
27-03-2021||---||Four succumb to virus in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 26The health authorities reported four Covid-19 related deaths in the district on Friday. With this, the total number of deaths reached 655 today. The Health Department reported 304 fresh cases in the district, thus taking the number of positive cases to 19,441.The deceased have been identified as Jasbir Kaur (79), of Jalalpura village in Majitha, Gurbhej Singh (61), of Bagga Kalan village, Kirpal Singh (74), of Jandiala Guru, and Surinder Singh (62), of Rampura village. Among the new cases, 215 had influenza like illness and 89 were contact of the positive patients.At present, the district has 2,313 active cases while the number of recovered patients reached 16,473. New patients also include district public relation officer Sherjang Singh, who has been quarantined and asked to take necessary precautions. According to health authorities, a total of 3,314 persons were inoculated today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-succumb-to-virus-in-amritsar-231269
27-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: 12 booked for firing at Vishal Mega Mart||Around 12 armed persons opened firing at the entrance of Vishal Mega Mart here on Thursday evening. The incident was the result of a verbal duel over shopping between one of the accused and staff of the Mart that took place in the morning. Though nobody was injured in firing, it created panic in the Mart.The Mart is situated right in front of the SSP’s residence and on the main road passing through the town.A police party, headed by DSP (City) Sucha Singh Bal, reached the spot and after watching the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the Mart, they recognised two of the attackers — Jaideep Singh of Palasaur and Sanny of Dial Rajputan. Their 10 other unidentified accomplices are yet to be identified.Jaideep Singh along with his family members had gone to the Mart for shopping in the morning where he had a verbal duel with a salesman. He left the place and came to the Mart again in the evening along with his armed supporters on a Pajero and other vehicles and fired at the glass main gate of the Mart.The DSP said on the statement of Arwind Kumar, manager of the Mart, the police registered a case under Sections 307, 506, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. He said none of the accused had been arrested though raids were being conducted at the possible hideouts of the accused. Jaideep Singh, main accused in the case, was booked in three different criminal cases. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-12-booked-for-firing-at-vishal-mega-mart-231268
27-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Massive support for Bharat bandh in Tarn Taran district||Tarn Taran, March 26The Bharat Bandh call given by the national-level farmer organisation under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Friday got massive support in this border district.Bus and train services remained paralysed. Shops and other commercial establishments remained closed. Supplies of milk, green vegetables, fodder, etc, from rural areas to urban areas were interrupted. Roads wore a deserted look.Dharnas were staged not only on National Highway No.54 passing through the district but also National Highway No.354. The Amritsar-Khemkaran too was occupied by protesters at places in protest against the three farm laws. Even link roads too were blocked by farmers and their supporters.People from all walks of life participated in the bandh. The Organisation of Divyang (people with disabilties) under the banner of “Angheen and Blind Union, Punjab” too organised a dharna at the local Chaunk Bohri. Addressing a gathering, Lakhbir Singh Saini said the three farm laws would affect all sections of society as the prices of farm products would skyrocket.Employees of Powercom led by Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind organised a protest in Naushehra Pannuan. Farmer organisations affiliated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha staged a dharna on National Highway No.54 here at T-points. Prithipal Singh Marimegha and Daljit Singh Dialpura were among others who addressed the gathering.Workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, blocked traffic by organizing dharnas at 32 points in the district, including at National Highway No.54 at Raspulpur canals. Tejinderpal Singh Raju and Satnam Singh Manochahal among others also addressed the protesters and said the farmers’ only demand was to repeal the three laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/massive-support-for-bharat-bandh-in-tarn-taran-district-231267
27-03-2021||---||Feted for his efforts: NCERT award for school teacher||Amritsar, March 26Pankaj Sharma, a teacher at Government Middle School, Bhoewali, is not new to garnering achievements, especially in the field of science. While the self-confessed citizen scientist, who has been actively planning and implementing innovative initiatives of learning for his students, Pankaj has added to his list of achievements by getting selected for the NCERT award for year 2019-20.Pankaj has won the recognition for his project that he submitted for the NCERT’s national awards for innovative practices and experiments in education for schools and teacher education institutions. He is among the 28 teachers from across the country to receive the award. He will receive a cash prize of Rs 10,000 and a certificate from NCERT under the award. The only other recipients of the award from Punjab are three other teachers, two from Ludhiana and one from Faridkot.His project was on the subject of assess and enhance physical environmental awareness among the elementary schools students. “I had been working for long on building a scientific attitude among students and for the project I had selected four schools, two from border areas and two from semi-urban areas. My study brought out the significance of practical learning as kids, who learned through practical and environment-based learning were able to become more aware and sensitive towards various ecological issues we are facing currently. Also, innovative learning methods resulted in bringing up the levels of scientific aptitude among kids,” said Sharma. He has been working with his students to create kitchen gardens at his school and the village, the kids learning natural farming techniques while they maintain the gardens.He has previously mentored few of his students to design prototypes of innovative machines and compete in national competitions in the field of science and research.He has been running village science club in two villages for past 10 years, engaging local community and his students to think out of the box.Among 28 teachers across countryPankaj Sharma, a teacher at Government Middle School, Bhoewali, (in pic) has won the recognition for his project that he submitted for the NCERT's national awards for innovative practices and experiments in education for schools and teacher education institutions. He is among the 28 teachers from across the country to receive the award. He will receive a cash prize of Rs 10,000 and a certificate from NCERT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/feted-for-his-efforts-ncert-award-for-school-teacher-231266
27-03-2021||PK Jaiswar||Bandh gets overwhelming response in holy city Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 26On the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (United Farmers Front), a large number of farmers on Friday took out demonstrations at various places across the district.The farmers have been holding protests against the three controversial laws enacted by the Central Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the past nearly four months.The protest got an overwhelming response from a cross-section of society with markets and bazaars remaining shut till evening that threw normal life out of gear. Rail and bus services remained suspended and the railway station and the interstate bus terminus wore a deserted look in view of Bharat Bandh.The farmers gave a call for Bharat Bandh from 6am to 6pm. Besides trade unions, various other organisations also participated in the protest at different places and supported the farmers’ cause. Women and children also participated in the protests.Though the majority of people avoided stepping out of their houses due to the agitation throughout the day, those who ventured out faced problems as all the main roads, including highways, remained blocked by the protesting farmers and security personnel. However, they did not stop emergency services, including ambulances and medical services.Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha (part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha), which held agitations at Attari, Chogwan, Majitha, Ajnala, Lopoke and Othian, said despite the month-long agitation, the Central Government did not accept the genuine demands of the farming community.The farmers’ unions also decided to hold a demonstration outside the offices of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) in protest against recent orders regarding foodgrain procurement, which has created a flutter among the community in Punjab. “We will hold a protest on April 5 from 12 noon to 6pm against these autocratic orders by the FCI,” said Randhawa.Gurbachan Singh Chabba, state secretary of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, who led the protest at the Golden Gate said the Joint Farmers’ Front held a protest at 80 places across the district and overall 165 in 12 districts of the state. He said railway lines were blocked at 28 places in Amritsar.He said they would intensify their agitation in the near future if the government failed to accept their genuine demands. He said the farmers would continue their peaceful protest till then. The farmers protested bare-chested at the Vallah railway crossing.The police remained on their toes the entire day to thwart any untoward incident. Parminder Singh Bhandal, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, said the agitations passed off peacefully. He said armed battalions of police and commandoes and the entire police force from the city and police stations were deputed on road for security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bandh-gets-overwhelming-response-in-holy-city-amritsar-231249
27-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar Municipal Corporation passes Rs 435-crore budget||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 26The Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) passed a budget of Rs 435 crore for 2021-22 during the General House meet on Friday. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said no new taxes have been imposed. In 2020-21, civic body had passed a budget of Rs 354 crore.The MC would spend 58 per cent of the budget (Rs 252 crore) on employees, 39 per cent (Rs 171 crore) on development works and 3 per cent has been reserved for emergency situations.The civic body is expecting to collect Rs42.50 crore from property taxObserving its potential to collect taxes, the MC has set a target of collecting water and sewerage bills of Rs 35 crore. Civic body is expecting to collect Rs 42.50 crore from property tax. The MC would get Rs 30 crore through octroi on power and Rs 15 crore from excise duty. Rupee 2.50 crore as licence fee, Rs 8 crore as building fee and development charges, composition fee of Rs 9 crore and Rs 2 crore through street vending. The MC would sell its properties worth Rs 60 crore and collect around Rs 1 crore in rent. Similarly, civic body Rs 170 crore from its share of VAT.As far as expenditures were concerned, the MC has to pay Rs 18 crore as power bill for streetlights apart from Rs 2.50 crore electricity bills. The MC would pay Rs 5.50 crore to a private firm for maintenance of streetlights. Around 11 crore would be spend on landscaping and maintenance of parks and development works of the Mohalla Sudhar Committees. Rupee 22 crore would be paid as power bill of tubewells and disposal plants. Civic body reserved Rs 8 crore for water supply and sewerage. Another Rs 14.90 crore would be spent on mechanical sweeping and solid-waste management. The MC has to pay Rs 90 lakh as legal charges of sub-judice cases and Rs 1.30 crore as audit fee.Apart from this, MC has listed several non-committed expenditure in which civic body proposed to spend Rs 16.50 crore on recarpeting and maintenance of roads, Rs 7.50 crore for to cover open drains, Rs 1 crore on improvements in slums, Rs 2.50 crore for purchasing new machines, Rs 1 crore for gaushala, Rs 1.50 crore on the Covid-19 related treatment of employees, Rs 10 crore on water and sewerage lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-passes-rs-435-crore-budget-231250
27-03-2021||---||GNDU shooters shine in ISSF World Cup 2021||Amritsar, March 26Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) shooters Divyanshu Singh Panwar and Ashwrya Partap Singh have bagged medals in the ongoing ISSF World Cup 2021 at Karni Singh Shooting Range, New Delhi, from 18 to 31 March, 2021. Divyanshu Singh Panwar won gold medal in 10m mix team and bronze medal in 10m air rifle events. Other shooter Ashwrya Partap Singh won gold medal in 50m 3P and silver medal in 10m air rifle events.Dr Sukhdev Singh, Director Sports, Guru Nanak Dev University, said that other shooters participating in the sporting event are also performing well in their respective events. “We are expecting a good number of medals from them also once the event gets over,” he said.BBKDAV sportsperson set to compete on world stageInternational fencing players and gymnasts from BBKDAV College have been selected for 31st World University Championship to be held in Chengdu (China) in August 2021. Sheetal Dalal and Taniksha Khatri, both fencing players, have made it to the list of participants, who will represent India at the prestigious sporting event. They have earlier won gold, silver and bronze medals in SAF Games, held at Kathmandu in 2019 in various categories and participated in Commonwealth Games held at Newcastle (England) in 2018. Both have won gold and silver medals in senior national championship held at New Delhi in February 2020.Another student and fellow sport star from the college, Rojina Mirza, who is an artistic gymnast has also been selected for 31st World University Championship. Mirza is the only gymnast from city, who has been selected for the global sporting event. She also won gold and silver medals in national competitions and All India Inter-University Gymnastics Championships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-shooters-shine-in-issf-world-cup-2021-231251
27-03-2021||---||Students support Bandh, gather at Bhandari bridge||Amritsar, March 26 Punjab Student Union (Lalkar) and several other small student organisations on Friday held a support rally at Bhandari Bridge, standing in solidarity with the farmer unions’ call for ‘Bharat bandh’ today.  The students holding placards read ‘Amritsar kisanan de naal’ and ‘no farmer no food’, stood right in the middle of Bhandari Bridge, one of the busiest routes to enter the city, as they peacefully spread the message to back farmers among commuters.  As the bandh eased during evening, the students gathered at the bridge and also termed the demands of farmers justified. “They have been sitting in protest since October-November and despite several attempts to nullify their movement, the farmers have stood strong. The bandh passed peacefully and if the farmers are being considerate about fellow countrymen, even when they are facing such hardships, it’s time that we wholeheartedly support their cause,” said Gagan, a member of PSU and a student at GNDU. PSU had earlier raised student issues, parallel to the farmers’ cause.  “A lot of unrest is happening among employees, labour unions, students and farmers. The government is oblivious to the problems of common man,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-support-bandh-gather-at-bhandari-bridge-231252
27-03-2021||---||Missing youth found murdered||Amritsar, March 26City police on Friday cracked a blind murder case in which a man had been missing since March 17. His body was recovered from a gutter following the arrest of two suspects, including a woman.The deceased was identified as Shivam Mahajan, a resident of Chheharta area. Saurav Mahajan, his elder brother, had lodged a complaint with the Chheharta police four days ago while stating that Shivam went to work on March 17 but never returned. The police registered an FIR in this regard.ACP Dev Dutt Sharma and inspector Sukhbir Singh, SHO Chheharta police station, said that Saurav informed that they suspected the involvement of Sanjay of Golden Avenue and Manju of Mohkampura area behind the missing of his brother. ACP said both were detained for interrogation in which they confessed to crime. Based on their information, the police recovered Shivam’s body from a gutter in Ujagar Nagar area. The body was sent to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination.The investigations revealed that Sanjay had a marital dispute with his wife Puja and a divorce case was pending in the court. He said during this Puja developed illicit relations with Shivam and was living with him in a live-in relationship. This did not go down well with the accused. So, Sanjay along with his brother Lalit and Manju killed him and later chopped his body into pieces. Raids were on to arrest Lalit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-youth-found-murdered-231253
27-03-2021||Amritsar||3 rape cases reported in holy city, one arrested||The Sadar police on Thursday arrested a Jalandhar resident for allegedly kidnapping, illegal detaining and raping a minor teenage girl. The accused was identified as Mohammad Junaid Hussan of Rasulpur village, near Phillaur in Jalandhar. The victim told the police that she met the accused at a religious place in the Mall Mandi area where he used to perform sewa. She said she and her family members knew him as they had been visiting the shrine for the past three years. She said on March 22, she went out for some work where the accused met her.  She said the accused took her to a local court where he forced her and obtained her signature on some plain papers. Later, he took her to Dhaduana village near Rasulpur. She said the accused started threatening and pressurising her for marriage. She said the accused threatened to kill her family in case she did not marry him.  The victim got afraid and married him. She said the accused then took her to an unknown house in Rasulpur village and forcibly made physical relations with her. Following her complaint, the police booked Junaid Hussain on charges of kidnapping, illegal detention and rape, besides relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Meanwhile, the Maqboolpur police booked a migrant, Bhumi, who now resides at Rajinder Nagar here for allegedly raping a minor girl. The victim told the police that she was a student of government school at Dumduma village. She said three days ago, the accused called her in a room and raped her. Following this, a case under  has been registered against him. In another incident, the Amritsar rural police booked three persons for allegedly raping a teenage girl. Those booked were identified as Karan Singh of Wadal Bhittewid village and Gaurav and Mahabir of Kotla Doom village. The incident took place around 10 days ago while a complaint was lodged with the police on Thursday. The police have registered a case against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-rape-cases-reported-in-holy-city-one-arrested-231254
27-03-2021||Amritsar||Rs 4,700 looted from petrol pump staff||A petrol pump employee was looted  by two motorcycle-borne miscreants on Wednesday though a complaint was lodged with the police on Thursday. Jatinder Singh said two bike-borne persons came and asked for filling petrol worth Rs 500.   He said when they asked for money, the accused took out a pistol and looted Rs 4,700 from them. The police have registered a case. In another incident, unidentified persons snatched Rs 9,000 from a grocery store located on Mehta Road near Vallah here. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-4-700-looted-from-petrol-pump-staff-231255
27-03-2021||Amritsar||Road, rail blockade in Majha; supplies hit||The ‘Bharat bandh’ call evoked an overwhelming response in the Majha region.In Amritsar, farmers — under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) — protested half-naked. They blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi railway track, Jodha Phatak in Vallah and Amritsar-Jalandhar GT Road, demanding the repeal of the farm laws, Straw Act, and the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020.They insisted on a law guaranteeing MSP, cancellation of notices issued to farmers and issuance of challans for violations of Covid-19 guildeines and the removal of the condition of taking fards (land record) by the government.Barring the essential, and emergency services — a total bandh was observed and the streets wore a deserted look with a heavy vigil by the police at 40 different places.In Tarn Taran, Amritsar-Khemkaran and Amritsar-TarnTaran-Beas rail routes remained blocked. The milk and vegetable supply, too, were suspended. The rail track from Pathankot to Amritsar was blocked. Except for the banks and medicine, all services were stopped.KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said:“In Amritsar the main rail track and road network remained disrupted at 88 points; in Tarn Taran, at 32 places; in Gurdaspur, the blockade was being observed at 18 places; in Ferozepur, at 15 places; in Hoshiarpur, at two places; in Kapurthala and Jalandhar at five places each; and in Moga, at two places. The blockade was also witnessed in Fazilka, Muktsar and Faridkot”, he said. The border belt of Attari, Chogawan, Lopoke, Khasa and Bhakna, too, saw complete shutdown.Doaba affected tooJalandhar: The call for ‘Bharat bandh’ evoked a huge response across Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Nawanshahr in the Doaba region. All marketplaces remained shut, as farmers squatted on highways across the region. Banks, telecom offices and tehsils, which opened in the morning, were forcibly shut by protesters. Passengers faced inconvenience as road and rail traffic was paralysed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-rail-blockade-in-majha-supplies-hit-230940
