28-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Two months on, abduction case registered||It took two months for an ex-serviceman and resident of Usman village to get a case registered against the abductors of his teenage daughter.The victim was abducted from her house on January 25-26 night. When family members woke up, they did not find her. The father said he moved from pillar to post for justice but the police kept delaying. On March 26, he managed to register the case against the accused. The Sarhali police on Friday booked four residents of Naushehra Pannuan under Sections 363, 366 and 120-B IPC. The accused had been identified as Gurjit Singh, his father Jasbir Singh, Dilbag Singh and Heera Singh. The victim’s father said no one has been arrested so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-months-on-abduction-case-registered-231515
28-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Bike stolen from outside gym in Tarn Taran||CKD passes Rs 145.57 cr budgetAmritsar: An online meeting of Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), executive committee, followed by a general committee meeting was held today where a Budget for 2021-22 was passed by the members. Presided over by CKD president Nirmal Singh, the CKD executive committee passed a Budget of Rs 145.57 cr for the year 2021-22. He said the CKD would focus on the multi-faceted developments, a catalyst for modernisation of policies and to envision a guide to the collective development of the institution. TNSEncroachment on panchayat landAmritsar: The Majitha police have booked two farmers for allegedly encroaching the panchayat land at Kotla Majhewal village. The case was registered following a complaint by the BDPO, who alleged that the accused scuffled with the staff who went to get the land vacated. Those booked were identified as Sadhu Singh and Rashpal Singh, both residents of Kotla Majhewal village. A case under Section 13-A of the Punjab Village Common Land and Regulation Act, 1961, has been registered. The complaint submitted to the police in March 2018, the department alleged that the land was auctioned in the name of Sadhu Singh. However, the same was cancelled in September 2017. But Sadhu Singh and Rashpal did not vacate the land and were sowing crops. When department officials went to get it vacated, the duo entered in a scuffle with the staff. A probe was conducted by DSP investigations, which recommended registration of an FIR against the duo. TNSCrackdown on illicit liquorTarn Taran: The Excise Department, in its heavy crackdown on the illicit liquor traders, conducted raids at several places in the district today and seized huge quantity of illicit liquor and lahan. Navjot Bharti, Excise Officer of the department, said the teams of the department led by Amrik Singh, Jatinder Singh and other Excise Inspectors conducted raids in Mehmoodpur, Kuliwala, Sakkianwala, Kot Dharam Chand Kalan, Gaggo Bua, Chhapri Sahib, Jauhal Raju Singh, Pandori Gola villages, besides Gokalpur, Muradpur, Nanaksar localities of Tarn Taran town. The Excise Officer said three working stills, 32,250 millilitre of illicit liquor, 31,550 kg of lahan, plastic drums with plastic sheets etc had been seized. Cases by the police station concerned have been registered under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act after identifying the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bike-stolen-from-outside-gym-in-tarn-taran-231517
28-03-2021||Tarn Taran||Private schools, staff protest closure of schools in Tarn Taran||Members of the management committees of private schools, staff and other schools on Saturday protested against the state government for issuing orders to close all government and private schools in the district. They were carrying black flags in their hands.Sakattar Singh Sandhu, state general secretary, and Sukhjinder Singh Gill, district president of the Recognised and Affiliated Schools Association (RASA), Punjab, said the state government was not serious towards the future of the new generation. They said one precious year of students had already been ruined and the government was not clear about its future course.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/private-schools-staff-protest-closure-of-schools-in-tarn-taran-231502
28-03-2021||---||Amritsar Municipal Corporation employees’ strike enters 2nd day||Amritsar, March 27Employees of the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) continued their strike for the second consecutive day here on Saturday. A large number of employees led by union leaders Ashu Nahar and Sanjay Khosla gathered at Auto Workshop and raised slogans against Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC officials. The employees wore black badges to observe black Holi.Ashu Nahar, Leader, Municipal Youth Employees' FederationOur unions did not call off the strike during the last three and a half years. We served as frontline workers during the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. We have started working on Saturday and cleaned the iconic places of the city. Instead of appreciating the workers, the Mayor failed to fulfil any promise.Ashu Nahar, leader of the Municipal Youth Employees’ Federation, said, “We gave a memorandum to Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Wednesday about our demands. We have mentioned that after 72 hours, we will go on an indefinite strike. The Mayor didn’t hear us so we suspended the lifting of garbage on Friday. The indefinite strike would continue and we will gherao the Mayor’s office on Tuesday.”Raj Kumar Raju , another union leader, said, “We have decided to stop the functioning of the private solid waste management firm on Monday. We have urged the manager of the solid waste management firm to keep the garbage lifting vehicles off the road otherwise we will not allow them to dump the garbage at the Bhagtanwala dump. The Mayor and the MC employees would be responsible for the further spread of the pandemic.”Sanjay Khosla, president, Nagar Nigam Employees’ Union, said, “During three and a half years, the Mayor made false promises but did not fulfil our demands. This time all the employees’ unions are united and will not call off the strike till the fulfilment of their demands.”The MC employees have been demanding the recruitment of safai karamcharis, action against the corrupt practices in the MC and privatisation of departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-employees-strike-enters-2nd-day-231505
28-03-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Cleanliness Survey: Central team in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 27A team of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) visited the city recently. However, the members didn’t contact the local authorities but officials of the MC observed that the Central team visited and took feedback from residents.Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, said, “One of the teams visited the city this week and some more persons are expected to conduct a survey for Swachh Survekshan 2021 in the coming days.”The MoHUA would announce the results in August but started visiting the cities to verify the claims of civic bodies and get feedback from residents.The Central teams would visit the city and check the implementation of guidelines at the dump yard, compost pad, compost pits and other infrastructure developed under Swachh Bharat Mission. The MC has uploaded all information along with locations of various points so there is no need to consult local officials. The teams will check door-to-door collection, segregation of garbage and get public feedback on sanitation.After the physical survey, the teams would prepare the ranking. This year, the MC has made serious efforts to improve its ranking. The MC has also started segregation of garbage and bioremediation at the dump yard. The officials are expecting that it would improve in ranking.The city was placed at the 39th spot last year. In the category of cities having more than 10 lakh population, the city was 9th dirtiest among 47 cities across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleanliness-survey-central-team-in-amritsar-231501
28-03-2021||---||Amritsar Police create database to nail criminals||Amritsar, March 27With a view to keeping a check on criminals and unscrupulous elements residing or active in the holy city, the police department has initiated a one-of-its-kind step by creating their data base with latest descriptions and locations of their residences.Police officials believe that once this exercise is completed and implemented it would help the department in nailing criminals in least possible time.Harminder Singh Sandhu, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Investigation)I felt the need for having the latest data of the criminals during my visit to the US where cops nailed a robber within half an hour of the incident. They flashed the pictures and CCTV footage on an electronic signboard that helped in the identification of a suspect. Even before the alleged robber, the police reached his house.“We have not only compiled the fresh pictures of criminals but also their residential locations, their mobile numbers and also of their family members,” said Harminder Singh Sandhu, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Investigation).He said at present they had the data of as many as 6,500 criminals, including those who lived in Amritsar, but had committed crimes in other districts and those who lived outside the city but committed crimes here. The data was based on the crimes occurred in the city in the past 15 years.Among these criminals include those who were involved in drug trafficking, gangsters, thieves, robbers, etc.All the cops attached with the police and working in any capacity have been assigned to keep a tab on the activities of these criminal elements. They were given the responsibility of keeping an eye on at least two criminals. He said the designated cops would visit the residence of these criminals from time to time and check their locations, present activities, besides taking their fingerprints.The ACP said it took around three months for preparing the data. He said once adopted, no criminal would be able to escape and would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-create-database-to-nail-criminals-231509
28-03-2021||Neha Saini||Museums, memorials to be closed again in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 27The Directorate of Cultural Affairs, Archaeology and Museum & Archives has decided to shut all museums and monuments till April 10. The directions have come in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state. While the intention is to curtail the spread of the pandemic, it is going to impact the revival of tourist footfall at some of the most popular sites.In city, the Partition Museum and Gobindgarh Fort too shall remain closed once again for the public with this latest development. The two of the most popular and visited tourists’ sites had just started to revive their activities as the city witnessed an increase in tourist footfall after the re-opening post lockdown. “The recent decision comes as restrictions are being imposed once again to break the chain of infections. But it is definitely is going to pose the challenge of reviving our visitor-inflow. Though, this time, we hope that the shutdown is not an expanded one and the lockdown is not imposed again, but it is already tough to get in revenue as well as resuscitate our operations after a one-year hiatus,” said Rajwinder Kaur, Manager, Partition Museum. The museum will be closed for the public from March 29 onwards till April 10.Rajwinder said, “We used to get an average footfall of 2,000-2,500 visitors everyday before the lockdown was imposed last year. Post re-opening, we managed to get 500 visitors everyday as domestic tourism was revived.”Similarly, the Gobindgarh Fort too will remain closed for the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/museums-memorials-to-be-closed-again-in-amritsar-231506
28-03-2021||---||Covid-19: Virus claims 3 lives, 213 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, March 27The district reported three deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 658 on Saturday. The health authorities reported 213 new positive cases with which the case tally has reached 19,654.The deceased have been identified as Daropati Devi (80) of Thakur Dawar, Vishal Khanna (47) of Gurmehar Nagar and Avinash Kaur (72) of Circular Road. The new cases include 158 influenza-like illness cases and 55 contacts of positive patients.With the recovery of 105 persons, the recovery count has increased to 16,578. At present, the number of active case stands at 2,418 in the district.Meanwhile, a total of 3,628 persons were given injections on Saturday. These included 464 healthcare workers, 1,005 frontline workers, 623 persons in the age group of 45-59 years and 1,387 senior citizens.The health authorities stated that 78,766 persons were partially vaccinated and 13,076 completely vaccinated. The partially vaccinated (those who have received the first dose) include 18,927 healthcare workers, 21,121 frontline workers, 10,123 persons between the age group of 45-59 years and 28,595 senior citizens. The completely vaccinated (those who have also received the second dose) include 7,444 healthcare workers and 5,632 frontline workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-virus-claims-3-lives-213-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-231503
28-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Drive meets little success in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, March 27The one-hour silence movement initiated by the Punjab Government on every Saturday to commemorate those people who have lost their lives in the ongoing pandemic proved to be a failure with commuters claiming that “enough was enough and that they had to get along with their lives — Covid or no Covid.”Ranjit Cheema, ResidentIf the government really wants to commemorate those who died, it could have given their kin financial relief. Such things, like the one we had today, have no scientific base.Residents went about their daily lives and gave two hoots to the drive. Many compared the idea of suspending traffic for an hour to the banging of utensils and the chanting of the phrase “Go, Corona, Go.”Locals claimed that there was absolutely no logic or rationale “that such drives would force the virus to go away.”A leading businessman lamented that too many holidays, some of which have been Covid induced, have thrown a spanner into the works of their businesses since the last year’s lockdown. “Yesterday was Bharat Bandh. Last week we had a two-day bank strike. Tomorrow is Sunday. Then we have Holi. All these holidays are playing spoilsport with our businesses,” he said.Government officials clandestinely admit that the ‘one-hour silence’ was aimed only at “community awareness” and nothing else.Residents admitted that remembering people who had been devoured by the virus was not a bad idea. “If the government thinks it can break the transmission chain through a one-hour silence, it is misinformed. We would have seen some logic if vehicles were taken off the roads for five or six hours instead of just one hour,” said Amrik Singh Deol, a resident, who was asked to park his car at the side by over enthusiastic cops.“Did ‘Go, Corona, Go’ help? Or did the banging of utensils play a role in stopping the spread of the virus?” asked Ranjit Cheema.A Civil Hospital doctor said the Punjab Government should increase the budgetary allocation for health. Infrastructure should be upgraded and more staff should be recruited if we have to fight Covid. “Maintaining an hour’s silence is leading us nowhere,” said a senior doctor.Meanwhile, SSP Dr Nanak Singh said the drive was successful. His views were echoed by his Batala counterpart Rachpal Singh. In complete variance to their versions, 80-90 per cent of the average daily traffic plied on roads.“We were successful in making people aware about Covid-appropriate behaviour. We had blown two sirens-one to let people know the drive had started and the other one signalled the end. We had instructions not to disrupt traffic on inter-city roads, state and national highways. There was absolutely no law and order problem,” remarked Nanak Singh. The SSP personally monitored the situation from his office.The SSP appealed to residents not to give up the fight against the virus. “Do not give up. There is a magnetic energy you create when you become determined and committed. This universe always rewards the decisive. Just because it is not happening right now does not mean it never will. This, too, shall pass. When you cannot control what is happening, challenge yourself to control the way you respond to what is happening. That is where your true power is,” he said.Likewise, in the neighbouring police districts of Batala and Pathankot, the drive hit a roadblock with not many willing to obey the government’s orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drive-meets-little-success-in-gurdaspur-231504
28-03-2021||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had appealed to residents to pay tributes to the people who lost their lives due to the coronavirus||Partial response to ‘silence hour’ in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 27The one-hour silence call given by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh received partial response in the city, as a large numbers of vehicles were seen plying on Saturday.As per the call, in remembrance of those who have died of Covid-19, no vehicles were to ply on roads during the hour. However, a large number of vehicles were seen out on roads between 11am and 12 noon as commuters feigned ignorance about any such call. Residents were also required to stay at home.While the police had put up barricades at different chowks to contain the flow of traffic, commuters were seen arguing with them while questioning the rationality behind the exercise. Long queues of vehicles piled up at many chowks as drivers found it hard to find space to maneuver.Residents said the time chosen for the ‘silence hour’ was the peak time for shopkeepers and others to travel to their place of work. “The government had stated that it was voluntary. People who are out on roads cannot wait for an hour. The government should keep in mind the convenience of residents while planning such events,” a commuter at Lawrence Road said.Residents said it was good that government and residents remember all those who have died due to the disease. “It helps in creating awareness among the general public about the lethal viral infection. But such events should be held after publicising them among residents so that they can participate,” another commuter said.Meanwhile the Bus Rapid Transport Service (BRTS) buses, too, remained off roads as part of the government exercise.No serious notice of CM’s appeal in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The appeal made to the people by Capt Amarinder Singh to observe silence and refrain from moving on roads from 11am to 12 noon was not taken seriously in the district. The Chief Minister had appealed the masses to pay tributes to the people who lost their lives due to corona. The vehicles were seen moving frequently on the roads and no one cared to observe silence. The police stopped the vehicles from Bohri to Tehsil chowk. Ashwani Kumar Kukku, state leader of the Shiv Sena, said the people took no serious note of the appeal by the Chief Minister. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh too had appealed to the residents but the residents took no notice of the appeal. The DC cautioned the people to be more watchful of the new Covid-19 strain. He stressed on social distancing, hand washing time and again and face covering. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partial-response-to-silence-hour-in-amritsar-231500
