29-03-2021||---||At 372, Amritsar district records second highest 1-day spike in cases||Amritsar, March 28In the second highest single-day spike of 372 cases of Covid-19 since September last year, the district reported a total of 372 new cases here on Sunday. With these fresh cases, the district has crossed the 20,000 mark and reached 20,026.Besides, the district reported four deaths due to Covid-19. The deceased have been identified as 10-year-old Satnam Singh, a resident of Ajnala, 76-year-old Usha Honda, 63-year-old Manju, a resident of Islamabad locality and 78-year-old Jasveer Kaur, a resident of Muchhal village. The new cases include 273 influenza-like illness cases and 99 contacts of positive cases.In March, the district has reported a total of 4,292 cases and 67 deaths. In comparison, the district had reported a total of 644 cases and 12 deaths in the month of February.The spurt in cases had started in the last week of February. The health authorities stated that the testing had also been increased. Officials stated that residents should immediately get themselves tested in case they experience any symptoms associated with the disease.Meanwhile, with recovery of 115 patients, the recovery count has also increased to 16,693. At present, the district has a total of 2,675 active cases. The officials stated that most of the patients are home quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-372-amritsar-district-records-second-highest-1-day-spike-in-cases-232036
29-03-2021||---||Farmers burn copies of farm laws on Holi eve||Amritsar, March 28Farmers under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha burned copies of the three controversial farm laws at Rayya and many other places on the eve of Holi here on Sunday. They said the festival of colours did not hold any meaning for them as their livelihood was at stake. Raising slogans against the Union Government, they demanded a repeal of the three controversial farm laws and a law to guarantee the MSP for different crops.Speaking on the occasion, Gurnam Singh Daud, general secretary of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, said the three laws would not only affect farmers but farm labourers, people living in cities, especially those belonging to lower income groups as things of daily use would become costlier and affordable for them. He appealed to all sections of society to join hands with the farmers in their fight against corporatisation of agriculture.To increase the participation of maximum farmers in the ongoing protests on Delhi borders, farmer organizations have divided Rayya block in four zones. The farmer leaders stated that a group from each of the zones would leave for the Singhu border every fortnight and stay there for 15 days.Angrej Singh Bakipur rememberedTarn Taran: On his 18th death anniversary, farmer Angrej Singh Bakipur was paid rich tributes at a congregation organised by the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab (Kot Budha), at Talwandi village here on Sunday. Angrej Singh was killed on the Mananwala village rail track on March 29, 2004, during a movement launched by farmers against the privatisation of the power sector. Inderjit Singh Kot Budha, president of the committee, and other leaders from different organisations called upon the farmers and other sections of society to come forward to protect their rights as the Union Government was just working in favour of the corporate lobby.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-on-holi-eve-232037
29-03-2021||Strap||Amritsar civic body denotifies 63 slums in city||Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 28The Amritsar Municipal Corporation has denotified 63 slums stating that these have been provided basic amenities.These localities were notified as slums over a period of time. Earliler, basic amenities, including potable water supply, sewerage, streets and electricity supply were not properly available in these areas.A survey regarding common amenities in these slums was conducted by the Civil Wing. They reported that these slums were almost developed and basic amenities were made available to residents.The denotified slums include Haripura, Chhota Haripura, Kishan Kot, outside Lahori Gate, outside Lohgarh Gate, Gujjarpura, outside Gilwall gate, outside Bhagtanwala Gate, Guru Nanakpura, Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, Ranjhe Di Haveli, among others.However, people residing in these slums said a lot needs to be done. They said roads were extremely small and serpentine. Drainage system needs upgrade as rainwater accumulates easily. Locals said streetlights were non-operational and its repair work was happening at a snail’s pace. They said slums do not have primary health centres and the MC never bothered to open schools in these areas where school dropout rate was very high among kids.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-denotifies-63-slums-in-city-232038
29-03-2021||---||Man thrashed to death||Amritsar, March 28A man was thrashed to death over domestic dispute in Bhindi Saida village on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Piara Singh. The accused have been identified as Hardip Singh and Gian Singh.Satnam Singh, son of the deceased, told the police that Gian Singh was his maternal uncle and he had a dispute with his son Hardip Singh.He said on Friday, Gian came to his father and asked for his intervention and urge Hardip not to quarrel with their family.He said when his father did not return till late evening, he went to Gian’s house. He said when he reached there, he saw Hardip beating his father with sticks, while Gian remained a mute spectator.He said when he raised an alarm, both the accused fled away from the spot.Satnam said his father was seriously injured and he died on the spot.Sub Inspector Harpal Singh said Hardip was arrested by the police, while Gian was on the run. The accused were booked under charges of murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-thrashed-to-death-232039
29-03-2021||---||Two booked for abetment to suicide||Amritsar, March 28 A married woman died under mysterious circumstances in Ishwar Nagar located on Tarn Taran road.The deceased have been identified as Gaganpreet Kaur.The police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against her two brother-in-laws Rajwinder Singh, alias Raju and Harwinder Singh. Dimple Kumari, sister of the deceased, told the police that Gaganpreet tied knot with Shamsher Singh eight years ago and the couple had a daughter. She alleged that Gaganpreet told her that her brother-in-laws used to harass her. She said on Saturday, she got a call from her sister that the duo assaulted and harassed her and did not let her step out of the house.She said around 4 pm, Shamsher called her and informed that Gaganpreet fell down and they taking her to a hospital. She alleged that Gaganpreet committed suicide due to the harassment. Sultanwind police station SHO Perneet Singh Dhillon said the post-mortem of the deceased was conducted by a medical board and the body was handed over to the family. He said a case under Section 306 of the IPC has been registered against brother-in-laws of Gaganpreet and they were thoroughly investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-232040
29-03-2021||---||16 held for gambling, Rs3.3L seized||Amritsar, March 28 The police have arrested as many as 16 persons on the charge of gambling and recovered Rs 3.30 lakh from their possession. All those arrested belonged to the Galti gang.According to the police, following specific inputs a search operation was carried out in the Gujjarpura area. This led to the arrest of these persons. Those arrested were identified as Jogesh Kumar, Surinder Singh, Baldev Parkash, Jasdeep Singh alias Galti, Surjit Singh, Rajesh Soni, Amandeep Sareen, Raj Kumar, Baljinder Kumar, Chetan Khanna, Varun Sharma, Deepak, Gaganpreet Singh, Manish Kumar, Ashutosh and Akashdeep Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/16-held-for-gambling-rs3-3l-seized-232042
29-03-2021||---||1,232 farmers ended life in last 4 years in Punjab: Khanna||Amritsar, March 28A total of 1,232 farmers committed suicide in the last four years of the current term of the Congress in the state, but no compensation or job has been given to kin of victims. This was stated by Avinash Rai Khanna, national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Khanna Samarak here on Saturday. He was here to review the performance of Amarinder Singh-led Congress government during the last four years.Speaking on the occasion, Khanna said Capt Amarinder Singh took an oath to put an end to the drugs menace after taking the holy Gutka Sahib in his hands but more than 120 persons died after consuming illicit liquor in Taran Tarn last year.“The incumbent government failed on every front. Actually, there is no government in the state. The law and order situation is worse. The government is sheltering gangsters from UP in its jails and the Supreme Court has intervened to shift Ansari from Ropar to UP.Incidents of robbery, snatching and loot have become daily routine. Two Dalit sisters were murdered in board daylight, but the government failed to take any action. The Haryana Government set an example by convicting the culprits of Nikita within five months,” said Khanna.The BJP leader claimed that the Congress government did not fulfill even a single promise mentioned in its poll manifesto during the last four years. Owing to law and order problem, development is not happening in Punjab. “The Congress had imposed Emergency in the country to suppress the voice of the public. During recent the Municipal Council elections, the Congress government murdered democracy. BJP candidates were tortured and implicated in false cases,” said Khanna.“Before the Assembly elections, the Congress announced that they would provide jobs to unemployed youth. Unemployed persons were asked to fill the forms. Not a single job was given during the last four years. Punjab should get rid of the Congress,” he added.Several senior leaders of the BJP were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-232-farmers-ended-life-in-last-4-years-in-punjab-khanna-232044
29-03-2021||---||Covid-19 pours cold water on Holi celebrations||Amritsar, March 28Before the outbreak of Covid-19, Holi celebrations would be at peak during Holika Dahan at the Durgiana Temple here. People from all walks of life came to the temple premises, making a beeline for Laxmi Narayan temple at the Durgiana Temple complex to play Holi with Lord Krishna.Then there was the grand flower Holi celebrations that were held with hundreds in attendance. Many tourists from foreign countries used to visit several temples, including Bijli Pehalwan Mandir, Maha Kali Temple, Gopal Mandir and others to watch the celebrations.Of course, all these events were seen before the outbreak of Covid-19 which has changed the world as we know it. Casting a shadow on the grand Holi celebrations this year, the pandemic restricted festivities to bare minimum as most of the people chose not to venture out on the day. A handful of devotees were allowed to play Holi inside the Durgiana temple premises and the Rath Yatra that the Durgiana Temple Committee take out every year on the occasion, was also cancelled in the wake of the pandemic.“The otherwise elaborate celebrations this year were restricted to only a few devotees coming to the temple and playing Holi. We had asked devotees to come and not halt for a long time on the temple premises to avoid any crowding. The flower Holi too will be celebrated on March 29 with restrictions,” informed Pinkraj, superintendent at the Durgiana Temple Committee office.Devotees too refrained from indulging in prolonged festivities. Aditya Sharma, a small business owner from Hathi Gate, who comes to celebrate Holi at the Durgiana temple every year with his friends, said, “This year, a lot of people have lost their loved ones to Covid-19. So, the mood to celebrate the festival remains low. Also, with masks on and following guidelines do not make it possible to enjoy Holi as it is.”Meanwhile, with no other events or Holi parties being organised as most hotels and resorts are following Covid-19 SOPs on social distancing, people are left to enjoy the festival with their families and loved ones in a sombre mood. Even the sale of material related to the festival of colours like water guns and colours too remained low.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-pours-cold-water-on-holi-celebrations-232045
29-03-2021||Tarn Taran||230-kg lahan seized, 1 held||2 held with pistol, stolen bikeTarn Taran: A police team led by ASI Kartar Singh of the local anti-narcotics cell arrested two persons and recovered a country-made pistol and a stolen Bullet motorcycle (without registration number) at a naka set up at Booh village near Harike. The accused have been identified as Parminder Singh of Makhu and Gurbaj Singh of Karnal (Haryana). The accused were in the area to sell the stolen motorcycle. Both have been booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act by the Harike police. OCRobbery bid at petrol pumpAmritsar: Two unknown persons tried to rob a petrol pump in Sohian Khurd village falling under the Kamboh police station here on late Thursday evening. However, as the salesman scuffled with the robbers, they fled the spot. Anil Kumar said he was filling petrol in vehicles when two Sikh youth came on a bike and got petrol worth Rs500 filled in the bike. He said when he demanded money the accused took out a pistol and demanded the cash. He said he resisted their attempt and entered into a scuffle. Following this, the accused fled the spot. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. TNSWorld Theatre Day celebratedAmritsar: GSK Production celebrated World Theatre Day at Rani Ka Bagh. Senior theatre artiste Vijay Sharma said life was the biggest theatre and each person comes here to enact a role. He said: “The International Theatre Institute initiated the World Theatre Day in 1962. One of the foremost messages of the day is theme of theatre and a culture of peace.” Poet Dev Dard read some poems. Short story writer Deep Davinder said story and theatre had a strong link. Narration of a story becomes effective with strong presentation in theatre, he said. Theater artistes Kajal and Meenu said this medium offered a platform to women to rise above societal thinking. TNSPrivate security agencies flayedTarn Taran: The local unit of the Sabak Sainik Sangharsh Committee in its meeting organised here on Sunday condemned managements of private security agencies for giving meagre salaries to ex-servicemen. Harbhal Singh and Pargat Singh among others addressed the meeting. They alleged such agencies, which are mostly managed by retired Army officers, were not giving decent salaries to the ex-servicemen. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/230-kg-lahan-seized-1-held-232050
29-03-2021||Is the municipal corporation acting on contaminated water complaints & taking swift action?||Complete overhaul of old pipelines is the only answer||Water pipelines need replacementAmritsar Municipal Committee was formed in the year 1868 and much before its promotion as the Municipal Corporation in 1991 it was providing excellent services in the field of education and health in addition to its basic duties like sanitation, roads, streetlights, drinking water, etc. Its contribution to the field of art and culture, including maintenance of libraries and reading rooms was superb. They were making financial contribution to the local civil hospital also. In addition, their staff members extended helping hand for generation of power plant at Taranwala Pul. But afterwards with increase in its revenue, due to heavy taxes and liberal grants from Central and state governments its status has taken upward swing but standard of public services has deteriorated. At present, what to talk about other service the MC miserably failed to provide basic services like sanitation, maintenance of roads and drinking water to the residents. In the year 2010 with a grant from the Central Government, it floated tenders for testing of drinking water at each and every tubewell in the city, but the project was never completed. Keeping in view the alarming stage of depleting ground water level, a resolution No. 14 (A) (1) dated 29.1.2013 was passed by the house of Municipal Corporation for providing drinking water from Upper Bari Doab Canal but still after a lapse of eight years the project has not seen the light of the day. Recently, the state government has acquired land for the said project at Vallah. Similarly, age old drinking water pipelines need replacement. But the basic emphasis of the Central and state government is outwardly visible beautification and not underground cleanliness in form of water pipes and sewerage lines.Harsh N JoharMajor problem inside walled cityThe issue regarding contaminated water and limited water supply in the city is a big problem for the citizens inside the walled city because sewerage and water pipelines are adjoined underground since long and there has been no action taken by the MC regarding this issue. Many governments come and go but the problem remains the same. The water supply inside city is limited due to dense population. The pipelines which are old need to be changed for the sufficient supply of water. The local government must create helpline for the people and aware them so that these problems can be solved swiftly.Yogesh SharmaMC should take apt action against culpritsNo, the Municipal Corporation hasn’t acted on the issue of contaminated water and limited water supply. The supplied water has a strong unpleasant smell and people are unfortunately helpless to use the contaminated water since they don’t have any other choice or any other source of fresh and non-contaminated water source. The MC should take quick action on this issue otherwise residents of various parts of city can face serious health problems likewise epidemic.Sakshi SharmaImprovement in sanitation requiredSanitation is necessary to stay healthy and disease free. Improve sanitation facilities by providing toilets and latrines that flush into a sewer or safe enclosure. Promote good hygiene habits through education. Proper hand-washing with soap and water can reduce diarrhoea cases by up to 35 per cent. Unsafe drinking water, high density living, open defection are the some causes of poor sanitation. When planning for a long-term waste management solution, sanitation solutions are required to minimise the spread of diseases which also include sanitation facilities, hand-washing facilities with soap and water, operation and maintenance regimes and community education. It is necessary to invest in the sanitation issues for the present as well as future as sanitation can save the lives. It is important for all, helping to maintain health and increase life-spans. However, it is especially important for children.Akshar Kumar SinglaMC is sitting on complaintsNo, the Municipal Corporation is not taking any concrete action on the complaints of residents regarding issue of contaminated water and limited water supply. In the past, several complaints have been filed with The MC by residents pertaining to various areas of city but all have fallen on deaf ears. Due to this, the residents are very much irked by MC’s antics.Sanjay ChawlaWater safety plans are seldom implementedWater is called the elixir of life but contaminated water has the potential to play havoc with the lives of the residents and the limited and erratic supply can put normal life out of gear. Thousands have lived without love, not one without water. We all know well that water is crucial for life even then we trash it anyway. Whether the MC is acting on the complaints and taking swift action or not, what is important is that water gets contaminated by untreated sewage, practice of bathing and washing near water bodies, throwing chemical waste and dumping agricultural waste into water. This is the area which remains neglected and breeds contamination. Hence, the purification systems should be improved drastically. For that, effective sanitation practices are necessary to produce safe drinking water. It should be ensured that clean drinking water has a balanced PH level, should be contaminant-free and rich with healthy, naturally occurring minerals. WHO produces international norms on water quality that are used as the basis for regulation standard setting worldwide. But water safety plans are seldom implemented and rarely meet even the national standards. No wonder, the unsafe water kills more people than war and all other forms of violence combined. So, it is the primary duty of the authorities to provide safe drinking water to the residents by abandoning its lackadaisical attitude. Water supply has a propensity to be affected by pressures on both the supply and demand sides which exposes vulnerabilities. Large-scale impact on supply would occur from altered ground water levels. Therefore, optimal management of water resources should be heeded if the scarce supply is to be overcome. City’s water supply structure includes surface water diversions, wells, pumps, transmission pipes, treatment and storage facilities and distribution network elements. Obviously protecting source water to reduce the presence of contaminants assumes greater importance. Of course drinking water sources are finite but the MC should make the most of them to tide over the limited supply trouble. Above all the complaints should be redressed promptly and swift action should be taken to ameliorate the lot of harried complainants. The residents at large are not satisfied with the way complaints are addressed. So, the MC ought to be complaisant to take prompt action in this regard.Tarsem S BumrahMC must live up to ‘service provider’ tagAmritsar citizenry faces an acute problem of adequate clean drinking water. The Municipal Corporation, as a service provider, is urgently required to provide sufficient clean drinking water by plugging wastage and contamination of water.TS BhattiPumped typhoid, Malady and remedyBlocked sewerage lines and leaking water supply pipes are the ‘vera causa’ of the problem of contaminated water coming out of taps and faucets in Amritsar. But the story is not so simple. High pressure water squirting from pipes is not an uncommon sight in the city, but many leakages are underground and almost impossible to detect or plug. And, when the tubewell motor is switched off, the same pipes develop a vacuum and suck overflowing dirty water from the shoddy sewerage if it happens to be near a leak. No one can suggest any method to rectify the problem because the pipelines are underground and very old. Besides, unauthorised tampering with supply lines exacerbates the issue. Sometimes, wooden ‘gullies’ (sharp pegs) are hammered into a leak to slowly decompose and become another cause of dirty water. The only saving grace for the Municipal Corporation is that when the tubewell is switched on, the foul-smelling liquid is expelled in the first few minutes followed by absolutely clean water. The caution of all cautions for the consumers is to let the initial ten or twenty liters go down the drain and only then, after physical checking, send it to the reservoir. A permanent solution would require a complete replacement of the supply lines which, fortunately, was going on in some localities like Kote Baba Deep Singh, but has now been shelved in order to derive political mileage from this problem in the forthcoming Assembly elections. Besides, I think it is time the water hours are revised and water tariff increased, and only registered plumbers permitted to undertake incidental repairs. Free water is usually deemed as freedom to waste and squander.Prof Mohan SinghLimited water supply affects various worksNo doubt issue of contaminated water and limited supply has troubled the residents in many parts of the city in many ways. There are a lot of diseases from consuming contaminated water like typhoid, jaundice, etc. Limited water supply can cause limitation of various works. The Municipal Corporation is very much responsible. From my perspective, my maternal grandmother’s house is in Ram Bagh area of Amritsar but they never had any such trouble. They receive water at fixed intervals and never complained about the water issue. The MC should be aware at these serious issues and should do as much as they can. Some underprivileged people do not get proper facilities like potable water, etc. At last, I want to conclude that the MC should be careful regarding these things. Citizens should also be responsible and cooperate with the government.IzleenLong-term planning need of the hourThere have been widespread whisperings that many big industries in the district are directly discharging the effluents in the groundwater, but those industries are being given sponsored and cosmetic inspections, which perfectly conform to the ‘clean chit’ philosophy of the consecutive regimes. When the big rivers are contaminated, rivulets, drains and canals are contaminated, how any sane citizen can expect clean water. Upper Bari Doab Canal, which emanates from Madhopur, used to carry clean water, where even Dev Anand used to swim in his youth, at Tibrhi Cantt Gurdaspur. Entire city would converge at the banks of the canal on holidays, in summer, and enjoy bathing and picnicking there. Old timers know that the water from the Jethuwal distributor (now abandoned) through Hansli filled the holy sarovar of Darbar sahib. Now, Hansli carries the water from near Taranwala Pul to four holy places. But upstream of the Hansli is full of garbage. The Amritsar administration has recently formulated a scheme to use the water of UBDC to take care of insufficient water supply. But, this water routes through the garbage of many cities on the way. Bringing clean water from Madhopur for supply to the city is a gigantic task. The people are aware of the Chali Khuh from where the clean and potable water reached the city. The British had developed 40 wells, a century back. Long-term planning by Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab governments is required, if Amritsar is to be provided clean and sufficient water. It is being said that the state government has set apart Rs2,000 crore for cleaning rivers. The Centre has been doing it for more than 35 years to clean Ganga and not succeeded and Swachh Bharat scheme has hardly moved beyond splendor of slogans. The MC alone won’t be able to do much and the regimes would mend their ways, nobody has any hope. To add to the citizens’ miseries, the telecommunication companies laying underground cables, and companies laying underground gas pipelines laying are playing havoc by frequently damaging the water supply and sewerage lines and digging the roads.Hardish SandhuCity’s Civic body is good-for-nothingToday, it has become a major issue. Sewerage pipelines beneath are rusty and almost broken from many places. The water gets mixed up with drinking water at many levels. Corporations don’t act promptly. They are lazy to respond and always complaining about the lack of staff and have their preferred areas for problem-solving. Their working hours are also limited. Moreover, they work for only five days a week. Officers don’t have maps of the pipeline. Whenever the problem occurs, they dig at many places to find the fault which only increases the problem for the public. Many times it takes more than two months to solve the issue. Sometimes, it isn’t solved at all. It has become a real menace for residents. We have been hearing reports of the residents being hospitalised as well. We simply can’t move forward like this.Sandhya SikkaSupplying diseases to homesFor the last many years I have been reading news about contaminated and irregular supply of water in the city, in letters to the editor and newspaper. Residents of the city have been raising issues regarding this to the MC officials, time to time. But has it made a difference? No, the water is not fit to drink; it comes in corroded pipes and is contaminated with feces and chemicals. One of the important functions of the MC is to ensure clean drinking water and regular water supply to its residents. Despite budgetary allocations and tall promises, the problems remain unsolved, contaminated water and poor sanitation are linked to transmission of diseases such as cholera, diarrhoea, dysentery, Hepatitis A, typhoid, and polio. Inadequately managed water and sanitation services expose individuals to preventable health risks. Inadequate management of urban, industrial, and agricultural wastewater means the drinking-water of hundreds of millions of people is dangerously contaminated. Better water sources also mean less expenditure on health, as people are less likely to fall ill. With children particularly at risk from water-related diseases, access to improved sources of water can result in better health. Mercury, lead, copper, chromium, cadmium, and aluminum all pollute tap water. If taken excessively for a long time, these heavy metals found in water can cause chronic health problems. The MC should ensure that water treatment plants be installed and are functioning. Regular check-ups of piplines be taken and replaced as per needs. Regular and longer periods of potable water supply should be ensured. Conscious efforts should also be made by the consumer; taps should not be left running. Water is very precious and it’s the duty of every citizen to conserve it.Dr KS Manchanda80% of illnesses linked to dirty waterWater insecurity is being observed in the urban city like Amritsar in the form of contaminated water reservoirs, ponds and lakes. On the other side, lack of direct water supply in reputed residential area Shubham Enclave GT Road, Amritsar, shows how people living in good places facing water scarcity. Twenty-first century is substantially influenced by a single resource ie drinking water. Everybody knows that 80 per cent of illnesses are linked to poor water and sanitation conditions and 10 per cent of the global disease could be reduced through improved water supply, sanitation, and hygiene. Major cause of water contamination is water pollution that disastrously effects the environment. Pollution in water can reach its zenith where there isn’t enough oxygen in the water. Sometimes it affects the entire food chain in relevance with the water bodies. Anyway, short and limited water supply in various parts of the city puts people in trouble. Water shortage may be caused by climate change, such as altered weather patterns, including droughts or floods, increased pollution, and increased demand and overuse of water. Water scarcity is being driven by two converging phenomena: growing freshwater use and depletion of usable freshwater resources. In a way forward, municipal corporations are quite sure about the fresh and clean water supply around the city. Moreover, also going through the complaints of residents every municipal authority’s prime duty, within the territorial area of the municipality, be responsible for the implementation of the provisions of rules given under waste management (Punjab Pollution Control Board) and for any infrastructure development for collection, storage, segregation, transportation, processing and disposal of municipal solid wastes.Baljeet Kaur JohalOfficials should do duty earnestlyRecently, I visited the DC office for some work and was shocked to see that the parking just outside the office was waterlogged due to rain showers a few days back. This is such a sad irony that a reputed office which does so many important public works is in a debilitated state. The MC should firstly repair all the major offices of the city and then think about working on the problems of the residents. It is usually seen that during the monsoon season many parts of the city get submerged in water, causing problems for the residents. There is still time before the monsoon arrives, so the officials must do their work efficiently to prevent any problems in the future.Jatinderpal Singh BathWater gives life, water takes lifeThere is contaminated water and limited supply has troubled residents in various parts, in some areas the supply is only for one hour or two and that too not worthy of drinking water, because of industrial waste, garbage, untreated sewage and chemicals. Food made from this water can cause food poisoning and can trigger transmission of diseases such as cholera, diarrhoea, dysentery, typhoid and polio. Water gives life, water takes life. It is the duty of the government to ensure clean and filtered water supply free from contamination. Rural population is more at risk from water-borne diseases. Everybody can’t afford to have an RO or water filters. Try to install a big water filter for the community to have clean drinking water. Some big NGOs can also help in this cause. Sad but true, on one side so much bottled and clean water is wasted in hotels and marriage parties and other functions, and on the other side a section of people are dying in need of clean water. Value water, there is no life without it.Shashi KiranFinancial crunch at heart of the issue?Whether the MCA’s Water Supply and Sewerage Department acts on the complaints of residents or not, it depends on howthe problem is explained and to whom it is addressed. My experience tells me that the department doesn’t have enough resources at its disposal to mitigate the residents’ suffering, even if it wants to, all due to shortage of financial funds. But for this financial crunch, the department itself is to blame to quite an extent. The free service of zero charges for water supply by this department to a very large section may be on political considerations, but it has ruined its financial health. Even the bills for water supply and sewerage charges to the consumers who are not entitled for free service, are sent late by many months. The discontinuation of meter-reading for consumption of water is also a factor where the department is losing its very vital source of income. Free service and unmetered consumption leads to the uncontrolled usage and wastage of ever-depleting water wealth resources. This is bound to result in a very much limited water supply, because the requirement of more pumphouses can’t be met due to shortage of funds. The problem of contaminated water supply is also due to the shortage of funds required to renew the very old and leaking underground pipelines in many areas. Recently, in many areas the service of department’s own pump operators has been replaced by private contractors, who hardly listen to consumers’complaints. In the absence of MCA’s permanent pump operators, there is no routine check of whether a water pump is running or not, this causes decrease in water supply to the effected area consumers. All measures of improving the financial health of the MCA’s Water Supply and Sewerage Department needs to be undertaken at the earliest. Instead of totally free service, somewhat reduced charges for water supply and sewerage will go a long way in making an appreciable improvement and a change for the better functioning of MCA’s concerned departments to serve the consumers satisfactorily.Points ought to be noted! Ankur Gupta, LJ SinghQUESTIONThere is an increase in death rate in the district. People without masks are already on radar of the health and police departments. But, do you think the administration is taking enough steps towards maintaining social distancing at public places?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (April 1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complete-overhaul-of-old-pipelines-is-the-only-answer-232051
29-03-2021||After receiving flak from various art and literary groups across the world||Guru’s legacy muralled on wall in Gurdwara Baba Attal Rai||There are a series of murals illustrating the life of Guru Nanak Dev based on Janamsakhi tradition. A major portion of the murals was damaged during kar sewa (restoration work) conducted by the SGPC in the ’90s. The bathroom tiles and plaster were installed on the ground floor of the tower.Murals on the wallsSatpal Danish, eminent photographer, who published a book Janam Sakhi on the murals of Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai, claimed that originally the work has been done by several ‘Nakaashs’ in the Sikh raj. Names of a few Nakaashs including Matab Singh and Gian Singh are written there. However, several names of donors are also written on the walls, which reveals that the mural work on the first floor was conducted in 1902-03. It has been learnt that Gurmukhi text written on some of the murals is “Larivaar” (without space) while others are elaborated with modern Punjabi. The restoration of these painting might have been conducted in the 1902-03.Janamsakhi of GuruThe interior walls of the first floor of the Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai have more than 40 panels of murals depicting the Janam Sakhi’s of Guru Nanak Dev. The series of Janam Sakhi is the biographical account of the life of the Guru and it has been painted beautifully on the walls.Martyrs of 18th centuryThere are two series of paintings, one representing Guru Nanak and other depicting Sikh martyrs of the 18th Century. The portraits of 18th Century martyrs Baba Deep Singh, Baba Naudh Singh, Baba Hanuman Singh and others are displayed in the inner galleries.Damage of heritageA number of murals at the ground floor have been considerably damaged. Several murals can be seen damaged at the deorhi or the first entrance to the shrine. Large panels illustrate scenes from the life of Baba Atal and Guru Nanak and various stages of the battle of Muktsar were damaged by the kar sewa (restoration work) conducted in the ’90s.Gurdwara Baba Atal RaiGurdwara Baba Atal Rai, a nine-storeyed octagonal tower, standing 40-metre high, was built during Maharaja Ranjit Singh in memory of Baba Atal Rai, son of Guru Hargobind, the sixth Sikh master. It is situated to the south of the Golden Temple near Guru Ramdas library. It is one of the tallest buildings in Amritsar.Initially, it was a small samadhi, (cenotaph), where the remains of Atal Rai were kept in 1620. Later, it transformed into a gurdwara. During Khalsa Raj, its nine-storey building was constructed to commemorate the nine years of Rai’s short life.Guru’s childhoodThere is a large painting on the curves of the window, which depicts scenes from the Guru’s childhood. Three separate scenes depicting Guru Nanak at the age of 10, where his family is consulting about his future and deciding to send him with buffaloes. The pictures depict the “Sakhi” in which buffaloes grazed the crop of a Jatt (farmer) and he complained to Rai Bullar Bhatti, noble of Talwandi. Rai Bhullar summoned Nanak and his father. But when they visited the fields, the crop was blooming.Birth of Guru NanakThe series of murals starts from the birth of Guru Nanak Dev, the first Sikh master. As it is mentioned in the Janamsakhi literature, Guru Nanak is in lap of Mata Tripta ji. The caretaker Dai Daultan and two other servants are sitting along with the Guru’s mother. Father Kalu Ji (Mehta Kalyan Das) seems in a hurry to go outside to get required things and sister Bibi Nanaki is telling something to her father in a jovial mood.Guru’s teachingsGuru Nanak spread his message around the world by recognising human race as one. In a picture, he is giving a message to people, where Hindus and Muslims are sitting together. Bala and Mardana are also with Guru Nanak Dev.His bodyAs per information, the Guru took a bed sheet and slept by saying goodbye to his devotees in 1539 and the God sprinkled flowers on the Guru’s body.Hindu and Muslim conflictWhen Guru Nanak passed away, a conflict arose between his Hindu and Muslim devotees on how his last rites should be performed. When they put the bed sheet, they found only flowers. Hindus and Muslims tore the bed sheet. Hindus cremated it and Muslims buried the sheet.EducationOne of these murals, records a school scene, depicting Nanak, at the age of seven, commencing his education. Guru Nanak, along with his father, Baba Kalu, is seated in front of teacher Mulla Kutabdeen at the start of the first lesson. The young Nanak is seen explaining the meaning of the first letter to the mullah. Some of the pupils are waiting to show their phatti to the mullah, while others are either cleaning it or writing on it. A similar scene is visible at the school of Pandha Brij Nath, where the Guru is enlightening him about the path of God.UdasisI. To spread his teachings and holy messages, the Guru started a journey called Udasis. Bhai Farinda, a rabab maker, presented a rabab to the Guru in jungle. Bahi Mardana was also siting with him, who was along with Guru Nanak throughout his journey.II. Before leaving Talwandi, Guru Nanak met Rai Bhular Bhatti along with his father and uncle Lalu. He gave a message that everything was in the order of God. Rai Bhular bowed in front of the Guru.III. During Udasi, Guru met Bhai Lalo, a poor carpenter. Malik Bhago, the landlord of the area, asked Nanak to stay at his home. The Guru took dry chapatti of Lalo in his right hand and Malik Bhago’s fried puri in his left hand. When he squeezed the right hand, people present there saw drops of milk dripping from it and when he pressed the left hand, people saw blood dripping from Malik Bhago’s puri.IV. Karoria, a revenue collector met Guru outside the village and offered that he will construct a palace for him. The Guru asked to build Kartarpur on the name of Kartar (creator).MarriageLike any ordinary marriage, sister Bebe Nanaki is feeding the mare after decorating it. The baraat (wedding procession) reached Vatala and a person is lighting the firecrackers to celebrate the arrival. The family of bride (Mata Sulakhni) is welcoming the baraat. Another mural in series shows Guru Nanak Dev sitting with baraatis and having food. The villagers are serving it.Guru in MeccaOne of the murals depicts Guru Nanak sitting outside a shrine in Mecca by wearing a blue dress. Blue dresses used to be worn by hajjis or Muslims, who went on pilgrimage in those times. Bala is siting along with the Guru, while Bhai Mardana is entering inside the building. He is also wearing a blue dress.Guru at GorakhmataIn this mural, Guru Nanak Dev is sitting along with Yogi Gorakhnath. His disciples were also there. According to Sakhis, the Guru had a long conversation with the head of Gorakhmata.Guru’s throne to Angad Dev at KartarpurAfter travelling the world, the Guru returned to Kartarpur in 1521 and stayed here till the last. Second Guru Angad Dev met here and Guru gave Guruship to Bhai Lehana and gave him the name Guru Angad. The picture depicts the ceremony of applying tilak of Gurgadi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurus-legacy-muralled-on-wall-in-gurdwara-baba-attal-rai-231518
