31-03-2021||Tarn Taran||3 held with illicit liquor, lahan||Youth’s body to reach todayTarn Taran: The body of Prabhnoor Singh (20), son of Ajit Singh of Pandori Rehmana, 15 km from here, who died in Southall (UK), would reach here on Wednesday. Prabhnoor had committed suicide in the UK as he was under depression. He had gone to UK in the last week of February on study visa. Akwinder Kaur, sister of the deceased and Gursahib Singh her husband, said the Gurdwara Managing Committee Southall helped bri ng body back home. OCDC inaugurates school buildingTarn Taran: Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh has appealed people to admit their kids at government schools which are providing quality education to children. The Deputy Commissioner made the appeal while addressing a rural gathering on the occasion of inaugurating the newly built double-storey building of Government Primary Smart School, Pakhoke, on Tuesday. He said with the best efforts free education was being given to the students of government schools with mid-day meal and free uniform for children. Alwinderpal Singh Pakhoke, former SGPC president; Harjinder Singh Sarpanch; Sushil Kumar Tulli; Paramjit Singh DEO and Deputy DEO (Elementary) too addressed on the occasion. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-held-with-illicit-liquor-lahan-232546
31-03-2021||---||Gunshots fired in Kale village, 2 hurt||Amritsar, March 30Following an old rivalry, two groups clashed at Kale village last night. One of them alleged on other that a youngster identified as Prince fired several gunshots at their house.Sukhwinder Kaur, a resident, alleged that Prince fired gunshots and his other family members pelted stones on her house. Meanwhile, Prince alleged that Sukhwinder's kin pelted stones in which Pargat Masih and Younis Masih were severely injured and had to be admitted to a hospital.Sukhbir Singh, SHO Chheharta police station, said, complaints have been received from both sides and an investigation is underway.Sukhwinder stated that Prince lives in the neighborhood and has an old rivalry with them. On Monday, the children were playing Holi on their terrace when Prince started abusing them. She said that he was looking for a chance to quarrel with her. Late evening, Prince and his family members came outside his house and started threatening. When they responded, Prince called some other persons and fired five gunshots towards them.On the other hand, Prince alleged that Sukhwinder and his son Gurallal Singh, Gurbakhsh Singh had a feud with him. On Monday, her family members opened fire and lodged a false police complaint against his. Prince alleged that the attackers injured his uncle Pargat Masih and his relatives by pelting stones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gunshots-fired-in-kale-village-2-hurt-232545
31-03-2021||Amritsar||45-year-old kills self at Durgiana Temple sarovar||Holy celebrations turned tragic when a man identified as Sunil Mehra (45), a resident of Jagdambay Colony located on Majitha road committed suicide by jumping into the sarovar at the Durgiana Temple here on Monday.According to the police, the deceased was suffering from depression. The police have started inquest proceedings and sent the body for the postmortem.As per information, the people immediately raised an alarm when Sunil jumped. By the time he was fished out, he had died.Sanjay Mehra, brother of the deceased, told the police that Sunil was suffering from depression and had been receiving treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/45-year-old-kills-self-at-durgiana-temple-sarovar-232544
31-03-2021||---||Results of non-board classes to be out today||Amritsar, March 30The new academic session of government schools will resume from April 1 and will continue till April 10 through online mode until further instructions by the state government. The results of the non-board classes will also be out on March 31, said DEO Secondary. As per the demand and suggestions of the education officials, teachers and parents, the district Education Department has announced that the annual results of the students of non-board classes have been prepared and directed to be announced on March 31.Satinder Bir Singh, District Education Officer (Sec), and Kanwaljit Singh, District Education Officer (elementary) jointly said due to the Covid-19, the annual results of the students will be announced on the basis of the assessment examinations and the examinations held under the Punjab Achievement Survey. In addition, in the annual results, as per the departmental instructions, the experimental and Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) points will also be added. Satinder Bir said the new session at government schools would start from April 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/results-of-non-board-classes-to-be-out-today-232543
31-03-2021||Neha Saini||Woman of wonders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 30Hailing from Korba, in Chhattisgarh, also known as the industrial capital of the state, Gurneet Kaur had seen a lot of women and young girls around her denied equal opportunity, their educational status notwithstanding. The IIM Amritsar student, and an aspiring entrepreneur, she noticed this discrimination closely while spending time back home during the lockdown. That’s when she and her younger sister, Simran decided to do something about it.Launching ‘Girl Up-Chhattisgarh’, a wing of the global ‘Girl Up’ initiative founded by United Nation Foundation, Gurneet has been reaching out to women and young girls in Chhattisgarh with several community education and aid programmes. “Girl Up is an international community development programme aimed at girls and has 3,300 clubs in 126 countries. In 2020, right in the middle of the lockdown, I partnered with the initiative’s India chapter and since then, we have launched several workshops and awareness programmes for women like menstrual hygiene, general knowledge workshops, advocacy of equal rights and nutrition guide programmes,” shares Gurneet. A finance undergrad at IIM, Gurneet has expanded the outreach activities of ‘Girl Up-Chhattisgarh’ to three cities, including Korba, Raipur and Bhilai.“We have developed a network of 30 volunteers, collaborated with Robin Hood Army to distribute 101 food kits to the underprivileged women in Raipur. In the menstrual hygiene campaign we garnered over Rs50,000 and distributed menstrual kits to 100 women to cover their year-long menstrual needs in 2020 and distributed reusable pads to 70 more women in Raipur. STEM campaign in which we reached out to some of the most amazing women in STEM career for a short interview such as Dr Stephanie Ambrose, who’s a medical professional based in Singapore, Dheryta Jaisinghani, assistant professor at the University of Northern Iowa, Aparna J Ramani who works as a senior consultant in IQVIA for Asia pacific region, who further motivated young women to pursue career in research and technology. As part of campaign, we organised STEM competition for kids, to instill in them confidence about their abilities that would lead them to pursue a career in STEM if they so wish to do,” shared Gurneet. Her father Surinder Singh is a businessman and mother Prabhjeet Kaur is a homemaker. She wishes to expand the activities of ‘Girl Up’ while she plans her career in corporate world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-of-wonders-232542
31-03-2021||---||Amritsar MC employees end strike after assurance from MLA||Amritsar, March 30After getting an assurance from MLA (South) Inderbir Singh Bolaria, the MC employees called off their five-day old strike here on Tuesday.Bolaria reached at auto workshop and pacified the union leaders, who were demonstrating against Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC officials, for their demands. The MLA assured the employees that all their demands would be fulfilled.He talked with Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on phone in front of the employees. The Mayor told the MLA that the employees’ civic body level demands would be fulfilled on Tuesday and for the redressal of the remaining demands he would meet Brahm Mohindra, Minister for Local Government.On the assurance of Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, the union leaders ended the strike. “We have called off the strike on the assurance of MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria as we trust in him. The attitude of Mayor towards employee unions is not good,” said Ashu Nahar, president, Municipal Youth Employees Federation.Earlier, Mayor Karamjit Singh had met the employees and assured to fulfil the demands. But the union leaders rejected to withdraw the strike. Due to the strike of sanitation workers garbage piled up on the streets of the city.The employees were demanding to take action against the sanitary inspectors, who took bribe from sanitation workers. They were also demanding to recruit 800 more safai karamcharis to streamline the sanitation works in the walled city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-employees-end-strike-after-assurance-from-mla-232541
31-03-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Siren takes old-timers on a trip down memory lane||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, March 30 When SSP Nanak Singh ordered his cops to blow a siren, akin to the one normally heard during air raids of the yore, to usher in the one-hour silence on Saturday, little did he know that he would be taking old-timers on a passionate trip down memory lane. At precisely 10.55 am on Saturday, a five-minute-long siren went off from Jahaz Chowk signalling the start of the drive to remember those who lost their lives in the ongoing pandemic. At 11.55 am, a second siren was heard, this time informing local residents that the hour-long silence was about to end. The Covid martyrs were surely remembered. And so were the 1965 and 1971 wars against Pakistan. The hooter was enough to spark off a flood of war-driven memories in a flashback.  It is pertinent to mention here that Gurdaspur district shares a long border with Pakistan. Prof Raj Kumar Sharma, a noted historian, reminisced that in 1965 he was based in Amritsar. “The sirens would be succeeded by Pakistan Air Force (PAF) jets flying low over the city in a V-formation. With the sirens came the blackouts during which we had to switch off electric bulbs,” he said. In 1971, Professor Sharma recalled that he was a student of Government College in Zira perilously close to the border.  “I was in-charge of the NCC wing. I requested my Principal to put on hold the daily parades because the chances of enemy planes mistaking us for soldiers were high. On one occasion, a jet took a recce of our college but fortunately it spared our building. Just as we thought we had escaped the threat, the same fighter plane bombarded the FCI godown nearby virtually razing it to rubbles,” he said. Prof Kirpal Singh Yogi (88) said once a siren was heard, it was imperative that something dangerous was going to happen. “During blackouts, clothes, curtains, cardboards and paint were used to prevent light escaping from houses. A house whose lights remained on would be ostracised the next day by livid neighbours. A siren inevitably meant an air raid would follow within minutes.  The technical name for these hooters was Air Raid Precaution (APR) system sirens.  “I still remember how Englishmen would take refuge in London’s underground railway stations when a siren would go off during World War II. Initially, the British government had refused to let these underground stations be used as shelters. However, later it relented, saving hundreds of lives,” he said.     Yogi said, “Yesterday’s siren and those used in 1971 are vastly different. The one that was used yesterday was a manual contraption. The sirens used in the 1971 War were electric ones. They must be gathering dust now.”     He added that after the wail of sirens and subsequent air raids, it was a common sight to see pieces of broken furniture and limbs of dead buffaloes laying scattered in villages. Harbans Singh of Dala village, which is barely 8 km from the wire meshing, said during the two wars with Pakistan, the last thing the villagers wanted was to hear a siren. “The sound emanating from a hooter virtually meant death. Bombs suddenly dropped out of the night. Many of the bombs had the United States markings which only added to our conviction that Pakistan was indeed supported by the US,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/siren-takes-old-timers-on-a-trip-down-memory-lane-232451
31-03-2021||---||Covid claims four lives, 331 new cases surface in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 30With four more casualties due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, the toll in the district has increased to 673. The health authorities also reported 331 new cases in the last 24-hours, taking the total count to 20,714.The deceased have been identified as Madhu (60) from Sandhu Colony, Sheela (57) from Wadala village, Suman (59) of Ajnala and Rajinder Kaur (45) of Baba Bakala. The new cases include 241 influenza-like illness cases and 90 contacts of positive patients.The officials also reported recovery of 195 patients, with which the count has increased to 17,069. The district at present has a total of 2,972 active cases.Meanwhile, the district had reported a total of seven deaths and 357 new cases on Monday. The deceased included Vijay Kumari (72) of Ranjit Avenue, Baljinder Singh (61) of Kohali village, Sukhraj Kaur (68) of Airport Road, Sukhwinder Kaur (46) of Majitha Road, Baljinder Ram (50) of Chhehharta, Sucha Singh (55) of Baba Bakala, and Bimla Sharma (80) of Pawan Nagar (Batala Road).In the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 3,215 persons received the first dose and 345 got the second dose on Tuesday. The health authorities stated that 269 health workers, 929 frontliners, 651 persons above 45 years and 1,366 persons above 60 years received the first dose on Tuesday.In district, till date, a total of 84,578 persons have received the first dose and 13,615 have been completely vaccinated.‘Reconsider Saturdays’ one-hour silence’: ChawlaCiting inconvenience to the general public, former Health Minister and senior BJP leader, Laxmi Kanta Chawla has demanded from the CM to review his decision for weekly one-hour silence on every Saturday in the state. As per the earlier announcement by the CM, one-hour silence would be observed every Saturday in remembrance of those who have succumbed to the Covid. During this time, no vehicles are to ply on roads. She said most of the people who were out on the roads were working people and did not have any information about the government’s programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-claims-four-lives-331-new-cases-surface-in-amritsar-232452
31-03-2021||---||MoU signed with health varsity to promote medical research||Amritsar, March 30Asserting that cutting-edge research in the area of modern biology is the need of the hour and public health education is extremely important for a better and healthy life, Professor Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University, has signed a MoU between GNDU and Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences (SGRDUHS) at Amritsar.Prof Sandhu said that inter-institutional collaboration was the need of the hour and research could not be done in isolation. Further he emphasised that the state problems should be given the top most research and development priority so that the people of Punjab are benefited.Dr AP Singh, Dean, Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences, said the students and faculty members would be hugely benefited through this collaboration which was long overdue and the MoU will benefit all stake holders. The MoU will focus on joint research programme in area of medical sciences. Joint seminars, workshops, conferences, scholars exchange etc. will be undertaken in the above areas. Dr Singh invited the faculty members of Guru Nanak Dev University to play advisory roles in developing the curriculum as well as implementing other major plans of Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences as well as to join the university board in advisory roles so that the aspirations of the students of the region for quality education are fulfilled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mou-signed-with-health-varsity-to-promote-medical-research-232454
31-03-2021||Amritsar||40 attack house of woman sarpanch||The house of a woman sarpanch of Ram Nagar Colony was attacked by some persons on Tuesday afternoon. According to information, around 40 persons hurled bricks and stones at the house of sarpanch and fled the spot.  SHO Sadar police station Parveen Kumar and chowki in-charge ASI Kulwant Singh reached the spot. The statements of the victim’s family were recorded. Parveen Kumar said that the attackers were being identified. The FIR will be registered soon. Ram Nagar resident Kamal Kumar Bengali said that his wife Promila Kumari won the sarpanch election on Akali Dal ticket. Some people have a grudge against them. Kamal Kumar said that he was also attacked by some people on August 12. The police had registered a case against the accused in this regard. He said he was resting at his home on Tuesday. Meanwhile, some youths started knocking at the door of his house and started abusing him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-attack-house-of-woman-sarpanch-232455
31-03-2021||---||Son of farmer leader Sirsa ‘attacked’||Amritsar, March 30  An unknown person allegedly attacked the car of Mehtab Singh Sirsa here on Monday. He is son of Lok Insaf Welfare Society’s chief Baldev Singh Sirsa. The organisation is part of the 32 farmers’ organisations protesting against three controversial farm laws.  The police have arrested a suspect following preliminary probe. He is stated to be mentally unstable while further investigations were underway.  Baldev told that his son was participating in the farmers’ protest being organised on the main GT Road near a shopping mall.  He said when he was to return an unknown person attacked his car and damaged the windshields.  Mehtab had forgotten his mobile phone at the protest site and therefore went back having mistakenly left his car opened.  He said when he came back the car was damaged. He claimed to have been attacked earlier by some unknown persons.  After analysing the CCTV cameras at the spot, the police arrested a person who is stated to be unhinged.  The police authorities said further investigations were underway and appropriate action would be taken against the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/son-of-farmer-leader-sirsa-attacked-232457
31-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Fungal-hit barseem strikes cattle||Tarn Taran, March 30 A fungal disease in the seasonal green fodder, barseem, is causing illness among  cattle in the district. The diseased fodder crop was causing losses from many aspects and animal deaths too had been reported from certain villages. While some of the farmers have harvested their fodder crops in advance by more than two months.   According to the information collected from Rasulpur Kalan, Raspulpur Khurd, Alawalpur, Dugalwala, Benwalipur and other villages the same disease was appeared last year too. Satnam Kaur, sarpanch of Rasulpur village, said her good breed disease-ridden cow was infected on March 27. Inspite of treatment given to the cow it died on March 28. She said that the infected cattle drop taking fodder and milk production too was sharply decreased.  Sarwan Singh, Dharam Singh and Dilbag Singh, secretary of the Raspulpur area, said they had tilled their fodder crops in months advance and had destroyed the crops.  The frightened farmers stated that infected cattle start showing the symptoms of the disease few days ago included secretion of froth from mouth. Dr Harinderpal Singh Chandi, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, said as he had not been informed by any of the animal farmer before he now was going to instruct the staff of the department working in the field to collect information regarding the disease and treatment would be provided to the infected animals .The Deputy Director said that this disease was often seen at the time of change in the season when the fodder crops go much developed and the lower part of the standing crop was deprived of the sun shining as a results fungal disease appeared and it affects the animal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fungal-hit-barseem-strikes-cattle-232458
31-03-2021||---||Student organisations for reopening of institutions||Amritsar, March 30 With new guidelines on extension of curbs by the state government till April 10, nine student organisations of Punjab on Tuesday staged massive protests at the headquarters of their respective districts demanding immediate reopening of educational institutions across Punjab and giving preference to offline classes instead of online classes.  Among the nine organisations, three Amritsar-based organisations Punjab Students Union (Lalkar), Punjab Students Union and Teachers Union staged a protest and handed over a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner.  Addressing the gathering, the student leaders of these organisations said the closure of all educational institutions in Punjab by the government as a shield against the coronavirus was a big blow to the future of the students. “In the name of online classes, the intellectual, thinking ability of students is being ignored. Lack of education at all in the last session has already caused a lot of damage and this ungovernable edict of the present Punjab Government cannot be tolerated at all,” said Ravinder Kaur, from Punjab Student Union (Lalkar).  Asserting that colleges and universities are the most important centres for imparting education, she said though online classes are sufficing students but there is still a lot of research, science and engineering work that is not possible without the coordination of laboratories, libraries and teachers at educational institutions. Lending support to the students’ demands, members of the Teachers School Union, Punjab, also demanded resumption of offline classes and reconsider the rampant privatisation of the institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/student-organisations-for-reopening-of-institutions-232459
31-03-2021||---||Despite extension in curbs, Sadda Pind to remain open||Amritsar, March 30 With popular tourists’ spots in city, including Partition Museum, Gobindgarh Fort and Jallianwala Bagh shut for tourists till April 10, Sadda Pind, a theme park popular with local as well as international tourists continue to remain open providing limited scope for tourism.  The fresh guidelines issued in the wake of second wave of Covid in state, all museums and memorials in the city have been closed. But the order doesn’t count for other tourists’ spots, including Sadda Pind, which is the only non-religious tourist site among the ones to be lucky enough.  Ish Gambhir, director, Sadda Pind, said the theme park is open to visitors but with caution. “Since there is another expected wave of Covid-19, we are exercising all necessary precautions and following SOPs. After reopening, the theme park has been getting a visitor footfall of 40-50 per cent as compared to its previous numbers.” He added that another lockdown or shutting of tourist places will spell doom for the industry. “Tourism industry had been badly hit and pushed to the edge during the lockdown. Functioning with caution is the only way ahead and we can only hope that the shutdown doesn’t extend beyond its necessity, as revival of tourism industry depends on it.” The place is currently functioning with 80 per cent staff capacity.  The state government on Tuesday extended the curbs till April 10, including shutting down of schools, colleges and a few popular tourist venues. Meanwhile, with other tourist spots being shut, including Wagah border and Pul Kanjri, the religious places, including famous gurdwaras have picked up tourists’ interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-extension-in-curbs-sadda-pind-to-remain-open-232460
31-03-2021||Amritsar||Hola Mohalla celebrated at Golden Temple||Thousands of devotees participated in the traditional Hola Mohalla celebrations at Golden Temple on Monday evening. They showered flower petals on the beautifully decorated palanquin which carried Sikh holy book, Guru Granth Sahib to pay their obeisance.Though the Hola Mohalla celebrations at Anandpur, the birth place of Khalsa are a much larger event, the festival is also celebrated at Golden Temple every year for the last more than two centuries. The devotees from far off places visit the place to attend the annual event.Hola Mohalla was instituted by the tenth Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh, as a martial festival beginning the day after Holi, the spring festival of colours celebrated across the country.Edu Dept stages play during Hola Mohalla celebrationsAmritsar: The district unit of the Education Department staged a play during the 82nd Hola Mohalla function celebrated at Gurdwara Bohri Sahib, Kot Khalsa. The nukkad natak titled ‘Government Schools are Pillar of Education’ was staged as part of the department’s ongoing campaign to enrol students. Parents were encouraged to enrol their children in government schools. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hola-mohalla-celebrated-at-golden-temple-232461
31-03-2021||Our Correspondent ||RMPI activists gherao police station||Tarn Taran, March 30Workers of different organisations affiliated to Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) lodged their protest against the alleged police atrocities on political opponents of the ruling Congress here on Tuesday.  The protesters after passing through city roads and bazaars gheroed the city police station. Daljit Singh Dialpura, Jaspal Singh Chabal and Jasbir Kaur while addressing the protesters alleged that the police had registered criminal cases against sarpanch and other members of Tur village panchayat. The leaders said the cases were registered because panchayat leaders were not following the diktats of ruling party leaders. They said as the matter was under reinvestigation but the police were conducting raids at the residences of panchayat members to arrest them.  The protesters said that if justice was not given they would intensify their agitation. On the assurance of DSP Sucha Singh Bal the protesters lifted the gherao of the police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rmpi-activists-gherao-police-station-232463
31-03-2021||Amritsar||Baptism row: Akal Takht summons Chief Khalsa Diwan chief||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has summoned Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Nirmal Singh and several other office-bearers on Wednesday regarding the controversy of ‘baptisation’ of its members.Besides Nirmal Singh, the other office-bearers who were summoned are CKD vice-president Inderbir Singh Nijjar, two honorary secretaries Sawinder Singh Kathunangal and Ajit Singh Basra, Harminder Singh and Freedom and Dharam Prachar Committee head Bhag Singh Ankhi. They were asked to appear before five high Sikh priests at the Akal Takht.In a communique to the organisation, the jathedar said questions were being raised over the baptisation of several office-bearers and therefore, they were summoned before the Takht to clarify the situation. Earlier, the Takht had sought necessary documents from the CKD over the issue. However, it failed to produce the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baptism-row-akal-takht-summons-chief-khalsa-diwan-chief-232284
31-03-2021||---||Punjabi singer Diljaan Singh killed in road accident near Amritsar||Amritsar, Tuesday 30Punjabi singer Diljaan Singh (31) died in a road accident at Jandiala Guru around 2 am this morning.The police officials at Jandiala Guru police station stated that he was heading toward Amritsar from Jalandhar in his Mahindra KUV 100 vehicle.When he reached near Jandiala his vehicle collided with a truck parked on roadside. He was rushed to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Diljaan's wife and children are in Canada.He was a runner up in 'Sur Kshetra', a TV reality show in 2012. He also participated in 'Awaj Punjab di'.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh also expressed his condolences.Shocked at the tragic death of young and promising Punjabi singer Diljaan in a road accident earlier today. It is extremely sad to lose young lives like these on road. My condolences to the family, friends and fans. RIP! pic.twitter.com/ZLxQidrO5P||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-singer-diljaan-singh-killed-in-road-accident-near-amritsar-232149
