01-01-2021||India||PMC Bank: ED attaches Rs 72-cr assets of man whose wife transferred funds to Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s spouse||The ED on Friday said it has attached assets worth Rs 72 crore of a Maharashtra-based man whose wife’s alleged transaction with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s spouse is under its scanner in the over Rs 4,300 crore PMC Bank money laundering case.The central probe agency alleged that the man, Pravin Raut, had “siphoned off” Rs 95 crore worth of funds from the scam-hit bank in the garb of loan, out of which he paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife, Madhuri Raut, who subsequently transferred Rs 55 lakh in two tranches to Varsha Raut, wife of Sanjay Raut, as an “interest-free loan.” The ED recently summoned Varsha Raut for questioning with regard to this transaction and a few other deals leading to a political blame game between Maharashtra and the Centre with various constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led state government alleging that the Centre was using federal probe agencies to harass them.Varsha Raut skipped the agency’s notice thrice and is now expected to join probe before the ED in Mumbai on January 5.Sanjay Raut, while holding a press conference in Mumbai early this week, had denied any wrongdoing on the part of his wife and said they were in correspondence with the ED in connection with the case for about one-and-a-half months.Raut, 59, is a Rajya Sabha MP and also a spokesperson of the Shiv Sena, which is in power in Maharashtra and is a former ally of the BJP.He said details regarding the Rs 55 lakh loan transaction have already been submitted to the ED during the correspondence.The ED said it has provisionally attached Rs 72 crore worth of assets of Pravin Raut under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as it explained in a statement the alleged financial links between him his wife and that of Sanjay Raut’s spouse.“Probe revealed that Rs 95 crore has been siphoned off through HDIL by one of the accused Pravin Raut in active conspiracy and connivance with various persons.“The source of the funds were illegal availed loans/advances by HDIL from PMC Bank. There was no document or agreement in support of these payments made to Pravin Raut,” the ED alleged in a statement.It said “as per the ledger of HDIL, the funds were given to Pravin Raut for acquiring land in Palghar area.” The probe found, it said, that Pravin Raut “paid an amount of Rs 1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri Pravin Raut from the proceeds of crime. Out of the said money, Madhuri Raut transferred Rs 55 lakh (Rs 50L on December 23, 2010 and Rs 5L on March 15, 2011) as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut who is the wife of Sanjay Raut”.“The amount was further utilised for purchase of flat in Dadar East, Mumbai,” the ED claimed.The probe found that Varsha Sanjay Raut and Madhuri Pravin Raut “are partners in Avani Construction and Varsha Raut has received Rs 12 lakh from this entity (as overdrawn capital converted to loan) on a contribution of mere Rs 5,625.” “The loan amount of Rs 12 lakh still remains outstanding,” it said.The ED had filed a criminal case of money laundering to probe the alleged loan fraud in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank in October last year against Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan, its former chairman Waryam Singh and ex-managing director Joy Thomas.It took cognisance of a Mumbai Police economic offences wing FIR against them that charged them for causing “wrongful loss, prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank, and corresponding gains to themselves”.The ED has attached assets of Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Wadhawan family trust and others worth Rs 293 crore and had seized jewellery worth Rs 63 crore.A chargesheet had also been filed by it in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-bank-ed-attaches-rs-72-cr-assets-of-man-whose-wife-transferred-funds-to-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-s-spouse/story-sEWnSc1NvZ1pFGUjwEvHeI.html
01-01-2021||India||Rescuers in Kerala save elephant from well after 12-hour struggle||Rescuers managed to save a wild elephant that had fallen into a well in Anakampoil in north Kerala’s Kozhikode district after a 12-hour operation on Friday.“Luckily there were no major injuries to the elephant which was later released into the forest. But before entering the forest it damaged the earth remover and other equipment which played vital role in saving it,” a senior forest official said.The jumbo which fell into the well in the morning was finally rescued around 9 pm.A rescue team comprising forest, revenue and police officials used an earthmover to break the well and dig a small pathway to make way for the trapped animal.Forest officials had earlier suspected that elephant might have been hurt after it fell into the 50-foot well. Earlier in the day, they had said that the elephant might have to be tranquilised and shifted to a camp in case of injury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-in-kerala-save-elephant-from-well-after-12-hour-struggle/story-iuWddjwt3d6v4qBvQOvF0M.html
01-01-2021||India||India to lift UK flight ban on Jan 8, allow partial flight operations||India will allow resumption of flights to and from the United Kingdom from January 8 but with restrictions that include limiting flight operations to 15 weekly flights each per country till January 23, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said on Friday.The government has put a cap of 30 weekly flights between the countries with 15 flights each allowed for carriers of the two countries. “It has been decided that flights between India and UK will resume from 8 Jan 2021. Operations till 23 Jan will be restricted to 15 flights per week each for carriers of the two countries to and from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad only. DGCA will issue the details shortly,” Puri said on Twitter.The restrictions on flights between the two countries may be extended further till January 31, according to officials aware of the development. “Passengers arriving in these flights from January 8 onward will be asked to take mandatory RT PCR tests on arrival and those found negative will be made to sign undertakings for mandatory home quarantine for a week. We are reviewing the status, our assumption is the restrictions on flights to UK may be extended further till the end of the month,” a senior official said requesting anonymity.On December 21, India had joined a growing list of countries on Monday to seal off access to people who have been to the UK, suspending all flights to and from the country between December 23 and December 31 then later extending the ban till January 7 in order to stop the arrival of a new strain of the coronavirus Sars-Cov-2 that is feared to spread faster.India’s air bubble agreement with UK covered at least 70 flights per week, according to the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The airlines flying these routes were Air India, British Airways, Vistara and Virgin Atlantic.India has been operating international flights through bilateral transport bubbles with 24 countries including Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Rwanda, Tanzania, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates (UAE), United Kingdom (UK), United States of America (USA) since calling off scheduled overseas flight operations when it announced the lockdown in March.Speaking at a press conference last Tuesday Puri had said: “I foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension. I don’t expect that extension to be a long or indefinite extension. In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension.”He added that from November 25 the government had begun contact tracing of passengers who had arrived directly or indirectly from the UK.So far, 29 cases of people in India have tested positive for the new and highly infectious strain of coronavirus including four cases that were detected on Friday.Genomic sequencing repository Nextstrain showed the variant found in UK was also circulating in Denmark, and similar mutations – although in a different strain – were seen in some samples from South Africa. Civil Aviation minister in December had also said Centre may decide to impose similar restrictions on other countries if a high number of cases with the Sars-Cov-2 mutation are found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-lift-uk-flight-ban-on-jan-8-allow-partial-flight-operations/story-qs9uJiOBnxtwIbii3jegZN.html
01-01-2021||India||585 fresh cases of COVID-19 reported in Delhi; 3,874 containment zones in city||The national Capital on Friday recorded 585 fresh Covid-19 cases after 80,565 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, which took the positivity rate to 0.73 per cent. Total Covid-19 deaths in Delhi reached 10,557 with 21 deaths recorded on Friday. The city at present has 3,874 containment zones. On January 2, as part of the nationwide dry run of vaccines, trials will be conducted at three sites in Delhi — Central district, Shahdara district and South West districtAfter a sudden spike in the number of cases from the last week of October, Delhi’s daily infections fell from December 21. From December 21-23, the daily case count had been below the 1,000-mark. On December 21, 803 cases were reported; 939 on December 22 and 871 on December 23.However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 cases were recorded while on December 28, the daily case count was 564, the lowest in the last five months.On December 29 and 30, the city recorded 703 and 677 cases respectively. On December 31, 574 cases were recorded.On Friday, four more people have tested positive for the new variant of Covid-19 strain first detected first in India. This variant is believed to be more contagious but it has so far not affected India’s Covid-19 caseload. The civil aviation ministry, which barred UK flights till January 7, has decided to resume operations from January 8 in a staggered manner. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/585-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-delhi-3-874-containment-zones-in-city/story-wC0BB7aSIhHgaNkDGmcdRN.html
01-01-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti is pro-separatist, shouldn’t talk about rights abuse: BJP leader||Slamming PDP president Mehbooba Mufti for her comments on the encounter that raged on December 30 on the outskirts of Srinagar, former deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Kavinder Gupta on Friday accused her of always taking a pro-separatist and pro-terrorists stand. Early this morning, Mufti had written a letter to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and urged him to initiate an impartial probe into the encounter. In her letter, she said that such incidents bring disrepute to the armed forces and were a grave violation of human rights. In a statement issued here, Gupta said that Mehbooba Mufti should be the last person to talk about violation of human rights. “A terrorist is a terrorist and he should be dealt strictly as per the law. Mehbooba Mufti should not comment on human rights violation. What about the human rights of armed forces and innocent civilians who are martyred in terrorist attack which take place every other day?” asked Gupta. Criticising Mufti, Gupta said that the PDP leader has always taken a pro-terrorists and pro-separatists stand. “If you notice, she has always been vocal for her agenda, which is not in the interest of nation, and its people. PDP as a political party has lost its relevance in Jammu and Kashmir’s political scenario. Many of its leaders are already in the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) in hawala cases,” said the former deputy CM. He further said that Article 370 has caused “criminal injustice” to the people in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. Moreover, he asserted that BJP shall not allow the Abdullah father-son duo and Mehbooba Mufti to carry forward their alleged “anti-national” agenda in the Union Territory. He said the people in Jammu and Kashmir want peace and development and communal harmony. “Over the past 70 years, Article 370 has done great injustice with Pakistani refugees, Gujjar and Bakerwal communities, Valmiki and Gorkha communities, women and nationalists and also gave birth to terrorism and separatism in this peaceful land,” Gupta said. He alleged that the Abdullahs and Mufti are conspiring to “bleed Kashmir’ once again but nobody will be allowed to cause harm to the law and order situation in the valley. “They will face serious consequences. They are using the Gupkar Agenda to save their skin and we will not allow them to succeed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-is-pro-separatist-shouldn-t-talk-about-rights-abuse-bjp-leader/story-u8m9C7CmzU3bJGL0QBDexN.html
01-01-2021||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat says patriotism intrinsic in Hindus, cites examples from Gandhi’s life||If someone is a Hindu he will be patriotic and that will be his basic character and nature, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Friday while citing Mahatma Gandhi’s remarks that his patriotism originates from his dharma. Bhagwat was speaking at an event to release the book titled ‘Making of a Hindu Patriot: Background of Gandhiji’s Hind Swaraj’, authored by JK Bajaj and MD Srinivas. Releasing the book, Bhagwat said there is no need for speculation that Sangh “is trying to appropriate Gandhiji, that is not the case, no one can appropriate great personalities like him.” Describing the book as an authentic scholarly research document on Gandhi, Bhagwat said Gandhi had suggested that for him his dharma and patriotism are not different as love for his motherland originates from his spirituality.“Gandhiji had said that his patriotism originates from his dharma,” Bhagwat said asserting that dharma does not merely mean religion, it is wider than religion.“If someone is Hindu he has to be patriotic, that will be his or her basic character and nature. At times you may have to awaken his or her patriotism but he (Hindu) can never be anti-India. But we have to be conscious of the fact that if one loves his country it doesn’t mean land only, it means its people, rivers, culture, traditions and everything,” he said. He underlined that Hinduism believes in the existence of unity. “Difference does not mean separatism and Gandhiji has suggested that Hinduism is the religion of all religions,” he said. Talking about Gandhi’s concept of ‘swaraj’, Bhagwat said by it he means not only changing rulers or becoming self-governing, for Gandhi the struggle for ‘swaraj’ was the reconstruction of society based on civilisational values. Meanwhile, in the book, the authors have quoted Gandhi as having written to Leo Tolstoy that, “… my patriotism is patent enough, my love for India is ever growing but it is derived from my religion and is therefore in no sense exclusive.” Giving an overview of the book, Bajaj said it tracked Gandhi’s life from Porbandar to his visit to England and then to South Africa. Bajaj said there was a time between 1893-94 when Gandhi was pressured by his Muslim employer and his Christian employees to explore converting to their respective religions but he refused. By 1905, he became a devout Hindu and also gave lectures on Hinduism, Bajaj said. He cited instances that while practising law in South Africa, Gandhi quoted Bhagwad Gita and Mahabhrata in his petitions before the courts. PTI JTR JTR AAR AAR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-says-patriotism-intrinsic-in-hindus-cites-examples-from-gandhi-s-life/story-Gh08b6JATjFnfk1RR6rpUJ.html
01-01-2021||India||SII’s Covishield approval: Efficacy, cost and all about AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine||A government’s expert panel has reportedly approved the vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, for emergency use in India to provide immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to news agency Reuters, a subject expert committee, set up by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to vet Covid-19 vaccine proposals, recommended granting emergency use authorisation to AstraZeneca’s vaccine AZD1222, dubbed in India as Covishield.AstraZeneca had signed an agreement with Serum Institute of India (SII) to produce 1 billion doses of its experimental vaccine for low- and middle-income countries. The Pune-based company has sought an emergency use authorisation for the Covid-19 vaccine which recently received approval from British regulators. Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on Wednesday authorised the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for deployment across the United Kingdom on the conditions that the vaccine should be administered in two doses, with the second dose given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first. Here’s all you need to know about the vaccine:Efficacy: In two different dosing regimens, the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine showed the efficacy of 90 per cent and 62 per cent. In participants who received two full doses at least one month apart, vaccine efficacy was 62 per cent, and in participants who received a low dose followed by a full dose, efficacy was 90 per cent.Safety: The Lancet publication, a leading medical journal, has confirmed that AZD1222 was well tolerated and there were no serious safety events confirmed related to the vaccine. The safety data published is from over 20,000 participants, so far, enrolled across four clinical trials in the UK and Brazil and South Africa.Also Read | Govt’s expert panel approves AstraZeneca/Oxford Covid-19 vaccine for emergency useStorage: The AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine can be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions (2°C to 8°C) for at least six months.Cost: Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive officer of SII, had told Hindustan Times that Covidshield will be priced in India at Rs 500-600.Technology: AZD1222 is made of a weakened and modified version of adenovirus (a common cold virus) that causes infections in chimpanzees and contains the genetic material of the SARS-CoV-2 virus spike protein. After vaccination, the surface spike protein is produced, priming the immune system to attack the SARS-CoV-2 virus if it later infects the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-s-covishield-approval-efficacy-cost-and-all-about-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-2XrMT3hOEfuMhDOi4GViOK.html
01-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Army orders fast patrol boats for surveillance of Pangong lake and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army orders fast patrol boats for surveillance of Pangong lake in LadakhThe Indian army has ordered new fast patrol boats for the surveillance of water bodies in the mountains, including Pangong Tso, in eastern Ladakh where it has been locked in a border row with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for eight months. Read moreIt shows the faith India has on their players in the dressing room, regardless of caste, race and creed: Akhtar heaps praise on Mohammed SirajIndia’s victory in Melbourne has been lauded by the cricket community. The Indian cricket team were on the backfoot after the humiliation they faced in Adelaide. Read more Anil Kapoor says Kareena Kapoor ‘took a lot of money’ from him as she asks him about pay parity in BollywoodKareena Kapoor Khan asked Anil Kapoor a question about the wage gap that persists in Bollywood between male and female actors. However, his response left her speechless. Read moreWatch: Mumbai cop escorts gatecrasher out of home in Dharavi. It’s a 6-foot-long Rock PythonA cop is being hailed as a hero for his brave gesture after he escorted a gatecrashing 6-foot-long Rock Python out of a house in Dharavi. Taking to Twitter, Mumbai Police shared the tale of bravery along with a video of the incident. Read moreWatch: BSF soldiers dance, cut cake to welcome new year 2021BSF soldiers welcomed the new year by cutting cake on the first day. The BSF personnel were seen dancing to songs in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch area. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-army-orders-fast-patrol-boats-for-surveillance-of-pangong-lake-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YEztnGaSl0VNDbgB75MpuK.html
01-01-2021||India||Soldier killed in Pak ceasefire violation along Line of Control in J&K||A soldier of the Indian Army was killed in Pakistani shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district on the first day of the New Year. The deceased soldier has been identified as Naib Subedar Ravinder of Jhajjar in Haryana. “Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district. Own troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Naib Subedar Ravinder was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” said a defence spokesman. “Naib Subedar Ravinder was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” added the spokesman. “At about 1530 hours (3.30 PM) Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with Mortars along LoC in Nowshera sector. “In the evening at about 1730 hours (5.30 pm), Pakistan again initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation in the Nowshera sector, prompting India to retaliate in equal measure,” he added. Meanwhile, Pakistan’s Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR) - a publicity wing of Pakistan’s armed forces - posted on its website that Indian troops initiated ceasefire violation in Khuiratta sector along LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-killed-in-pak-ceasefire-violation-along-line-of-control-in-j-k/story-uv2gvClKyGxbAespRF6yUL.html
01-01-2021||India||Farmer dies by suicide in Madhya Pradesh, leaves note addressed to PM Modi||A farmer allegedly died by suicide at a village in Chhatarpur district in Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region, said police. A five-page note addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi was recovered on his person, saying his body should be handed over to the government so that his organs could be sold to realise the hefty electricity bill of about Rs 88,000, said police. The farmer, who died on Wednesday, owned a small flour mill. He is survived by his three daughters and a son.His family members have alleged that the power company had seized his flour mill and also his motorbike.The victim’s brother, who is employed in the power distribution company, said, “My brother ended his life due to harassment by the power distribution company. My brother was highly upset and under stress since his flour mill and the motorbike were seized by the power distribution company.” He said, “My brother was not able to pay the electricity bills as there was no good crop this year. Earlier, there was an average bill of about Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per month but suddenly a bill of about Rs 88,000 was given to him. Without giving any time to pay the bill, the power distribution company officials in Chhatarpur district sent a legal notice to my brother and seized his flour mill and motorbike. A team took away the bike causing harassment and stress to my brother. He wanted some time to pay the bill but the officials refused to listen to his pleas.” The brother demanded strict action against those “responsible” for the death. The note reads, “When there are scams by big politicians and businessmen the government employees don’t take any action. If they take a loan they get enough time to repay it or the loan is waived. But, if a poor person takes even a small amount of loan, the government would never ask him as to why he was not able to repay the loan. Instead, he is insulted in public.” Matguva police station in charge Kamaljeet Singh said, “We have got a note. The deceased’s father and brothers tried to convince him not to get stressed about the power bill. However, when his wife returned from her parents’ house there was an argument between her and the victim over the unpaid bill. Later, he took the drastic step. However, an investigation is going on in the matter.” Congress MLA and ex-minister Harsh Yadav said, “Farmers and others are at the receiving end of the power distribution companies. Either teams of the power distribution company or its recovery agents are harassing the farmers and others like anything. They seize and take away tractors, trolleys, bikes, etc whatever they get from the houses of the farmers in the name of recovery of power bills. That too when kharif crops were not good because of bad weather this year.” Despite efforts, the chief engineer and the superintending engineer concerned of the power distribution company couldn’t be reached for their comments. Collector, Chhatarpur, Sheelendra Singh, said, “The deceased’s father gets pension and he gets the benefit of PM Kisan Kalyan Yojna too. His brother works in the power distribution company. The administration immediately gave ex-gratia of Rs 25,000 to the deceased’s family. An inquiry would be conducted in connection with the incident and action would be taken if anyone is found responsible for the suicide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-dies-by-suicide-in-madhya-pradesh-leaves-note-addressed-to-pm-modi/story-QAqiT88wKIs6n1QnbMBxRK.html
01-01-2021||India||Govt plans chat bot like Alexa, Google Voice to deliver public services||The government on Friday invited bids to develop a chat bot or voice assistance application like Amazon’s Alexa or Google Assistant to deliver e-governance services to the public. The artificial intelligence-based conversational platform is expected to interact with the public in multiple languages, analyse sentiments and intent, collect and analyse data to give personalised experience to users. The National E-Governance Division of Ministry of Electronics and IT has invited proposals to build the conversational platform that can be deployed on the UMANG platform, which hosts various apps that provide government services to citizens. “The platform should be able to provide assistance with general tasks, including but not limited to availing services of government and available on the UMANG platform such as registration, login, reset password, department service relation information, event, (and) new launch...etc,” the request for proposal document said. The chatbot should be able to turn speech into a textual input and turn text into speech. “Platforms should also have other deep learning capabilities, which can be used by platforms for discovery and recommendation of eligible schemes and services to the users of bots/applications. “Users should be recommended best-fit schemes and services available in government domain based on his/her profile,” the document said. The term of the project will be four years from the date it goes live. NeGD has fixed January 12 for pre-bid conference and January 25 for the last date of bid submission. Bids will open on January 27, evaluation will be done by February 5 and work order is scheduled for the second week of February, according to the document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-chat-bot-like-alexa-google-voice-to-deliver-public-services/story-UGRFedz4wNL1q4ucvpApVK.html
01-01-2021||India||‘I hope 2021 will be kind to all of us…’||Actor Shiny Dixit who was in Lucknow wrapping a web series says acting is not just about fame for her. “Becoming an actor for me has been an internal journey which you go through as human. It’s never been about what fame and money. In fact, it’s about how you learn and evolve as an actor in the due course of your career. I love playing so many characters in one life that’s the charm of being an actor,” said ‘Tera Kya Hoga Alia’ actor.Shiny is a trained fashion stylist and left her business behind to try her luck in Mumbai. “I remember my father gave me a month’s time to find work in acting. And, I knew, if didn’t crack any audition I’ll have to go back with a broken dream. Thankfully, I got a TV commercial followed by a cameo in historical daily ‘Jodhaa Akbar’ followed by multiple shows till my big break happened with ‘Zindagi Ki Mehek’ that gave me the much-needed recognition.”The young actor was shooting in the city for web series ‘Hastinapur,’ and enjoyed her stay in Lucknow. “The city has transformed completely from what it was years back when I used to visit my aunt here. I remember I used to say ‘waha hai kya water park ke alawa,’ (laughs). But, look at it now, it has become so enterprising and still has that old world charm. I hogged on everything that I could find on Lucknawi platter,” said Shiny.Shiny looks ahead to 2021 with a lot of good work coming her way and release of her films and series. “I hope 2021 will be kind to all of us. And, we all as a nation and world will be back to our normal healthy selves soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-hope-2021-will-be-kind-to-all-of-us/story-cyQ4aIg8ZEA2nDyavWi9MK.html
01-01-2021||India||‘My hopes are high with the New Year’||Hailing from Lucknow, film-maker and writer Ranjeet Gupta is at ease with the release of his long-stuck film last month.“When you believe in a project and give it your all, you desperately want it to see the light of the day. When I started this film ‘Omprakash Zindabaad’ that was extensively shot around Lucknow suburbs, my faith in the subject brought in actors like late Om Puri and Jagdeep sir on board. But, due to some reason or the other, it got stuck and then we were in the lockdown delaying the release further. But, all well that ends well,” said director of bilingual film ‘Michel Adhikari.’ Ranjeet assisted known director, Imtiyaz Ali on various projects. “When I was in my 20s, after completing my film making course from Nepal, I started assisting him then Anurag Basu on various projects including a number of TV shows. Later, independent TV direction gave me a firm foot the industry — ‘Manmohini,’ ‘Phulwa’, ‘Beintehaa,’ ‘Sadda Haq’ and many more along with web series ‘Hero Vardiwala’ and ‘Dixit Family.’ Talking about his love for UP locales, Ranjeet said, “I love shooting in UP especially around Lucknow as there are many untold stories and explored characters left to be exposed to the cinema lovers. ‘Omprakash…’ gave me an opportunity to work with legendry actors and shoot in and around Lucknow my favourite city.”Currently, Ranjeet is shooting for the film ‘Mamma Mia’ and an untitled web series to be released 2021. “My hopes are high with the New Year and I can’t wait to tell interesting stories to my audience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-hopes-are-high-with-the-new-year/story-IFM75YQ7ypjmMvY9BsxOKM.html
01-01-2021||India||UP set to unlock more entertainment in 2021…||We went in 2020 on a very positive note with big ticket films and OTT series heading to Uttar Pradesh. Pandemic brought everything on a standstill but projects shot in state kept viewers entertaining throughout the tough year. As the unlock phase started, it was again lights, camera and actions across the state and several shoots have already been wrapped. As we step in 2021 there is lot of hope. Film industry and OTT series makers are upbeat about their projects that are ready to roll this year. The shoot of Kartik Aryan-starrer ‘Bhool Bhulaiyaa-2’ got stalled in March last year and is set to resume in Lucknow soon. Rajniesh Duggall’s film ‘Bagawat’ too got stuck in March but restarted and got wrapped in November 2020. John Abraham starrer ‘Satyamev Jayate-2’ was completed in Lucknow and Varanasi while Akshay Kumar shot ‘Atrangi Re’ in Agra.“We shot ‘Khuda Hafiz’, TV serial ‘Madam Sir’ and BB2 till March while, in unlock phase we shot ‘Chaurasi’ (84) with Zoya Hussain and Pawan Malhotra, Kunal Kohli’s ‘Lahore Confidential’ with Richa Chadha and Arunoday Singh, Saurabh Tewari’s ‘Jackson’, ‘Satyamev Jayaye-2’ while shooting ‘Cop Story’ starring Amit Sial and ‘14 Phere’ with Vikrant Massey and Kriti Kharbanda is underway,” said line-producer Aroon Singh Dicky. Mahrukh Mirza’s comeback project ‘Tawaif’, web series ‘The Prayag Raj’, Faiz Anwar’s directoral debut ‘Stage Singer’ was also shot and currently shoot of OTT series ‘Hastinapur’ is also underway in Lucknow. Projects that are expected to start are ‘Mission Majnu’ starring Siddharth Malhotra, next season of ‘Rangbaaz’, Randeep Hooda starrer biopic on ATS cop Avinash Mishra, ‘Khuda Hafiz-2’, ‘Raktanchal-2’ and Pushpendra Nath Misra’s next series. “Opportunity of shoot were always there but the professionalism that was required we are now getting and that’s the reason people are coming here for shoot,” said Pushpendra, who shot ‘Taj Mahal 1989’ in Lucknow and Agra. Playing lead Ganesh Acharya shot a dance film ‘Dehati Disco’ at a village in Lucknow said, “It’s the flavour of its Hindi speaking beat, rustic setting, ease of shoot, safe shooting environment during pandemic that brought us here to shoot the entire film with such a large crew here.” Not only Lucknow, projects are underway in other locations too. Actor Chandan Roy Sanyal who had shot ‘Ashram’ in Ayodhya in early 2020 and film ‘Woh Teen Din’ in Varanasi and ‘Chunar’ with Sanjay Mishra and Rajesh Sharma said, “Once I reached Varanasi and completed the project, I felt very motivated and relaxed. This project was a unique and lifetime experience for me,” he said. Going forward, with state government now coming up with Film City in Noida the trend of shooting in UP is set to go up manifold.Streaming in 2020 Gulabo Sitabo Raat Akeli Hai Khuda Hafiz Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl Ginny Weds Sunny The Last Colour Thappad A Suitable Boy Taj Mahal 1989 Mirzapur-2 Raktanchal Ashram Bicchoo ka Khel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/up-set-to-unlock-more-entertainment-in-2021/story-8cbBBDf3JP7b1T7EVXuYQJ.html
01-01-2021||India||‘Let’s hope flower of positivity blooms this year!’||It was a working first day of 2021 for actor Paras Madaan in Lucknow. Currently, shooting for the OTT series ‘Hastinapur’ he pins lot of hope for his year. “Last year we sowed the seed of positivity for a new start and now we pray and hope that its flower blooms this year. Initially, it was fight for survival as I too was tested positive for corona virus. Thankfully, I survived, both on health front and financially but it was tough phase for all of us,” said ‘Divya Drishti’, ‘Qubool Hai’ and ‘Kis Desh Hai Mera Dil,’ actor. The Delhite is braving ‘Lucknow ki sardi’. “It has been 13 years I left my home town, so I’m habitual to Mumbai conditions. Now, it has been nearly two weeks and I am enjoying it. During, ‘Beyhad-2’ promotions I came here for the first time and had a good look around the city. This time it’s just shoot and shoot!” This is his first professional work in the unlock phase. “As the name suggests its modern-day political drama inspired by Hastinapur of Mahabharat era. Directed by Soumyajit Ganguli, the story is about four friends (Ravi Bhatia, Rohit KP and Manoj) who run a gang and I lead that gang.” On his web debut he says, “As an artiste you get lot of freedom and space to etch your character which is not the case in TV. Besides, OTT has removed the barrier of hero and heroine. Here, every character plays the lead and has scope to carve a niche for themselves.” However, he is looking forward to balance both. He accepts that TV as a medium has its limitation where creativity is compromised at time but he enjoys that as well. The actor started with modelling and theatre in Delhi before shifting to Mumbai. “I also wanted to be in the medium where I can express my creativity. It has been a roller-coaster ride but those tough phases that taught me a lot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/let-s-hope-flower-of-positivity-blooms-this-year/story-A7PypJbdcJzCIFxKhEUmOK.html
01-01-2021||India||‘Not an astrologer’: Tomar on January 4 meeting, farmers to intensify protest if demands not met||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said while he hopes for a positive meeting with the leaders of the protesting farmers’ unions, he can’t say whether the seventh round of talks between the Centre and the farmers will be final. “I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers,” the minister told news agency PTI.After five failed attempts to break the ice between the Centre and farmers over the recently passed farm laws, the sixth meeting held on December 30 yielded some positive results as the Centre conceded to farmers’ demands regarding electricity and stubble burning. Farmers have demanded a legal guarantee of the minimum support price system, which the Centre has not agreed to. More discussion will take place on January 4 though there are slim chances that the situation will be solved as farmers are pursuing their demand of repealing the laws which the Centre is unlike to do. The farmers, meanwhile, have decided to intensify their agitation if their demands are not met on January 4. Saying that only five per cent of their demands have so far been discussed, farmer leaders on Friday said they will announce dates for shutting all malls and petrol pumps in Haryana. Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border will also move towards the national capital, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said. Another leader Yudhveer Singh said that a tractor march will be held on January 6 if no concrete decision is taken in the next round of talks.Meanwhile, more than 850 faculty members of various educational institutions, including Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University, JNU, have written an open letter in which they have supported the farm laws, PTI reported. “The Union government has repeatedly assured the farmers that these three bills on farm trade wouldn’t do away with Minimum Support Price (MSP), but rather free the farm trade from all illicit market restrictions, open the market beyond ‘mandis’ and further assists the small and marginal farmers to sell their produce at market/competitive prices,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-say-if-january-4-meeting-with-farmers-will-be-final-says-narendra-singh-tomar/story-6e2Qjp1hibjSL9hqLkLqkM.html
01-01-2021||India||India-UK flights to resume from January 8 in restricted manner, says civil aviation minister||Passenger flights between India and the United Kingdom will resume from January 8, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced on Friday, days after New Delhi stopped commercial flights to the UK after a spike in Covid cases attributed to a more infectious mutant virus.The initial round of suspension of flights from 23 December was valid till 31 December. On Friday, the minister announced on Twitter that a limited number of flights from four airports would resume.“Operations till 23 Jan will be restricted to 15 flights per week each for carriers of the two countries to & from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru & Hyderabad only,” the minister said.The minister further added that these flights will only operate from New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad only. He said, “It has been decided that flights between India & UK will resume from 8 Jan 2021. Operations till 23 Jan will be restricted to 15 flights per week each for carriers of the two countries to & from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru & Hyderabad only. @DGCAIndia will issue the details shortly.”Flights to and from the United Kingdom were suspended initially on December 21 over fears of a new mutated strain of the coronavirus which is believed to be more infectious was first discovered in the United Kingdom. The initial suspension of flights was till December 31 but on Wednesday the Directorate General of Civil Aviation modified its order to extend the ban till suspension on international flights till January 31. The DGCA also said that international flights to and from the United Kingdom will remain suspended till January 7.The flights were suspended based on recommendation by the union health ministry. The government has launched efforts to track down thousands of people who have entered India from UK in the past few weeks. A total of 29 people have been detected with the new UK variant of Covid-19. The new mutated variant is believed to have the potential to affect younger people which forced several nations across the world to suspend its flight operations. Norway also lifted its flight suspension order with the United Kingdom on Friday. The United Kingdom government on December 30 placed thousands of its citizens under strict lockdown like measures to stop the spread of the mutated variant of Covid-19. The government has strictly warned against travelling during the New Year’s and requested citizens to stay at home.Health secretary John Hancock said, “With our NHS under pressure we must all take personal responsibility this New Year’s Eve and stay at home. I know how much we have all sacrificed this year and we cannot let up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-flights-to-resume-from-january-8-in-restricted-manner-says-civil-aviation-minister/story-skcEz8TukXHoGVpF2fDWVK.html
01-01-2021||India||4 French air force jets to come for wargames with IAF’s Rafale jets from 19 Jan||Four Rafale fighters of the French Air Force will land in India this month to participate in joint exercises with the Indian Air Force’s Golden Arrows Squadron that was resurrected in September last with the induction of the Rafale fighter jets. The exercises have been scheduled between 19 and 25 January in the skies over the deserts of Rajasthan, people familiar with the matter said.The French air force’s Rafales will be accompanied by the Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport aircraft (MRTT) for aerial refuelling support. The four fighters will also participate in joint exercises with the Australian Air Force before reaching India.The wargames, named Exercise Skyros, will take place over the air force firing range in Rajasthan’s Pokhran that had seen Indian Air Force fighters participate in Exercise Vayu Shakti. The 2019 exercise was designed to let the pilots practise and showcase the IAF’s ability to strike targets including radars and enemy convoys on the ground.The joint exercises are expected to focus on interoperability, low flying over the desert and manoeuvrability of the omni role fighters. The exercises involving the Rafales - which would be India’s frontline fighter in case of conflict in East Ladakh or elsewhere - are being held weeks after Chinese and Pakistani air force carried out joint exercises near India’s western border.Also Read: Rafale’s deep-strike cruise missile gets an upgrade for targets in mountainsExercise Skyros will be the first joint exercise involving the Indian Air Force’s Rafale fighter jets and is cited as another example of the deepening military ties between the two countries, a senior Indian military officer said.The Indian Air Force has inducted 11 of the 36 Rafale jets ordered by New Delhi at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. Seven more fighters have been handed over to India by Dassault but these are being used for training IAF pilots in France. The third batch of three fighter jets is scheduled to land on January 27.A top Indian Air Force officer said there was a possibility that the three Rafale jets could, logistics permitting, fly together with the French Air Force’s four fighters and the Airbus A300 MRTT.India is also considering a French proposal to acquire six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tanker aircraft on a government-to-government basis for expanding the strike capability of the Indian Air Force (IAF). The mid-air refuelers can be turned into purely a tanker or transport or air ambulance or all three at the same time with a total crew of three. Else, it can transport 260 personnel in the cabin and fuel in the cargo hold.The refuelers are crucial to expand the operational envelope of the fighter jets of the air force and the navy by extending range, letting a Su-30 MKI or Rafale flying from Port Blair fly all the way up to Sunda, Lombard and Malacca Straits for freedom of navigation missions.A senior IAF official had earlier described the French proposal as a win-win for the Indian air force and France.The Indo-Pacific is home to 1.5 million French citizens on island territories that give it an exclusive economic zone of more than 11 million sq km, the second largest in the world.France has spoken out for India on several occasions in the context of the stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control. Back in June when 20 Indian soldiers laid down their lives to repel China People’s Liberation Army troopers in Galwan Valley, the French defence minister Parly had made it a point to write to defence minister Rajnath Singh to convey her country’s “steadfast and friendly” support in these “difficult circumstances”.France has traditionally been the most dependable and consistent supporter of India at the United Nations and elsewhere too. Like when India carried out the 1998 nuclear tests, France was the only country among the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council that did criticise or back sanctions against India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-19-jan-iaf-s-rafales-to-participate-in-1st-wargames-with-french-air-force/story-yZOYMvNjaANZ7DacxGssTP.html
01-01-2021||India||Army orders fast patrol boats for surveillance of Pangong lake in Ladakh||The Indian army has ordered new fast patrol boats for the surveillance of water bodies in the mountains, including Pangong Tso, in eastern Ladakh where it has been locked in a border row with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for eight months, officials said on Friday. The order - the first defence contract in the New Year - has been placed with a domestic shipyard as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign to boost self-reliance in the defence sector. The army will begin to accept deliveries of the boats this year. “#IndianArmy has inked a contract with M/s Goa Shipyard Limited for 12 Fast Patrol Boats for surveillance and patrolling of large water bodies, including those in #highaltitude areas. Delivery would commence from May 2021,” the Indian army tweeted on Friday. Also Read: India sends high-powered boats to match heavier Chinese vessels in Ladakh lakeBoth the Indian army and the Chinese PLA patrol the Pangong Lake using boats. Experts said the army needed the new boats to match the Chinese. “The Chinese have been using superior boats and there have been instances of the PLA operating the boats at high speeds, creating big waves and pushing the lighter Indian patrol boats onto their side (China controls two-thirds of the lake). The army needed more sophisticated and powerful boats, which have now been ordered,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). The Indian Navy had last year sent a dozen high-powered, bigger and top-of-the-line boats to Ladakh so that the Indian army could patrol Pangong Tso and match the heavier Type 928 B vessels of the Chinese Army lake fleet, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. Heights on both banks of the lake have been at the centre of the border row between the two countries. While India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the ongoing military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. The two armies have held eight rounds of military talks so far, with dates yet to be announced for the delayed ninth round of dialogue between corps commander-ranked officers. The Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-orders-fast-patrol-boats-for-surveillance-of-pangong-lake-in-ladakh/story-oGRBenE1RtBqTzqN3jiP8J.html
01-01-2021||India||In fresh face-off, Bengal govt stops Visva-Bharati from blocking road on campus||The Birbhum district administration in West Bengal on Friday stopped the Visva-Bharati authorities from blocking a road that passes through the state’s only Central university campus and serves as a shorter route for residents of the town. Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) have been at loggerheads over several issues since August last year. The acrimony touched a new low recently when the university accused Nobel laureate economist Amartra Sen of illegally occupying some of its land. While addressing a TMC rally at Bolpur on December 29, chief minister Mamata Banerjee sharpened her attack on Chakrabarty, calling him a “stooge of the BJP.” The district police on Friday stopped construction workers from building a wall on the road, marking the second such incident since August when the Visva-Bharati authorities’ bid to construct a wall around the annual fair ground was thwarted by public and political resistance. “The university should form a committee, comprising me or any district official, local residents as well as people who live on campus. All decisions should be taken though discussion. A road cannot be blocked this way as it is extremely difficult for elderly people to take a 5-km detour,” Birbhum district magistrate Dr Vijay Bharti told the media on Friday. He visited the campus as well. The district administration also took possession of the road and handed it to the state public works department. The district superintendent of police, Shyam Singh, said the authorities did not seek any permission from the local administration before deciding to block the road and did not contact the administration either after construction of the wall was stopped. HT contacted the Visva-Bharati authorities for their reaction but no statement was made by any official till 6 pm. There were reports that the authorities also locked up a room used by former students.Trouble broke out at Visva-Bharati for the first time in August last year when a large crowd, comprising local residents and shopkeepers and headed by some TMC leaders, demolished two gates on the campus and damaged construction material stocked by the authorities to build a wall around an open ground where an annual fair is held. The fair, popularly known as Poush Mela, held towards the end of December, draws thousands of people and even foreign tourists. Opposed to the wall, local people and traders, for whom the fair is a major source of income, staged demonstrations. In 2019, the vice-chancellor, also removed some temporary shops that continued to do business even after the fair was over. He deployed private security agencies to guard the campus. After the alleged vandalism in August, 2020, the university authorities closed the campus temporarily. The chief minister disapproved the wall and said, “I do not want any construction that destroys the beauty of Visva-Bharati. The governor called me to seek the state’s intervention. I told him that when Rabindranath Tagore built Visva-Bharati he wanted students to be in the heart of nature and study in the open while listening to birds. He did not want wood and cement structures.”Visva-Bharati was set up by Rabindranath Tagore in 1922. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the present chancellor, virtually addressed the centenary celebration on December 24 and Union home minister Amit Shah spent around two hours on the campus on December 20, the day he led a big roadshow of the BJP in Bolpur town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-fresh-face-off-bengal-govt-stops-visva-bharati-from-blocking-road-on-campus/story-0dfYLKvZvNHcdrLthulK0L.html
01-01-2021||India||Social distancing signs, badges for officers: States, UTs gear up for nationwide vaccine dry run on January 2||All state governments and union territories have prepared for the Covid-19 vaccine dry run on Saturday (January 2) which will be a trial before the actual vaccination drive begins in India. Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat have successfully conducted dry run in the first phase. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday held a meeting to review the preparedness.Vaccine dry run is an end-to-end exercise where all steps to be done during the actual vaccination drive will be tested to identify if there is any gap in the process or if any region of the country is experiencing any difficulty in the entire process.The sites where the dry run will take place tomorrow have already been identified as preparations went on full swing on Friday. Social distancing signs were put up, vaccination officers were given their badges at many dry run centres on Friday.The Co-WIN app which will be extensively used for the real-time monitoring of vaccination updates has already been tested in the first phase of dry run. The names of the mock beneficiaries — as there is no real vaccine involved in the dry run — taking part in the dry run are uploaded in the site, which is now being used by the officials involved in the process. They will also receive an SMS However, these beneficiaries who are being called for the dry run are health workers who will get vaccines when the drive begins.All logistical arrangements, internet connectivity, electricity, safety of the sites are also to be checked during the dry run.According to the health department, a model vaccine site must have separate entry and exit and at least three rooms so that beneficiaries can wait before and after vaccination. Arrangement for post-vaccination observations has also been recommended.Maharashtra will hold the dry run at Pune, Nagpur, Jalna and Nandurbar. Jharkhand will conduct the dry run in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Chatra, Palamu and Pakur. Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Mysuru and Shivamogga will undergo the dry run in Karnataka. Tamil Nadu will conduct the dry run in Chennai, Nilgiris, Tirunevlevi, Tiruvallur and Coimbatore. Similarly, all states have identified dry run sites. The Centre has asked the states and the union territories to test sites at difficult terrains as well.The nationwide dry run comes as the first vaccine candidate — Covishield developed by Oxford/Astrazeneca — inches towards getting approval in India. The government-appointed expert panel has recommended this vaccine for approval which will be granted by Drugs Controller General of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-signs-badges-for-officers-states-uts-gear-up-for-nationwide-vaccine-dry-run-on-january-2/story-eu9WiGTc9BHZJlAwH8f6mL.html
01-01-2021||India||Mukesh Sahani is the richest minister in Nitish Kumar government||Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahani is the richest minister in the Nitish Kumar government, according to details of assets declared by the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues uploaded on the state government’s website.Sahani, who holds animal husbandry and fishery portfolio, has net property of Rs 12.34 crore. However, he does not own any private vehicle for travel. A goods carrier of Tata Motors is registered under his name in Maharashtra.The declaration of assets is an annual practice for ministers and officials in the state since 2011.CM Kumar has property worth Rs 56.53 lakh to his name, while his son Nishant owns property worth Rs 3.62 crore. Officials said that Nishant is richer than his father, as he is owner of the ancestral property.As per the declarations, CM Kumar holds a residential flat in Delhi’s Dwarka, which is valued around Rs 40 lakh, besides movable property worth Rs 16.53 lakh. He also owns a Ford’s sports car costing Rs 11.32 lakh, apart from having a dozen cows and six calves. The CM has declared Rs 35,885 cash in hand.Sahani, who became a minister in his maiden attempt, owns two building premises in Mumbai, valued at Rs 7.47 crore and Rs 9.60 crore, each. He also has 114 gram of gold jewellery.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad owns property worth Rs 1.50 crore, which includes share of his wife. He owns five vehicles. Another deputy chief minister Renu Kumari claims to be the owner of movable property worth Rs 61.35 lakh. Interestingly, she has a pistol and a rifle as prized possession.Public health and engineering department minister Ramprit Paswan is the poorest among all 14 ministers. He owns movable and immovable property worth around Rs 95 lakh, which include immovable property worth Rs 88.50 lakh. His wife, however, owns more land than the minister.Transport minister Sheela Kumari is owner of property worth Rs 6.08 crore, including immovable assets of Rs 5.70 core. But she does not have any vehicle to travel. Health minister Mangal Pandey, who possesses property worth Rs 2.30 crore, declared to have given Rs 29 lakh as loan to his wife.Energy minister Vijendra Prasad Yadav and water resources minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary have property worth Rs 1.90 crore each to their names. Education minister Ashok Choudhary is owner of movable assets worth Rs 3.19 crore, a revolver and a luxury vehicle costing Rs 16 lakh. Agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh owns property worth Rs 1.68 crore.Social welfare minister Santosh Kumar Suman and revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar own property worth Rs 3.31 crore and Rs 11.38 crore respectively. Mines and geology minister Jivesh Kumar too has property worth Rs 3.56 crore in his name. His wife is richer than the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukesh-sahani-is-the-richest-minister-in-nitish-kumar-government/story-idIsJJGJ4MfdGMFNyPkH5H.html
01-01-2021||India||J-K Police bust fifth terror module in two weeks, this time in Reasi||With the arrest of a suspected terrorist in Reasi district, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday claimed to have busted yet another terror module. With this, a total of five different modules of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and its offshoot The Resistance Force (TRF) have been unearthed in the past two weeks. Inspector general of police, Mukesh Singh said, “On the basis of reliable information a person identified as Mohammad Yousaf, 20, son of Ghulam Haider of Deval in Mahore Tehsil of Reasi district was apprehended by a team of police station Mahore”. During sustained questioning he divulged that he had hidden some cache of arms and ammunition in a hideout at village lower Angrala of in Mahore, the officer said. “A joint search operation of Jammu Kashmir Police and army was launched in the area and five live grenades and a 9 mm pistol along with ammunition were recovered from the hideout,” said Singh. A case under sections 15, 16,18, 18B of UAPA, 7, 27, Arms Act, 120 B, 121 and 121 A of the IPC has been registered against the accused and further investigation into the case has been initiated, he added. Friday’s terror module was linked to the module smashed in Jammu on December 28 where police had seized two grenades from a suspected terrorist Mohammad Ashraf, who hailed from Reasi district but was staying in Jammu. On December 30 Police and Army had recovered two pistols, 70 pistol rounds and two grenades kept in bushes on the Line of Control (LoC) in Dabbi village of Balakote sector in Mendhar sub division of Poonch. A suspected terrorist Yaseen Khan had been arrested. Security officials had said that terror outfits have been trying to target Hindu temples in Jammu region to create communal disturbance. On December 27, at least two suspected terrorists were arrested in Mendhar area, who were planning to attack a Hindu temple in Ari area of Poonch district. They were identified as Mustafa Iqbal and Murtaza Iqbal, both sons of Mohammad Yaseen of Keri Galhuta in Gursai area of Poonch The police had said that during questioning Mustafa Iqbal had admitted that he had been tasked with throwing grenades at a Hindu temple in Ari of Mendhar. A video on how to use a grenade was also found in his phone. During searches of his house, six grenades and a few posters of J&K Ghaznavi Force were also recovered. On December 30, suspected terrorists had lobbed a grenade at a temple in Kathua district. However, the grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the roadside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-bust-fifth-terror-module-in-two-weeks-this-time-in-reasi/story-wB8P000mPOJCX3wUIfBGoI.html
01-01-2021||India||Serving employees to get disability compensation: All you need to know||In a significant New Year announcement, Union minister of state (independent charge) development of north eastern region (doner), MoS, PMO, personnel, public grievances, pensions, atomic energy and space, Jitendra Singh on Friday informed of the government’s decision to extend Disability Compensation for all serving employees, if they get disabled in the line of duty while performing their service and are retained in service in spite of such disablement.This order will particularly provide a huge relief to young Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel like CRPF, BSF, CISF, etc since disability in performance of duties is generally reported in their case due to constraints of job requirement as well as hostile or difficult work - environment. Expressing his satisfaction on today’s order, Singh said, the Modi government is making all efforts to simplify the rules and to do away with discriminatory clauses. The ultimate objective of all these new initiatives is to provide ease of living for the Government servants even after they have superannuated and become pensioners or family pensioners or elder citizens, he said. All you need to know about the disability compensation:1. This new order will remove an anomaly in service rules, considering the hardship faced by the employees, since as per the earlier OM dated 5/5/2009, the provisions of disability benefits under Central Civil Services(CCS) (EOP) Rules did not provide such compensation to those government servants who were appointed on or after 1.1.2004 and covered under National Pension System (NPS). However, with the new order issued by the Department of Pensions in the Ministry of Personnel, the employees covered under NPS will also get benefits under Rule (9) of Extra Ordinary Pension (EOP). 2. If a government servant becomes disabled while performing his duties and this disablement is attributed to government service, in that case if he is still retained in the service in spite of disablement, a lump sum compensation will be paid to him by arriving at the capitalized value of the disability element, with reference to the Commutation Table in force from time to time. 3. In another employee-friendly decision, the Ministry of Personnel recently did away with minimum qualifying service of 10 years for pension, if a government servant is incapacitated due to bodily or medical infirmity and retired from government service. Accordingly, Rule 38 of CCS (Pension) Rules was amended to provide Invalid Pension at 50% of the last pay, even if the employee had not completed minimum qualifying service of 10 years. 4. In addition to above, in yet another reform in the Pension Rules, a decision was also taken to amend the rule and provide pension at enhanced rate to the family of an employee who died during service before completing the requisite service of minimum 7 years. As a result, now the family pension of 50 per cent of the last pay is also admissible to the family of employees who die even before completing 7 years of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serving-employees-to-get-disability-compensation-all-you-need-to-know/story-KJpxHJ0gZoGTUOnekXkxaP.html
01-01-2021||India||New science policy draft focuses on self-reliance, enhanced funding in S&T||A push for self-reliance in technology, enhanced funding for science, technology and innovation with an earmarked budget by states, gender and social audits in academic and professional organisations are some of the major takeaways of the draft STIP 2020 that aims to position India among the top three scientific superpowers in the decade to come. The draft Science, Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP) has been uploaded by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) on its website. The DST has also invited suggestions, inputs and comments for making changes by January 25.The policy states that its aim is “to achieve technological self-reliance and position India among the top three scientific superpowers in the decade to come; to double the number of Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) researchers, Gross Domestic Expenditure on R&D (GERD) and private sector contribution to the GERD every 5 years; build individual and institutional excellence in STI with the aspiration to achieve the highest level of global recognitions and awards in the coming decade”.The policy also envisages the formation of an STI Development Bank for direct investments on various long and medium-term projects in select strategic areas, commercial ventures, start-ups, technology diffusion and licensing.It also aims to create an accountable research ecosystem, promoting translational as well as foundational research in the country in alignment with global standards.The lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer (LGBTQ+) community will be included in gender equity conversations with special provisions to safeguard its members’ rights and promote their representation and retention in STI, the draft policy states.The STIP will lead to the establishment of a National STI Observatory that will act as a central repository for all kinds of data related to and generated from the STI ecosystem. It will encompass an open centralised database platform for all financial schemes, programmes, grants and incentives existing in the ecosystem.The draft policy says an all-encompassing Open Science Framework will be built to provide access to scientific data, information, knowledge and resources to everyone in the country and all who are engaging with the Indian STI ecosystem on an equal partnership basis.A dedicated portal to provide access to the outputs of such publicly-funded research will be created through the Indian Science and Technology Archive of Research (INDSTA).The policy also proposes to create pathways for the government to negotiate with journal publishers for a “one nation, one subscription” policy, whereby, in return for a centrally-negotiated payment, all individuals in the country will have access to journal articles.It also talks about strategies to improve STI education, making it inclusive at all levels and more connected with the economy and that the society will be developed through processes of skill building, training and infrastructure development. It also proposes to establish education research centres (ERCs) and collaborative research centres (CRCs) to provide research inputs to policymakers and bring together stakeholders.With an aim to expand the financial landscape of the STI ecosystem, each department or ministry in the central, state and local governments, public sector enterprises, private sector companies and startups will set up an STI unit each with a minimum earmarked budget to pursue STI activities.“Each state will earmark a percentage of the state allocation for STI-related activities under a separate budget head. Foreign Multi National Companies (MNCs) will collaborate with domestic private and public sector entities on projects aligned to national needs and priorities,” the draft states.It also proposes that hybrid funding models with enhanced participation from public and private sectors will be created through the Advanced Missions in Innovative Research Ecosystem (ADMIRE) initiative.Research and Innovation Excellence Frameworks (RIEF) will be developed to enhance the quality of research along with the promotion of engagements with the relevant stakeholders. Proper guidelines will be formulated to enhance the operating and safety protocols related to research and development. The research culture will be reoriented to recognise social impacts along with academic achievements.The DST, along with the Office of Principal Scientific Adviser, started the process of formulating the STIP 2020 last year. The policy was to be out by the year-end, but has been slightly delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-science-policy-draft-focuses-on-self-reliance-enhanced-funding-in-s-t/story-6nqKGkvchWgAw0CVswXelN.html
01-01-2021||India||Elephant falls into 50-foot deep well in Kerala, rescue efforts underway||Hectic efforts are on to save a wild elephant that fell into a 50-foot deep well in Anakampoil in north Kerala’s Kozhikode district. Forest officials said it might have fallen into the unused well a couple of days back. The pachyderm was noticed by local people on Thursday evening. A rescue team comprising forest, revenue and police officials have started breaking the well by constructing a pathway to get the jumbo out of the well. The well is located in a private land and visuals from the spot show the animal standing inside the well in a cramped manner with its legs covered deep in the slush. A senior forest official camping in the area said the elephant must have been injured under the impact of the fall and its health condition can be ascertained once it is out of the well. Local people said elephants used to frequent the area quite often posing a big threat to human habitat and fencing of the area was just started after repeated protests. “It seems to be tired. We hope we can rescue it by tonight. If it is injured it will be shifted to a camp after tranquilising it,” said the forest official. The official said large vegetation animals need big tracts of land to roam around and feed and farms in fringe areas draw them to it, leading to man-animal conflicts. According to statistics with the forest department, 24 people have died in elephant attacks last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-falls-into-50-feet-deep-well-in-kerala-rescue-efforts-underway/story-OX2cw83hobk0UdAQIo6irJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Govt’s expert panel approves AstraZeneca/Oxford Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||India’s drug regulator on Friday approved a coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University for emergency use, two sources with knowledge of the matter told Reuters.The approval paves the way for its rollout in the world’s second worst affected country.A representative of India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO), whose experts are meeting for the second time this week and also considering two other vaccines, declined to comment.Britain and Argentina have already authorised the vaccine for urgent public use.India wants to start administering the shots soon.It is also considering emergency-use authorisation applications for vaccines made by Pfizer Inc with Germany’s BioNTech, and by India’s Bharat Biotech.At more than 10 million, India has reported the second highest number of coronavirus cases after the United States, though its rate of infection has come down significantly from a mid-September peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-drug-regulator-approves-astrazeneca-oxford-vaccine-sources/story-qtnJQQTBI5vR6QGrXdoBzN.html
01-01-2021||India||India weighs various options to evacuate sailors stranded in Chinese waters||India said on Friday it is looking at several options to assist 39 Indian sailors stranded on two merchant vessels in Chinese waters for months, including a crew change at sea or at a Chinese port, so that the men could be brought home. The Indian sailors are on MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia which are carrying Australian coal but have not been allowed to discharge their cargo. The situation is believed to be the outcome of the China-Australia trade row. The matter has been taken up with the Chinese foreign ministry and local provincial authorities, who have been requested to allow the ships to dock or for their crews to be allowed to be changed, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. MV Jag Anand, a bulk cargo vessel with 23 Indian crew members, has been on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13, while MV Anastasia is on anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20 with 16 Indians on board. The MV Anastasia is exploring the possibility of a crew change at sea at its current point of anchorage, and the Indian embassy in Beijing wrote to Chinese authorities on Thursday, proposing this alternative and seeking approval for it, Srivastava said. The Chinese foreign ministry also said in late November that a crew change wouldn’t be feasible at Jingtang port and that local authorities would examine requests from shipping companies for crew rotation at Tianjin port. Following this, shipping companies were asked to expeditiously file crew change applications, he said. “While the shipping companies are examining the logistics of sailing the ships away from their current points of anchorage, our embassy is liaising with relevant authorities in Tianjin for berthing approvals to facilitate the crew change,” Srivastava said. “We have also requested the shipping companies to ensure that they file in their plans for crew change at the earliest for approvals by the local Chinese authorities,” he added. Indian officials have been following up the issue of the Indian sailors for the past few months. Indian ambassador Vikram Misri has personally taken up the issue with China’s vice foreign minister, and the external affairs ministry has also followed up with the Chinese embassy in New Delhi. Srivastava reiterated that there is “growing stress on the crew members on account of the long delay”. He said, “Given this and our concern for the increasingly difficult conditions for our crew members, these two cases are being pursued vigorously.” He said several other ships from different countries were also awaiting their turn to unload their cargo at Chinese ports. “Our embassy in Beijing continues to remain in close and continuous touch with Chinese authorities in Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin. The ministry is also following up through the Chinese embassy in New Delhi for an early resolution,” he said. “We have noted the statements of the Chinese side, expressing their willingness to extend their assistance in this matter. We expect this assistance will be provided in an urgent, practical and time-bound manner, given the grave humanitarian situation that is developing on board the ships,” Srivastava added. The Chinese embassy had recently blamed commercial companies responsible for handling the cargo on the two merchant vessels for the predicament of the Indian sailors, and said it was providing assistance to the crew members. The Chinese side has also said crew change is not permitted at Jintang and Caofeidian ports because of Covid-19-related restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-weighs-various-options-to-evacuate-sailors-stranded-in-chinese-waters/story-YpaxCXwXC91PIMXyGi3RrL.html
01-01-2021||India||YSR Congress MLC Challa Ramakrishna Reddy dies of Covid-19||Senior YSR Congress Party member of Andhra Pradesh legislative council Challa Ramakrishna Reddy died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Friday, his family members said. He was 72He is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters.Reddy had been admitted to the hospital on December 13 and had been on ventilator for the last three weeks. He tested positive for Covid-19 during the winter session of the state legislative council held in the first week of December.“Over the past week, his condition deteriorated further and he breathed his last this morning,” his family members said, adding that the last rites would be performed at his native place Uppalapadu village of Owk block in Kurnool district.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed his deep grief and sorrow over the demise of Ramakrishna Reddy. Recalling his active role in Kurnool politics, the chief minister conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members.Reddy began his political career in Congress party. He won the assembly elections for the first time in 1983 from Panyam constituency in Kurnool. Though he lost the assembly elections in 1989 and Lok Sabha elections in 1991, he bounced back with two back-to-back wins in 1999 and 2004 from Koilkuntla constituency.In 2009, he contested from Banaganapalle constituency and lost to Praja Rajyam Party candidate. In 2014, he joined the TDP but lost the election again. He was later appointed as the State Civil Supplies Corporation Chairman. Before the 2019 assembly elections, he joined the YSRCP.Reddy, who has been elected as an MLC only recently, is the second YSRCP leader to succumb to Covid-19. In September, parliamentarian from Tirupati Balli Durga Prasad Rao also died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-mlc-challa-ramakrishna-reddy-dies-of-covid-19/story-IwgE9WjfM0uop5X54ZVQMP.html
01-01-2021||India||‘If my shift paves way...’: What IPS D Roopa says on her transfer||IPS officer D Roopa, who was the first woman home secretary of Karnataka and who is also famous for her tweets, on Thursday was transferred as the managing director of Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation. On Friday, she took the new charge. The transfer comes amid her public spat with another IPS officer Hemant Nimbalkar who has also been transferred. Nimbalkar was the additional commissioner (administration) in Bengaluru before being transferred to the internal security department.The two IPS officer locked horns after D Roopa accused Nimbaklar of irregularities in the tender process of Rs 619 crore Bengaluru safe City project under the Nirbhaya scheme. Nimbaklar, on the other hand, accused D Roopa of interfering with the tender process without jurisdiction.After the transfer, D Roopa on Thursday took to Twitter and said that the transfer will put her on an equal footing with Nimbalkar, but the post doesn’t matter to her. “I have been transferred more than double the times than the number of years of my career. Whistleblowing and firm action is rift with risks and I know that. I continue to do my job uncompromisingly, this post of that post, doesn’t matter (sic),” she tweeted. Yes. I've always held tht. Transfers r part of govt job. I've been transferred more than double the times than number of years of my career. Whistleblowing&firm action is rift with risks& I know that. I continue to do my job uncompromisingly,this post or that post,doesn't matter https://t.co/5mr7xyxKg4 I am joining the new post tomorrow as posts don't matter to me. But what matters is, public interest must be upheld and the corrupt must be punished. If my shift paves the way for action on the corrupt, I welcome it. Transferred today as MD, Handicrafts Emporium. My transfer is like putting me on an equal footing with other IPS officer Nimbalkar chargesheeted by CBI & CBI has recommended for Disciplinary action of Major Penalty against him in last December, one year ago, which is not yet done“What matters is public interest must be upheld and the corrupt must be punished. If my shift paves the way for action on the corrupt, I welcome it,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-my-shift-paves-way-what-ips-d-roopa-says-on-her-transfer/story-yE7g5ceynGS23V8xFqXLTN.html
01-01-2021||India||Patna Meteorological Observatory gets centennial observing station status||The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), Geneva has awarded the status of to the Patna meteorological observatory in recognition to its long-term meteorological observation exceeding over 100 years.The recognition has come as a result of extensive consultation and close collaboration between WMO climate, network and instrument experts representing WMO technical commissions, the Global Climate Observing System.Patna meteorological centre’s director Vivek Sinha said that WMO took the decision to confer the status of ‘centennial observing station’ to the meteorological observatory in its 72nd executive council meeting held in September 2020.“With this recognition, Patna has joined a niche club of cities having a long-term record of scientific observation in the field of meteorology, climatology and applied science. These observatories are unique sources of information about atmospheric parameters,” Sinha said.Established in 1867, Patna meteorological observatory is among the earliest observatories set up by the then British Corps of Engineers.As per MeT officials, initially observations were taken twice a day at 9.30 am and 3.30 pm local time and subsequently the frequency was increased to four and then eight observations at three hourly intervals. The responsibility of observation and management of all meteorological offices was transferred to India Meteorological Department (IMD) after it was formally established in 1875.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-meteorological-observatory-gets-centennial-observing-station-status/story-6iGb5nT9S5HZgdMvY93TwI.html
01-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai court says Ranaut violated sanctioned plan at her Khar residence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kangana Ranaut violated sanctioned plan at her Khar residence: Mumbai courtThe court also perused the floor plan annexed to copies of sale deeds and noted that at the time of purchase, the violations alleged by BMC did not exist. Read more here. PM Modi to lay foundation of IIM- Sambalpur on Jan 2Director of IIM Sambalpur, Prof Mahadeo Jaiswal said the work on the campus will be completed on April 2022 and will be a fully equipped state-of-art structure with energy efficient green features as per the GRIHA’ standards. Read more here. Malaika Arora’s power suit to Sonam Kapoor’s quirky top: Who wore what to ring in New Year 2021Celebrities sure had low-key New Year celebrations this year, but they did it in style. From Malaika Arora slaying in a power suit to Shilpa Shetty’s 8-year-old son clicking stunning pictures of her in an all-white outfit, check out some of the most glamorous looks. Read more here. India vs Australia: T Natarajan replaces injured Umesh Yadav in India squad for remaining two Australia TestsLeft-arm fast bowler T Natarajan has been added to India’s Test squad for the remaining two matches against Australia, the BCCI confirmed. Read more here. Arjun Rampal hints at drugs probe in new post, says many friends ‘disappeared’: ‘I have never been on the wrong side of the law’Arjun Rampal reflected on the year gone by in a new tweet and shared the lessons he learnt. He seemed to talk about being summoned for questioning by the Narcotics Control Bureau as he reiterated that he has ‘never been on the wrong side of the law’. Read more here. Officials treat and release greater adjutant, clap as the ‘incredibly tall’ bird flies awayThe video starts to show a few officials standing around a cage trying to coax out its inhabitant. Read more here. WATCH: ‘We have our freedom in our hands’: Boris Johnson as UK formally leaves EU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-court-says-ranaut-violated-sanctioned-plan-at-her-khar-residence-and-all-the-latest-news/story-urJzaPH0uLAjiEP3fLPOhJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Severe cold wave continues in Kashmir on New Year’s Day; Gulmarg freezes at -9 deg C||Severe cold wave conditions continued unabated in Kashmir where the minimum temperature settled below zero, marking a frozen welcome to the New Year.The sub-zero temperature across the Valley resulted in the freezing of water supply lines and water bodies in several areas, officials said.The weather remained dry across Kashmir but the valley continued to experience sub-zero nights as the minimum temperature settled several degrees below the freezing point, they said.The officials said the dry weather brought disappointment to hundreds of tourists at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg who had hopes of welcoming the New Year amid snowfall.However, huge icicles formed at various places in the resort, against white-cloaked meadows, presenting a beautiful sight to the visitors who had rushed there in hordes to celebrate the arrival of the New Year, they said.The resort experienced freezing weather as the mercury there settled at the low of minus 9.0 degrees Celsius Thursday night and was the coldest recorded place in Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said.The cold weather across the valley resulted in freezing of water supply lines and water bodies in several areas, they said.Srinagar city -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of minus 6.4 degrees Celsius -- down from the previous night’s minus 5.9 degrees Celsius.Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 7.8 degrees Celsius.Qazigund -- the gateway town to the valley -- recorded the minimum of minus 5.7 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in north Kashmir, registered a low of minus 5.6 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 7.8 degrees Celsius, the officials said.The MeT office has said while the weather is likely to remain dry over the next two days, there is a possibility of a spell of rain or snow at isolated to widespread places over a few days from Monday.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-cold-wave-continues-in-kashmir-on-new-year-s-day-gulmarg-freezes-at-9-deg-c/story-cqtPuyK4Zrh0YgffAIiLdJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan museum complex to reopen from January 5||The Rashtrapati Bhavan on Friday said that the Rashtrapati Bhavan museum complex, which was closed for public viewing due to Covid-19 since March 13, 2020, will re-open from January 5, 2021. It will be open on all days, except on Monday and government holidays.“As a precautionary measure against the spread of Covid-19 Novel Coronavirus, the Rashtrapati Bhavan will remain closed for exploratory tour visits from tomorrow, March 13, till further notice,” President Ram Nath Kovind’s Twitter account had notified in March last year.The announcement had come a week after the entry to famous Mughal Gardens on the president’s estate was closed off for the public in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The Mughal Gardens, which is open to the public for 15 days during the spring season, often attracts a huge crowd on a daily basis.India has reported less than 300 deaths related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) every day since the last one week, the government said on Friday, as 256 fatalities were logged from across the country in 24 hours. The deaths between Thursday and Friday morning has taken the second-worst affected country’s toll rose to 148,994, the health ministry added on the first day of the New Year.The daily Covid-19 infections also remained below 30,000 for the 19th consecutive day as the tally rose to 10,286,709 with 20,035 cases in the last 24 hours. The daily new cases in India in recent days have been around 20,000. The ministry said that 23,181 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, adding that “recoveries outnumbering daily new cases from the last 35 days have ensured a consistent decline in active cases.”The total recoveries are at 9,883,461 and the gap between recovered and active cases, that is steadily increasing, has crossed 9.6 million and presently stands at 9,629,207 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.08 per cent. The ministry said that 77.61% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. “Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,376 newly recovered cases. 3,612 people recovered in Maharashtra followed by 1,537 in West Bengal,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtrapati-bhavan-museum-complex-to-reopen-from-january-5/story-OpMT77zqcpDPUNP7dle4xH.html
01-01-2021||India||SC panel recommends Rs 10 lakh per vehicle fine to curb illegal bajri mining in Rajasthan||The central empowered committee (CEC) constituted by the Supreme Court has recommended imposing a fine of Rs 10 lakh per vehicle and Rs 5 lakh per cubic meter of sand seized as penalty against illegal Bajri mining in Rajasthan. In February, the SC had constituted the committee to look into illegal sand mining in the state and submit a report suggesting measures to deal with it. After visiting relevant places and understanding the details of the illegal trade, the committee recently submitted the report, which comprises 111point recommendations. The CEC suggests that the ministry of environment and forest issues environment clearance to all the valid LoI (letter of intent) holders recommended by the expert appraisal committee (EAC) in its meeting, held during 2014-2016, without insisting on submission of scientific study report as a precondition for the grant of EC within a period of three months, said a senior official of the mines department. In absence of replenishment study and environment clearance, the Supreme Court in November 2017 had banned bajri mining and directed the state government to ensure that illegal mining does not take place. Official data tabled in the Assembly states that between April 1, 2018 and July 31, 2020, a total of 3,076 FIRs and 33,317 complaints have been registered for violations of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. Also, in this period, the state government compounded Rs 216.19 crore as fine from the violators. Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Barricades broken, police fire tear gas in RajasthanOther recommendation of the CEC recommends that all the Khatedari leases located within 5 kms from the river bank as well as leases, where violation of the lease conditions including misuse of e-ravannas are detected, are terminated forthwith and the state government shall not issue fresh Khatedari leases except for Palaeo deposits in district of Bikaner without the approval of this court, said a senior official on anonymity.The state government will constitute an empowered committee headed by the chief secretary to consider and settle claims of excess payments collected from the LoI holders. The state government is directed to conduct a drone survey in respect of all the remaining Khatedari leases within the next four months to assess the irregularities if any committed by them, he said. Recently, even chief minister Ashok Gehlot had stated that the issue of illegal bajri mining remained a concern for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-panel-recommends-rs-10-lakh-per-vehicle-fine-to-curb-illegal-bajri-mining-in-rajasthan/story-GrzF9aGnHKt02ye3tkPP5I.html
01-01-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation of IIM- Sambalpur on Jan 2||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the permanent campus of IIM Sambalpur in Odisha virtually on January 2, officials said on Thursday.Director of IIM Sambalpur, Prof Mahadeo Jaiswal said the work on the campus will be completed on April 2022 and will be a fully equipped state-of-art structure with energy efficient green features as per the GRIHA’ standards.The new and permanent campus of the institute will have green features with maximum use of renewable energy. The heritage and art of Odisha will also reflect in the building design, Jaiswal added.GRIHA is a rating tool that helps people assess the performance of their building against certain nationally acceptable benchmarks.Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, union petroleum and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan and other dignitaries will be present at the programme, he said.The ceremony will be virtually attended by over 5,000 invitees including dignitaries from the Centre, Odisha government, industry leaders, PSU executives, directors of IIMs, IITs and IISERs, he said.The state government has provided 200 acres for the construction of the proposed campus, while the union ministry of education has extended continued administrative support and financial grant of Rs 401.97 crore for the realisation of the project, Jaiswal added.IIM Sambalpur is the first IIM to implement the flipped classroom, a learning environment where the basic concepts are learnt in digital mode and in the class the experiential learning happens through live projects from the industry. As a part of realising the vision of National Education Policy, inclusiveness has been adapted by IIM Sambalpur as its core vision, the director said.The inclusiveness is both in terms of gender inclusivity and outreach to weavers and farmers, he said. The institute has outscored all other IIMs in terms of highest gender diversity in the MBA 2019-21 batch with 49 per cent women students and 43 per cent women in MBA 2020-22 batch, he added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-iim-sambalpur-on-jan-2/story-GxuLaW0Bkv7p7PwSdfGbdN.html
01-01-2021||India||PM Modi lays foundation of Light House Project||The Centre’s policies over the last six years have restored the faith among people that they can own a home and rely on the laws to support them if builders fail to deliver their houses on time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday while laying the foundation stone of Light House Project.The project involves the construction of around 1,000 houses each with allied infrastructure facilities within a year using new-age alternate global technologies, materials, and processes in Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Agartala (Tripura) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).Also Read: UP govt to transfer Rs 12K each to labourers selected for religious travelModi likened the project to an incubation centre. He said the government is committed to delivering on its promise of housing for all by 2022, affordable housing for the poor, and rented accommodation for migrant workers. Modi added the project will strengthen cooperative federalism.“People were losing hope of owning a house even after putting in everything that they had saved. Houses remained on paper… People had also lost faith whether the law of the land will help them if they got into a dispute with the builder,” he said.Modi said the government has addressed these concerns and made it easy for a middle-class, hard-working family to own a house. He was referring to the Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) introduced in 2016 to protect the interest of homebuyers and ensure builders do not default on delivery of houses.“RERA has helped the people believe in realty projects again and that the projects will be completed. Today, 60,000 real-estate projects are registered under RERA. Thousands of cases have also been solved.”Modi appreciated the efforts of the states in providing housing for the poor and lashed out at the previous governments for not prioritising the sector. “Housing plans were not the priority of the central government in the past. They did not care about the details of the quality of construction. There was a chalta hai [it is okay], chalne do [let it be] approach… Why should not the country get new technology? The houses we build should be sturdy.”Modi referred to the dislocation and discrimination migrant workers faced during the Covid-19 lockdown and the poor living facilities they are forced to live in. He said the people who toil hard for the country’s development need to live with dignity. “…This is our responsibility. It is the intention of the government that, along with our businesses and investors, we will focus on creating affordable rental housing.”Modi also announced the winners of the Affordable Sustainable Housing Accelerators with Uttar Pradesh topping the lost followed by Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-of-light-house-project/story-qBOnp5ovYvJmvHhvVlya0K.html
01-01-2021||India||Disturbed Area’ status extended for one year in Manipur||The Manipur government has extended the ‘Disturbed Area’ status to all parts of the state, except in Imphal Municipal area, for one more year with effect from December 1, 2020.Special secretary of home department, government of Manipur issued a notification in this regard and it was officially made available to the media through the directorate of information and public relations on Tuesday evening.“In exercise of the power conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1985 (Act No.28 of 1958) as amended time to time, the governor of Manipur hereby accords ex-post facto approval to declare the entire state of Manipur excluding Imphal Municipal areas as ‘Disturbed Area’ for a period of 1(one) year with retrospective effect from December 1, 2020”, the notification said.The extension, the notice says, was done after the governor opined that due to the violent activities of various extremist/insurgent groups, the entire state of Manipur is in such a disturbed condition that the use of armed forces in aid of civil power is necessary.Also Read: Dzukou valley wildfire spreads to Manipur, Amit Shah assures all helpThe promulgation of “Disturbed Area” status allows the enforcement of the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, which gives immunity to the armed forces. The Act is in force in the state since 1980 and has been extended from time to time.In August 2004, AFSPA was lifted from seven assembly segments of Imphal municipal areas following massive public protests. These seven assembly constituencies are, Keishamthong, Sagolband, Singjamei, Thangmeiband, Yaiskul, Uripok and Wangkhei.Many social organisations have been demanding the repeal of AFSPA claiming it to be affecting the human rights in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disturbed-area-status-extended-for-one-year-in-manipur/story-K1z5QQFPU6s2Xn8q1pyzoM.html
01-01-2021||India||PM Modi shares poem titled ‘The Sun Has Just Risen’ on New Year’s Day||Prime minister Narendra Modi shared a poem on New Year’s Day to motivate citizens for the year that lies ahead. The citizen engagement platform MyGovIndia shared a 97-second-long video where the prime minister Modi is heard reciting the poem.“Let’s start our first day of the new year with a mesmerizing and motivating poem ‘Abhi toh Suraj Uga hai’, written by our beloved PM @narendramodi,” the MyGovIndia tweeted on Friday.Let's start our first day of the new year with a mesmerizing and motivating poem 'Abhi toh Suraj Uga hai', written by our beloved PM @narendramodi. @PIB_India @MIB_India @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/9ajaqAX76wThe video of the poem titled ‘The Sun Has Just Risen’ features snippets of India’s space programme, Indian Air Force’s jets and Indian Navy’s warships, frontline workers, defence personnel and farmers.PM Modi greeted citizens on the occasion of the new year on Friday and laid the foundation stone of Light House Projects (LHP). The project is aimed at building disaster-resilient houses across Indian cities.Wishing you a happy 2021! May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail.Modi tweeted, “Wishing you a happy 2021! May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-shares-poem-titled-the-sun-has-just-risen-on-new-year-s-day/story-AmAW0zhkFr7n3BqdqRkcIJ.html
01-01-2021||India||4 more test positive of Covid-19 UK strain in India, tally reaches 29||A total of 29 people in the country have now tested positive for the new UK variant of Covid-19, with four added to the list on Friday, the Union health ministry has said. Among them, 20 people were found positive on Tuesday and Wednesday. Five were tested positive on Thursday and four on Friday.Among these 29 cases, eight have been detected in NCDC, New Delhi, two in IGIB New Delhi, five in NIV Pune, three in CCMB Hyderabad, 10 in NIMHANS Bengaluru and one in NIBMG Kalyani, the ministry said.The new strain, first detected in the UK in December, has spread fresh concerns across the world with most of the countries shutting their airspace to countries where the new strain has been found. India too has stopped flights from the UK till January 7. The new strain, which is believed to be more contagious and is potent to infect young people with no other health complications, forced several states to reimpose fresh restrictions. All UK_returned passengers have been tested and their samples are being genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs under INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia) launched by the government in the wake of the new strain. People tested positive with the mutated strain are being kept in isolation in health facilities. Contact tracing is being done for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Apart from India, countries which have reported the new variant include Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-more-test-positive-of-covid-19-uk-strain-tally-reaches-29/story-Q54tLzYcFwI16nHQTrVdKM.html
01-01-2021||India||Goa’s decision to not impose night curfew keeps New Year party going||Thousands of tourists crowded the beaches of Goa to ring in the New Year on Friday, flouting social distancing norms, in stark contrast to the rest of the country where states governments had imposed night curfews to curb gatherings and celebrations following the Centre’s caution over the coronavirus pandemic.The beaches became choked with crowds as many night clubs also organised parties for New Year’s eve. A few hours before celebrations were set to begin Goa’s health minister Vishwajit Rane had said that a night curfew was likely to be imposed in the coastal state, popular with partygoers, and that he had spoken to chief minister Pramod Sawant about the issue. “Spoke to the Hon’ble CM Dr.Pramod Sawant on imposing night curfew in the state on lines of the state of Delhi & Karnataka. The file is already in process. Strict SOPs is the need of the hour as Goa is a tourist state.” Rane said on Twitter.However, the chief minister later told news agency PTI that no decision on night curfew had been taken by the state. The chief minister’s decision to not implement a night curfew in the tourist state of Goa came on the heels of a letter to the state by the Union health ministry to lay down necessary standard operating procedure (SOP) keeping the state’s Covid-19 situation in mind. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had called for a strict vigil in Goa to curb all potential ‘super spreader’ events and places where crowds may gather to celebrate the New Year, PTI cited an official as saying.The ministry also referred to its earlier communication, saying states and Union territories may impose restrictions, such as night curfew, based on their assessment of the Covid-19 situation. “However, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. In view of the matter, you may promptly assess the local situation and consider imposition of appropriate restrictions on 30th, 31st December and 1st January, 2021,” the letter said.It was a warning Rane had previously acknowledged on Twitter. “Received a letter from MoHFW INDIA to ensure SOPs & protocols are laid down by each state based on the situation in the respective states.Goa being a tourism state, it is imperative to have strict SOPs in place, to sustain tourism activities in keeping with Covid-19 guidelines,” Rane had tweeted on Thursday. Even though the chief minister had asked people to follow SOPs, visuals from party hotspots showed people flouting social distancing norms. Goa on December 27 saw its highest footfall of passengers when 11,000 passengers arrived on 72 flights, its highest traffic since lockdown. Goa has 51,066 cases of the coronavirus disease in the state, out of which 939 are active. Around 37 tourists, who travelled to Goa from the United Kingdom and tested positive for the coronavirus disease, and their contacts have been quarantined at ESI Hospital in Margao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-decision-to-not-impose-night-curfew-keeps-new-year-party-going/story-Mv2YW2gPPUg7DP4er02l9L.html
01-01-2021||India||Rs 2.5 crore Delhi cryptocurrency scam: Dubai-based kingpin arrested from airport||Umesh Verma, a 60-year-old man, has been arrested from the Indira Gandhi International Airport on Thursday as he arrived from Dubai on charges of duping at least 45 people to the tune of Rs 2.5 crore in a cryptocurrency scam. Here is all you need to know about the scam> In 2017, Umesh Vera and his son Bharat Verma set up Pluto Exchange which apparently launched India’s first mobile application for transacting in virtual currencies. At that time, they also held a press conference launching their scheme where people can buy, sell, store and spend bitcoins just via a mobile number.> They promised a return of 20-30% each month, according to one of the 45 investors.> They also promised added commission if an investor brings in more people. > When the company could not meet its promises, it said to its investors that bitcoin price plummeted and several of the company’s bank accounts were seized.> Then, Pluto Exchange shifted its offices to Dubai and launched similar operations in Dubai.> Umesh Verma originally had a jewellery business. He was earlier arrested in a gold smuggling case as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-based-kingpin-of-rs-2-5-crore-delhi-cryptocurrency-scam-arrested-from-delhi-airport/story-iiqm14ER9XfZmAg8XmgUKI.html
01-01-2021||India||Covid-19 active caseload drops to 2.54 lakh, lowest after 179 days says health ministry||India’s Covid-19 active caseload continues to exhibit a sustained downward slide and has  significantly dropped to 2.54 lakh, the lowest after 179 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.The total active cases were 2,53,287 on July 6. India’s present active caseload consists of just 2.47 per cent of India’s total cases.The daily new cases in India in the recent days have been around 20,000. The new cases in a span of 24 hours were 20,035 whereas 23,181 recoveries were registered during the same period.  “Recoveries outnumbering daily new cases from last 35 days have ensured a consistent decline in active cases,” the ministry said.The total recovered cases are nearing 99 lakh (98,83,461).  “The gap between recoveries and active cases, that is steadily increasing, has crossed 96 lakh and presently stands at 96,29,207,” the ministry highlighted.The difference in the new recoveries outnumbering new cases has also improved the recovery rate to 96.08 per cent as on date.The ministry said that 77.61 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs.Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,376 newly recovered cases. A total of 3,612 people have recovered in Maharashtra followed by 1,537 in West Bengal.Of the new cases, 80.19 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs.Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 5,215. It is followed by Maharashtra with 3,509 new cases.A total of 256 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours.Ten states and UTs account for 80.47 per cent of new deaths.Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (58). Kerala and West Bengal follow with 30 and 29 daily deaths, respectively.Daily deaths have been less than 300 since the last 7 days. This has ensured that the mortality remains low and presently stands at 1.45 per cent, the ministry stated.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi account for 63 per cent of total deaths in the country, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-active-caseload-drops-to-2-54-lakh-lowest-after-179-days-says-health-ministry/story-oGU5USw1x8bzrQxBOmitkN.html
01-01-2021||India||India, Pakistan exchange list of nuclear installations||Pakistan and India on Friday conducted the annual practice of exchanging the list of their nuclear installations under a bilateral arrangement that prohibits them from attacking each other’s atomic facilities.The exchange was made in accordance with Article-II of the Agreement on Prohibition of Attacks against Nuclear Installations and Facilities between Pakistan and India, signed on December 31, 1988, the Foreign Office (FO) said in a statement here.It said that “the list of nuclear installations and facilities in Pakistan was officially handed over to a representative of the Indian High Commission at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today, at 1100 hrs (PST).” “The Indian Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi handed over the list of Indian Nuclear installations and facilities to a representative of the Pakistan High Commission at 1130 hrs (IST),” it added.The agreement contains the provision that both countries inform each other of their nuclear installations and facilities on January 1 every year.This has been done consecutively since January 1, 1992, according to the FO.The exchange of information comes despite the ongoing tensions between India and Pakistan.The relationship dipped after India’s war planes pounded a terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack carried out by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.Tensions between the two nations spiked further after New Delhi abrogated provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution to withdraw Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories.Pakistan downgraded its diplomatic relations with India and expelled the Indian high commissioner following the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019.Asserting that the abrogation of Article 370 was its “internal matter”, India has defended the imposition of restrictions in the Kashmir Valley on the grounds that they were put to prevent Pakistan from creating more mischief through proxies and terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pakistan-exchange-list-of-nuclear-installations/story-UGFFx7sfYdK4QWTLKNYtxM.html
01-01-2021||India||J&K police cite ‘evidence’ to claim killed Lawaypora youth were over ground workers for terrorists||As questions swirl around the Lawaypora encounter, in which three youths were killed on Wednesday, the Jammu and Kashmir police said on Friday that all angles were being investigated while reiterating that the killed youths were over ground workers (OGWs) for terrorists.In a statement released on Friday afternoon, police said that the youths were given a chance to surrender. “Lawaypora Srinagar encounter started with army inputs and eventually fructified into a joint operation of army, CRPF and the police. After the cordon was laid, terrorists lobbed grenades from inside and fired upon the search party. Although as per (the) SOP, terrorists were repeatedly appealed (to) by the troops to surrender in the evening and again in the morning. However, instead of surrendering, they fired upon troops and eventually got neutralised in a firefight.”The police spokesman said that the claims, made by the parents that Aijaz Maqbool Ganai had gone to the university to fill up a form on the day the encounter began, was found to be untrue after verification and cross checking using modern techniques, including studying the records stored by the telecom department. “Contrary to the claims, the verified digital evidence revealed and corroborated that Aijaz and Ather had gone to Hyderpora and from there to the place of occurrence (encounter) only. Similarly, Zubair had gone first to Pulwama, then to Anantnag, then Shopian to Pulwama and finally came to (the) place of occurrence.”Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti seeks impartial and swift probe into Lawaypora encounterThe spokesman said that background checks also reveal that Aijaz and Ather Mustaq, both OGWs (over ground workers) variously provided logistic support to terrorists. “Antecedents and verifications too show that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of the LeT (now so-called TRF) outfit. One of the OGWs, presently under police custody, has also corroborated Aijaz’s association with LeT terrorist Faisal Mustaq Baba, who was killed in Meej (Pampore) encounter in June last year. Pertinently, Ather was a relative and OGW of HM (Hizbul Mujahideen) top commander Rayees Kachroo, who got killed in 2017.Nevertheless, (the) police are investigating into the case from all possible angles,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-cite-evidence-to-claim-killed-lawaypora-youth-were-over-ground-workers-for-terrorists/story-oOOomqIojJZjdZDOo1VPqN.html
01-01-2021||India||French Ambassador welcomes India’s new stint at UNSC||French Ambassador to India, Emmanuel Lenain on Friday welcomed India’s new stint at United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for a period of two years.“France welcomes India as it joins UNSC for next 2 yrs. We are eager to work side by side to uphold international law, fight terrorism & defend multilateralism,” tweeted Lenain.The Council is composed of 15 members. Five permanent members (P-5) are China, France, Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, and the United States, and 10 non-permanent members elected for two-year terms by the General Assembly (with the end of term year).On January 1, 2021, India will start its eighth term as a non-permanent, voting member of the UNSC. The last stint of India in UNSC was in the year 2011-2012.India and France both share the same vision for a new balanced multipolar world, which must be based on the rule of law. They also share the same vision on the main challenges of the times, be the security developments in Asia and the Indo-Pacific, or combating international terrorism.“To this end, we also need a UNSC reform that gives India a permanent seat!” added Lenain.  France welcomes India as it joins #UNSC for the next 2 years. We are eager to work side by side to uphold international law, fight terrorism and defend #multilateralism. To this end, we also need a UNSC reform that gives India a permanent seat! pic.twitter.com/v1j6rGAkqbCo-incidentally, France was the first P-5 country to support India’s claim for a permanent seat in an expanded and reformed UNSC. India and France in past had jointly called for reform of the UNSC that would enable India to gain a permanent seat on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-ambassador-welcomes-india-s-new-stint-at-unsc/story-CjQRDopO34vPNKo883rNkN.html
01-01-2021||India||‘Thanks to Dr Randeep Guleria’: JP Nadda tweets after recovering from Covid-19||BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Friday informed that he and his family members have fully recovered from Covid-19. Thanking AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and his team for their dedication and support, the BJP chief posted a tweet on Friday along with a photo of himself.  I thank everyone for their wishes, prayers and moral support during my illness. My family members and I have now fully recovered from COVID-19. We whole heartedly thank Dr Randeep Guleria,Dir AIIMS and his team for their dedication & continued support in these challenging times. pic.twitter.com/RPW88DEq5nThe BJP chief tested Covid-19 positive on December 13, soon after his visit to West Bengal during which his convoy was attacked. He got tested after he reported some initial symptoms of Covid-19. His health was fine and he was put under home isolation on the advice of doctors. He also requested everyone who came in contact with him during his visits to several places to get tested. JP Nadda was under the treatment of AIIMS team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thanks-to-dr-randeep-guleria-jp-nadda-tweets-after-recovering-from-covid-19/story-yaOcjZdLPOTP2flQbIliMM.html
01-01-2021||India||DDA’s most expensive housing scheme yet: All you need to know||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is all set to launch a housing scheme on Saturday for the sale of more than 1,300 flats mostly in the High-Income Group (HIG) and Middle-Income Group (MIG) categories. After three consecutive unsuccessful housing schemes, the planning authority is hoping these spacious flats situated in well-connected areas of Delhi elicits a good response. Read on for all the details of this housing scheme:1. A total of 1,354 flats are to be launched out of which 230 are HIG flats in Dwarka , Vasant Kunj, Jasola, and 704 are MIG category flats in Jasola and Dwarka. Around 275 flats in Manglapuri and Dwarka, have been set aside for the economically weaker sections (EWS). The remaining fall under Low-Income Group (LIG) category flats in Rohini.2. The last DDA housing scheme was launched in 2019 when around 18,000 flats had been put up for sale. This was later reduced to 10,000 since the planning authority had a hard time finding buyers. Even though the agency received 45,000 applications they could only sell 8,438 flats. 3. The MIG flats in Dwarka are located near Sector 16-B and 19-B, and are well connected via the Delhi Metro’s Blue Line (Dwarka-Noida/Vaishali). The HIG flats in Jasola are connected via the Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh metro station of Magenta Line. The HIG flats in Jasola are priced at around Rs 2.1 crore, whereas the MIG ones will cost buyers around Rs 1.2 crore.4. This will be the most expensive DDA flats since the HIG flats in Vasant Kunj were sold for Rs 1.7 crore in 2019.5. Due to ongoing coronavirus pandemic, DDA officials have announced that all applications, payments, and possession letters will be processed entirely online. “People will have to come to the DDA office just once to execute the conveyance deed,” an official told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dda-s-most-expensive-housing-scheme-yet-all-you-need-to-know/story-E15FZAkrbOU83mc55O8NhM.html
01-01-2021||India||3 sites in Bihar identified for Covid-19 vaccination dry run||Patna, Jamui and Bettiah in West Champaran are among three districts of Bihar shortlisted for the pan-India dry run of Covid-19 vaccination to be undertaken on Saturday. Three facilities have been identified in each of these districts for the exercise. The urban primary health centre at Shastrinagar, community health centre at Phulwarisharif and sub-divisional hospital at Danapur are among the three health facilities identified for the mock drill in Patna. Three schools have been identified as session sites, which are locations where vaccination will be administered, in Jamui, said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, driving the vaccination programme. “The mock drill will essentially test the technology put in place for the vaccination programme. All vaccinations have to be done through the Co-WIN portal, as per the Centre’s operational guidelines. The portal contains the database of the vaccinator as well as the beneficiary,” said Kumar. Text messages will be sent out on mobile phones of the beneficiaries, which would guide them about the vaccination process and also remind them of the second shot after the first has been administered to them. “We have identified 25 test beneficiaries, who will be healthcare workers, at each of the health facilities for the mock drill tomorrow. The data of these beneficiaries will be uploaded in Co-WIN. We will follow all social distancing norms and the standard operating procedure put in place by the government of India,” added Kumar. As many as 35,000 healthcare workers have enrolled so far for the Covid vaccination in Patna, said a district health officer. “It is difficult to get an exact count on the number of private healthcare workers. We have, however, enrolled all those in public sector health facilities,” the officer said. “There will be one vaccinator per 100 beneficiaries, as per the norms prescribed by the Centre,” said the official. Private sector health facilities having more than 100 beneficiaries may get a vaccinator from the same facility, as the government has already prepared a database on them. A session site would comprise three rooms — a waiting hall, vaccination room and an observation hall. Each team at a session site would have five members, including one vaccinator and four vaccinator officers, who would be from the police, information technology and health sectors. The first vaccinator officer, ideally from the police set-up, has been tasked with the responsibility to maintain Covid-19 safety protocol, including social distancing. The second vaccinator officer will check the genuineness of the beneficiary through the Co-WIN portal, while the third and fourth, drawn primarily from the health set-up, will be at the observation room to check for any side-effect post-vaccination and for information, and counselling activity. The objective of the dry run is to assess operational feasibility in the use of the Co-WIN application in a field environment, to test the linkages between planning and implementation and to identify the challenges and guide the way forward to actual implementation. The first round of the dry run was conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab on December 28 and 29 in two districts each where five session sites with 25 test beneficiaries each were identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-sites-in-bihar-identified-for-covid-19-vaccination-dry-run/story-kA2bAeHrjvHkISo1KrUGiI.html
01-01-2021||India||India lodges protest with Pakistan over Hindu temple’s demolition||India has formally protested with Pakistan regarding the recent vandalisation of a Hindu temple in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Karak district, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Friday. “The matter was taken up officially with the Pakistani side and a strong protest was lodged,” one of the people said.Shri Paramhans Ji Maharaj’s samadhi along with the Krishna Dwara Mandir in Teri village in the northwestern town of Karak was vandalised on Wednesday by a mob. The mob claimed that the temple had encroached on extra land and set it on fire. At least two dozen people were arrested in overnight raids after the Hindu temple was attacked on Wednesday, according to reports. Some 1,500 people had reportedly participated in the attack on the temple. The arrests came after the country’s chief justice Gulzar Ahmed on Thursday took suo motu notice of the attack on the place of worship in Teri village. The chief justice took the step after minority lawmaker Ramesh Kumar briefed him about the temple being set ablaze, during their meeting in Karachi on Thursday. The country’s supreme court will hear the case on January 5. Pakistan’s minister for religious affairs Noorul Haq Qadri called the attack “a conspiracy against sectarian harmony”. Qadri took to Twitter on Thursday and said that “protection of the religious freedom of minorities is our religious, constitutional, moral and national responsibility”.Local media quoted advocate Rohit Kumar, a representative of the Hindu community, as saying that the temple hadn’t exceeded the area agreed upon. Meanwhile, dozens of Hindus reportedly rallied in the city of Karachi to demand the rebuilding of the place of worship in Teri village.The temple was first attacked and demolished in 1997 and the local community had agreed to its reconstruction after the intervention by the supreme court in 2015. There was a dispute over the land allocated to the temple during its reconstruction, leading to some misunderstanding between the temple supporters and local clerics. Guru Sri Paramhans Dayal was laid to rest at the site in 1919 and a temple was built there.The attack came weeks after the Pakistan government allowed Hindu residents to build a new temple in Islamabad on the recommendation of a council of clerics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lodges-protest-with-pakistan-over-hindu-temple-s-demolition/story-YIGZuPUadxcbQdGpAs26kL.html
01-01-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti seeks impartial and swift probe into Lawaypora encounter||PDP president and former J&K chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti on Friday wrote a letter to Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor, Manoj Sinha seeking an impartial and swift probe into the killing of three youths in Lawaypora encounter on the outskirts of Srinagar city and also demanded that their bodies be returned to the families.Three youths from south Kashmir were killed on Tuesday inside a house by the security forces in a joint operation, while police and army claimed they were militants, relatives claim they were students.In her letter to L-G, Mehbooba Mufti said that justice can be only served when impartial and swift investigation is done in the case.“Three boys, the youngest being all of 17 years old, were killed, in what the family has alleged to be staged gunfight. The encounter has come close on the heels of an enquiry report that held an army captain guilty and responsible for the fake encounter at Amshipora (in) Shopian. Again, the three victims now established as innocent through an investigation, were killed and dubbed as militants,” Mufti said in her letter.The letter further said. “You and I may not agree in most political matters that concern J&K but I am certain we agree that such incidents bring disrepute to the armed forces and are a grave violation of human rights.”Former J&K chief minister said that while the J&K administration is apprehensive about returning the bodies to the families, this “callous” decision will only exacerbate their sense of loss and pain. “One hopes that you will rethink this decision and allow them to get closure. A mother who grieves the sudden and tragic death of her beloved son shouldn’t be deprived of the last chance to see his face,” reads the letter.The security forces on Wednesday had said that three local militants were killed in an encounter at Lawaypora on the outskirts of the Srinagar city.Also Read: Row intensifies over Srinagar encounterFamilies of the slain, however, rebutted the claim and said the youth killed in the encounter were civilians. The families also held a protest outside the police control room in Srinagar.At a press briefing on Wednesday, General Officer Commanding (GoC) Kilo Force, H S Sahi had said that the militants were planning to attack the security forces on the national highway and different agencies were getting inputs about the same.“We had been getting inputs about the militants’ movement on the national highway. The operation was launched last evening after getting inputs that militants were inside a house close to the national highway. They were asked to surrender, however they responded with firing and the operation was suspended for the night and when operation was resumed again in the morning, they were again given an offer to surrender, however, they again started firing and hurled grenades which gave an indication they had no intention to surrender.”Three youth killed in the encounter are identified as Zubair Ahmad from Turkawangam, Shopian, Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq from Putrigam, Pulwama .Their families claimed that they were students who had left their homes yesterday before they were picked up and killed in a ‘staged’ encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-seeks-impartial-and-swift-probe-into-lawaypora-encounter/story-8SjyzBWBcJGKZcGnWvqQ7H.html
01-01-2021||India||Dzukou valley wildfire spreads to Manipur, Amit Shah assures all help||Union home minister Amit Shah called up Manipur chief minister N Biren Sigh and assured him of all assistance from the Centre to contain the wildfire which broke out on Tuesday in Dzukou Range in neighbouring Nagaland and has spread to Senapati district of the state.Sharing the latest development, CM Biren Singh on Friday tweeted,“Just received a call from Hon’ble Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah Ji to assess and discuss the situation about the wildfire at Dzukou valley.”“Amit Shah Ji has assured all the necessary assistance from the Home Ministry to contain the situation at earliest,” CM Biren added.On Thursday, the CM, accompanied by state chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, DGP Manipur LM Khaute and Deputy Commissioner Th Kirankumar of Senapati district, conducted an aerial survey to take stock of the situation.The Manipur government had also requested the National Disaster Response Force to provide assistance in containing the situation and had also requisitioned the Army and the Assam Rifles to assist firefighters in extinguishing the wildfire.The fire broke out in the Dzukou Range in Nagaland on Tuesday and crossed over to the Manipur side on Thursday morning, the people familiar with the development said. Dzukou is a valley located at the borders of Nagaland and Manipur and is a popular trekking destination.Firefighters, forest department personnel and volunteers from Mao area have reached the area and are trying to douse the blaze, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dzukou-valley-wildfire-spreads-to-manipur-amit-shah-assures-all-help/story-QEhT3qCmUS6YKn3K2h9HHJ.html
01-01-2021||India||‘Just like elections’: Harsh Vardhan in meet with Delhi govt ahead of Covid-19 vaccine dry run||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan held a review meeting with officials of the Delhi government on Friday ahead of the Centre’s dry run of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in all states and Union territories on Saturday, news agency ANI reported. After conducting a dry run of Covid-19 vaccination in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat on December 28 and 29, the Centre will now extend the drill to rest of the country so that once a vaccine is approved for emergency use, the shot is administered to the first group of eligible people without a glitch.“Target of this exercise is that minutest details are thoroughly researched. At least two vaccines have sent their applications to Drug Controller and experts for approval, their data are being studied pro-actively,” Vardhan said during the video meeting, according to ANI.“The lists of health workers have been created and will be uploaded on Covid platform. Just like we prepare during elections, the same way we need to train each member of all medical teams responsibly,” Vardhan said. “After training over 2,000 master trainers at the national level, the training is underway at the state and district level, in over 700 districts. The procedure is similar to conducting elections where the team at a booth is also trained,” he added.All state capitals will conduct dry runs in at least three session sites on Saturday. Some states will also include districts that are situated in difficult terrain or have poor logistical support. In vaccine dry run, the entire process of transporting the vaccines from storage to the site, administering them to candidates, feeding data on Co-WIN app is practised without any real vaccine.The plan to extend the dry run to all states and Union territories comes amid the Drug Controller General of India’s (DCGI’s) indication that India might start the New Year with a vaccine against Covid-19. “We will have a Happy New Year with something in hand, that’s all I can hint at,” said VG Somani, DCGI, on Thursday.In Gujarat dry run, 475 beneficiaries underwent the dummy procedure, the main aim of which is to identify if there is any loophole in the planned process. Crowd management at a booth, maintaining social distancing guidelines inside the booth are also being practised at the mock drills. In Punjab, Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar were selected for the dry run. Nalbari and Sonitpur were the two districts of Assam where the mock drill already took place. Krishna district from Andhra Pradesh was chosen for the two-day drill. Everywhere, the drill went on successfully.The daily new coronavirus infections in India remained below 30,000 for the 19th consecutive day taking the Covid-19 caseload to 1,02,86,709, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.83 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-like-elections-harsh-vardhan-in-meet-with-delhi-govt-ahead-of-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run/story-WrrvBHxNM8PtJvlUJaEeYL.html
01-01-2021||India||Farmers continue protests outside Delhi, say no question of withdrawing 2 demands||Thousands of farmers continued their protest against the three farm laws on the first day of 2021 on Friday outside several border points of Delhi in the biting cold as they remained firm in their demands amid a deadlock with the government over two issues. Hundreds of police personnel have been deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping since November 26, even as the minimum temperature dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, according to news agency PTI, is likely to meet during the day to discuss its next course of action. Senior farmers’ leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni has said there is, however, no question of withdrawing from the two issues which are a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) and repealing of the farm laws, PTI reported.“The government has addressed our demands to drop penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law,” Chaduni said. “But, we want to make it clear that there is no alternative to our two remaining demands which include repeal of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee for MSP,” he added.Also read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic divertedPTI reported that the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the protesting farm unions, has issued a statement saying the Centre’s appeal to farmer leaders to suggest an alternative to repeal of the laws is impossible. “The new laws will hand over control of agriculture markets, farmers’ land and food chain to corporates,” the committee said in the statement.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said, after the sixth round of talks between ministers and a 41-member representative, on Wednesday that consensus has been reached on two of the four issues. Tomar had also said that the next meeting with farmers representatives will be held on January 4. Tomar said the union leaders kept insisting on the repeal of the three farm laws, but the government side tried to explain to them the benefits of the acts and sought to know specific problems faced by the farmers. The minister said the government has already said that it is ready to give a written assurance as he talked about the farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee for procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP).Also read | India’s protesting farmers hold key to self-reliance in edible oilsTraffic issuesAs the farmers’ protests continued, Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed due to the agitation and suggested alternate roads. “Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” they said in a series of tweets. “The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” they added.Also read | Kerala passes resolution against farm laws“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44,” they said. “Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet.The government has said that the three farm laws, which were brought in September last year, have are major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, however, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. On its part, the Centre has reiterated the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the Centre over the farm laws in his New Year’s message on Friday. “As the New Year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy New Year to all,” he tweeted.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-continue-protests-outside-delhi-say-no-question-of-withdrawing-2-demands/story-CnxAWoX0tyPPblTOFHrVRM.html
01-01-2021||India||‘Angry’ over family feuds farmer wills part of his property to pet dog||In an unusual incident, Om Narayan Verma, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district, has named his pet dog as the legal heir of his ancestral property.Verma said, “I own around 21 acres of land. The notarised will not only includes my dog’s name but also my wife Champa Bai’s name.”The middle-aged farmer stated that the property, after his death, will be inherited by his wife and pet.He further said the will was made in anger over a family feud, but the problems had been resolved now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/angry-over-family-feuds-farmer-wills-part-of-his-property-to-pet-dog/story-cpRfrrCjAvA9Tlh0OP5dAN.html
01-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: DDA to launch housing scheme on January 2 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DDA to launch housing scheme tomorrow, most expensive flat to cost Rs 2 croreThe Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will on Saturday launch a housing scheme for the sale of 1,354 flats mostly in the High-Income Group (HIG)and Middle-Income Group (MIG) categories. Read more‘2020 is gone, Covid-19 hasn’t’: A warning bell in Delhi CM’s New Year messageArvind Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, posted a video message on Friday wishing people on the New Year. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also saluted the medical workforce for their contribution during the coronavirus pandemic as he warned people against laxity in 2021. Read more‘Australians told me to get lost’: Sunil Gavaskar opens up on his infamous MCG walkout in 1981The sight of Sunil Gavaskar urging his batting partner Chetan Chauhan to walk out off the field after being given out wrongly is etched in the minds of every Indian cricket fan. Read moreKhushi Kapoor in Rs 990 top and jeans shows why less is always moreIt is the time of zoom calls and backyard photoshoots and Khushi Kapoor is telling us how to do it in style. The younger sister of Dhadak actor Janhvi Kapoor is someone that a lot of people look up to and take inspiration from her sartorial picks. Khushi’s wardrobe style has a girl-next-door vibe that everyone can relate to. Read moreAnimal teaser: Ranbir Kapoor, Anil Kapoor star in Sandeep Reddy Vanga’s action thriller about father and son, watchThe New Year began with the announcement of Sandeep Reddy Vanga’s Animal, starring Ranbir Kapoor, Parineeti Chopra, Anil Kapoor and Bobby Deol. The film, speculated for a while now, also debuted its teaser with the announcement on December 31 night. Read moreSony PS5 pre-order, launch dates finally announced after months of waitingAfter months of waiting, Sony has finally given the good news to its PlayStation fans on day-1 of 2021. The Japanese tech firm has announced the release date of its PlayStation 5 (PS5) gaming console in the country. The new device will be launched in India on February 2nd, 2021. However, you can pre order it starting 12PM IST on January 12. Read moreWhat the pandemic year taught us about sports | WatchSports journalist Sharda Ugra and HT sports editor Rudraneil Sengupta talk about the strange experience of sporting disruptions through the pandemic. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-dda-to-launch-housing-scheme-on-january-2/story-WTpAzxpWYkkFLL3uhRANRP.html
01-01-2021||India||India recorded less than 300 daily deaths in last 7 days: Govt||India has reported less than 300 deaths related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) every day since the last one week, the government said on Friday, as 256 fatalities were logged from across the country in 24 hours. The deaths between Thursday and Friday morning has taken the second-worst affected country’s toll rose to 148,994, the health ministry added on the first day of the New Year.The Union health ministry also said 10 states and Union territories account for 80.47% of the new deaths and that Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi account for 63% of total fatalities in the country. According to the health ministry, out of the 148,994 deaths, 49,521 have been in Maharashtra, 12,122 in Tamil Nadu, 12,090 in Karnataka, 10,536 in Delhi, 9,712 in West Bengal, 8,364 in Uttar Pradesh, 7,108 in Andhra Pradesh and 5,341 fatalities in Punjab so far.“Daily deaths have been less than 300 since the last 7 days. This has ensured that the mortality remains low and presently stands at 1.45%,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. “Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (58). Kerala and West Bengal follow with 30 and 29 daily deaths, respectively,” it added.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine update: Pan-India dry run on Saturday, WHO approves Pfizer’s candidateIndia’s active caseload also continued to “exhibit a sustained downward movement”, the ministry said. It has significantly dropped to 254,254 on Friday-the lowest after 179 days. The total active cases were 253,287 on July 6, 2020. India’s present active caseload consists of just 2.47% of India’s total positive cases. “80.19% of the new cases are concentrated in 10 States and UTs. Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 5,215. It is followed by Maharashtra with 3,509 new cases,” it said.The daily Covid-10 infections also remained below 30,000 for the 19th consecutive day as the tally rose to 10,286,709 with 20,035 cases in the last 24 hours. The daily new cases in India in recent days have been around 20,000. The ministry said that 23,181 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, adding that “recoveries outnumbering daily new cases from the last 35 days have ensured a consistent decline in active cases.”Also read | ‘2020 is gone, Covid-19 hasn’t’: A warning bell in Delhi CM’s New Year messageThe total recoveries are at 9,883,461 and the gap between recovered and active cases, that is steadily increasing, has crossed 9.6 million and presently stands at 9,629,207 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.08 per cent. The ministry said that 77.61% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. “Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,376 newly recovered cases. 3,612 people recovered in Maharashtra followed by 1,537 in West Bengal,” it said.Also read | From cargo planes to vans: Here’s how Centre plans to distribute Covid-19 vaccineThe new numbers come on a day the subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will meet to consider the emergency-use authorisation application of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII) that is to manufacture the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.India will also extend the dry run of vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease to the rest of the country on Saturday after Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat. All state capitals will conduct dry runs in at least three session sites and some will also include districts that are situated in difficult terrain or have poor logistical support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-recorded-less-than-300-daily-deaths-in-last-7-days-govt/story-YadKTtViDcCpmqqKwE9axI.html
01-01-2021||India||‘Helped Army strengthen defensive posture’: General Bipin Rawat condoles Siachen hero’s death||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat condoled the death of Colonel Narendra Kumar (retd), a former top mountaineer who contributed immensely in helping India secure the Siachen Glacier. “On the demise of Col Narendra ‘Bull’ Kumar, we convey our condolences. A soldier whose determination and yearning to scale high mountain peaks led to discoveries that helped the Army in occupying locations that helped us in strengthening our defensive posture” General Rawat said.Awarded the Padma Shri, Arjun award and the Kirti Chakra, India’s second-highest peace-time gallantry award, Kumar was fondly known as ‘Bull’ in the army.“Our strong posturing on the Saltoro Ridge and in other areas of Ladakh are a part of his adventurous travels. His name will forever remain etched in the rich history of our Army,” Chief of General Rawat added.The departed officer had reported Pakistani military activity on the Siachen glacier, after which the army launched Operation Meghdoot in April 1984 to secure the glacier. “First to report on Pakistani mischief in Siachen sending patrol and mountaineering expeditions to the Glacier area. India was thus able pre-empt Pakistani attempt to occupy Saltoro Range ....Salute!” former army chief General VP Malik (retd) tweeted on Thursday.Kumar died at the age of 87 on Thursday due to an age-related illness at the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helped-army-strengthen-defensive-posture-general-bipin-rawat-condoles-siachen-hero-s-death/story-SYFYZPZ7tLbhrWJjRUjwoJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers stay put in severe Delhi cold as talks with government remain deadlocked||Thousands of farmers stayed put at their protest venues near Delhi’s border on Friday, braving a severe chill as the mercury dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius on the New Year’s Day, the lowest in 15 years, as talks with the government made little headway.The government and the farm unions had reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve the protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.After the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4.Security remained tight at the national capital’s borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping for more than a month now.The protests have also led to traffic congestions, forcing the police to divert vehicular movement.Taking to Twitter on Friday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads.“Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” it tweeted.“The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders.“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44,” it said in a series of tweets.“Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-stay-put-in-severe-delhi-cold-as-talks-with-government-remain-deadlocked/story-2XPYiyQrqdpZ12YmWHdzIK.html
01-01-2021||India||‘Strengthens cooperative federalism’: PM Modi lays foundation stone of Light House Projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually laid the foundation stone of Light House Projects (LHP) under the Global Housing Technology Challenge (GHTC) -India , conceptualised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. The project aims to identify and mainstream several innovative technologies from across the world which are sustainable and disaster-resilient. Also Read | PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Light House Projects at 6 sites todaySpeaking on the occasion, PM Modi said the six projects would give housing projects in the country, adding that this will also strengthen the cooperative federalism. The prime minister further said that earlier, housing projects were not given priority by various central governments and that the governments were not concerned about the quality of housing infrastructure. “Today, the country has taken a different approach. We have decided to change the approach towards housing. Why should the country not get better technology?” PM Modi remarked.ALSO WATCH | ‘People now believe…’: PM Modi lays foundation stone of Light House Projects Talking more about the GHTC-India challenge, more than 50 companies working on innovative technologies participated in it. PM Modi then spoke about the technologies that will be used at the six locations: Agartala, Lucknow, Indore, Rajkot, Chennai and Ranchi. The ones in Indore, he said, won’t have walls made of bricks; “pre-fabricated sandwich panel” system will be used for these. For Rajkot, PM Modi said, the French “monolithic concrete construction” technology will be used.Precast concrete system from the United States and Finland will be used in Chennai, while in Ranchi, Germany’s 3-D construction system will be used, PM Modi added. New Zealand’s steel frame technology will be used in Agartala and a technology from Canada will be used in Lucknow, he further said.Earlier in the day, PM Modi had tweeted, “On the first day of 2021, will be taking part in a programme aimed at transforming India’s urban landscape. Will lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects and distribute PMAY (Urban) and ASHA-India Awards. Join Live at 11 AM.” Under the project,each location will get more than 1,000 houses for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS). The period of construction is maximum 12 months from the date these sites are handed over to the construction agency after all statutory approvals. On the first day of 2021, will be taking part in a programme aimed at transforming India’s urban landscape. Will lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects and distribute PMAY (Urban) and ASHA-India awards. Join Live at 11 AM. https://t.co/Eu3qx8xRVCUnion minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, and chief ministers of Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand, respectively, also addressed the gathering on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-first-day-of-new-year-pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-light-house-project/story-ccHXzHJBEFMd2X9eqQmccM.html
01-01-2021||India||Ajit Pawar, others pay tributes at Koregaon Bhima war memorial||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and some other leaders paid tributes at the ‘Jay Stambh’ on Friday on the 203rd anniversary of the Koregaon Bhima battle.State home minister Anil Deshmukh, Power Minister Dr Nitin Raut were also among those who paid tributes at the memorial, located near Perne Village on Pune-Ahmednagar Road.Prakash Ambedkar, president of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) also visited the victory pillar and paid tributes.On the occasion, Pawar appealed to the people not to visit the memorial and instead pay their tributes by staying indoors in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Lakhs of people congregate every year at the ‘Jay Stambh’ to offer tributes on the anniversary of the battle, which was fought on January 1, 1818, between the British East India Company and the Peshwa faction of the Maratha Confederacy.However, due to Covid-19 this year, the district administration and the members of Bhima Koregaon Vijaystambh Shauryadin Samanvay Samiti had urged the people to avoid coming to the memorial and pay their respects by staying indoors.The district administration has already imposed section 144 of the CrPC, restricting entry to outsiders into Perne and other adjoining villages. However, representatives of the outfits and prominent personalities from political and social spheres have been allowed to visit the memorial and pay respects.On the 200th anniversary of the battle on January 1, 2018, violence had broken out in and around the village, in which one person was killed and several others injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-pawar-others-pay-tributes-at-koregaon-bhima-war-memorial/story-645B2lNu4g4wUYQcVkdqKO.html
01-01-2021||India||‘2020 is gone, Covid-19 hasn’t’: A warning bell in Delhi CM’s New Year message||Arvind Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, posted a video message on Friday wishing people on the New Year. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also saluted the medical workforce for their contribution during the coronavirus pandemic as he warned people against laxity in 2021.“2020 is gone, coronavirus hasn’t,” Kejriwal said in a video message. “The new year brings with it new hopes. May all of your stay happy, healthy and prosperous. Happy new year!” he said. The national Capital on Thursday recorded 574 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the infection tally to over 6.25 million. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with other leaders such as vice president Venkaiah Naidu and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda, also extended his wishes for the New Year.PM Modi prayed for the spirit of ‘hope and wellness’ to prevail in the upcoming year. “Wishing you a happy 2021! May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail,” he tweeted.“I convey my warm greetings and best wishes to all our citizens as we step into the New Year 2021. Let’s welcome the New Year with the spirit of hope as we bid goodbye to a year that has taught us many life lessons through one of the most disruptive pandemics in recent memory,” the vice president’s office tweeted.BJP chief Nadda prayed for joy, prosperity and good health of everyone in the new year. “Wishing you all a very happy 2021! I pray that this year brings joy, prosperity and good health in everyone’s lives,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-is-gone-covid-19-isn-t-a-warning-bell-in-delhi-cm-s-new-year-message/story-a2OaBMGSoak2B2tEj9SCkP.html
01-01-2021||India||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury urges PM Narendra Modi to rescue Indians stranded in Chinese waters||Leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rescue 39 Indian sailors who are stranded in Chinese waters for months together. “A concerted effort should be brought into motion for rescuing Indian sailors who have been stranded off the Chinese coast aboard the cargo ships, namely MV Anastasia and MV Jag Anand, for months together without sign of any relief,” Chowdhury, who also heads the Congress party in West Bengal, wrote in the letter. The government on Wednesday said that the Indian sailors will be brought back soon as diplomatic talks are on with the neighbouring country. “Diplomatic talks are going on for this successfully. Our seafarers will come to India soon,” ports, shipping and waterways minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in reply to a query about sailors being stuck in China for the last seven months during the Cabinet briefing, earlier this week. The Indians are part of the crew of the two ships, carrying Australian coal, that hasn’t been allowed to offload their cargo. There are 23 Indian crew members on the bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand, in anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13. Another 16 Indian crew members are on MV Anastasia, in anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20. Also Read: Kolkata: Around 200 booked for violating Covid-19 safety protocols on New Year’s Eve “It is also feared that in addition to the two ships, more than a thousand Indian seafarers are also stranded in many other ships. They are simply the victims of trade rivalry between China and Australia,” Chowdhury wrote in the letter, adding that the stranded sailors were being deprived of even basic medical facilities. China on December 25 had said that there was no ‘link’ between stranded Indian ship crew on its Chinese ports and the strained relations with India and Australia. “I do suggest the government that they should press into service all diplomatic instruments and also highlight the issue to flag the global attention of Chinese atrocities on Indian sailors with an aim of securing their deliverance from the Chinese captivity as immediately as it may,” Chowdhury wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-urges-pm-narendra-modi-to-rescue-indians-stranded-in-chinese-waters/story-6yiNXshccEX8FUueVJ9xOK.html
01-01-2021||India||After supporting Kerala assembly’s resolution against farm laws, BJP’s Rajagopal retracts||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) O Rajagopal, who had supported the unanimous resolution passed by the Kerala legislative assembly against the Centre’s three farm laws, has now said he had argued that the central government was “always ready for the talks”.Rajagopal, the BJP’s only member in Kerala, issued a statement later on Thursday, saying he “opposed the resolution” adopted by the assembly. “I have strongly opposed the resolution against farm laws today in the assembly. I did not oppose the central government. I said that the farm laws were very beneficial to the farmers. When ruling and opposition MLAs alleged that the Prime Minister was not negotiating with the farmers, I argued that the central government was always ready for the talks,” Rajagopal said in a statement, according to news agency ANI.Also read | Kerala passes resolution against farm laws“I said that farmer unions stand that they would engage in dialogue only after withdrawing the farm laws is the reason for the protests to continue in a prolonged manner. The statements that I am against the central government are baseless,” he added.Rajagopal, who represents the Nemom constituency in Thiruvananthapuram, had spoken against the resolution in the House initially but when it was put to voice vote he did not stage a walkout and supported it. After the session, when reporters asked him about it, he said he supported the resolution in accordance with the “democratic spirit of the house”. “I raised my disagreement in clear terms. But I supported the substance of the resolution in accordance with the democratic spirit. Nothing big about it, in a democracy such compromises are common,” he had said. Also read | In New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm lawsThe BJP leader said that Congress had earlier included similar farm laws in its manifesto. “I have made it clear that Congress in their election manifesto had included similar farm laws and that the CPI(M) too has demanded it through a resolution. The speaker did not ask during voting about those who support the resolution and those who oppose it. It was reduced to a single question without being asked separately, which is a violation of the norms,” Rajagopal said.Also read Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic divertedK Surendran, the BJP’s state unit president, had said he will talk to Rajagopal after he supported the farm laws. “There is no difference of opinion in the party. He is a senior leader and we don’t think he will support the resolution. I will talk to him about this,” Surendran said.The Kerala assembly passed the resolution, which was introduced by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, unanimously against the three farm laws during the special session. “The Centre wants to corporatise the farm sector. It must come forward to allay farmers’ fears. The entire country is with them. It should recognise public sentiment and withdraw the new laws,” Vijayan had said. The resolution in the Kerala assembly came a day after the protesting farmers and the government held the fifth round of talks on Wednesday. They reached consensus on two of four issues on the agenda. Farmer leaders have been protesting on borders of Delhi since November 26 against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-supporting-kerala-assembly-s-resolution-against-farm-laws-bjp-s-rajagopal-retracts/story-oSSFM4FY65vnrFEOLvX9WJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Mysterious ‘monolith’, spotted across world since November, surfaces in Gujarat||A `monolith’, the likes of which have appeared and vanished in different parts of the world since November, has now emerged in a garden in Ahmedabad city, Gujarat. This is the first appearance of a monolith, a structure made of shiny steel sheets, in India.The triangular prism-shaped structure, around seven feet tall, became an instant hit among city dwellers after it was spotted in a garden on SG Highway on Thursday morning.The garden is jointly managed by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and a private firm. Situated near Gurudwara in Thaltej area, it was one of the attractions inaugurated by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani recently.Watch: Monolith seen in Ahmedabad’s garden, people rush; officials solve mystery “The monolith has been placed there by the company which takes care of the garden. The structure has been installed by the company for the visitors. People can see their reflection on the shiny surfaces of the structure and take selfies too,” said Director, AMC’s Garden Department, Jignesh Patel.People began flocking to the garden to get themselves clicked in front of the structure.The first such three-sided steel monolith appeared and disappeared after a few days in a remote desert of Utah, United States. Later, similar structures were spotted in around 30 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysterious-monolith-spotted-across-world-since-november-now-surfaces-in-ahmedabad/story-ukalGxJA0pWLQqOwCqokiP.html
01-01-2021||India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extends New Year greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday extended greetings to the nation on the occasion of the New Year. Taking to Twitter, PM Modi said, “Wishing you a happy 2021!, May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail.”Meanwhile, Vice President Naidu tweeted, “I convey my warm greetings and best wishes to all our citizens as we step into the New Year 2021.”He said let’s welcome the New Year with the spirit of hope as we bid goodbye to a year that has taught us many life lessons through one of the most disruptive pandemics in recent memory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-extends-new-year-greetings/story-yuOb9BPbA68YGPil34zQ7M.html
01-01-2021||India||India rings in New Year 2021 with low key celebrations||People across India bid adieu to 2020 and welcomed the New Year 2021 with muted celebrations as night curfew has been imposed in the national capital till January 2 amid pandemic.No celebratory events, congregations and gatherings at public places were permitted and section 144 have been imposed in Bengaluru, Mumbai, and Pune.But despite the restrictions, people still found a way to make the best of the situation and brought in the New Year by staying indoors and celebrating among close family members.In Kerala, very few people turned up to celebrate the New Year at Fort Kochi, as compared to other years.In Kolkata, West Bengal police distributed masks to people who were not wearing masks as they turned up at Park Street for celebrations.“This year has been a challenge. We’ve come to live by a new culture of wearing masks. We’re distributing masks & prosecuting people who’re not wearing them,” said Sudheer Neelakantam, District Commissioner of South Kolkata People visit the Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) in Punjab’s Amritsar to welcome the New Year.“We wish well for all the people and hope that the farmers’ issues are resolved,” said s visitor at Harmandir Sahib.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also visited the Golden Temple. Addressing the media he wished people of the country a prosperous New Year.“I’d like to wish all people on the New Year. 2020 has brought such losses for the entire country with the pandemic. I hope this coming year of 2021 brings relief & prosperity,” said Badal describing the year 2020 as the year of lockdowns, anxiety, stress, insecurity, and economic slowdown. In Goa, tourists and locals celebrated the incoming of New Year with beautiful fireworks in the state’s capital Panjim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rings-in-new-year-2021-with-low-key-celebrations/story-uepcLs5iHjPiAicGFefuyM.html
01-01-2021||India||India registers 20,035 new Covid-19 cases; recoveries inch closer to 9.9 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 10,286,709 on the first day of the new year, as the country recorded 20,035 new infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Friday. The country’s latest spike in Covid-19 cases is in continuation with the recent trend of low new daily infections, as against more than 90,000 each day in September.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of active cases continue to fall and are currently at 254,254, down 3,402 from Thursday, the ministry’s dashboard showed. Recoveries, meanwhile, continue to rise and are currently at 9,883,461, with 23,181 people, more than new patients, recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. However, in the same duration, the virus also claimed 256 more lives, taking India’s death toll to 148,994. Recoveries, active cases and deaths contribute 96.08%, 2.47% and 1.45% respectively of the country’s total Covid-19 cases.India’s latest numbers come a day before a nationwide dry run for vaccination is scheduled to take place on Saturday. Earlier in the week, a two-day dry run was held in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab on December 28 and 29. Also on Friday, the subject experts committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) is scheduled to meet to review the emergency use authorisation (EUA) applications submitted by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited.Also Read | Key expert panel meet today to review data on Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccinesWhile SII will manufacture in India the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, called Covishield, Bharat Biotech has developed the country’s first indigenous vaccine candidate, Covaxin. However, its was America’s Pfizer Inc, which was the first to submit a EUA application in India though, since then, it hasn’t shown up for a presentation on earlier dates and has sought more time.`||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-20-035-new-covid-19-cases-recoveries-inch-closer-to-9-9-million/story-EsjYgBcCNXBg50bqyaXARM.html
01-01-2021||India||Key expert panel meet today to review data on Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccines||The subject expert committee (SEC) of the national drugs regulator will meet again on Friday to take a decision on the emergency-use authorisation (EUA) application of Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidates against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The SEC had met a second time on Wednesday to review their EUA application, after UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granted emergency-use approval to the SII Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine on Wednesday. SII has partnered with the company to conduct clinical trials and manufacture the vaccine in India.Also Read: From cargo planes to vans: Here’s how Centre plans to distribute Covid-19 vaccineOn December 24, SII had submitted the additional clinical trial data that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)’s SEC had asked for in its meeting held on December 9 to review its application.The UK regulator (UK-MHRA) was also reviewing the necessary data, and according to experts, it would have been advantageous if there was already an approval in place from the local regulator, even though it was not mandatory.Three companies have applied for EUA for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates. The companies are Pfizer, SII and Bharat Biotech. While Pfizer did not show up for the presentation on the earlier dates and sought more time, the expert panel reviewed the data of the other two companies and asked for more details. SEC had recommended that both the companies submit additional data. In Wednesday’s meeting also some documents were found lacking and needed to be updated by SII and some additional data was sought from Bharat Biotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-to-review-covid-19-vaccines-emergency-use-application-today/story-WXceXArqYIXRy8rraAeosK.html
01-01-2021||India||From cargo planes to vans: Here’s how Centre plans to distribute Covid-19 vaccine||Among the Centre’s elaborate plan to distribute the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), are the country’s air and road transport network and sites where the shot will be administered to people eligible in the first phase.On Friday, the subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will meet to consider the emergency-use authorisation application of three companies—Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII) that is to manufacture the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Data from safety and efficacy trials conducted by SII is being vetted by the committee. The vaccine has been developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, which received regulatory approval in the UK on Wednesday.Also read | 2021 brings hope, ready for largest vaccine drive: PM ModiAfter the drugs controller’s approval, here is how the distribution plan will work:1. Officials with knowledge of the government’s vaccination plan have said that special cargo planes with cold boxes storage space and refrigerated vans will start ferrying vials of the vaccine from Pune, where SII’s Covid-19 vaccine production facilities are located, to various parts of the country.2. State administrations will then distribute the vaccine vials to district authorities for delivery to the hundreds of thousands of inoculation centres to be set up across India in a process which will span over several weeks.Also read | FAQs about immunisation answered3. The initial lots of the vaccine will be sent only to government hospitals, public health centres or large private hospitals. The first two priority group of health care and other frontline workers such as police personnel will be vaccinated at these sites.4. Polling booths, wedding halls, community centres, and mobile vans will be used as inoculation centres where the remaining high-risk population of elderly adults and those suffering from comorbidities will be administered the vaccine.5. The national expert group on the Covid-19 vaccine will send an order to SII with specific details of how many vials (each vial of the vaccine will contain multiple doses) are to be shipped to each destination after DGCI gives its nod.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know today6. Officials have said that the vaccines will be transported by air and road but not by rail -- at least for now. “There is no plan to use refrigerated vans of Indian Railways as of now. For destinations near Pune, vaccines would be delivered by road. On longer routes, cargo flights will carry the pallets,” said the first official cited above.7. It will be SII’s responsibility to deliver the vaccines at the designated consignee points but the logistics and cold chains will be monitored primarily by the government. “SII has the obligation to deliver it safely at the specific places and hand it over to the state or central officials. Once the handover is done, the responsibility of further distribution lies entirely with the government,” said a second official.Also read: Centre releases Covid-19 vaccine rollout strategy8. The government has also set up fixed consignee points or places for handing over vaccine shipments to the states in capital cities and prominent urban centres.9. The vaccines will be stocked at four Government Medical Store Depots in Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata and state and regional vaccine stores. Refrigerated vans will bring these vaccines to the last point in the cold chain in Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health Centres.10. Officials have said that the transportation of vaccines from states and regional stores to divisions and districts would be done in cold boxes using insulated vaccine vans. Vaccines carriers with ice packs are used to transport vaccines from PHCs to the outreach sessions in the village, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-cargo-planes-to-vans-here-s-how-centre-plans-to-distribute-covid-19-vaccine/story-IgdjUkbSdhzh8So2Yq46bN.html
01-01-2021||India||FASTags are mandatory from January 1, only hybrid lanes to accept cash till Feb 15: All you need to know||The ministry of road transport and highways has made FASTags mandatory for all vehicles from January 1, 2021, in order to enhance digital payments and ease bottlenecks at highway toll counters. FASTags are reloadable tags usually attached to a vehicle’s windshield, enabling automatic deduction of toll charges on national highways. The ministry clarified on Thursday that even though FASTags will become mandatory from the first day of the new year, a hybrid lane for collecting toll fee will be operational till February 15.Read on to find out more about FASTag technology.What is a FASTag?FASTag is a sticker attached to the windshield and makes use of Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) technology, which is featured as a barcode. This is linked to the registration details of a vehicle and a bank account through which the toll charges are deducted. It is an entirely cashless transaction, made possible by the simple use of a FASTag scanner. What kind of vehicles have to avail FASTag?FASTags are currently mandatory only for four-wheelers, two-wheelers have been exempted. Two categories of vehicles: Category ‘M’ for four-wheelers carrying passengers, and Category ‘N’ for four-wheelers carrying goods, and in some cases may be also used to ferry passengers. Where can FASTag be bought and what kind of documents are required?Vehicle owners have to visit a Point of Sale (POS) location or an Issuer Agency to get a FASTag account created. A list of POS locations is available in the official website created for FASTag. For personal vehicles owners will need to carry their car registration, passport size photo, and ID proof, and address proof, a valid driving license acts as both an ID proof and address proof. What is the price and validity of a FASTag?Every vehicle owner has to pay a one-time deposit fee to avail a FASTag. The cost of which depends on the category of vehicle. It starts at Rs 200 for light vehicles like cars, vans, and jeeps, and goes up to Rs 500 for heavy vehicles like tractors, earthmoving machinery etc. The minimum recharge amount for light vehicles starts as low as Rs 100 and goes up to Rs 300 for heavier ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastags-are-mandatory-from-january-1-all-you-need-to-know/story-iWqBnPmt7ZuHxoUbBexErK.html
01-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In his New Year message, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In his New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm lawsTaking a veiled dig at the Centre for not repealing the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in this New Year’s message on Friday his heart was with the farmers who were fighting “unjust forces with dignity and honour”. Read MorePM Modi to lay foundation stone of Light House Projects at 6 sites todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects under the Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India) via video conferencing across six states. Read MoreWHO grants ‘emergency validation’ to Pfizer-BioNTech vaccineThe World Health Organization on Thursday granted emergency validation to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, paving the way for countries worldwide to quickly approve its import and distribution. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘Wouldn’t be too quick to judge Steve Smith,’ Australia’s assistant coach expects former captain and Marnus Labuschagne to find form soonSteve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne have failed to perform to the level they are expected to so far and Australia team’s inability to hold the ground during this rough patch has further hit them. Read MoreVidya Balan wasn’t first choice for Hum Paanch, said she was an ‘awkward teenager’ when she was castActor Vidya Balan broke into Bollywood with 2005’s Parineeta, but before that, she had already established herself in the television industry with a role in the hit sitcom Hum Paanch. Read MoreGoogle Doodle wishes Happy New Year with an adorable animationGoogle welcomed the New Year with a new doodle. The company that is known for its awe-generating animations went all-out for their New Year’s Day doodle. Read More‘January 1’ imparts some advice in heartening clip posted by Harsh GoenkaStarting off the first day of a new year can be an exciting experience. If you’re looking for some encouraging content to begin the day on the right foot, then here is a motivational video that you must watch. Read More‘Aim to represent India in Olympics’: 13-year-old Amairah ChadhaAmairah Chadha, the 13-year-old Equestrian, recently won two bronze medals at the Junior National Equestrian Championship held in Delhi in December 2020. Chadha speaks to Hindustan Times about her experience in the sport and the tournaments she is eyeing. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-his-new-year-message-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-veiled-dig-at-centre-over-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GciSQhibn74Fb9hAsW7smM.html
01-01-2021||India||MP farmers duped by traders outside Mandis, several arrested||State government in Madhya Pradesh continues to convince farmers about the efficacy of new farm laws introduced by the central government. However, a number of farmers from at least 10 districts have so far complained about being duped by traders outside Krishi Upaj Mandis. However, the state government claims to have taken tough action and the police have arrested accused in several cases. On Wednesday, police arrested two traders- Suresh Khoja and Pawan Khoja-- both residents of Khategaon in Dewas district, who purchased moong and gram worth Rs 1.73 crore from 22 farmers from Dewas, Harda, Sehore and Hoshangabad, but they didn’t pay to the farmers all that was due. As per the state government’s official communiqué, the farmers, in a joint memorandum, complained to sub-divisional magistrate concerned on Tuesday as per the provisions of the new laws-- Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act. The traders were booked under sections 420 and 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested from Indore the next day. Similar complaints from farmers having been duped by traders have been received from other places too. More than 70 farmers from Nandarwada village in Hoshangabad district had alleged that trader Aditya Raj purchased paddy worth Rs 85 lakh on December 23 from them but ran away without making the payment. Superintendent of police, Hoshangabad, Santosh Singh Gaur said the trader was arrested within 24 hours of the complaint. For five farmers of Ratlam district in the state, the sale of green peas, onion and garlic worth Rs 10 lakh to a trader in Satara in Maharashtra proved to be a nightmarish experience. The farmers were framed in a false case of kidnapping of the trader’s 11-year-old son when they visited him for payment. The farmers were booked under sections 364, 363, 504 and 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), arrested and sent to jail, stated a complaint, lodged with Bilpank police station in the district on December 9, by the father of one of the farmers.Also Read: In his New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm lawsSimilar complaints of cheating were received from farmers in Guna, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Balaghat and certain other districts. In a glaring example of malpractices in purchase of agriculture produce, a private paddy procurement centre at Semra village in Patan Tehsil of Jabalpur district was found to be purchasing paddy from farmers without any authorisation from the government. Thousands of quintals of paddy worth about Rs 5 crore were purchased before action was taken against the centre, as per officials. State president of Mandi Board Employees and Officers Association, Madhya Pradesh, Angira Pandey said, “Farmers were duped of more than Rs 20 crore in 15 to 20 districts after the new farm laws came into being. This is all because of the confusion and chaotic situation outside the mandis due to the farm laws.” Also Read: MP govt orders probe after EC flags distribution of unaccounted cashPandey said that when purchase of agriculture produce by registered traders was completely regulated by Mandis, such a large number of complaints didn’t surface. “Whenever there was any malpractice by any trader, the provisions in Krishi Upaj Mandi Act of 1972 gave immediate relief to the farmers by penalising the traders. But now, farmers are supposed to approach the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) concerned and may not get relief as fast as they used to get under the Krishi Upaj Mandi Act.” National president of youth wing of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh Rahul Sharma said, “Complaints by farmers of cheating by traders in almost every region of the state have corroborated our stand on the new farm laws that these are not in the interest of the farmers but the corporate houses. The central government should withdraw the farm laws and strengthen the Mandi system instead with guarantee of MSP to farmers on sale of agriculture produce.” Farmers welfare and agriculture minister Kamal Patel disagreed with the farmers’ associations. “It is because of the new farm laws that farmers are lodging complaints with the administrative authorities and the administration is taking tough action against the wrongdoers. In many cases, the accused were arrested by the police. Earlier, there was no such remedy.” He claimed that the farmers in Madhya Pradesh “understand well” that the farm laws are there to help them get enhanced income. “That’s why they are with the farm laws and the BJP government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-farmers-duped-by-traders-outside-mandis-several-arrested/story-CyQDaqESsTc9ltOnATQc3J.html
01-01-2021||India||Mercury drops to 1.1°C in Delhi; parts of N-W India record sub-zero temperatures||Delhi recorded the season’s lowest temperature at 1.1 degrees Celsius on Friday, according to Regional Meteorological Centre. There was very dense fog in Palam with 0 visibility till 7am. After 7am, visibility improved to around 150 metres.Many parts of the northwestern plains have recorded sub zero or near 0°C minimum temperatures in the last couple of days.On Thursday for example, Hisar and Narnaul in Haryana recorded -1.2°C and 0.5°C respectively; Bhatinda and Ballowal in Punjab recorded 0°C and 0.2°C respectively; Sikar and Pilani in east Rajasthan also recorded 0°C and 0.2°C respectively while Churu in west Rajasthan recorded -1.3°C. Pantnagar in Uttarakhand, Una in Himachal Pradesh recorded 0.1°C and 0.5°C, respectively.Also Read: Govt advises people to stay indoors, wear warm clothes as cold wave persistsWhile many of these places do record 0°C during most winters, this year the cold is definitely severe, scientists said.After December 12, western disturbances mostly affected the Western Himalayan region; under their influence, thee was significant snowfall and rainfall over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. “After the WD, cold northwesterly winds are blowing over Delhi NCR from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Uplifted fog cover over Punjab and Haryana is also making it colder. The effect of La Niña, a global meteorological phenomenon, also contributed to fall in temperatures over northwest India this year,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.A fresh active western disturbance likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains from January 3 onwards. It is likely to cause light to moderate snowfall over the western Himalayan region between January 3 and 6. Due to interaction between the western disturbance and lower level easterlies from Bay of Bengal, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm or hailstorm at isolated places is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh during January 2 to 5 with maximum intensity on January 4 and 5, India Meteorological Department said in its Thursday bulletin.Due to southeasterly winds over northwest and central India, minimum temperatures are likely to rise gradually by 3-5°C during the next 4 to 5 days. “Cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions are likely in some pockets over Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours. “Cold day” to “severe cold day” conditions are likely over some pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh during the next two days and over Himachal Pradesh during the next 24 hours.According to IMD, a “cold day” or “severe cold day” is considered based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees and maximum temperature is 4.5°C or 6.4°C below normal respectively. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures is lower than normal.Dense to very dense fog is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and dense fog is likely over parts of Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next two days and over Uttarakhand, west Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours. Ground frost is likely over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and north Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.“During many years, minimum temperatures in Churu, Ganganagar, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, Hisar etc reach 0°C because these places are in desert regions where nights can be extremely cold but day temperatures are relatively higher so people don’t feel the bitter cold here. Climatologically we are in the peak of winter and there is an impact of cold winds from snow-clad mountains which is making even the plains reach sub-zero temperatures. Minimum temperatures are likely to rise significantly from January 2 due to the approaching western disturbance,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Niño is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Niña is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.“We have already said that below normal temperatures are expected over northwest India through the winter. We know that cold westerlies tend to enter inland during La Niña years which is also why winter is more pronounced,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at India Meteorological Department, Pune, had said last week explaining the impact of La Niña.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-drops-to-1-6-c-in-delhi-parts-of-n-w-india-record-sub-zero-temperatures-in-last-2-days/story-4ifVVuOA7eioYOEI4gvJBL.html
01-01-2021||India||In New Year greetings, Rahul Gandhi takes a veiled dig at Centre over farm laws||Taking a veiled dig at the Centre for not repealing the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in this New Year’s message on Friday his heart was with the farmers who were fighting “unjust forces with dignity and honour”. “As the New Year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy New Year to all,” he tweeted. As the new year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy new year to all. pic.twitter.com/L0esBsMeqWThe Congress leader has spoken up on several occasions in support of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year. On December 24, after meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind along with other party members to discuss demands made by the farmers, Rahul Gandhi said, ”India is now an imaginary democracy”.On December 27 too, he targeted the Centre over the protests, saying that the farmers should keep walking and not be scared of the ‘bluster of the government’. He used a modified version of Dwarkaprasad Maheshwari’s popular poem “Veer Tum Badhe Chalo” to make the point. “Keep walking O brave one, patiently you move ahead. Doesn’t matter if there is a water cannon shower or bluster/bravado, you don’t fear, O fearless one. You remain firm, and walk on. O ‘annadata’, you keep walking,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Thousands of farmers have been protesting for over a month against the new farm laws. Their demand that the three farm laws be completely repealed has not been accepted by the government. Even after several rounds of talks between the two parties, the government has only suggested amending the laws. The farmers have, however, said they will accept nothing less than complete repealing of these laws.Another round of meetings between the government and representatives of the farmers is scheduled to take place on January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-his-new-year-greetings-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-veiled-dig-at-centre/story-yYHxrnNE67cJWQHDaVQFjP.html
01-01-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Light House Projects at 6 sites today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects under the Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India) via video conferencing across six states. The virtual event will take place at 11am.The PM made the announcement on Twitter. “On the first day of 2021, will be taking part in a programme aimed at transforming India’s urban landscape. Will lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects and distribute PMAY (Urban) and ASHA-India awards,” he tweeted. On the first day of 2021, will be taking part in a programme aimed at transforming India’s urban landscape. Will lay the foundation stone of Light House Projects and distribute PMAY (Urban) and ASHA-India awards. Join Live at 11 AM. https://t.co/Eu3qx8xRVCHouses for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) are being built in Indore, Chennai, Ranchi, Agartala, Lucknow and Rajkot under the LHP project to provide shelter to the urban poor using GHTC technology. Over 1,000 houses will be built in each of the aforementioned cities under this project.PM Modi will also announce winners under Affordable Sustainable Housing Accelerators - India (ASHA-India) - and give out annual awards for excellence in implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) Mission, the Prime Minister’s Office said.During the event, he will release a certificate course on innovative construction technologies named ‘NAVARITIH’ (New, Affordable, Validated, Research Innovation Technologies for Indian Housing) and a compendium of 54 innovative housing construction technologies identified through GHTC-India, the PMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-light-house-projects-at-6-sites-today/story-WE87aXnSvCpmvAFpDMfhqI.html
01-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights: Next round of talks with govt will be held on January 4, says Yogendra Yadav||Protests against the three agricultural laws reached day 37 on Friday, the first day of a new decade. Sixth round of talks took place between the government and the farmers’ unions on Wednesday, with the two sides arriving at a consensus on two of the four issues raised by the farmers. However, deadlock continues on the two main demands: legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the contentious laws. However, as the meeting took place in a “positive” atmosphere, and ended with a consensus on two demands, the farmer leaders postponed till January 4, their proposed tractor rally against the laws. January is the date the seventh round of talks will take place.Also Read | Ringing in New Year with slogans and songs of resistance at Delhi’s Singhu borderThursday, day 36 of the stir, saw Kerala become the first state to pass a resolution against the laws. Also on Thursday, a group of farmers, protesting at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, broke police barricades and entered Haryana, even as the Haryana Police fired tear gas shells and water cannons .Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, demanding a repeal of what they describe as “black laws.” They have repeatedly stressed that they have come prepared for the “long haul” and won’t go back till the laws are repealed.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Barricades broken, police fire tear gas in RajasthanOf the six round of talks, four have taken place in December itself, on 1, 3, 5 and 30 December.Follow all major highlights of the day here:Govt hopeful of “positive outcome” at next meeting with farmers’ unions: Narendra Singh TomarGovt hopeful of “positive outcome” at next meeting with farmers’ unions on Jan 4: Agri Minister Narendra Singh Tomar tells PTI.If January 4 meeting with government fails, will announce dates for shutting all malls etc: Farmer unionsIf January 4 meeting with government fails to end deadlock, we will announce dates for shutting all malls, petrol pumps in Haryana: Farmer unions.Claims that 50 percent of issues have been resolved are false: Yogendra YadavThe claims that 50 percent of issues have been resolved are false. Our two main demands — three farm bills should be scrapped and legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) are still pending: Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj India.Next round of talks with govt will be held on January 4: Yogendra YadavThe next round of talks with govt will be held on January 4, 2021 and if our demands are not accepted, we will hold march at Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) on January 6. We will announce a date about when and move forward from Shahjahanpur border: Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj India.Stalin writes to Tamil Nadu CM seeking special assembly session to bring resolution against Centre’s farm lawsDravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin on Friday wrote a letter to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E Palaniswamy, seeking a special assembly session to bring resolution against Centre’s farm laws.Turban langar organised by ‘Khalsa Youth Group’ at Singhu Border Turban langar organised by ‘Khalsa Youth Group’ at Singhu Border for protesting farmers today.‘Nagar Kirtan’ held at Singhu border‘Nagar Kirtan’ organised at Singhu border where farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws for over 30 days. 'Nagar Kirtan' organised at Singhu border where farmers have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws for over 30 days pic.twitter.com/aFwCCetJNMFarmers not convinced by government’s outreachThe government has, on several occasions, reached out to the farmers, but has not been able to convince them. PM Modi has clarified several times that the MSP will stay and, on December 30, defence minister Rajnath Singh gave an in-depth interview to ANI, but that hasn’t worked thus far.DMK chief MK Stalin urges Tamil Nadu CM to hold special assembly sessionDMK chief MK Stalin writes to Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami to hold a special assembly session to bring a resolution against the Centre’s farm laws.Chilla and Ghazipur borders closed for traffic to Delhi, says traffic policeChilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmers’ protest: Delhi Traffic PoliceAlso Read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic diverted to other routesMy heart is with the farmers: Rahul Gandhi’s New Year greetings“As the new year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy new year to all,” tweets Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. As the new year begins, we remember those who we lost and thank all those who protect and sacrifice for us. My heart is with the farmers and labourers fighting unjust forces with dignity and honour. Happy new year to all. pic.twitter.com/L0esBsMeqWAnti-farm law protests enter day 37Protests against the three farm laws entered day 37 on Friday, two days after the sixth round of talks between the government and the farmers’ unions ended with the two sides agreeing on two of the four demands raised by the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-1-2021/story-iHHv8HeXh4jeB2UvPzITVO.html
01-01-2021||India||Govt looks to acquire forest land for mining in Korba||The coal ministry has issued a notification on its intention to acquire 712.072 hectares (ha) and all rights over the land for mining coal in Madanpur South coal block in Korba district of Chhattisgarh, whose government has been considering declaring the rich forest area an elephant reserve. According to the notification published on December 24, 489.274 ha is protected forest land and 159.327 comprises revenue and other forest land.The intention to acquire the land has been notified under provisions of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act. The law says that if the central government is satisfied that coal is obtainable from a tract of land, it can give notice of its intention to acquire it.But diversion of the forest land for non-forest use hasn’t taken place yet because the Chhattisgarh government was considering declaring it an elephant reserve.“We have not started the process of diversion of forest land. I cannot say anything on whether or when it will be diverted. The issue of extending the elephant reserve is still under consideration,” said Rakesh Chaturvedi, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) in Chhattisgarh“Since the elephant reserve hasn’t been notified yet commenting on its boundaries will be premature. The government will take a call,” said PVN Rao, PCCF (wildlife) in Chhattisgarh.Environmental activists and legal researchers have raised several concerns with the intention to acquire large biodiversity rich forest land located in the Hasdeo Arand region-- one of the largest contiguous stretches of very dense forests in central India spanning 170,000 ha which has 22 coal blocks underneath.“The central government has issued a notification to acquire the same forest land for which a process for diversion is pending, especially because the state government is looking to declare the area as an elephant reserve and the local Gram Sabhas have refused to grant consent,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research think tank.“This raises a serious legal question on the validity of the notification issued under the Coal Bearing Areas Act, 1957 which is seeking to acquire government forest land. But more importantly, it highlights the failure of cooperative federalism as both the state and central governments appear to have visualized a different future for the Hasdeo Arand region where the Madanpur South coal block is located,” Kohli said.Alok Shukla, convenor of the Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, a non-government organisation, said the government should consult the local gram sabha (village council).“I think acquiring forest land like this completely goes against the provisions of Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act. Recently four coal blocks in the Hasdeo region were saved from being auctioned after state government said they have rich, dense forest cover. This block is also in Hasdeo Arand and the catchment of Hasdeo river is located here so why is it being acquired for mining? First there should be detailed consultation with people of the region and state government should oppose this move by the Centre,” he said Asked whether the Centre had considered the impact of mining in an elephant habitat and rich forest area, a senior coal ministry official said on condition of anonymity : “The queries are premature. The notification talks merely of intention to acquire. The objective is precisely to find out the intricacies based on which a decision will be made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-to-acquire-forest-land-for-mining-in-korba/story-gxOmysuzzjvjB0M0irMCGJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Asked to pay for cigarette, Uttarakhand policeman kills shop owner||A police constable killed a 28-year-old cigarette shop owner by crushing him under his car, enraged because the man had asked him to pay for the cigarette he bought . The incident took place on Wednesday in Bazpur area of Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district. The cigarette seller, identified as Guarav Rohella, was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. Following the incident, Rohella’s family members and a large number of local residents gathered at Bazpur police station with his body, demanding action against the constable, who fled after committing the crime.  “In the initial investigation it was found that the incident happened at around 10.30pm when the accused constable Praveen Kumar, his brother-in-law Jivan Kumar and another person, Gaurav Rathore ,came to Rohella’s shop in their car,” said Dipshikha Agarwal, circle officer, Bazpur . “There, they asked him for cigarette which he gave them. When they started leaving without payment, Rohella asked Praveen to pay for the cigarette which enraged him. He along with his two accomplices started abusing him, resulting in a heated argument between the three accused and Rohella and his brother Ajay who too was present at the shop. It was thenthat Praveen started his car and crushed him under it,” Agarwal added. Agarwal said the police arrested the three men on Thursday morning. They were booked for murder, intentional insult and criminal intimidation under sections 302, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code on the basis of a complaint filed by Rohella’s brother Ajay. . Uttarakhand’s director general of police Ashok Kumarsaid he had taken serious note of the case and ordered the district police to take strict action against the three men, “No accused would be spared in the case and strict action would be taken against them. I appeal all not to disturb the law and order,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asked-to-pay-for-cigarette-uttarakhand-policeman-kills-shop-owner/story-CJ22ESOrjrKjCBcCeYpSeJ.html
01-01-2021||India||MP govt orders probe after EC flags distribution of unaccounted cash||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday asked its economic offence wing (EOW) to conduct an inquiry after the Election Commission of India (ECI) wrote to it that officials, including three Indian Police Service officers and a state police service officer, were involved in unauthorised distribution of unaccounted-for cash during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.The state government’ ordered the inquiry in a letter written to the EOW. “ECI’s letter is attached with Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT)’s detailed report (4 volumes) dated October 28, 2020,” the letter written by the General Administration Department (GAD) said.The ECI’s letter was forwarded to the state government in the third week of December by Madhya Pradesh’s chief electoral officer Veera Rana. The ECI recently summoned Madhya Pradesh chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Rajora before it on January 5 after the state government failed to take any action on its letter.The GAD’s letter quoted the ECI’s instructions to the chief electoral officer, which read: “In view of the above, Commission had directed to forward copy of the report of CBDT dated October 28, 2020, along with an extract of list of government servants involved, to lodge criminal action before designated authority, e.g. Economic Offences Wing, state of Madhya Pradesh against concerned for violation as per extant electoral and other relevant laws. In case of need for further information in this regard the same may be further sought from CBDT.” The GAD’s letter further states, “The CEO’s and the ECI’s letters are being forwarded with annexure and detailed report of the CBDT for analysing the available facts and necessary legal action. The same is being forwarded after sanction to the same from the competent authority.” The officials’ names were found in documents seized during Income Tax raids conducted at the establishments of RK Miglani, political advisor to the then chief minister Kamal Nath, the former CM’s then officer on special duty (OSD) Praveen Kakkad and some of their associates in April 2019 in Bhopal and Delhi, officials have said. The amounts mentioned in the annexure against the names of IPS officers include Rs 12.50 crore, Rs 30 lacs and Rs 25 lacs while the amount mentioned against the name of the state police service officer is Rs 7.5 crore. Superintendent of police, EOW, Rajesh Kumar said: “We have received the recommendation from the state government. We are in the process of lodging a preliminary enquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-orders-probe-after-ec-flags-distribution-of-unaccounted-cash/story-uBzIYLRsCqwUtqAfmgSZXN.html
01-01-2021||India||The Number Theory| A decade of rightward shift in Indian politics||As 2020 comes to an end, West Bengal, even though assembly elections will only take place in April-May 2021, has emerged as the most keenly watched political theatre. Things were not very different 10 years ago. Back then, it was the 34-year-old Communist Party of India Marxist (CPI-M) led Left Front government whose future was at stake from an aggressive All India Trinamool Congress (AITC). Today, it is the AITC which faces the challenge of surviving the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) political challenge. Ironic as it may sound, the BJP’s rise in the state has been facilitated by a large-scale shift of CPI-M supporters to the former. The West Bengal story, in a way, is symptomatic of how politics took a decisive rightward shift in India in the past 10 years. Here are four charts which put this in perspective.1. From existential crisis to the new hegemon: The BJP’s comeback decadeAfter a shock defeat in the 2004 elections, the BJP fought the 2009 elections with Lal Krishna Advani as its prime-minister candidate. The party managed to win only 116 Lok Sabha seats, its worst performance since the 1991 polls. The BJP did not win any major assembly election on its own in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Things started looking up after Anna Hazare’s anti-corruption movement of 2011 made a huge dent to Congress’s popularity. By the time Narendra Modi won his third term as the Gujarat chief minister in December 2012, the tables had turned. The BJP repeated its victories in major state polls in 2013 and became the first party since 1984 to get a majority of its own in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. The fact that it improved its 2014 performance in 2019 laid to rests any doubts about the fact that it had become the new hegemon in Indian politics. The Congress, on the other hand, has failed to get its act together at the national level, and in some ways is still haunted by the ghosts of the 2011 Anna movement. Chart 1: !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();2. Mirror image of the rise of the right: An emaciated leftIn 2010, the Communist parties were running governments in three states: West Bengal, Kerala and Tripura. While the communists in Kerala can be relieved from the results of the recently concluded local body elections – they make the CPI (M )-led Left Democratic Front the favourite in the assembly polls next year – the left has suffered severe reverses in West Bengal and Tripura. In these states, it is the right which has eaten up the left, although in different ways. In Bengal, the left started losing its support-base to the BJP from 2014 onwards, a process that only gained further momentum in 2019. In Tripura, when the Left Front lost to the BJP in the 2018 assembly polls, the BJP and the CPI(M) were almost neck and neck in vote share. But, in the 2019 elections, the CPI(M) was relegated to a distant third with the Congress making a comeback as the BJP’s nearest rival. Thanks to a rout in West Bengal and Tripura and just one seat in Kerala, the Left recorded its worst ever performance in 2019. Chart 2: !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();3. Political othering of Muslims: New India’s Modus VivendiIf there is one fact which defines the BJP’s rise as the dominant political force in the last 10 years, it is its politics of othering of Muslims, who make up more than 14% of India’s 1.3 billion people. The present regime has successfully spearheaded the three core issues of building a Ram temple in Ayodhya, the revocation of Article 370 that offered special status to Muslim-majority Jammu and Kashmir; and criminalisation of the Muslim practice of Triple Talaq. Hindutva has pushed the envelope further with issues like (politically) clubbing the National Register of Citizens with a Citizenship Amendment Act; which includes citizens of all major religions in India except Muslims or the recent laws against inter-community marriages in the name of preventing so-called love jihad. This rhetoric has been accompanied in praxis by the BJP fielding very few Muslim candidates in all elections and a sharp fall in the share of Muslim MPs in the Lok Sabha in 2014 and 2019. To be sure, the share of Muslim MPs in the Lok Sabha was the lowest in the 1962 elections, not in 2019. Chart 3: !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();4. Surviving in the age of Hindu consolidation: The biggest challenge for any third political alternativeThe decade of 1990s and 2000s were the age of coalition politics in India. Even though the country had a Congress or BJP Prime Minister for most of this period, they were dependent on other parties for survival. If one looks at the Lok Sabha elections since 1984, when the BJP fought its first poll battle, the vote share of non-Congress, non-BJP parties reached an all-time high of 52.6% in 2009. This fell by almost ten percentage points by 2019. While part of the fall is explained by a shrinking of the left, the rise of political Hindutva had also contributed to this phenomenon. The biggest example of this was seen in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when despite being in an alliance, the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party could not prevent the BJP from sweeping Uttar Pradesh once again. In many other states, the BJP has been successful in usurping regional movements and parties by giving it a religious colour; the Assam Gana Parishad and All Assam Students’ Union in Assam are examples. Whether or not the AITC survives the BJP’s onslaught is the biggest question as we end 2020. Chart 4: !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Source: TCPD, Election Commission of India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-number-theory-a-decade-of-rightward-shift-in-indian-politics/story-GkQ5PIcrq3czjoOeWzPhxI.html
01-01-2021||India||Night curbs in metros to ensure Covid-safe revelry||Authorities in Delhi have announced night-time restrictions to prevent gatherings in public places on December 31 and January 1, joining metro cities such as Mumbai and Bengaluru that introduced varying degrees of curbs to curtail New Year celebrations in the backdrop of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) epidemic.According to an order issued late on Wednesday, over five people are not allowed to assemble at public places in the Capital from 11pm on Thursday to 6am on Friday, and then again from 11pm on Friday to 6am on Saturday.This order — it cited the infectious mutant UK strain that has been detected in Delhi — does not apply to “licensed premises” such as hotels, clubs and pubs, which already follow social distancing measures and Covid-19 guidelines drafted by government authorities. “On such premises, Covid-19 guidelines like limit of persons, mandatory wearing of masks and ensuring other Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will apply,” Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev said on Thursday.There was no restriction on gatherings in residential premises. The order made it clear that there was no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods.The order issued by Dev, who is also the chairman of the executive committee of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), effectively bans large gatherings at places such as the India Gate, a popular destination in the city on New Year’s eve and New Year’s day.DDMA is in charge of implementation and enforcement of Covid-19-related regulations and management strategies in the city. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal is its chairperson. The order said a “detailed assessment of the situation in Delhi has been made”, and “considering the threat posed by the mutant UK strain of Covid-19 virus and after observing local incidents of Covid-19 pandemics in Delhi”, authorities feared that “gatherings, congregations and public celebrations in New Year pose a considerable threat of spread of the virus”.All district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police in Delhi were told to ensure strict compliance of the restrictions. Violations can attract an imprisonment of up to six months, said a government official who did not want to be identified.Several teams of revenue officials will be deployed for surveillance and enforcement of broader Covid-19 guidelines at popular public places such as Connaught Place till January 2, a second official said, requesting anonymity. He added that officials were authorised prosecute people not wearing masks and not following social distancing norms, as specified by authorities in previous orders.Read more| Delhi records 574 Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours, one of the lowest in monthsThe official said the idea of night-time restrictions was discussed at a DDMA meet chaired by LG Baijal on Wednesday. “In the meeting, the L-G reviewed the Covid-19 situation and concerns were raised over patients of the UK strain being detected in Delhi,” he said.Authorities across the country, including those in Delhi, are on alert in view of the emergence of the mutant strain of the coronavirus that was first detected in London and Kent in mid-September. India has suspended flights to and from the UK until January 7 from December 31. While the new strain is more infectious, there is no evidence to suggest that it increases the severity of the disease.As of Thursday, India has reported 25 cases of the new strain; at least four of them are Delhi residents.Delhi has reported 625,369 cases and 10,536 deaths since the beginning of the outbreak in March. On Thursday, the city recorded 574 cases and 13 fatalities.Overall, India has reported 10,286,236 cases of Covid-19 and 149,034 deaths. The seven-day average has dropped to 19,828, down from the peak of 93,617 for the week ending September 16. “At this juncture, people should not let their guards down, even though the number of new cases in India is on a decline. Across several other countries, there is a spike in cases and things for India can also change any moment. People should avoid gatherings,” Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in premier scientific body Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said.Read more| Night curbs imposed in Delhi on December 31 and January 1 from 11pm to 6amThe city’s business community hinted at muted, and cautious, New Year’s celebrations.“We have already been following Covid-19 guidelines ever since restaurants were reopened (on June 8 after a lockdown announced on March 25 to contain the spread of the disease)...We will follow those guidelines during New Year’s celebration as well. Restaurants will operate at 50% capacity and there will be no entry of guests without masks. Thermal screening will be mandatory along with hand sanitisation,” said Sanjeev Mehra, president of the Khan Market Traders Association.Not just Delhi, cities across India stared at low-key New Year’s Day celebrations with stringent restrictions in place. For instance, the Maharashtra government has imposed night-time restrictions from December 22 to January 5, prohibiting assembly of four or more people in Mumbai and other cities. Gatherings in restaurants, bars and pubs will not be allowed after 11pm. There is no restriction on visiting friends, relatives and public places, but not in a group of over four people, the police added.Unlike in the past, revellers in Bengaluru will not be able to gather in large numbers in popular spots such as MG Road, Brigade Road, Koramangala and Indira Nagar due to restrictions, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters on Thursday.Prohibitory orders banning the gathering of over four people in public places was in place in the tech hub from Thursday noon to 6am on Friday. Hotels and restaurants were allowed to function, but only till midnight. The government has already prohibited DJ dance programmes and special events at clubs, pubs and restaurants that attract people in large numbers.The Tamil Nadu government banned celebrations on roads and beaches, including the Marina Beach, till Friday. The Chennai Police will curtail movement on key roads after 10pm on Thursday. Hotels, restaurants and bars will have to close by this cut-off time.In West Bengal, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the state government will not impose night-time restrictions, but will take precautionary measures to prevent gatherings. “New Year celebrations are organised at a few places in West Bengal. If people abide by the Covid-19 safety protocols and cooperate with the police and administration, gatherings can be avoided,” he told news agency PTI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curbs-in-metros-to-ensure-covid-safe-revelry/story-0d9JwqwwES6tSnFYtRXX4N.html
01-01-2021||India||FAQs about immunisation answered||How safe are vaccines?The three leading candidates have not shown any significant adverse reactions among the tens of thousands of volunteers who were vaccinated during the large-scale trials. The vaccines have been tested in healthy people and more data from those in vulnerable groups is being derived. The regulatory approval processes, in India as well as advanced markets such as the US and the UK, closely scrutinise adverse effects and a vaccine is approved only when it is safe and effective by design. Thorough checks are also in place on the production side as well as during logistics.What about the allergy reactions reported from other countries?Cases of anaphylaxis — a severe allergic shock — have been reported from a handful of people from among the close to three million people vaccinated across the world. Experts have since determined that these were because the individuals were allergic to particular ingredients in the vaccine similar to how people might have specific food allergies but be able to tolerate most other things. On December 30, UK authorities updated their advisory to say that only people with history of known allergies to any of the vaccine ingredients must exercise caution and that there is no risk for others.In India, recipients will be monitored for 30 minutes for signs of an allergic reaction, which can normally be addressed quickly.How soon can I get a vaccine?If you are a health worker or in a front line job such as police or the military, then you are among people first in line to receive a dose. After that, people above the age of 50 and those under it but with comorbid health conditions that make them more vulnerable to Covid-19 will be vaccinated. Together, these groups are expected to account for the first 300 million who will need to be given doses. The government has set a tentative target to complete this process by the summer, which means if you fall in any of these categories, you may get it in the next six months. For others, the wait may be longer and there have been talks of allowing private market sales, which could let people buy doses at market rates.Am I safe after the first shot?No. People will need to maintain precautions until they get the booster dose, since all three vaccines approved till now involve a two-dose regimen. Once both doses are given, it might take up to two weeks to build protective immunity.How long will it protect me?It is still unclear how long immunity to Sars-CoV-2 lasts, whether it is triggered by natural infection or through a vaccine. Research has shown that antibodies could last around six months, which makes chances of reinfection low. But another component of the immune system — the adaptive immunity that also includes memory cells — may remember the infection for years, as it does with coronaviruses. This, scientists estimate, can help avert a serious disease later on, even if it doesn’t stop a reinfection.Will the new variant make vaccines ineffective?The vaccines target the spike protein, which includes several of the 17 changes in a new mutation has spread widely in the UK and is believed to be more transmissible. Experts, however, say the changes are not significant enough to make the vaccines obsolete. All major vaccine developers are saying they are carrying out additional tests to determine for sure. But, even if a future variant does, the vaccines can be re-engineered quickly to fight off any new mutation that reduces their efficacy.Is one vaccine better than the other?Efficacy rates among the leading vaccines have had varying levels in clinical trials. Their early assessments also showed that some such as the mRNA platform vaccines are better than others, such as those that use the inactivated virus platform. But all of these appear to be above the 50% bar set by regulators for efficacy. In the initial phase of the roll-out, experts believe that any vaccine with an efficacy level of above 50% will help in slowing down the pandemic.How quickly can vaccines lead to herd immunity?This depends on the population of the country. As on December 30, Israel had vaccinated the most number of people per capita, with more than seven people per 100 having gotten the shot, Our World in Data statistics showed. In comparison, the per 100 people vaccination in the US, which delivered 2.13 million doses as of December 28, was a mere 0.64. For a country like India, hence, herd immunity may take longer to achieve. In the mean time, the primary objective would be to gives vaccines to those most at risk of death or hospitalisations — a cohort that largely includes people in higher age brackets and with comorbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faqs-about-immunisation-answered/story-OQAXjodG2oAxTuxAgPWUSI.html
01-01-2021||India||2021: Year of the shot in the Arm||For the next couple of years, the world’s most vied for commodity will not be a metal, currency, or even time; it will arrive in delicate glass vials – each with no more than 10 to 20 drops. Often, shipping it will require not only a fragile warning, but packs of dry ice and, perhaps, even security. Upon arriving at its destination, it will be delivered as a shot in the arm, each injection carrying not just a vaccine, but also an eventual way out of a pandemic that has devastated the world.As of December 31, there are three coronavirus vaccines approved in the world after due scientific process. Made by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca, each drug has largely passed rigorous scrutiny to check for their safety and efficacy. At the time of this writing, a handful of countries have begun administering them to their citizens, setting the pace for what is likely to dominate 2021 – a year that will be measured not by how much of the past we leave behind, but how much of it we can go back to.The experiences in the US, the UK, and several European countries over 2020 have demonstrated that the factory-to-syringe process can throw up several challenges, and that even the most resourceful of nations can struggle with a process that can be as labyrinthine as it needs to be precise. This process involves identifying the people who need to be inoculated against the virus most urgently, ensuring that each dose is maintained at the right temperature, and requiring close follow-up to monitor for adverse reactions and then -- three or four weeks later -- bringing back vaccine recipients for a booster. The urgency of it is hastened by the threat of a new variant of the virus that threatens to accelerate the pandemic even further. FIRST-MILE CHALLENGEIn 2021, vaccine makers and their production partners have projected that they will be able to make 20 billion doses cumulatively, according to the Unicef’s Covid-19 Vaccine Market Dashboard. The number, however, is unlikely to remain at this level. Some have recently made subtractions. AstraZeneca and its partners have, for instance, pared back end-of-December projections from 400 million to a little over 100 million. At the same time, analysts expect a big bump in production later in 2021.“In the first six months, there is definitely going to be a situation where there is shortage globally; nobody can help that. We will see that easing off by August-September because you will have other vaccine manufacturers also being able to supply… Eventually everyone is going to get it; of course some countries will have to wait a little longer,” Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of Serum Institute of India, said on Tuesday. SII is manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and has contracts for several others that are further down the pipeline.According to science analytics company Airfinity, the three approved candidates together have a declared production capacity of around 4.8 billion doses by the end of 2021. The other candidates for which a large number of doses are expected this year are being developed by Novavax, Johnson & Johnson/Janssen and Sanofi/GSK. Together, they have plans to produce about 4.1 billion doses, but they are yet to complete large-scale trials that the approved vaccines have. NOT JUST ABOUT DOSESBut production-line bottlenecks are still further downstream. Airfinity’s assessments also point to a possible shortage of vials and syringes that could slow down packaging and delivery, even if the inoculations are made in ample volumes. At present, roughly nine billion syringes and vials are produced annually across the world, the company’s latest assessments showed.In 2021, syringe production is expected to be expanded to a little over 12 billion, and vials to around 15.5 billion – but these numbers are still short of the expected vaccine production. Most vaccine makers are now switching to larger vials that can hold 5-10 doses to overcome part of the shortage.These problems are overtaken still by the strict temperature demands of some of these vaccines, particularly the mRNA shots developed by Moderna and Prizer-BioNTech that need to be kept frozen. The latter needs temperatures of -70 degrees C – colder than most typical cold-storage infrastructure capacities. Public health officials estimate that ultimately, up to 15% of the stocks may be lost to wastage. THE BILLION-PEOPLE QUESTIONShipping vials to destinations, however, is likely to pale in comparison to the challenge of profiling and managing millions of recipients, some of whom may need a dose sooner than others. The challenge is particularly acute in countries with large populations and geographic areas such as India.According to the Indian government’s tentative priority list, around 300 million people have been placed first in line for vaccinations. Comprising health care workers, frontline essential service workers such as police and firefighters, and people above the age of 50 (as well as those younger people with comorbid conditions), these are groups deemed most at risk of an infection or severe disease. The government hopes these groups will get a vaccine by July – meaning that should the rollout begin in January, India will need to vaccinate roughly upwards of 1.5 million people every day.“To be able to effectively reach the target population for the Covid-19 vaccination, India will need to utilise its existing national immunisation network, including the infrastructure (production, storage, transport, delivery facilities) as well as the human resources (vaccinators, supervisors, etc.). However, given the scale of the vaccination effort required for Covid-19, the effort will need to build on existing networks. This needs to be planned for, budgeted, and efforts made to put this in place ahead of a vaccine being available,” said Anant Bhan, a researcher in global health, health policy and bioethics.When, who and where are some of the most crucial questions in the vaccination arithmetic, with countries likely to follow different strategies, based on what they plan to target most with their inoculation programme. For instance, Israel, a small country with a relatively small population, has prioritised people aged over 60, health care workers, carers, and high-risk people. It also boasts, at present, the world’s fastest vaccination drive, having covered close to 8% of its population. The country’s objective is herd immunity.The UK, by comparison, is prioritising its oldest population. The country is in the grip of its worst-yet wave of infections and hospitals in many regions have surpassed their surge capacities. Its officials on Wednesday declared that they will focus on getting as many people as possible vaccinated to reduce the load on its health care system, even if that means booster shots are delayed. NATURE OF THE RACEAmong the top 10 countries with the most doses of vaccines administered by the end of 2020, eight are advanced economies. Early in December, international advocacy groups including Amnesty International, Frontline AIDS, Global Justice Now, and Oxfam, which are part of an alliance calling for a People’s Vaccine, said rich nations representing roughly 14% of the world’s population have bought up 53% of the most promising vaccines so far. Citing data from eight leading vaccine candidates in Phase 3 trials that have struck substantial deals with countries worldwide, the groups estimated that nine of 10 people are likely to not get a vaccine in 2021.“When you get into a pandemic, the normal market mechanism will take the scarce resources and only make them available to the richest countries, and the richest people in those countries,” said Bill Gates, the co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, in an interview to HT in December.Gates and his organisation assist multilateral arrangements, such as Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance in building Covax, a WHO-led initiative to pool resources to help bring vaccines to lower-middle income countries.Concerns about the inequities caused by the pandemic being perpetuated in the race to secure a vaccine have led some experts to advocate for more creative solutions. Nobel laureate economist Richard Thaler wrote in the New York Times on December 9 about letting celebrities and wealthy people jump the vaccination queue by bidding for spots at an auction. The bids, he suggested, could be used to “to redistribute money from the rich to the poor”.Such ideas found support among some bioethics academicians: “My idea is that instead of dollars, [wealthy] people should bid on sending units of vaccines to the Global South,” Peter Singer, a bioethics professor at Princeton, said at a discussion hosted by the NYT on December 24.These conversations have been taking place since much earlier in the pandemic, when experts began calling on policymakers to heed to principles of equity. “Some wealthy countries will likely end up with substantial amounts of vaccine. Over time, if all goes well, these countries will have to decide how much product they’re going to keep and how much, if any, they’re willing to share,” Johns Hopkins bioethicist Ruth Faden, a member of World Health Organization’s Covid-19 Vaccines Working Group, said during a university interview on July 1.While it remains to be seen if this will come true, some encouraging signs came in December when Canada – which has secured the most per capita doses – announced it will consider giving away its excess doses.GROWING THREATThe discovery of a new variant in the UK, which has grown rapidly in parts of the country and accelerated the outbreak, is quickly becoming a cause for concern. Scientists are racing to uncover more about its biology and what it means for the pandemic, but early indications suggest it is yet more capable of infecting people, and possibly even infecting groups (children) that were largely protected till now.While the variant does not seem to be making the current vaccine options obsolete, it will likely make the dash for doses more intense. “The emergence of this mutant definitely reinforces the importance of vaccinating as many people as fast as possible with Covid vaccines, and to be vigilant about mask wearing and social distancing,” wrote Shane Crotty, a professor at La Jolla Institute for Immunology.The start of 2021 and much of its first few months could, thus, revolve around these problems. The conversation will at first be dominated by how well, or badly, countries are able to speed up vaccine delivery. Along with it is likely to run a debate on who should be first in line to get a dose and the complex moral calculus of such decisions.But what may turn out to be the most watched aspect is how well, and how long, vaccines will really protect us – and whether this will be enough to stay ahead of an evolving pathogen. (With inputs from Rhythma Kaul)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2021-year-of-the-shot-in-the-arm/story-0fkeViBAf7Pmxd4EBSwcDJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Barricades broken, police fire tear gas in Rajasthan||The Haryana Police on Thursday lathicharged farmers and fired tear gas shells after a group broke barricades at Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan in their attempt to march towards the national capital.Hundreds of farmers, mainly from Rajasthan and Haryana, have been agitating at the Shahjahanpur border in Alwar district against three contentious farm bills that they say will hurt them. Tensions flared up on Thursday as some of them on tractor-trailers tried to force their way into neighbouring Haryana. As the group pressed forward and removed barricades on the Jaipur-Delhi National Highway, the Haryana Police tried to stop them using a water cannon and tear gas even as their leaders urged them not go towards the national capital.“Haryana police used mild force on agitating farmers and also fired half-a-dozen tear gas shells when farmers tried to enter Haryana,” Bhiwadi superintendent of police Ram Murti Joshi said.While farmers on around 25 tractor-trailers pushed past the Haryana Police barriers, others stayed behind on the Rajasthan side, police said, according to news agency PTI. It reported that farmer leaders at the site made it clear that the protesters who forced their way into Haryana did not have their consent.Read more| Farmers to welcome New Year at Singhu as protest continues | 10 points“Haryana Police detained nearly 200 farmers seated on tractor trolleys,” Joshi added. Rewari superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal told PTI over the phone that there were some young people “who came with tractors and broke through the barricades”. “We tried to stop them and gently persuade them. However, they were very aggressive and turned violent. They were not even listening to farmer leaders,” he added.Another police officer said the group became violent and at least one of them tried to drive his tractor in a reckless manner, endangering lives of police personnel and some others who tried to stop it.Meanwhile, farmers’ leaders at Shahjahanpur called for peace in the agitation.“We are sitting here peacefully and asking our members not to resort to violence,” Kisan Mahapanchayat president Rampal Jat said. “We have sent some of our members to talk to those who entered Haryana to convince them to return,” Jat added.Nagaur parliamentarian Hanuman Beniwal, whose Rashtriya Loktantrik Party quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on December 26 over the new farm laws, said it was done by some “overexcited youngsters”.“Delhi march is not that important because we want to get the issue resolved through dialogue with the government,” he said.Thousands of farmers across the country are protesting against the laws. A large group, mostly comprising those from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at key border points near Delhi since November-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-barricades-broken-police-fire-tear-gas-in-rajasthan/story-U0F3davmqDExuSbc9AM8kO.html
01-01-2021||India||Row intensifies over Srinagar encounter||Normal life was affected in parts of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Thursday as shops and business establishments were closed to protest the killings of three alleged terrorists in an operation on the outskirts of Srinagar on Wednesday. Police said mobile internet services have been suspended in Pulwama and Shopian districts to prevent any untoward incident. “The situation remained calm in the districts. There were no restrictions though the internet was suspended,” a police official said.According to the police, army troops and men of Central Reserve Police Force and Jammu and Kashmir police launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Lawaypora area on Tuesday evening following a tip-off about the presence of terrorists in the area. “The operation was launched last evening after getting inputs that terrorists were inside a house close to the national highway. They were asked to surrender. However, they responded with firing and the operation was suspended for the night and when it resumed again in the morning, they were again asked to surrender. However they started firing again and hurled grenades,” General Officer Commanding of the Kilo Force, H S Sahi, said on Wednesday. The three men were killed in retaliatory fire, he added.However,families of the three slain men identified them as Zubair Ahmad of Turkawangam, Shopian; and Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq of Putrigam, Pulwama. They said that the men were students and alleged that they were picked up and then killed by security forces. Former Jammu Kashmir chief minister and People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti met the families of the three deceased and shared a letter by the family of Ajaz seeking his body and an inquiry into his death. “Met families of the young men killed in Lawaypora encounter. Forget justice, even their dead bodies are not being returned to them for the last rites. They have lost their beloved sons forever & in the midst of grief have to plead even for closure,” she posted on Twitter with copies of the letter.“The deceased was not remotely connected with any anti national activities and the question of joining militancy does not arise…The killing is very brutal and calculated one which is against the law of land and also hits the democracy and Indian constitution,” the letter by the family stated.The police have asserted that while the three were not mentioned in their list of terrorists, two of them were “hardcore associates of terrorists (OGWs)”.“Pertinently, one of the two is a relative of top HM commander Rayees Kachroo who was killed in 2017. Reportedly, the third might have joined very recently. Generally parents don’t have an idea about the activities of their wards. Several OGWs after committing terror crimes like grenade throwing & pistol shooting etc stay normally with their family,” police said in a statement. Other mainstream CPI(M) leader M.Y Tarigami wanted a probe by a sitting judge. “There are unverified reports that they were killed in a fake encounter. If true, this is shocking and must be probed by a sitting High Court judge. The circumstances in which the killings happened need to be thoroughly probed,” he said.Apni Party President Syed Altaf Bukhari also expressed concern saying that the claims by families have created misgivings about the veracity of Srinagar encounter.“The version of families of the slain trio is contradictory to what the army and the police claim about the Hokersar encounter. So the government must clear the air and remove the misgivings about the same,” he told a local news agency.Separatist Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said that said that such killings are heart wrenching ad demand a probe. “Such incidents warrant a fair and impartial probe be held , as the families of the killed youth are demanding , to get to the truth but in Kashmir this basic right to justice and redressal is a distant dream ,” it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-intensifies-over-srinagar-encounter/story-ofLaIbMZKcHp9cXkNkKE8I.html
01-01-2021||India||Two months after CM Jagan Reddy’s complaint, Andhra Pradesh chief justice transferred||The Union government on Thursday cleared the transfer of Andhra Pradesh high court chief justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari to the Sikkim high court as its new chief justice in a direct swap with justice Arup Kumar Goswami, who moves from Sikkim to Andhra Pradesh. The notifications were issued by the law ministry after recommendations made by the Supreme Court Collegium on December 14, when its meeting was chaired by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, and attended by the next two most senior judges, justices NV Ramana and Rohinton Nariman. The development comes after an unprecedented row between the high court and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who accused the state judiciary of stalling all the policy decisions of his government. After months of friction, the tussle reached a flashpoint in September when the high court issued a gag order against the media from reporting the contents of a first information report (FIR) in an land scandal in Amaravati, allegedly involving former advocate general Dammalapati Srinivas and the daughters of a sitting Supreme Court judge, justice NV Ramana. In October, CM Reddy wrote a letter to CJI Bobde, complaining that justice Ramana was trying to influence cases in the high court to destabilise his government. This letter was released to the media by Reddy’s principal advisor Ajeya Kallam at a press conference. On an appeal by the state government, the Supreme Court on November 25 lifted the gag order on reporting the FIR, while a bunch of petitions asking for action against CM Reddy for his remarks against justice Ramana in the letter were dismissed by the top court on December 1. On December 30, justice Rakesh Kumar’s bench in the Andhra Pradesh high court said that the transfer of chief justices would delay proceedings in the three-capitals case and a pending Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) cases against Reddy, giving him an “undue advantage”. The scathing comments by the judge came when the state government sought his recusal from a case. Justice Kumar retired on Friday. The law ministry has also notified transfer of Telangana high court chief Justice RS Chauhan as the new chief justice of the Uttarakhand cigh court. Chief justice Mohammad Rafiq, who was at the Orissa high court, was appointed as the Madhya Pradesh high court’s chief justice. The high courts of Telangana and Orissa will now be led by two judges from different high courts whose elevations were also notified on Friday -- justices Hima Kohli and S Muralidhar respectively.Justice Sanjib Banerjee, a judge of the Calcutta high court, has been appointed as the new chief justice of the Madras High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-months-after-cm-jagan-reddy-s-complaint-andhra-pradesh-chief-justice-transferred/story-6Z6RDCVxSYqj8lnC8SzG5N.html
01-01-2021||India||Over 24 lakh to be vaccinated for Covid-19 in first phase in Uttarakhand: Health dept||The Uttarakhand health department on Thursday informed that the state is ready for the vaccination process with the onset of the New Year. A statement released by the health department informed that Sonika, Director of the National Health Mission in the state has been appointed as the nodal officer for the vaccination process in the state. Dr. Saroj Nainthani, director in-charge of national health programmes in the state said, “All necessary preparations for starting the vaccination programme in the state have been completed. As soon as a vaccine is available, the vaccination process will start with the help of UNDP and WHO. At first, health care workers and frontline workers will be vaccinated, and gradually in future, other citizens in the state will also be vaccinated.” The statement further informed that in the first phase the vaccine will be administered to 24, 30, 650 beneficiaries which include healthcare workers. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand on Thursday reported 304 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 90,920. Five more Covid-19 patients also died in the state, taking the death toll to 1509. Out of 90,920 who have tested positive so far, a total of 83,506 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 91.85%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.12% and death rate at 1.66%. On Thursday, 539 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with a maximum of 193 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Thursday, maximum of 108 cases were reported from Nainital district. Rudraprayag and Tehri Garhwal districts reported least of one case each on Thursday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 27,273 COVID-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (13,381), Nainital (11,324) and US Nagar (11,101). The state health department has so far tested 17.77 lakh people of which results of over 14,500 are pending. Uttarakhand at present has a total of 19 containment zones with maximum eight such zones in Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-24-lakh-to-be-vaccinated-for-covid-19-in-first-phase-in-uttarakhand-health-dept/story-eVDjN3ThmAtzmekyxPrAyM.html
01-01-2021||India||JP Nadda rejigs BJP’s national team to boost party presence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda has put in place organisational changes by reassigning the responsibilities of some functionaries loaned to the party by its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). According to people aware of the matter, more inductions—including of RSS functionaries —into the BJP’s national team are expected in the coming weeks. According to a party leader who requested anonymity, these changes are in line with the process of building a new team and strengthening the party’s presence across states. Joint general secretary (organisation) Saudan Singh was appointed as a vice president in the national team and will oversee the party’s work in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pravesh,the party said on Thursday. Singh will take over the party’s work in Punjab and Haryana at a time when the ongoing farmers agitation is at its peak in the two states.Farmers’ unions in Punjab and Haryana are demanding the repeal of a set of contentious laws enacted in September to open up agricultural markets, which say would weaken the bargaining power of cultivators and put them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses.V Satish, also a joint general secretary (organisation), has been given a new title; he will now be a Sanghathak (organiser). Satish, who was earlier in charge of states such as Madhay Pradesh, has been given charge of parliamentary office coordination, scheduled caste/scheduled tribe morcha coordination and Vishesh Sampark, or special outreach. Shiv Prakash, a third joint general secretary (organisation), has been given charge of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. He retains the responsibility of looking after the party’s affairs in election-bound West Bengal, where the party is preparing for a tough contest against the ruling Trinamool Congress. “More names will be added to the national team as there are vacancies in several states including Uttar Pradesh that goes to polls in 2022; in Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand,” said a functionary aware of the details. In September, Nadda announced a new national team that had 12 vice presidents, eight general secretaries, three national joint secretaries and 13 secretaries apart from 23 spokespersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-rejigs-bjp-s-national-team-to-boost-party-presence/story-KV2oCiVNFcOMZpeoUv3GtL.html
01-01-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||If 2020 was the year of the virus, then 2021 will be, aptly enough, the year of the vaccine. If we hadn’t ended the year with a vaccine — fortunately, we have, and not just one but a handful; and one may well be approved in India on January 1 — 2021 would have been the year of the mutant strain, which makes it sound like what 2020 really was, a pulp horror novel. But 2020 wasn’t merely the year of the virus.It was the year of the health care worker. Through the year, around the world, doctors, nurses, paramedics and other health care givers worked around the clock, putting themselves at risk, displaying physical, mental, and emotional stamina of the kind that the world hasn’t seen in decades.It was the year of the scientist and the researcher, the data scientist and the epidemiologist. Never in history have so many scientists and researchers around the world worked towards the same two objectives as they did in 2020: understanding the virus that caused Covid-19 better; and finding a cure or a vaccine for it. What do we have to show for it? Tens of thousands of research studies, a very clear understanding of the virus and how it attacks the human body, several successful vaccines, and a few drugs that work.It was the year of the home. It became the office and the school, the gymnasium and the restaurant, and it became, at once, both a sanctuary and a prison.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 pandemicIt was the year of the screen, the year of the Zoom background; the year of baking and family meals.It was, for people like my parents who are pretty much stuck in Chennai and can’t even meet friends and relatives because they are in the most vulnerable age group, the year of loneliness and fear (neither of which can be assuaged by any amount of video-calling).It was, for those among us who lost family and friends to the viral disease, a year of pain and sorrow, and a grieving process that seemed all too inadequate.For me, it was also a year of writing — thanks to this column, I wrote more than I have in years (although probably just as much as I usually rewrite in a couple of months).But for many others, definitely less privileged than anyone reading this column, 2020 was something else.For some, it was the year that pushed them back into a life they thought they had left behind; many may have neither the will nor the means to do it all over again.For some poor students who saw education as a way out of their situation, it was the year that ended their dreams. Many will drop out; some already have, forced to do so either because of their financial circumstances or the inability to follow classes online.And for some who left home to pursue their dreams elsewhere, it was a year that reminded them just how little they mattered — to the people and establishments they worked for; to the cities and neighbourhoods they lived in; even to governments that are expected to look out for everyone.Read more| India will have Covid-19 vaccine within days: AIIMS directorAnd so, even as economists speak of 2021 being the year of the great rebound, and CEOs wax eloquent in investor briefings about how their companies have become more efficient and are on the path to profitability, and the rest of us simply treat 2020 like what it really is for the privileged — a Formula 1 pitstop — it is important to make sure that in this new year, all of us, individuals, companies, governments, do all we can for those whose lives have been ravaged by the year gone by.They need opportunities; they need understanding; they need the playing field to be levelled; and, they need someone who can help them hold on to their dreams.Happy New Year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-2lPqiZ5Y0fneRgbiwdQApK.html
01-01-2021||India||2021 brings hope, ready for largest vaccine drive: PM Modi||Massive preparations are underway in India for the launch of the world’s largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday amid growing indications that the country’s drug regulators would soon approve the first vaccine for a roll-out in the coming days.Modi said the end of a pandemic-ravaged 2020 had brought with it a new hope, and urged citizens to unite in the vaccination effort in 2021 the same way as they did to reduce infections in the past year.“For vaccines, every preparation needed is underway. Efforts to get vaccines being made in India to the population that need it the most are being done. India is carrying out major efforts to pull off the world’s largest immunisation drive,” the PM said, inaugurating a new All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rajkot, Gujarat, over video link from New Delhi. “In 2020, there was an atmosphere of disappointment and dismay due to the infection. There were doubts everywhere. But 2021 is coming up with a ray of hope in terms of its treatment,” Modi said.He described the battle against the coronavirus disease as a fight against “an unknown enemy” and urged the people to not believe in rumours, behave “as responsible citizens,” and “refrain from forwarding messages on social media without checking”.The Prime Minister also said the last day of year was one to “remember India’s millions of doctors, health warriors, sanitation workers, those working in drug stores, and other frontline corona warriors”.Read more| Elaborate distribution plan on track as India awaits vaccine approvalThree vaccines are being assessed for emergency approval by the Central Drugs Standard and Control Organisation (CDSCO). These are the vaccine candidates developed by Pfizer-BioNTech, which was the first approved anywhere in the world after clinical trials; Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Oxford University-AstraZeneca candidate, which is believed to be the one with the most doses available at the earliest; and one developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited,a completely made-in-India antidote. According to officials in the government who asked not to be named, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate has emerged as the front-runner for receiving regulatory approval, particularly because it had been green-lighted by the drug regulator in the UK on Wednesday.  Rolling out whichever vaccine is approved will be a challenging task – the government has targeted reaching 300 million people by July, which means over 1.5 million will need to be inoculated on an average every day beginning January. “…This year showed that when India unites, it can effectively cope with the most difficult crisis. India is in a much better position as a result of the effective steps and India’s record of saving victims of Corona has been much better than other countries,” Modi said.Later in the day, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan presided over a high-level meeting, directing states to gear up for the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out. The government also decided to carry out a drill for vaccinations across the country on January 2, replicating the dry runs held in seven districts in the last week. “The activity is proposed to be conducted in all state capitals in at least three session sites; some states will also include districts that are situated in difficult terrain or areas that have poor logistical support…,” said the ministry of health and family welfare in a statement. Read more| 11 foreigners test positive for Covid-19 in Jamshedpur amid scare over mutant variantAccording to the health ministry, the main objective of the dry run is to assess the operational feasibility of the Co-WIN application, the digital platform that will form the backbone of vaccination management. The linkages between planning and implementation will also be tested at a large scale, and issues that may lead to challenges during the actual roll-out will be identified. “The plan is all finalised, which is why dry runs are being conducted to see how it works on the ground. The pilot run helped us identify certain weak spots that are being sorted out, and now the same exercise will be conducted across the country,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.Overall, the vaccination process will include profiling and schedule management of several groups of people. These include 100 million health care workers (who are divided into nine categories), frontline workers such as police and military personnel, disaster management volunteers and municipal workers, and members of the general public most at risk from the virus. The last group includes the largest numbers, about 270 million. Of these, 260 million are people above the age of 50 who have been categorised as a priority group. The remaining 10 million are expected to be people who are younger but with comorbid conditions associated with a greater risk of disease or mortality. According to the Centre’s Covid vaccine operational guidelines, the age of a recipient for vaccination will be considered as of January 1, 2021. Anyone born on or before January 1,1971 will fall under this category, and high- risk population group will be further sub-categorised into various age groups with priority to senior citizens above 60 years of age.The latest electoral rolls for Lok Sabha and state legislative assembly election will be used to identify the population aged 50 years or above.The Prime Minister also praised the efforts of the Gujarat government in containing the coronavirus outbreak, and spoke on his government’s initiatives in the medical education sector. “We are working on mission mode to improve medical education in India. After the formation of National Medical Commission, the quality and quantity of health education will improve,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2021-brings-hope-ready-for-largest-vaccine-drive-pm-modi/story-MTAYQWonLKyX2OxqAGrDqJ.html
01-01-2021||India||Kerala passes resolution against farm laws||A unanimous resolution passed by the Kerala assembly on Thursday against three contentious laws passed by the Centre to open up agricultural markets received support from an unexpected quarter -- the lone Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of the House.O Rajagopal, 91, who was minister of state for railways in the Atal Bihari Vajapyee government, opposed the resolution initially, but when it was put to voice vote, he did not walk out and supported it, much to the surprise of both the treasury and opposition benches. After the session, when reporters asked him about his support for the resolution, he said he backed it in accordance with the “democratic spirit of the house.” “I raised my disagreement in clear terms. But I supported the substance of the resolution in accordance with the democratic spirit. Nothing big about it, in democracy, such compromises are common,” he said, expressing the hope that the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws will be settled soon amicably. When asked specifically whether he wanted the bills to be withdrawn, he said that was why he had supported the resolution. After his stand triggered a controversy in the BJP, he said it was wrong to say he did not oppose the resolution and blamed the speaker for not seeking a a division of votes in the house.The veteran’s ambiguous stand has put the BJP, which had described the resolution as “a mere waste of time and money,” in an awkward position.Read more| Lone BJP MLA backs resolution passed by Kerala Assembly against farm laws “There is no difference of opinion in the party. He is a senior leader and we didn’t think he will support the resolution. I will talk to him about this,” said the party’s state president K Surendran. In Delhi, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who belongs to Kerala, said he was not aware what the senior leader said in the house, adding that the state unit will explain it. BJP leaders close to Rajagopal said he was unhappy with a growing factional feud in the state unit of the party. After the elevation of Surendran, some senior leaders in the state unit were sidelined and the party’s attempt to broker peace between two prominent factions, one led by Muraleedharan and the other by P K Krishnadas, hasn’t yielded results. “His position literally shocked the party. The central leadership is also unhappy with it,” said one party leader, who did not want to be identified. It wasn’t the first time that Rajagopal had courted controversy. When the speaker was elected election in 2016, he supported the ruling Left Democratic Front’s nominee, P Sreeramakrishnan. He said he had backed Sreeramakrishnan because his name contains the names of both Ram and Krishna. Many Left leaders praised Rajagopal. “He took the right decision unmindful of its consequences,” said state finance minister Thomas Issac. Earlier in the day, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan introduced the resolution urging the Centre to withdraw the new laws and heed the demands of farmers who have massed on Delhi’s borders to protest against the legislation. “The Centre wants to corporatize the farm sector. It must come forward to allay farmers’ fears. The entire country is with them. It should recognise public sentiments and withdraw the new laws,” Vijayan saidAll 140 members of the assembly supported his resolution. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-passes-resolution-against-farm-laws/story-m9BxvQCHlGAgFhSyGiOJYL.html
01-01-2021||India||Many skip celebrations to join farmers in protest to ring in the New Year||A year ago, Gurninder Singh, 33, a farmer from Patiala, had spent his New Year’s eve in Shimla on a vacation with friends and family. This time around, Singh has come to Delhi’s Singhu border with his cousins to participate in the protest by farmers against the three new farm laws.“What is happening here is more important than being with our family or friends as a new year begins. The three farm laws are a direct attack on our livelihood and we have to fight for it,” he said as his cousin Yash Deep, 23, nodded in agreement.“Most of the youngsters in our village either go on a vacation or spend time with family and friends on New Year’s eve. This time, so many of them have opted to be here instead,” he said.Singh and his cousins are among the thousands of farmers who chose to remain camped at the capital’s four borders on Thursday to demand a repeal of the three farm laws passed by the Centre even as minimum temperatures dipped to 3.3 degree Celsius on Thursday morning-- the lowest this season.Read more| Farmers to welcome New Year at Singhu as protest continues | 10 pointsKuldeep Kaur, 54, who owns a boutique in Mohali, is among the protesters who have chosen to begin their new year by doing ‘seva’ at the protest site. “When we came here a few weeks ago, we realized the farmers needed help with fixing their torn clothes or other cloth items. This is why I came here with two of my employees to help them. Back home, we would have engaged in ‘ardas’ or prayers to welcome the new year. We will do the same here,” she said.On December 26, farmers had invited residents of Delhi-NCR to join them to welcome the New Year.From stitching clothes to preparing langars of kheer, halwa, jalebi, pizza, and kadhi chawal, hundreds of protesters at Singhu continued with their agitation like any other day on Thursday.Mohan Singh, 63, a school principal from Mohali, said, “We don’t want to celebrate the new year till the farm laws are repealed because more than 40 farmer brothers have died during this agitation. While every year, we welcomed the new year in celebration, this year will be marked by their remembrance.” Protesters also engaged in a plantation drive and planted 10 saplings on the road divider at the Singhu border.“People here should remember this once in a lifetime agitation and that is why we planted saplings to mark the beginning of the new year,” said Bhavjeet Singh, an IT professional who started the Tractor2Twitter campaign supporting the farmers’ agitation.Read more| ‘Won’t withdraw protest’: Farmers stick to resolve as talks yield little progressNot just farmers but people from several parts of Delhi joined the demonstration on Thursday including students from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi University, and JNU.“Last year, we had welcomed the new year at our university during the anti-CAA protests with songs of resistance and revolution. We felt it was important to lend the same support to the farmers movement as they too have been fighting against state oppression,” said Huzaifa Khan, who recently graduated from Jamia and was present during the anti-CAA agitation last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/many-skip-celebrations-to-join-farmers-in-protest-to-ring-in-the-new-year/story-Qy62WHP8f2liWGKzu7O1kK.html
