03-01-2021||India||Centre draws plan for vaccine roll-out||New Delhi: From retired doctors and nurses to home guards and civil defence personnel and even volunteers from the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathans, the Centre and state governments will tap every human resource that is available for the smooth implementation of the world’s largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Each vaccination site, according to official guidelines, would consist of at least three rooms and require a number of personnel to perform specific duties. Vaccination Officer 1 would be from the police, home guards, civil defence, the National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) or the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan. His or her job would be to “check the registration status of a vaccine recipient and to ensure” that entry into the vaccination centre is regulated. India’s vaccination campaign against Covid-19 is targeting offering protection against the viral disease to 300 million people by July, including health-care workers, front-line workers and the people most at risk of infection. They would be inoculated at both large public and private health facilities with a minimum of 100 vaccine recipients covered in each session.“For health facilities with less than 100 beneficiaries, its frontline health workers would be sent to another vaccination site,” an official aware of the plan said on condition of anonymity. . The duty of Vaccination Officer 2 would be to verify the identification documents of the recipients.Vaccination Officers 3 and 4 will be support staff who will be responsible for crowd management and ensure every recipient spends 30 minutes at the site after receiving a shot to see if there is an adverse reaction. The support staff would also provide information, education and communication (IEC) messages and support to the vaccinator as well as the vaccination team. While the document verification and identification of the beneficiaries would be done in the first room, the second room would be used exclusively for administering the vaccine. In this room, the vaccinator officers--doctors, nurses, pharmacists, auxiliary nurse midwifes, lady health visitors anyone else authorized to administer the vaccine -- would inject the intramuscular vaccine by an auto-disabled syringe. Indian drug authorities have last week approved Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for emergency use for the intended list of recipients. Officials have identified Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc., as the main vaccine for India’s immunization drive against Covid-19 while Covaxin would be a supplementary measure. Officials added that the Covid-19 vaccination may not take place daily but on select days in a week. “We also have to ensure that the ongoing universal immunization programme is not hampered. Each state has specific days allotted for the UIP. The Covid vaccination programme is likely to take place on the other days,” said a senior official involved in the planning. The Centre’s guidelines sent to the states says: “Essential health services including existing routine immunization sessions should not be impacted or interrupted.” While the vaccine maker would be responsible for safely transporting the vaccine to the designated consignee points in state capitals and big cities, the state authorities have to maintain vaccine safety during storage, transportation and delivery of the vaccine to the inoculation sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-draws-plan-for-vaccine-roll-out/story-EvWf2IoD9pekRS1WK6p5JN.html
03-01-2021||India||Strict law on anvil to punishstone pelters: MP CM Chouhan||Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday said that there would be a strict law to deal with the crimes related to stone pelting and damage to public and private properties in Madhya Pradesh. “Stone pelters are enemies of the society... Stone pelting is not a simple crime which may cause loss of life, create an atmosphere of fear and terror and result in stampede and chaos. There will be a rule of law in Madhya Pradesh. Such criminals are not petty criminals. They will not be spared”, said chief minister responding to questions from journalists on certain stone pelting incidents that took place in Malwa region during public awareness rallies over Ayodhya’s Ram Temple in December last week by Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and associated organisations. “We are going to come with a strict law to deal with such crimes[stone pelting]... Many a time, trouble makers damage the public property, set it afire and damage private properties too... this is an unpardonable crime,” the CM added. He said democracy allowed people to express their views in a peaceful manner. “I have already issued instructions to authorities in regard with the new law and work is going on the same. Soon, there will be such a law”, he said. CM’s announcement come in the wake of incidents of stone pelting on VHP and associated groups’ public awareness rallies in Ujjain on December 25 and in Indore on December 29. FIRs against about 100 persons were lodged from both sides and several accused were arrested. Provisions of National Security Act (NSA) were invoked against six accused in Ujjain who were allegedly involved in the stone pelting. House of one of the accused allegedly constructed illegally was razed in Ujjain in a joint operation of district administration, police and the civic body, as per police and administration authorities. Notably, a law has been in force in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, for recovery of damages to public and private properties from rioters and protesters.Reacting to the CM’s announcement, state Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Any strict law against stone pelting is a welcome step but the CM should also have spoken about the crime about taking out religious rallies without permission, barging into the shrines of a particular religion, coining provocative slogans against the religion, vandalising the particular community’s properties including shrines as were witnessed in Malwa region recently. Is this not a crime in the eyes of the CM? Will he make a provision for stringent punishment on such crimes also?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strict-law-on-anvil-to-punishstone-pelters-mp-cm-chouhan/story-IeB7Mh9SCWPU5wzAbzsFWP.html
03-01-2021||India||Farmers in Haryana march towards Delhi, police use teargas to disperse them||Haryana Police on Sunday evening fired teargas canisters to thwart a march of a group of agitating farmers towards Delhi at Masani barrage in Rewari district. Farmers first broke police barricades put up near Bhudla Sangwari village and then started moving towards Delhi in the evening. They have been camping at the service lane of the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past few days, police said. When the farmers’ group reached Masani barrage where the barricades were put up, police used teargas to disperse them. “We have stopped them (farmers) at Masani,” Rewari Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal said over the phone. On December 31, a group of farmers had broken police barricades at the Shahjahanpur border with Rajasthan, trying to move towards the national capital. Police had then too resorted to teargas shelling as well as using water cannons to stop them. A large number of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and some other places have been protesting on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for the past several days, demanding the repeal of new farm laws. They have been camping at the Rajasthan-Haryana border point after police had earlier stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi as part of their “Delhi Chalo” march against the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/famers-in-haryana-march-towards-delhi-police-use-teargas-to-disperse-them/story-wpwTsxZRcBfDx6N7aDJr2N.html
03-01-2021||India||Farmers in Rewari break barricades; police use tear gas to stop them||A section of farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Sangwari Chowk, in Rewari city, tried to move towards Delhi on Sunday evening, said the police. The Rewari Police said the protestors at Sangwari Chowk broke the barricades and tried to move towards Gurugram and Delhi, following which they had to release tear-gas shells and water cannons to stop them.Farmers, on the other hand, alleged that the tear gas shells used by the police were expired and that the gas cylinders kept in their tractor-trolleys could have exploded as a result of the shells. In the ruckus that took place between the police and the protestors on Sunday, one farmer was reportedly injured. Read more| Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP borderEarlier, last Thursday, another section of farmers had broken the barricades at Shahjahanpur and entered Rewari on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Over 2,000 farmers from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana and members of trade unions are currently protesting at Bawal in Rewari. The farmers at Bawal have asked their counterparts in Shahjhanapur to join them so that they could proceed towards Delhi on Monday. Haryana Police said that more than 20 tractors and a section of farmers crossed the border but later stopped as their counterparts could not manage to break the barricades and there was no other facility to camp for the night. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said that farmers at Sangwari Chowk broke the police barricades and tried to move towards Delhi. “The police had to use tear gas and water cannons to stop the protesters. They shouted slogans and forcefully tried to break the barricades. As such, we had to take necessary steps to stop them,” he said. Last month, over a thousand farmers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana reached Jaisinghpur Khera and joined the agitation. The protesting farmers had earlier announced that they would start moving towards Delhi on Monday, signalling their intent to further escalate the ongoing agitation. Satnarayan Nehra, president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said that due to the rains, there were fewer protestors at the spot. They were expecting that more than 6,000 farmers on Sunday but hardly 1,000 turned up. “Our plan to move to Delhi failed but we will try to move ahead on late Sunday night as farmers from nearby areas are gathering at the Kheda border. We are trying to figure out how to cross the stretch,” he said. Read more| Gehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in JaipurRashid Ahmed, a protestor from Nuh, said, “Rajasthan Police allowed us to cross but Haryana Police refused. Many farmers have been camping since December 12 and are not doing well. However, they are not willing to return home either.” The community leaders have requested the police to let them cross the stretch peacefully and have tried to pacify the protestors. Farmers complain of lack of facilitiesMeanwhile, the farmers, who have been protesting at the border since December 12, have alleged that there is no running water and no toilets for them at the protest sites in Haryana and Rajasthan. They alleged that they are being compelled to use either agricultural fields or the nearest fuel stations to relieve themselves. While bathing and drinking water have not been a major concerns for most of them, using toilets has been an issue for them. Water trolleys have been arranged by the villagers but there are no arrangements for toilets. Krishan Kumar, one of the protestors, said that they are travelling to the nearby petrol pumps to use toilets. “We have been cleaning the areas on our own and making sure of water and other facilities. The authorities should provide the basic facilities for us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-in-rewari-break-barricades-police-use-tear-gas-to-stop-them/story-KYfA1atCWS1PlF3ejIUISO.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi dials Sourav Ganguly; angioplasty likely for 2 more arteries for BCCI chief||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday afternoon called up former India cricket captain and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly to inquire about his health following the coronary angioplasty he underwent on Saturday. People aware of the details said that Modi told Ganguly that if required the former captain would be flown abroad by the Centre. Several political leaders, including Keshav Prasad Maurya, deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, who is in Bengal to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), also visited Ganguly at Woodlands Hospital. Ganguly, 48, was stable and had breakfast and lunch, said doctors. He underwent coronary angioplasty at 3.00 pm on Saturday at Woodlands where he was detected with three blocked arteries. The percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCS) and stenting in the right coronary artery was done through radial route. Revasculation to the left anterior descending artery and obtuse marginal artery will be done later. Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, told the media that although by-pass surgery is an option in cases where patients have three blocked arteries, the doctors are most likely to go for angioplasty. The doctors will take a final call on Monday. Eminent heart surgeon Dr Devi Shetty has been requested by Ganguly’s family to guide the team of doctors with his opinion. The authorities said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family. Ganguly, recognized as one of the finest captains Team India has had, was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy around 11 am on Saturday.Dr Basu said in a statement on Saturday midnight that Ganguly arrived at the emergency department around 1 pm. He had discomfort in the chest and had vomited while working out. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, a number of cabinet ministers rushed to the hospital on Saturday. BJP leaders also inquired about Ganguly’s health. Union home minister Amit Shah told state BJP leaders that the Centre would make available all facilities required for Ganguly’s treatment. Ganguly is the most prominent public figure whose name has been doing the rounds in political circles of Bengal as the BJP’s probable chief ministerial face for the crucial assembly polls due in a few months. Ganguly, however, brushed aside the speculation although he never categorically ruled out the possibility of joining politics. The speculations were fanned by the fact that Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah is the secretary of the BCCI. On Sunday, former minster and senior CPI(M) leader Asok Bhattacharya and TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy alleged that Ganguly fell ill because of the pressure BJP leaders were putting on him. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya brushed aside the allegations. “This is baseless. Dada is loved by all. Let us pray for his early recovery,” said Ghosh. Ganguly has been the BCCI president since October 2019. His elder brother Snehasish was also a first-class cricketer and is now an administrator at the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dials-sourav-ganguly-angioplasty-likely-for-2-more-arteries-for-bcci-chief/story-kOY64AN90D6VkJQhu7Q1DP.html
03-01-2021||India||Gen Rawat reviews India’s military preparedness for second day in border areas of Arunachal Pradesh||At the end of his two-day visit to various forwards posts near the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Sunday said he was satisfied with the “high morale and motivation” of the armed forces personnel who will ensure “certain victory if challenged or given the opportunity”, according to the Army. Gen Rawat’s visit to key locations in the frontier state came amid the nearly eight-month-long Sino-India border standoff in eastern Ladakh. “CDS complimented soldiers for adopting innovative measures for surveillance through locally developed technology & the defence preparedness to face any challenge,” the Army said in a tweet. “CDS said that he was satisfied by the high morale and motivation of all ranks who will ensure certain victory if challenged or given the opportunity,” it added. The Chief of Defence Staff visited several key installations including “forward most air maintained” posts in Dibang Valley, Lohit sector and Subansiri valley since his arrival in the state on Saturday morning, according to the Army. On Sunday, Gen Rawat interacted with personnel of the Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deployed along the Subansiri valley, it said. Sources said Gen Rawat reviewed the overall preparedness of the armed forces in key forward bases and asked them to remain vigilant. The Army and the Indian Air Force have been maintaining a high state of operational readiness along the nearly 3,500-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in view of the eastern Ladakh standoff. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are deployed in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the faceoff that began in early May. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. Gen Rawat arrived in the Dinjan air force station in Assam’s Chabua on Friday afternoon and travelled to Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday on a two-day visit. His visit to Arunachal Pradesh coincided with his completion of one year as India’s first CDS, a post which was created to bring in convergence in functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force in dealing with national security challenges. A key mandate of the CDS was also to facilitate restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of theatre commands. In the last one year, Gen Rawat along with the top brass of the three services carried out ground work to establish an air defence command and a Peninsula command initially. The IAF will helm the air defence command and all long-range missiles as well as air defence assets will come under it. The CDS has been part of the top military brass framing strategies to enhance India’s military prowess in view of the eastern Ladakh standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-reviews-india-s-military-preparedness-for-second-day-in-border-areas-of-arunachal-pradesh/story-ckWlMBkmpKb2SscsePpQ2H.html
03-01-2021||India||Will burn copies of new farm laws on Lohri: Farmer leaders||Farmer leaders protesting at Delhi’s Singhu border on Sunday said they will celebrate the festival of Lohri on January 13 by burning copies of newly introduced agriculture laws. They also said they will observe the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23 as ‘Azad Hind Kisan Diwas’ “We will celebrate the Lohri festival on January 13 by burning the copies of farm laws,” farmers’ leader Manjeet Singh Rai said. Rai also urged people to hold protests in support of farmers across India from January 6 to 20. Lohri is mostly celebrated in north India, marking the beginning of the spring season. Bonfires are a special characteristic of the festival Another farmers’ leader Onkar Singh said, “Today is the 37th day of our protest. The government should leave its stubbornness. In these conditions, the farmers, including elders, have been sitting on protest, but the government is not concerned about it.” Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the three farm laws. The farmers’ leaders said they are ready for Monday’s meeting with the government. The next round of talks between the government and protesting farmer unions is scheduled to be held on January 4, Monday. On Friday last, the unions had announced that they would have to take firm steps if the meeting fails to resolve the deadlock. “As the temperature is decreasing, we have tried to arrange the waterproof tents. We are also trying to arrange the blankets and warm water. Arrangements for 1,000 women have been made near the KFC with a tent and the mattresses,” farmers’ leader Harmeet Singh Kadian said. The protesting farmer unions on Saturday had said they will take out a tractor parade towards Delhi on January 26, when the country will celebrate Republic Day if their demands are not met. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be in the national capital on January 26 as the chief guest at the Republic Day parade, which will be held at Rajpath. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said the success of Monday’s talks depends entirely on the repeal of three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-burn-copies-of-new-farm-laws-on-lohri-farmer-leaders/story-iKc3gReS1b3d2PM0ySkVlO.html
03-01-2021||India||Jagannath temple reopens for all devotees||Lord Jagannath Temple in Puri reopened for all devotees on Sunday after remaining closed for nine months due to the pandemic even as Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal preferred to have darshan of the deities from outside for not having the mandatory Covid-19 negative report for entry into the shrine.The governor, along with his family members and some staff, had to return to the state capital after having darshan of “Patitapaban” (the symbolic image of lord Jagannath seen from outside the temple) as they did not have the Covid-19 negative report, a senior official accompanying Lal told PTI.Though there was no restriction on the entry of the governor, who was welcomed by the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) and Puri district administration, Lal volunteered not to go inside on his own after he came to know that all the devotees have to submit their Covid-19 negative report before entering the temple, a senior official said.The governor said: “I came here to pay obeisance to the Lord. We prayed for the wellbeing of all the people of Odisha seeking the almighty’s blessings for 2021.” The 12th century shrine started its reopening process in a phased manner from December 23. The servitors and their family members were allowed to enter the temple from December 23 till December 25, followed by local residents of Puri in the second phase from December 26 to December 31 evening.The temple remained closed on January 1 and 2 and reopened for all devotees from across the country from Sunday.About 17,000 devotees visited the temple on Sunday after producing Covid-19 negative reports done within 96 hours and adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.The SJTA and the Puri district administration has implemented a number of guidelines for the devotees asking them to mandatorily wear face mask, sanitise hands, maintain physical distance at all times, not to touch statues or idols inside the temple.This apart, it also prohibited devotees from carrying any offerings like flowers/earthern lamp inside the temple.There will be big containers placed at the entrance, where such items can be dropped if being carried by the devotees, it said.The devotees also cannot take mahaprasad (bhog) inside Ananda Bazar and temple premises while chewing of tobacco/paan and spitting inside temple premises is strictly prohibited.The devotees enter the temple through a queue system and are required to produce their photo ID card like Aadhaar/Voter ID. They have to leave their belongings at the designated place outside the temple. The devotees will enter into the shine through Lions Gate and exit through the north gate.Meanwhile, the administration in Bhubaneswar allowed the residents of the Capital city to enter Shree Lingaraj Shrine by adhering to the Covid-19 protocol.Many temples in the state capital and in other parts of the state also reopened for devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-reopens-for-all-devotees/story-gSwhZ3xRT423SFqbKFqcTN.html
03-01-2021||India||Indian tricolour to be installed at UN Security Council stakeout as country begins 2-year tenure||India’s flag will be installed at the United Nations Security Council stakeout on Monday as the country begins its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN body.Flags of the five new incoming non-permanent members will be installed at the stakeout during a special ceremony on January 4, the first official working day of 2021.India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador T S Tirumurti will install the tricolour and is expected to make brief remarks at the ceremony.Along with India, the incoming UNSC members are Norway, Kenya, Ireland and Mexico. They will join non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam and the five permanent members China, France, Russia, the UK and the US.India will be the UNSC President in August 2021 and will preside over the Council again for a month in 2022. The presidency of the Council is held by each of the members in turn for one month, following the English alphabetical order of the member states names.The tradition of the flag installation ceremony was introduced by Kazakhstan in 2018.“Like the changing of the guards, it is the changing of flags from outgoing to the new elected members. This solemn ceremony serves the purpose of affirming and respecting the new members with the recognition they deserve,” Kazakhstan’s former Permanent Representative to the UN Kairat Umarov had said during the 2019 ceremony.The ceremony was unanimously confirmed by all 15 UNSC members to become an annual tradition of the Security Council, Umarov had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-tricolour-to-be-installed-at-un-security-council-stakeout-as-country-begins-2-year-tenure/story-KVessfhemDIC6Izr8y5tFN.html
03-01-2021||India||After Gram Panchayats, Karnataka BJP preps for Taluk and Zilla Panchayat polls||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that after its ‘spectacular performance’ in the recently held Gram Panchayat polls, the party would focus on winning a majority in the Taluk and Zilla Panchayat polls to be held shortly. Yediyurappa was speaking at the BJP’s special two-day core committee and executive committee meeting held at his native district of Shivamogga.The BJP leader also said the party would focus on winning the by-polls to Maski and Basva Kalyan assembly seats plus the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency, the elections to which are likely to be held shortly. Promising to bring the BJP back to power with ‘140 to 150 seats’ in the next assembly polls due in 2023, Yediyurappa said to do that he would undertake a statewide tour to strengthen the party.As a part of its outreach to the electorate starting January 11, the CM and other party leaders will hold ‘Jan Sevak’ conventions across all the districts in the state. Yediyurappa will kickstart this programme from Mysuru in which the party would convey the work being done by the Centre and the state government to the electorate. Union home minister Amit Shah will participate in a ‘Jan Sevak’ event to be held in Bengaluru on January 16 or 17.BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh speaking to the media during the event said that there was no question of a change in leadership in the state. In light of speculation that the 77-year-old Yediyurappa maybe replaced as CM, Singh said that there was no such plan. He also deflected a question on cabinet expansion and reshuffle saying that it was the prerogative of the CM. Yediyurappa has visited Delhi several times seeking permission from the party high command for cabinet expansion.Earlier, Karnataka BJP unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel praised the CM for passing an anti-cow slaughter ordinance and said that in the next session a bill against ‘love-jihad’ would also be passed. Union ministers Prahalad Joshi and D V Sadananada Gowda also took part in the deliberations. Gowda who briefly took ill while coming back from Shivamogga to Bengaluru and was rushed to a hospital. He later tweeted saying that he was well and that it was just a case of low-sugar. He is likely to be discharged from the hospital on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-gram-panchayats-karnataka-bjp-preps-for-taluk-and-zilla-panchayat-polls/story-yFKHm765BSF7OXcdLY58LM.html
03-01-2021||India||IAF choppers, NDRF teams try to extinguish wildfire in Nagaland’s Dzukou Range||Indian Air Force choppers, NDRF teams, forest and police personnel on Sunday tried to extinguish the wildfire in the Dzukou range in Nagaland’s Kohima district, officials said.The fire broke out in the Dzukou range in Southern Angami region of the district on Tuesday afternoon. The scenic Dzukou valley, a tourist hot spot in Nagaland, is located in the Dzukou range.The District Forest Officer (DFO), Kohima, Rajkumar M said IAF choppers have dropped 24,000 litres of water to extinguish the wildfire in 12 sorties.He said that ground operations to extinguish the fire were carried out by Nagaland Police, Forest, NDRF, SDRF and SAYO volunteers on Sunday.The DFO said the fire is under control as reported by the pilots and the teams are trying to prevent it from spreading to the Dzukou valley.SDO (Civil) Jakhama, SDPO South and Range Forest Officer, Kohima are coordinating the ground operations to extinguish the fire, he said.To maintain seamless communication with the ground operation team, Kohima Police has set up a control room at Dzukou entry point at Viswema village and two relay stations also set up in the Dzuku base camp, he said.The DFO said that Kohima Forest Division and SAYO volunteers had already cut a 5 km fire line on December 31 while another 2 km fire line was cut by SAYO volunteers on January 1. This was done to prevent the fire to spread to the Dzukou valley, he said, adding that they were assisted by Kohima Police and State Disaster Response Force.Meanwhile, the president of Southern Angami Youth Organisation (SAYO) Zakieletuo Tsukru claimed that around 10 square kilometre of Dzukou range has been razed by the wildfire.SAYO volunteers along with personnel of Kohima Forest Division, Police and Fire and Emergency Services have been engaged in fighting the fire in an effort to contain its spread since day one, he said.Briefing reporters at Viswema Village, Tsukru said that as per the latest communication from the volunteers who are up there at Dzukou valley the fire which was in the Southern range till Saturday is slowly spreading down towards the western side of the valley.The SAYO president said: “We detected the fire at Dzukou halfway during the afternoon hours on December 29. It was reported that some people have trespassed into the Dzukou valley from Kezotsa after which the wildfire was reported, as reported by the caretakers of the valley”.“On receiving the information, we dispatched SAYO volunteers to intercept those trekkers while 21 of them were initially reported to be spotted by the villagers. However, the volunteers could not intercept anyone,” he said.“Our suspicion is that the trekkers have fled towards the Kezotsa in Manipur side,” he said.The SAYO president also urged upon the people visiting the valley to be more careful and follow all necessary instructions printed in the tickets issued by the SAYO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-choppers-ndrf-teams-try-to-extinguish-wildfire-in-nagaland-s-dzukou-range/story-eAA78V7V59AROtHhc7vM9I.html
03-01-2021||India||Logistics to remain at core of next stage of fight against Covid-19: Experts||The domestic logistics sector is expected to continue at the core of the next stage of the battle against the virus in 2021 even as some easing in freight charges and container shortage, which hit the exports in the last quarter of the previous year, is also expected during the year, experts have said. India’s $215 billion logistics sector is one of the largest globally and has been growing at a CAGR of 10.5 per cent, according to a recent report.  The sector was a key player in the movement of essentials and medicines supplies during the nearly two-month long complete lockdown to curb spread of the pandemic last year. “For the logistics sector, the year (2020) has been a busy one! More so during the lockdown, when the sector emerged as the key player in prioritising the shipments of essentials and medical goods. As the vaccines get rolled out – hopefully in the next few months, logistics will again be at the core of the next stage of the battle against the virus in 2021,” DHL Express Senior Vice President and MD R S Subramanian said.  Logistics has a critical role in enabling the Indian economy to achieve its potential in the coming months, he said, adding the sector though depends on the creation of trade infrastructure needed to enable future growth. Globally, geopolitical changes and the need for resilience, triggered by the pandemic, open a window of opportunity for both small and large businesses in India, he stressed. Staying competitive and becoming a global sourcing base for a variety of sectors including auto, fashion, life sciences and food processing, among others, is an opportunity which needs to be harnessed, according to Subramanian. “This will give a big boost to the Indian economy and aid it to recover fast,” said Subramanian. He said there is a need for continued reforms to simplify the regulatory framework, digitalise and drive transparency and added that many policy moves by the government are in the pipeline, which should hopefully come into the play in 2021. It may be mentioned here that in the last Union Budget, the government had announced that it will come up with a National Logistics Policy with an aim to enhance productivity and competitiveness of manufacturers by reducing cost of logistics. The proposed policy talks about developing national and state master plans for multi-modal connectivity; formulation of an umbrella national logistics law; comprehensive standards for the sector; and developing IT applications to provide solutions that include track and trace for trucks. The logistics sector is highly fragmented and the government aims to reduce the logistics cost from the present 14 per cent of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) to less than 10 per cent by 2022. In the latest developments, the Commerce Ministry is said to have sought views of different departments on its proposed national logistics policy. “The year 2020 has seen us in uncharted waters. The Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a fundamental shift in the way we work, live and engage. Despite the immense challenges presented by the pandemic and lockdown, the logistics industry has been the lifeline of recovery,” said Rampraveen Swaminathan, MD and CEO, Mahindra Logistics. For most logistics players, including Mahindra Logistics Ltd (MLL), gearing up for the COVID vaccine supply chain is a key issue, he said. “At MLL, we are in the process of partnering across the ecosystem to help develop fit for purpose solutions across the value chain,” he said. Additionally, a strong chain of right technology infrastructure to support the vaccine data is being mapped across the supply chain, Swaminathamn added. “Going forward, we continue to see an increased level of service integration, higher growth in fulfilment logistics and increased adoption of multi-modal transportation for cost optimisation,” he said. According to him, digitisation of supply chain management with focus on newer technologies like block chain, AI, machine learning, IoT will remain a critical driver for value creation. “In 2021, we expect some easing in freight rate, which started soaring towards the end of September, with a slight slump and blank sailing on the back of Chinese golden week, but it may not come down in a hurry, “ said Soham Chokshi, CEO, and Co-Founder at logistics platform Shipsy. The last quarter of 2020 has been unprecedented with freight rates skyrocketing and container unavailability affecting the largest of exporters across the country, he said. “Freight rates were up 3 times to 8 times compared to the same period last year, with port congestions and delays putting further pressure on container availability,” he added.   Chokshi said he  also expects  shipping lines to significantly increase their capacity, with many having already ordered massive vessels, which should help ease container availability and overall freight rate. “Overall, we see the year 2021 to be faring much better than the second half of 2020,” Chokshi summed up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/logistics-to-remain-at-core-of-next-stage-of-fight-against-covid-19-experts/story-6Qt73q07rSTXRmVhIuXxYL.html
03-01-2021||India||As security forces tighten noose, Pak-based terror groups resort to cyber recruitment in J&K: Officials||Pakistan’s intelligence agency and terror groups are now carrying out recruitment in Jammu and Kashmir using applications in cyber and mobile space as direct physical interactions have become difficult due to the security forces’ hawk-eyed vigil, officials said on Sunday.Fake videos of alleged atrocities committed by the security forces and building a false narrative are now often used by the ISI handlers from Pakistan to whip up emotions among the new recruits, they said, citing intelligence reports and technical surveillance.Earlier, terrorist sympathisers used to establish physical contact with the prospective recruits to bring them into a terror group’s rank and files. However, after security agencies cracked down on such sympathisers, they changed their modus operandi.In 2020, over two dozen terror modules were busted by security agencies leading to the arrest of over 40 such sympathisers.Two surrendered terrorists, Tawar Waghey and Amir Ahmed Mir, who laid down their arms before 34 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army late last month, had given an insight into their joining of terror modules that showed that cyber recruitment was being carried out on a large scale.Both the terrorists had come in contact with a Pakistan-based handler via Facebook who indoctrinated them before handing them over to a recruiter code-named Khalid and Mohammed Abbas Sheikh.The two terrorists were provided training online using various links available on public platforms like YouTube and both of them had met their local contact only once in Shopian in south Kashmir, the officials said.This, according to the officials, is done to avoid exposure of sleeper cells created by Pakistan’s ISI within the valley. Security agencies have busted several modules following intelligence inputs provided by local residents.The two terrorists, after being recruited into The Resistance Front (TRF), which is believed to be a shadow outfit of banned terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, were receiving orders as well as religious teachings from Pakistan-based Burhan Hamza.The officials said there were around 40 such cases where the recruitment was done and indoctrination carried out through social media, especially in south Kashmir. The new recruits were awaiting orders from across the border.Terror groups are definitely facing a shortage of arms and that is one of the reasons why Pakistan-based terror outfits are more focused on sending more arms and less manpower, the officials said.They gave an example of last month’s encounter on the outskirts of Jammu city where a valley-bound group of four terrorists was carrying 11 assault rifles and a huge quantity of ammunition.The death of a 22-year-old local terrorist Amir Siraj in north Kashmir late last month was yet another case of cyber recruitment, the officials said.A final year graduation student from Khawaja Gilgat in Sopore, Siraj was staying with his maternal uncle in Adipora in north Kashmir and would spend most of his afternoons playing football in the local ground.He went missing on the afternoon of June 24, 2020. Later, it was found that he had been recruited by terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed from across the border via social media, the officials said.The local terrorist had expressed his desire to surrender but was threatened by his accomplice that he and his family would be killed if he were to act on it, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-security-forces-tighten-noose-pak-based-terror-groups-resort-to-cyber-recruitment-in-j-k-officials/story-gGDHjmgvPDNq09PmGWqwCL.html
03-01-2021||India||SII to meet local demand for Oxford vaccine for next 2 months, before exporting||Serum Institute of India (SII), the local maker of the AstraZeneca/Oxford coronavirus vaccine, said on Sunday it intends to concentrate on meeting India’s own immediate demand in the next two months before exporting to other interested countries.Chief executive Adar Poonawalla said in an interview after the shot was approved for emergency use in the world’s second-most populous country, that exports might be possible after supplying the Indian government with an initial 100 million doses.The government just wants to ensure that “the most vulnerable people of the country get it first - I fully endorse and support that decision”, he said.SII is still waiting to strike a formal supply deal with the government, but is expected to do so in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-to-meet-local-demand-for-oxford-vaccine-for-next-2-months-before-exporting/story-awNJ6F2TzSXMtkDVI72akI.html
03-01-2021||India||Science, tech, innovation policy proposes developing benchmark for ‘ease of doing research’||Benchmarks for ‘ease of doing research’ will be developed to ensure adequate funds for research activities in India, increase accountability and make those less bureaucratic, according to the draft Science, Technology, Innovation Policy (STIP), 2020.It states that apart from the primary activity of doing research, researchers also have to spend a considerable amount of their time and resources on administrative activities related to projects.Journal paywalls, and lack of data and knowledge sharing further hampers their ability to freely and easily conduct research activities.“Benchmarks for ‘ease of doing research’ will be developed so that research activities are adequately funded, are less bureaucratic and accountability is in both directions, that is the donor and the receiver,” the policy states.“To reduce the administrative burden on the researchers, digital platforms. and e-governance will be used for grant management -- all activities from award, funding and utilisation of grants to measurement of research outputs,” it states.International best practices of grant management will also be explored, according to the document.Besides that, access and sharing of knowledge and resources will be improved through use of online platforms implementing open-data and open-access policy, and by enabling access to journals and databases, the draft states.It further states that there will be emphasis on connecting the invention and innovation ecosystems. “Weakness in the invention and innovation ecosystem will be identified to take research into the market and to the community. Both knowledge pull from the invention system as well as knowledge push from the innovation ecosystem are necessary to achieve the goal of a vibrant research and development ecosystem in India,” it adds.The Department of Science and Technology (DST), along with the Office of Principal Scientific Adviser, started the process of formulating STIP, 2020, last year. The policy was to be out by the end of the year, but has been delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic.The draft STIP has been uploaded by the DST on its website and has also invited suggestions, inputs and comments by January 25 for making changes in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/science-tech-innovation-policy-proposes-developing-benchmark-for-ease-of-doing-research/story-CD6ginB19TmrCceLKiJ5sN.html
03-01-2021||India||‘BJP systematically spreading rumours that JD(S) will join NDA,’ warns HD Kumaraswamy||Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday warned the BJP to beware of JD(S), as he accused the ruling party of systematically spreading imaginary news about his party joining the NDA. In a series of tweets the JD(S) legislature party chief also accused the BJP of attempting to erode its party’s base by planting such rumours, and said the party “does not need BJP’s friendship.” “BJP has realised after the gram panchayat results that all its attempts to finish off the JD(S) have failed. This is the reason why BJP was trying to play the phoney drama of alliance. This is the reason why it is systematically spreading imaginary news about JD(S) joining NDA. This is absolutely false,” Kumaraswamy tweeted.Claiming that he shares a better bonding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi than many state BJP leaders do and has respect for Chief Minister Yediyurappa’s seniority, he said the intention of JD(S) was not to be an opposition party just for the sake of opposing.“If BJP indulges in a misinformation campaign, that bonding, respect and intent will get hampered. The BJP should beware about JD(S),” he added.Kumaraswamy’s attack came after he recently spoke about JD(S) having an “issue based understanding” with BJP, while dismissing talk about his party’s possible merger with the saffron party. “Many have tried to divide JD(S) after enacting a drama of friendship and it is BJP’s turn now,” he said. “Who from JD(S) had applied for an alliance with BJP? Who had proposed an alliance, for BJP national general secretary Arun Singh to reject it? He termed as a bundle of lies reports that JD(S) would join NDA and he would be made a union minister.By spreading such news, BJP was trying to poison the minds of JD(S) workers and supporters, he said. “BJP should understand that this is immoral politics,” he added.Recalling that his father H D Deve Gowda, while stepping down as Prime Minister in 1997, had rejected support from BJP’s tallest leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Kumaraswamy said he was not someone who desired a Ministerial post.The Deve Gowda led 13 party United Front coalition government tumbled after the Sitaram Kesri-led Congress withdrew support in 1997.“For now, no party needs anyone. We don’t need BJP’s friendship. We want the development of the state and our workers,” he said, adding that the results of gram panchayat elections has buoyed the prospects of JD(S) and organising the party was his only goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beware-of-jd-s-karnataka-cm-hd-kumaraswamy-warns-bjp/story-6JmjlrqOhMFD5ejPvhFEAN.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: DGCI gives permission to Bharat Biotech for manufacturing Covaxin and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DCGI gives licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture CovaxinThe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture Covaxin, news agency ANI reported. Read MoreWon’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talksA day before the seventh round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre to resolve the deadlock over farm laws enacted in September last year, a union leader said that it was time that the government lets go of its “stubbornness”. Read MorePM Modi condoles Muradnagar roof collapse incident in UP; says government engaged in relief and rescue workPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the roof collapse incident in Uttar Pradesh Muradnagar was “unfortunate” and expressed his condolences. Twenty one people have been killed in the incident. Read More‘Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages...’: ICMR chief on Covaxin, mutant strainThe director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava on Sunday said that the Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages over other vaccines on the new mutant strain first detected in the UK, which has already infected 29 patients in India. Read MoreHere’s how much battery OLED iPhone 12 saves in Dark Mode as compared to iPhone 11If you are a tech enthusiast, you probably know that OLED screen on a smartphone or any device for that matter saves more battery as compared to LCD screens. That’s because OLEDs can illuminate or turn off each pixel, which LCDs just can’t. Read More5 major attractions of Ranthambore, from the Royal Bengal Tiger to Princess Padmavati’s sati siteSituated about 130 km from Jaipur, Ranthambore National Park is located in the Sawai Madhopur district of southeastern Rajasthan which is rich in heritage and wildlife. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: No request to shift venues; fourth Test in Brisbane on as of now - ReportDespite there being a shadow of doubt over it, the latest developement suggests the India vs Australia fourth Test match at the Gabba in Brisbane is slated to go on as per schedule. Read MoreRam Prasad Ki Tehrvi movie review: A slice-of-life tale that is relatable, well performedIn a scene from Ram Prasad Ki Tehrvi (RPKT), the family members are discussing if they should keep the prayer meet of the departed soul on the first day of the year or not, because after all who’d like to start the year on a sad note. Read MoreCovid vaccine: Impotency fear to ‘premature’ approval, Opposition slams govtOn the day that the Drug Controller General of India announced the approval of two vaccines for Covid-19, a war of words between the government and the Opposition intensified. Congress leaders also raised questions after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dgci-gives-permission-to-bharat-biotech-for-manufacturing-covaxin-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iXCnsJ0BxToFlWuim30K6I.html
03-01-2021||India||Union minister Sadananda Gowda collapses due to low blood sugar, hospitalised||Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda collapsed due to low blood sugar in Chitradurga while on his way to the city from Shivamogga on Sunday and has been admitted to a hospital here, official sources said.Gowda (67) is currently stable and is undergoing further tests and treatment at a private hospital.The Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers was brought to Aster CMI hospital at 4:45 pm on Sunday.His condition is stable and will be kept under observation for the next 24 hours, the hospital’s spokesperson said in a statement.“He is stable, blood and other parameters are normal.There is nothing to worry. We will keep him under observation for 24 hours. The cause of the giddiness was due to low sugar level,” Dr Brinda, physician at the hospital, told reporters.Gowda in a tweet said his health was stable.“Due to low sugar I was a bit tired. I’m fine now. All parameters,including Echo, ECG are normal. I thank all those who wished for my good health,” he tweeted. The minister was first admitted to a hospital in Chitradurga and later shifted by an ambulance through zero traffic management, to a private hospital here. Zero traffic management is a privilege that allows convoys of VVIPs to pass through roads where movement of other vehicles is temporarily halted. The minister was on his way to Bengaluru from Shivamogga after attending a state BJP meeting. He collapsed after greeting party workers and leaders in Chitradurga, where he had a stop over for lunch at a hotel this afternoon, sources said. Gowda, a former chief minister of Karnataka, was immediately rushed to the Basaveshwara Medical College and Hospital in Chitradurga. After treatment there, he recovered and spoke to BJP leaders and family members over phone. He was subsequently shifted to the hospital in Bengaluru. Gowda’s son Karthik told reporters “low blood sugar led to it. He is fine now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-sadananda-gowda-collapses-due-to-low-blood-sugar-hospitalised/story-KeewwRiGfJCdfp1vWB4nAI.html
03-01-2021||India||To keep farmers’ spirit alive, women kabadi tournament goes on despite rains at Singhu border||The Singhu border on the outskirts of Delhi, which has been a protest site for farmers for over a month, turned into a kabaddi ground for a women’s tournament on Sunday with rains not dampening the spirit. A total of 12 women teams participated in the tournament, which started around 11 am. Sukhwinder Singh (55), joint Secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab, who hails from Tarn Taran district of Punjab, said the women themselves came forward to participate in the tournament. “Teams from different states have come forward and asked us that they want to organise a kabaddi tournament. We have planned different activities for each day to keep people engaged at Singhu border,” he said. The winning team will get Rs 2,100 and the runner up Rs 1,100. The prize has been announced by people who have donated the amount, Sukhwinder said. On Sunday morning, heavy rains lashed parts of the national capital leading to waterlogging at various places and also affecting the protest sites. However, the tournament was not affected by the rains. Jagbir Singh from Jind district of Haryana and head coach at the tournament said the majority of players are college students. “The teams from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have participated in the tournament. We all have come here to support the farmers. The tournament will be concluded today only. There are also some national and international players,” he said. The farmers, who have been camping at the site, cheered for the players as the tournament was on. “I have played at the state as well the national level from Delhi. The match was good though we could not win it and made to another round. My family was very supportive and they allowed me play the match here,” Ritika Dalal, one of the players, said. The matches were being played on the temporary turf. Narender Kumar, a kabaddi coach from Rohatk, said that he received a message regarding the tournament on WhatsApp. “I received a message on WhatsApp yesterday regarding the matches. It was mentioned that the only girls will play, following which I took my team of 10 girls, including my twin daughters, and reached here this morning. It is a knockout tournament and you have to win each and every match. My team lost by two points but they performed really well,” Kumar said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Delhi’s neighbouring states Punjab and Haryana, have stayed put at the national capital’s border points since late November to protest against the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-keep-farmers-spirit-alive-women-kabadi-tournament-goes-on-despite-rains-at-singhu-border/story-Snw4Oglgcx3aAGwRTCI5tM.html
03-01-2021||India||DCGI gives licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture Covaxin||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture Covaxin, news agency ANI reported. Bharat Biotech has been asked to submit updated safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data from the ongoing Phase I, II and Ill clinical trials till the completion of trials, it further said. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gives licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture COVAXIN. Bharat Biotech asked to submit updated safety, efficacy & immunogenicity data from the ongoing Phase I, II & Ill clinical trials till the completion of trials. pic.twitter.com/dsFSJPoIybThe DCGI gave final approval to two Covid-19 vaccines on Sunday, paving the way for a huge inoculation program to stem the pandemic in the second worst-hit country. Lauding the development, All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria said, “It is a great day for the country and a good way to start the new year.” He also said that indigenously developed Covaxin - one of the two vaccines approved - can be used as backup.The DCGI gave approval for the emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).The nod marks the first vaccine approvals for India, which after the United States, has recorded the most infections of the coronavirus disease.The DCGI granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media on Sunday.Both of the vaccines are two-dose regimen and need 2-8 degrees Celsius storing temperature which make them more cost-effective in comparison to the other vaccine being developed by the US-based pharma giant Pfizer with its German partner BioNTech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-gives-licensing-permission-to-bharat-biotech-to-manufacture-covaxin/story-40VI4eC3sicJ2fH263TFsK.html
03-01-2021||India||Wild elephant rescued from a well 2 days ago dies in Kerala||The wild elephant which was rescued from a deep well after a 12-hour long operation two days ago in Anakampoil in north Kerala died on Sunday, forest officials said. After it was saved from the 50-foot deep well, it remained in the area for two days unable to move to the nearby forest. Later small crackers were burst and high beam lights flashed to force it to move to the forest but it remained in the fringe areas.. Forest officials said they tried their best to save the animal which reportedly suffered internal injuries and severe dehydration. They said the exact cause of death will be known after the post-mortem. Local people said the 12-year-old tusker might have been trapped in the unused well for more than three days. The pachyderm was noticed by local people on Thursday evening and a rescue operation was started the next day. It was taken out on Friday night after breaking the well and building a parallel pathway. “It is really sad it died. Local people, animal lovers and a combined team of forest and revenue officials really toiled to save it. But our joy is short-lived,” said a senior official of the forest department. Local people said elephants used to frequent the area quite often posing a big threat to human habitat and fencing of the area had just started after repeated protests. At least, 40 families relocated from the area after continuous raid by wild animals but when they left, their wells remained unattended. The official said some animals need big tracts of land to roam around and feed and farms in fringe areas draw them to it, leading to frequent human-animal conflicts. According to statistics with the forest department, 24 people have died in elephant attacks last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wild-elephant-rescued-from-a-well-2-days-ago-dies-in-kerala/story-cgl3gBFTu0XXK54qrLFzSO.html
03-01-2021||India||Muradnagar roof collapse: How it happened||A roof collapsed at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar on Sunday trapping dozens of people who has gathered there to attend the last rites of a local who died on Saturday. Twenty one people have so far been killed, the rescuers said, adding that 20 others are injured. Those injured are receiving treatment at local hospitals.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about the incident and extended condolences to the families of the victims. “The unfortunate incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar has given me great sorrow. The state government is engaged in relief and rescue work. I express my condolences to the relatives of those who lost their lives in this accident, as well as with the injured to get well soon,” he wrote on Twitter.BJP MP VK Singh, MLA Ajit Pal Tyagi and Uttar Pradesh minister Atul Garg visited the spot and met the families of victims.Here is how it happened:The people were attending the funeral of a local when it started raining. Subsequently, they went under a structure to take shelter when the roof collapsed.Most of the people who were present at the ground were relatives of the deceased person.The number of injured could rise further, the rescuers said. Some people, who managed to escape, were taken away from the site by their relatives.A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is at the spot.Expressing grief over the tragedy, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each person killed.The chief minister has also asked Meerut’s Divisional Commissioner and Additional Director General of the police zone to submit a report on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muradnagar-roof-collapse-how-it-happened/story-efKaKM35VRouhMvRU9cV6I.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to Sourav Ganguly, wishes him speedy recovery||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to former India captain and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president,Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty after reporting chest discomfort. PM Modi inquired about Ganguly’s health and wished him a speedy recovery. The Prime Minister also spoke to Ganguly’s wife Dona.Ganguly, 48, was stable and had a light dinner hours after undergoing coronary angioplasty at 3 pm on Saturday at a Woodlands Hospital in Kolkata, where the doctors detected three blocked coronary arteries.The authorities at the hospital said that around midnight percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCS) and stenting in his right coronary artery was done through the radial route.Revasculation to the left anterior descending artery and obtuse marginal artery will be done later. Doctors will decide on Monday how to treat these. The authorities said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family.Ganguly, recognised as India’s one of the finest captains, was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy around 11 am.Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, said in a statement on Saturday midnight that Ganguly arrived at the emergency department around 1 pm. He had discomfort in the chest and had vomited while working out.The ECG report showed acute inferolateral wall myocardial infarction and echocardiography pointed at mild inferior wall hypokinesia. Ganguly tested negative for Covid-19.He is being treated by Dr Saroj Mandal, Dr Soutik Panda and Dr Saptarshi Basu. The doctors decided to restrict the entry of visitors from Sunday so that Ganguly may have some rest.Ganguly has been the BCCI president since October 2019. His elder brother Snehasish was also a first-class cricketer and is now an administrator at the Cricket Association of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-sourav-ganguly-wishes-him-speedy-recovery/story-IueSJm7IV9CaKi4EqZBoCL.html
03-01-2021||India||Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talks||A day before the seventh round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre to resolve the deadlock over farm laws enacted in September last year, a union leader said that it was time that the government lets go of its “stubbornness” as the farmers have been agitating at Delhi borders for 37 days now. “Today is the 37th day, the government should leave its stubbornness. We won’t go back till laws are taken back. It’s disappointing that farmers are losing their lives. So many farmers are braving the cold yet the government is not taking it seriously,” Onkar Singh demonstrating at the national capital’s Singhu border told news agency ANI. Farmers’ agitation has been on despite continuous downpour which has led to water-logging. Waterproof tents did not help much, they said. “We will demand repealing 3 farm laws in our meeting tomorrow with govt... It’s been raining, so we’re trying to get waterproof tents although they’re not upto govt standard. We’re trying to arrange blankets and warm water for women & elderly,” Harmeet Singh Kadian, one of the farmers’ leaders said. Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said their blankets, clothes and wood are soaked. “Our clothes are soaked due to water-logging caused by rains. Besides, we are facing difficulties to cook food as rain water has also soaked firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it,” he said.Another leader Manjeet Singh Rai said they will Lohri on January 13 by burning the copies of farm laws. “We’ll celebrate Kisan Diwas on 23rd Jan, on the occasion of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose birth anniversary,” he further told ANI. The farm union leaders will meet government representatives for the seventh time on Monday to discuss their two main demands, legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the three farm laws. During the previous round of talks a consensus was reached on issues related to the environment and Electricity Act.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - for more than a month. The chilling weather in Delhi has failed to deter the farmers from calling off the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-go-back-till-laws-are-repealed-say-farmers-before-7th-round-of-talks/story-uAumX2nffClvkNIsA3f9bJ.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages...’: ICMR chief on Covaxin, mutant strain||The director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava on Sunday said that the Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages over other vaccines on the new mutant strain first detected in the UK, which has already infected 29 patients in India. His observations came amid politicians from several opposition parties raising doubts over the efficacy of Covaxin, which got approval for restricted emergency use in India. ICMR has collaborated with Bharat Biotech to develop this vaccine. Pune’s National Institute of Virology is another partner of this indigenous vaccine project.  ICMR and @BharatBiotech collaborative a Whole Virion Inactivated Corona Virus Vaccine (#COVAXIN) is being approved for restricted use in emergency by DCGI. @MoHFW_INDIA @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/wDhAfdfdC3The NIV has also successfully isolated and cultured the UK-variant of the virus, first in the world, as ICMR said on Saturday.“NIV scientists have successfully isolated the new virus strain and this will be tested against different vaccines. We hope potentially Bharat Biotech vaccine will have some advantages over other vaccines on this new strain,,” Dr Bhargava said. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS Director Dr Randeep GuleriaThe third phase trial of the Bharat Biotech vaccine is going on. There is no data on its efficacy percentage so far, which is why the vaccine is facing so many questions. But the apex drug controller body has said that the vaccine has been found effective in its non-human and human trials so far. Though it has been approved for emergency use, its trial will continue.But what makes experts think that Covaxin might be more effective than Oxford’s Covishield to combat the new strain? Covaxin is a whole virion inactivated Covid-19 vaccine while Oxford vaccine works differently — it produces surface spike protein priming the immune system to attack the SARS-CoV-2 virus if it later infects the body.AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria too has said that Bharat Biotech vaccine will be a back-up or for emergency use where the effectiveness of the Oxford vaccine is not certain.“We don’t know for how long a vaccine is going to be effective, we don’t know how much of the population we will have to vaccinate to break the virus transmission. What we know is that we have been able to control the pandemic in the country by following Covid appropriate behaviour,” Bhargava told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-vaccine-may-have-some-advantages-icmr-chief-on-covaxin-mutant-strain/story-wPtilHX022GmdfxF4tSxaM.html
03-01-2021||India||Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP border||Farmers and their family members intending to join protest at Ghazipur border will get free bus service from Bazpur area in US Nagar district of Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region. The buses will ferry farmers twice a week.Ajit Pratap Singh Randhawa, a social activist and a prominent farmer of Nawabganj Parsel village, in Bazpur, said, “We have started free bus service which will run twice a week on Monday and Thursday for elderly farmers and women intending to join farmer protest at Ghazipur-UP border. Bus service will be available for those who feel uncomfortable travelling on tractor trolleys.”Bazpur has a significant population of farmers. Farmers of the area are enthusiastically participating in farmers’ agitation against the farm laws since the beginning of the agitation. Around 1,500 unnamed farmers have already been booked by Uttarakhand police for allegedly defying police deployment during the Delhi march held on December 25.Now, the farmers of the area have started free bus service, especially for elderly farmers and women, indenting to join the agitation at the Ghazipur border.Randhawa said, “Farmers of the area are leaving for Delhi in tractor trolleys or their vehicles. Those farmers and women who can’t travel by tractor trolleys or don’t have their means of transport will be allowed to join agitation through this bus service.”Also read: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS DirectorHe said, as far as the financial aspect is concerned, 60-70 gurudwara management committees exist in Bazpur. They have assured us of financial support to manage bus ferries. A ferry to Bazpur costs around Rs 14,000. Some of the financially sound farmers of the area have also assured us to pay individually for bus ferries, he said.Randhawa said, “Bus will leave with 52 passengers at 9 am and it will return the next day. If the bus doesn’t find sufficient elderly farmers and women then other farmers will be given chance but they will have to register their names at the gurudwara management committee in Bazpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-bus-service-for-farmers-who-want-to-join-protests-at-ghazipur-up-border/story-sI8Hp6UBp8c0xxQzUAGOsJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Bull trainers gear up for Jallikattu as Pongal approaches||As the festival of Pongal approaches, bull trainers in Madurai have started to gear up for Jallikattu, the traditional but highly controversial bull-taming sport for which tamers spend months raising bulls.After the Tamil Nadu government granted permission to hold the sport with certain restrictions last week, the event is set to be held in Madurai and surrounding villages from January 15 to 17.One of the most popular sites for the sport is the Alanganallur village in Madurai which often receives tourists from all over the world. The process of registration for the bull will begin 10 days in advance, with medical check-up for both the bulls and Jallikattu cattle players. Bulls are trained through an intensive process called ‘mann kuthal’, where bulls develop their skills by digging their horns in the wet earth.Bull trainer Nivathan and his family have been raising five Jallikattu bulls, especially for the festival. “I take the bulls out to train twice a day, one in the morning, and one in the evening. The festival will be held next week,” Nivathan said. As per the government’s directive, the number of players cannot be more than 150 at an event and Covid-19 negative certificates have been made mandatory for players. The number of spectators has also been restricted to 50 per cent of the gathering.The Supreme Court (SC) in 2014 had banned Jallikattu after a plea was filed by the Animal Welfare Board of India and the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). The state government, however, insisted that Jallikattu was a crucial part of the state’s culture and identity. The ban was later lifted in January 2017 with an amendment to the law after massive protests in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bull-trainers-gear-up-for-jallikattu-as-pongal-approaches/story-S59Ql8iYaBlIUAsD5sdIAJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Prasar Bharati’s digital channels grow 100% in 2020; Pakistan second highest audience||Digital channels of Prasar Bharati have registered more than 100 per cent growth in 2020, with Pakistan being the second highest digital audience for Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio (AIR), the government said on Sunday. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said the channels across Doordarshan and Akashvani clocked over a billion digital views and over six billion digital watch minutes in the year. “Interestingly during 2020, Pakistan accounted for the second highest digital audience for DD and AIR content after domestic audience from within India, with the United States close behind,” the ministry said in a statement. It said during 2020, Prasar Bharati’s mobile application ‘NewsOnAir’ added more than 2.5 million users with the platform registering over 300 million views. Live Radio streaming broadcasting over 200 streams emerged as the most popular feature, it said. “Besides DD National and DD News, the other channels in the top 20 digital channels of Prasar Bharati are Marathi News from DD Sahyadri, Kannada programming on DD Chandana, Bangla News from DD Bangla and Telugu programming on DD Saptagiri. “While DD Sports and Akashvani Sports have created a steady digital following with live commentary, Prasar Bharati Archives and DD Kisan have been steady digital performers featuring in top 10,” the statement said. Underscoring the substantial digital audience for news from the Northeast, the ministry said Northeast service of All India Radio (AIR) News was also in the top 10, and incidentally crossed the 1,00,000 subscribers’ digital milestone. “Amongst the most popular digital videos during 2020 are Prime Minister’s interactions with school students, Republic Day parade 2020 and a rare video of Shankuntala Devi from DD National archives, circa 1970s,” the statement said. A dedicated Prasar Bharati YouTube channel for all Sanskrit language content was launched in 2020, wherein all Radio and TV content being produced in Sanskrit language across DD-AIR nationwide network are uploaded for easy access to viewers, it said. The ministry said almost 1,500 Radio plays in different Indian languages are available across DD-AIR Network, which are being digitised and uploaded on its YouTube channels. “Dedicated Mann Ki Baat and Twitter handle have seen rapid growth in 2020, with Mann Ki Baat updates Twitter handle now having more than 67,000 followers. The YouTube channel has regional language versions of different episodes of Mann Ki Baat,” the statement said. It said, “Thousands of hours of educational content is now available on our YouTube channels in different Indian languages.” The ministry said rare archival content of great historical value, available only with DD-AIR, is being digitsed and uploaded on Prasar Bharati Archives YouTube channel. “In public interest, a dedicated team is working to dig out such musical, cultural, political content from thousands of tapes recorded over many decades in various stations of DD and AIR across the country so that the content is available in public domain with easy access to all for academic and research purposes,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-s-digital-channels-grow-100-in-2020-pakistan-second-highest-audience/story-iDUJSjql2D7zG9OBoWJsIL.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Disgraceful’: Health minister Vardhan slams Akhilesh Yadav, Tharoor over Covid-19 vaccine ‘doubts’||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday slammed Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh for doubting the approval given to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine while its third phase trial is going on and said it was disgraceful for anyone to politicise a critical issue.“Disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue. Shashi Tharoor, Akhilesh Yadav and Jairam Ramesh-don’t try to discredit well laid out science-backed protocols followed for approving Covid-19 vaccines,” Vardhan tweeted.Yadav has questioned India’s Covid-19 vaccines and said he won’t take “BJP’s vaccine”. Before the Drug Control General of India (DCGI) gave the go-ahead to Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use of their vaccines on Sunday, Ramesh on Twitter claimed that though Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, internationally accepted protocols relating to phase three trials are being modified for Covaxin.Tharoor too said that the approval to Bharat Biotech was premature. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. @drharshvardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he tweeted.The DCGI gave approval for the emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).The DCGI granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disgraceful-health-minister-vardhan-slams-akhilesh-yadav-tharoor-over-covid-19-vaccine-doubts/story-QS0LUws9baneuN2WiVatHJ.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Roles are being written with me in mind’||Actor Jameel Khan feels awards and recognition brings a lot of responsibility along. “It’s a fact with appreciation comes great responsibility and you have to live up to high expectations. When the first season of our web series was well received, we knew that with the next season we will have to raise the bar. Lockdown turned out to be a boon for us, as it did give us plenty of time to diligently work on even tiniest details and aspects of ‘Gullak-2’,” said ‘Baby’ and ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ actor. On being asked why second seasons of shows and films have underperformed of late, he was quick to revert. “See, one should not try and bring unnecessary elements and characters. Also, there is no need to add stunts and tricks just to grab eyeballs. This spoils the sanity of the script for any project. And as far as our series is concerned we have not added any unnecessary angle to the script,” said Jameel. Talking more about his work, Jameel who is in Lucknow for the shoot of his upcoming feature film, said, ‘I’m grateful to God that, after nearly two decades in the industry, I have reached a position where roles are being written with me in mind. And, I’m no more filling character spaces in films or shows. Currently, I’m busy wrapping movies ‘14 Phere,’ ‘Pagglait’ and ‘Helmet’ along with an untitled web series. So, work is happening at its pace and I’m hopeful that I am moving in the right direction. For now, I am keeping my fingers crossed. ” The UPite is happy to be in Lucknow during winters. “I love strolling in winters here — ‘Maza aa jata hai...’ Though I’m not visiting my favourite places due to the ongoing pandemic but for me just being in Lucknow brings a smile on my face.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/roles-are-being-written-with-me-in-mind/story-C4RURJSIboUQmNqot3JL1M.html
03-01-2021||India||‘I’m not ready for small & average roles’||Actor Mukesh Rishi’s personality has fetched him characters in films like ‘Ghayal’, ‘Gardish’ and ‘Garv’. The versatile actor is happy that since last few years, realistic roles are being written for every character including villains. “Earlier, there were certain kind physical attributes required for heroes and negative characters. But now, well-etched roles with different shades are being written. OTT projects have taken it a step ahead,” said the ‘Sarfarosh’ actor. Mukesh recently shot for Mahrukh Mirza’s OTT series ‘Tawaif’ in Lucknow. Being in the industry for almost three decades, Mukesh has been doing less number of Hindi films since last few years. “Yes, it’s true as I’m not ready for small and average roles. If a character artiste accepts too many small roles his career dies a slow death. Since, I have been part of Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam and Punjabi films so I’m in a position to pick-up work of my choice. When I am playing main villain opposite superstars Chiranjeevi down South then why do I need to play a side-kick in any Hindi film?” On his digital experience he says, “OTT process is very similar to films. While, on TV it’s very different in terms of shooting, working hours and creativity, which I experienced while, shooting for the show ‘Prithvi Vallabh’.” Mukesh is producing a film ‘Nidar’ for his son Raghav Rishi which has been penned by Mahrukh Mirza. “It marks his debut in Punjabi film industry. He has done a Hindi film ‘The Great Indian Escape’ which was based on 1971 war and was played widely at Air Force stations. A part of ‘Nidar’ was shot before lockdown and it will restart from March. I’m playing role of his father.” On his love for Punjabi industry he says, “I am from Jammu but I studied in Chandigarh in sports quota. My love for cricket, body-building and martial arts later helped me in modelling and then acting. I keep doing Punjabi films and love wearing turban. I feel blessed that I’m part of ‘Nanak Naam Jahaz Hai’ which is a modern take of the yesteryear film. I’m playing the role that was essayed by legendary Prithvi Raj Kapoor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-not-ready-for-small-average-roles/story-SaCoY4g2VsMyZcbvhNbe9L.html
03-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine to be taken 28 days apart, antibodies will develop 2 weeks after last dose: AIIMS Director||As India gears up for the world’s largest vaccination programme, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare addressed apprehensions expressed by the public regarding the Covid-19 vaccine’s effectiveness, safety and availability, among others. In a video issued by the Health Ministry, Dr Randeep Guleria, Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) answered commonly asked questions regarding the dosage of the vaccine saying that two doses of the vaccine will have to be taken 28 days apart and protective levels of antibodies generally would develop two weeks after the second dose. He further informed that after all doses of the vaccine are administered, a QR-code based certificate will also be sent to the mobile number of the beneficiary and recommended that after vaccination, patients should take rest for at least 30 minutes.“If you feel any symptoms, any discomfort, please contact the nearest authorities like ANM, ASHA workers so that they can attend to the problem,” Dr Guleria said, urging people to continue following Covid appropriate behaviours including wearing of masks and social distancing.The AIIMS Director also cautioned that the different Covid-19 vaccines are not interchangeable, and people should complete their entire schedule of vaccination by one type. Regarding vaccination of persons who actively had Covid-19, he recommended that they defer vaccination for at least 14 days after symptoms are resolved. “We do not know how effective the vaccine will be when one is already having active infection so for this reason, I believe that active and symptomatic individuals should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after symptoms are resolved,” he said, adding that they may increase the risk of spreading the infection to others at the vaccination site. He further said that those who had recovered should also receive the complete schedule of the Covid-19 vaccine to help in a better immune response against the disease. “It is very important that individuals who have one or more comorbid conditions like cancer, diabetes, hypertension, etc, take the vaccine because they are actually high-risk groups. Their medicines will not interfere with the vaccine efficacy,” he added. He also said that some degree of common side effects like mild fever, pain at the side, body aches, will likely be seen in some individuals. “States have been asked to start making arrangements to deal with any Covid-19 related side effects,” Guleria added. Responding to a question, “Will the Covid-19 vaccine be given to everyone simultaneously?” Dr Guleria said that it would depend on its availability and the government had selected priority groups who will be vaccinated based on risk factors. “The first group will include healthcare and frontline workers, followed by persons over the age of 50 and persons under 50 with comorbidities. This will be done to avoid any inconvenience in registration and vaccination of beneficiaries,” he said. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile numbers regarding the Health Facility where the vaccine will be provided and the scheduled time. He advised that although taking the vaccine was voluntary, people should take the complete vaccine to protect themselves and near and dear ones. Dr Guleria further addressed apprehensions about the safety of the vaccine considering that it was tested and introduced in a short span of time, saying, “Safety is the most important factor and all standard precautions have been followed in the past for the approval of the vaccine,” adding that the vaccine in India would be as effective as those developed by other countries. Registration of beneficiaries would be mandatory for vaccination.Documents required for registration of a beneficiary include driving license, Health Insurance Smart Card issued under the scheme of the Ministry of Labour, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Job Card, Official identity cards issued by MPs/MLAs/MLCs, PAN card, Passbooks issued by Banks/Post Office, Passport, Pension documents, Service ID cards issued by the Central or State government and public limited companies or Voter ID cards. The document used for registration will have to be produced at the time of vaccination. “Following online registration, beneficiaries will receive SMS on their registered mobile number on the due date, place and time of vaccination,” Dr Guleria said, adding that after the completion of the vaccine, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number. Regarding India’s capabilities to transport and store the Covid-19 vaccines at the appropriate temperatures, he said that the programme mechanisms are being strengthened and geared up to cater to the county’s population. Earlier today, the Covid-19 vaccines of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech were granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) said.“After adequate examination, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation and permission is being granted to M/s Cadila Healthcare for conduct of the Phase III clinical trial,” said VG Somani, DCGI, during a media briefing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-to-be-taken-28-days-apart-antibodies-will-develop-2-weeks-after-last-dose-aiims-director/story-gBqoaQF0TQqcWY5IKiGjeJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Snowfall leads to suspension of flights at Srinagar airport||Moderate snowfall across the Kashmir Valley led to suspension of flight operations at the Srinagar airport on Sunday, officials said.The air traffic control did not allow flights to operate due to the bad weather as it continued to snow throughout the day. The visibility was also poor.A blanket of snow covered Kashmir on Sunday as most areas received moderate snowfall, cutting the valley’s surface as well as air connection with the rest of the country. Snowfall began early in the morning and continued intermittently throughout the day.Officials said resumption of flight operations at the airport on Monday would depend on the weather.The weather department has predicted moderate to heavy snowfall in the Valley for two days from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-leads-to-suspension-of-flights-at-srinagar-airport/story-cur7BmLjQyJAj55iZb8L2K.html
03-01-2021||India||Hours after murder of Odisha BJP leader, party alleges BJD resorting to retributive politics||Hours after a 67-year-old BJP leader was murdered in Salepur area of Cuttack district in Odisha, the party alleged that the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has started retributive politics like the Trinamool Congress in neighbouring West Bengal. The BJP leader was murdered along with his 71-year-old associate by six miscreants over past enmity.On Saturday evening, Kulamani Baral, 67, and in-charge of Salepur mandal of BJP and former chairman of Mahanga panchayat Samiti was hacked to death along with his 71-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village while coming home on a motorcycle. The duo received grievous injuries on their face and chest. While Kulamani succumbed to the death on the spot, Dibyasingh died while undergoing treatment at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack on Sunday morning.Angry over the twin murders, the BJP said that the ruling BJD had started eliminating rivals in a cold-blooded manner like Mamata Banerjee was doing in Bengal.“Anyone who raises voice against Mamata is being killed in Bengal. Likewise, BJD leaders in Odisha are doing the same to its political rivals. As a senior BJP leader, Baral was raising his voice in corruption in Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Nrutanga gram panchayat for quite some time. After he alleged that the well-to-do BJD leaders in the panchayat were appropriating the PMAY houses meant for poor people, the local administration had lodged cases against the ineligible beneficiaries. Those BJD leaders harboured a grudge against him for a long time,” alleged Golak Mohapatra, BJP state spokesperson.Also read: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS DirectorUnion petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan also condemned the alleged murder of Baral and his associate and urged the administration to take exemplary action against the culprits. Expressing deep anguish over the incident, BJP national vice president Baijayant Panda said that stringent action should be taken against those involved in the incident after probe. Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said, “Kulamani was a strong leader. His death shows that political killings have now begun in the state. I request the government to take stringent action against the accused.”Son of Kulamani, who lodged an FIR against 12 persons, said his father was raising voice against corruption in several government schemes such as PMAY. “My father had already informed the police about the threat to his life. Yet no action was taken,” said Ramakant Baral, son of Kulamani. The husband of a local sarpach and a former chairman of panchayat samiti have been named in the FIR.He also alleged that several persons against whom he lodged an FIR today were behind the murder of Bikash Jena, a local BJP leader in the Jankoti village in December 2018. “Had the police taken action against those accused, then my father would not have been killed. These accused are protected by law minister and Mahanga MLA Pratap Jena,” said Ramakant.However, law minister Pratap Jena said that he would see to it that those who killed the BJP leader get punished. “There is no place for violence in politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-after-murder-of-odisha-bjp-leader-party-alleges-bjd-resorting-to-retributive-politics/story-soQVLORmCFNv1rKaoneH3M.html
03-01-2021||India||Muradnagar mishap: President Kovind extends condolences||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday extended his condolences to the families of those who died as the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar collapsed.“Incident of a roof collapse at the crematorium in Muradnagar, Ghaziabad is very sad. My condolences to the family of the deceased. I pray that those hurt in this accident get well soon. Local administration is working for relief and assistance,”President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted.Seventeen people were killed when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar collapsed on Sunday, news agency ANI reported.“17 people have died so far while 38 people have been rescued after a shed collapsed in Muradnagar. We’ve started a probe and we’ll take strict action against those found guilty,” Anita C Meshram, Divisional Commissioner, Meerut told ANI.According to HT’s sister publication Livehindustan, over 40 people were initially trapped in the debris. The police and administration team arrived at the spot on receiving information and rescued the people, who were then admitted to Ghaziabad District Hospital.Around 100 people were attending the funeral procession of a local resident of Dayanand Colony, who died on Saturday, when the roof collapsed and hardly anyone got a chance to escape, according to Livehindustan. While a few got trapped in the rubble, some managed to save their lives by running.The building structure at the cremation ground was not very old and it is feared that the incident took place because the building was constructed in an area where frequent water-logging takes place. Due to heavy rain, the soil moved and thr mishap took place, according to Livehindustan.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has condoled the death of people in the incident. He has instructed officials to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the dependents of the deceased in this accident. He has also instructed the Mandalayukta, Meerut and ADG, Meerut Zone to submit a report regarding the incident.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muradnagar-mishap-president-kovind-extends-condolences/story-mFu8TuoUfGeKQIyDfXdpZM.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi condoles Muradnagar roof collapse incident in UP; says government engaged in relief and rescue work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the roof collapse incident in Uttar Pradesh Muradnagar was “unfortunate” and expressed his condolences. Twenty one people have been killed in the incident, the police said.The unfortunate incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar has given me great sorrow. The state government is engaged in relief and rescue work. I express my condolences to the relatives of those who lost their lives in this accident, as well as wish the injured to get well soon,” PM Modi tweeted. उत्तर प्रदेश के मुरादनगर में हुए दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण हादसे की खबर से अत्यंत दुख पहुंचा है। राज्य सरकार राहत और बचाव कार्य में तत्परता से जुटी है। इस दुर्घटना में जान गंवाने वालों के परिजनों के प्रति संवेदना प्रकट करता हूं, साथ ही घायलों के शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं।The roof collapsed when several people had taken shelter at the structure while it rained. Most of them were relatives of a local resident of Dayanand Colony, who died on Saturday. He was being cremated at that time.Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported that many people did not get a chance to escape.Rescue workers sifted through the rubble for hours to ensure that people were not trapped there.A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was also sent to the spot in Muradnagar’s Ukhlarsi village.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives. He also announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each person killed, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-muradnagar-roof-collapse-incident-in-up-says-government-engaged-in-relief-and-rescue-work/story-oN66wWODz4tL1sVyFoGe2J.html
03-01-2021||India||Covishield and Covaxin: What’s next after Drug Controller’s approval?||In what is being hailed as a major landmark for both Make-in-India initiative and India’s continuous fight against Covid-19, the Drug Controller General of India on Sunday approved both Covishield and Covaxin for restricted emergency use. This approval means both these vaccines can be administered under several terms and conditions. So, here’s what will happen next.Government will procure, send to states, vaccination will beginDr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS director, has hoped that vaccination will begin soon now that DCGI has given its final nod to two vaccines. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said vaccination in the state will take place around Makar Sankranti which is on January 14. So now, the Centre will procure the vaccines and will send to states according to their requirement. It does not take long to start vaccination after a regulator gives the nod to a vaccine candidate. In this case, both vaccines are manufactured in India. So it will not take long to start vaccination.Oxford vaccine primary, Bharat Biotech back-upWith two vaccines on the same footing, the next obvious question is whether the government will administer both the vaccines and if that happens, then how will it be decided that who gets which vaccine. Dr Guleria has said that as of now Oxford vaccine, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, will be used as the primary vaccine, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be a back-up option. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine will be used in an emergency situation if there is a sudden increase in cases or in certain cases where Oxford vaccine’s efficacy is uncertain, Dr Guleria said.Covishield vs Covaxin against Covid-19: All you need to knowWhat about Pfizer vaccinePfizer vaccine, which was the first official vaccine to get a go-ahead in the world, had applied for regulatory approval in India on December 4. But reports said it did not turn up for the deliberation and has sought some more time. This vaccine did not have any trial run in India.Is Co-WIN app for Covid-19 vaccine launched? How to download, registerCadila vaccine next in lineAnother indigenous vaccine is next on the line as Ahmedabad’s Zydus Cadila has received approval from the DCGI on Sunday to initiate phase three clinical trials of ZyCoV-D. ZyCoV-D was found to be safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic in phase I and II clinical trialsTrials of Covaxin and Covishield will continueThe Drug Controller General of India on Sunday said the ongoing trials of both Covishield and Covaxin will continue.In the first phase of vaccination, healthcare workers will be administered the vaccine free. All arrangements have been tested by states during the dry run. Details of many of the beneficiaries have already been registered with Co-WIN app. In the second phase, frontline workers will be vaccinated and in the third phase people above 50 years of age and people below 50 with co-morbidity issues will be inoculated. Getting vaccinated will be voluntary, though the health ministry has advised that one needs to complete the entire course of two doses which will be administered 28 days apart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-and-covaxin-what-s-next-after-drug-controller-s-approval/story-op2j5k7YXfUWCDEAZx9pjN.html
03-01-2021||India||Bihar health dept seeks police aid to locate missing UK returnees to check new Covid-19 strain||The Bihar health department has sought police help to track down some “missing” returnees from the United Kingdom to test them for the new strain of coronavirus. The decision to seek police help was taken after state health officials could not trace 45 passengers, who could not be reached on the contact numbers and addresses provided through the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA). In some cases, they had left their destinations and either returned or travelled to other locations, said health officials. The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) had sent a list of 226 passengers, along with their mobile numbers, who reached the state between November 21 and December 21. Of the total incoming passengers, 101 of the 181 passengers traced till December 30 had tested negative for the virus, according to Khalid Arshad, administrative officer of the State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB). Around 97 passengers are from Patna, five from Rohtas, seven from Aurangabad, three from Buxar and one from Kaimur among others. Of the 17 passengers, who went to Gaya, two could not be located, while one had left for Sweden, two to Jamshedpur and one to Ranchi. Ten others had tested negative and one test report was pending, said Dr KK Rai, Gaya’s civil surgeon. “We have intimated the Jharkhand government about the UK returnees in Jamshedpur and Ranchi. We have requested Gaya’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) to help us locate two others in the district who are not responding to our phone calls,” said Dr Rai. Nineteen of the 97 UK returnees to Patna are untraceable, while 25 others were reported to be out of Bihar. Samples of 19 out of the 53 collected had tested negative till Saturday, while others are pending, said officials. “Our officials found it difficult to trace some passengers who had moved from the address provided to us, prompting us to seek police help to locate them so that we can collect their swab samples for real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for Covid-19. We are writing to Patna’s SSP about it,” said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna’s civil surgeon. Patna’s SSP Upendra Sharma, however, said he was not aware about any such list. “The list has not reached me as yet; it may be in transit. We were initially helping (the health officials) in contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. If required, we will try and help locate the UK returnees,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-health-dept-seeks-police-aid-to-locate-missing-uk-returnees-to-check-new-covid-19-strain/story-2XJFO0gX0BqYUTRJ2YLU7M.html
03-01-2021||India||Seventh round of talks between farmers, govt on Monday; both sides hopeful of positive outcome||The protesting farmers and the government will hold the next round of talks on Monday to try and find a solution to end the stir which has been going on for more than a month. This will be the seventh round of talks between the two sides.Six rounds of talks have so far failed to end the deadlock, with the farmers sticking to their demand for repeal of the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. While a consensus was reached at the last round of talks on issues related to the environment and Electricity Act, the deadlock continued on the two main demands, legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the three farm laws. The farmers launched their protest at three Delhi border points - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - on November 26, and have since then braved water cannons, cold wave and now rain. The continuous downpour led to water-logging at agitation venues on Sunday and waterproof tents did not help much, according to the protesters.“The situation is very bad at protest sites due to rain which has caused water-logging. There is so much cold after the rains, but the government is not able to see our misery,” farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, a member of Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, said.Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at Singhu border, said that the weather will not dampen the spirit of farmers who have been protesting for over a month.“Despite facing several problems, we will not move from here until our demands are met,” he said.Chilla and Ghazipur, two important border points near Delhi, remained closed due to the protests on Sunday. “Traffic Alert The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police wrote on Twitter.“We are living on the streets in such harsh weather conditions away from our family. We’re hopeful that the government will accept our demands tomorrow,” a protesting farmer at the Ghazipur border told news agency ANI.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a press conference on Saturday where its leaders threatened to march to Delhi on January 26 with their tractors, trolleys and other vehicles if their demands are not met.The opposition parties, including Congress, are supporting the farmers’ agitation. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday urged the Narendra Modi government to follow the “raj dharma” by repealing the farm laws.“There is still time for the Modi government to renounce its arrogance of power and immediately withdraw all three black laws unconditionally and end the agitation of the farmers who are dying in cold and rain. This can be raj dharma and a true tribute to the farmers who passed away,” Sonia Gandhi said in a statement.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi compared the ongoing farmers’ stir with the Champaran agitation during the British rule, and said every farmer-labourer part of the current movement is a ‘satyagrahi’ and they will take their rights back.Meanwhile, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary expressed hope that a solution will be found at the discussions tomorrow and the farmers’ agitation may end. “We are talking to farmers who are protesting. We are hopeful that there will be a positive result out of talks which will be held tomorrow. We hope that their issues will be resolved in discussions tomorrow and protest too may end tomorrow,” Chaudhary was quoted as saying by ANI.The government has presented these laws as major agriculture sector reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.The three contentious farm laws are: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seventh-round-of-talks-between-farmers-govt-on-monday-both-sides-hopeful-of-positive-outcome/story-4g6fDElDiBr5wO9NN15UTO.html
03-01-2021||India||MP government orders closure of Covid centres; Congress questions logic||The Madhya Pradesh government has ordered closure of all Covid care centres in the state, except those in Bhopal, from January 1 in view of the low occupancy of beds, as per an official order made available on Sunday.This decision evoked a sharp reaction from the opposition Congress, with its state unit president Kamal Nath questioning the rationale behind the order.Defending the decision, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the pandemic is under control in the state and there is no justification to keep the Covid care centres open “just for the sake of keeping them open”.As per the state government order dated December 31, 2020 and directed to district collectors and health authorities, a policy decision has been taken to shut the Covid Care centres from the first day of New Year due to low occupancy of beds.These centres were set up across the state for lodging Covid-19 patients.The order also stated that in the case of rise of infected patients, health authorities can reopen these centres with prior permission of the state government.Meanwhile, Nath tweeted: “Deaths due to coronavirus continuing in the state. The statistics of infection is increasing daily. Even the assembly session was cancelled due to fear of coronavirus and the Shivraj government closed all Covid care centres in the state except Bhopal?” Hitting back, CM Chouhan said, if required, these Covid care centres will be opened again.“Does Kamal Nath want Covid centres to remain open always? The Covid-19 situation is fully under control in the state. Arrangements are already in place for providing adequate treatment (to patients). Home isolation is also provided.“If needed, these Covid care centres will be opened again, but there is no justification to keep them open for the sake of keeping them open,” Chouhan said in a statement.As on January 2, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in Madhya Pradesh stood at 2,43,302 including 3,627 fatalities, as per health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-government-orders-closure-of-covid-centres-congress-questions-logic/story-w7LkIjKTYahJPzhfO9qkmI.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline to the nation on Tuesday via video conferencing.The event will mark an important milestone towards the creation of ‘one nation, one gas grid’, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement on Sunday.The 450-km-long pipeline has been built by Gail (India) Ltd. It has transportation capacity of 12 million metric standard cubic metres per day and will carry natural gas from the liquefied natural gas (LNG) regasification terminal in Kochi to Mangaluru, passing through Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts, the PMO noted. The total cost of the project was about Rs 3,000 crore and its construction created over 12 lakh man-days of employment. The pipeline will supply environment friendly and affordable fuel in the form of piped natural gas (PNG) to households and compressed natural gas (CNG) to the transportation sector. It will also supply natural gas to commercial and industrial units across the districts along the pipeline, the statement said, adding that the consumption of cleaner fuel will help in improving air quality by curbing air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline-on-tuesday/story-uAaCamBq36W7kZYz2NRQCM.html
03-01-2021||India||DMK will waive education loans if voted to power: MK Stalin||The DMK would waive education loans taken by students for higher studies if the party comes to power after the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, which are to be held in April-May. The DMK president and Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly M K Stalin made this statement on Sunday while addressing a gathering at V Mettupalayam village in Erode west constituency where a people’s grama sabha meeting was held. He alleged that the present AIADMK government is corrupt and that all the Ministers found guilty of it would be taken to task. The DMK leader further said unemployment problem has been increasing in the state and the standard of education declining. Also, he alleged that were misappropriation in granting of 100-day work for the rural people, which would be set right once the DMK forms the government in the state. He said he would ask the Central government to make it a 150-day work and daily wages may be given. Earlier, he garlanded a portrait of freedom fighter Veera Pandiya Kattabomman on his 262nd birth anniversary at a party office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-will-waive-education-loans-if-voted-to-power-mk-stalin/story-AA372kpHqSKIQdjhMS76XO.html
03-01-2021||India||‘More they oppose, more they are exposed’: Nadda hits out at Congress over Covid-19 vaccine ‘doubts’||BJP national president JP Nadda on Sunday slammed the Congress party in a series of tweets over its leaders raising doubts on the approval granted to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while its third phase trial is still underway.“Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccines,” he wrote on the microblogging site. Nadda accused the grand old party of spreading lies and politicising the issue and alleged that the Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. “To further their own failed politics and nefarious agendas, Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people’s previous lives and hard earned livelihoods,” he tweeted. In another post, the BJP chief wrote, “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the COVID-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas. People of India have been rejecting such politics and will keep doing so in the future.”Nadda hailed the contribution of scientists and innovators in developing a vaccine within a year of the Covid-19 pandemic striking India. “While the entire nation is happy about this, the Opposition led by the Congress is filled with anger, ridicule and disdain,” he said. His allegations came against the backdrop of Congress leader Jairam Ramesh’s claim that though Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, internationally accepted protocols relating to phase three trials are being modified for Covaxin. Meanwhile, Shashi Tharoor also said that the approval was premature and could be dangerous. Earlier in the day, Nadda had described DCGI’s approval for emergency use of two indigenous vaccines as a defining and historic moment for the country. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country has established a new dimension. Many congratulations to all scientists and doctors,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-they-oppose-more-they-are-exposed-nadda-hits-out-at-congress-over-covid-19-vaccine-doubts/story-qiSj3pjuhyAr5dlBixP58O.html
03-01-2021||India||Schools, colleges to reopen in Bihar from Monday; Govt issues safety guidelines||Educational institutions including schools, colleges, universities, coaching institutes will reopen in Bihar from Monday after a gap of over nine months since the outbreak of Covid pandemic.Slide in number of coronavirus cases and high recovery rate of 97.61 per cent in the state seem to have boosted the confidence to resume studies physically in the educational institutions.However, the classes will operate only at half the strength of the total students and other protocols of coronavirus have to be followed strictly, Education Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar told PTI on Sunday.As per the health departments bulletin, the state had till Saturday recorded 2,53,651 Covid-19 cases out of which 2,47,579 people have recovered from the contagion, thus taking its recovery rate to 97.61 per cent.The state has 4669 active cases with Covid-19 death toll mounting to 1403, the bulletin said.The state government has issued a list of Covid-19 safety guidelines for students and staff to follow in the schools, colleges and other education institutions resuming operation from Monday.Notably, the decision to reopen educational institutions including schools, both government and private, for class IX to XII from January 4, 2021 was taken at a meeting of Crisis Management Group (CMG) on December 18, 2020.The schools, which will open for class IX to XII, will be run with only 50 per cent strength in order to maintain social distancing in the classrooms besides wearing masks on the campus.“Wearing mask for all school students on the campus has been made mandatory without which they will not be allowed to enter the premises. Besides, classes from IX to XII will be run with 50 per cent strength in order to ensure that social distancing is maintained inside the classrooms.“This means only half the strength of a class will join physical session at a time,” Kumar said.Two masks each will be distributed among the school children, he said and added that teaching faculty will be made aware about the Covid-19 guidelines to be followed in the classroom.The institutes management will ensure and maintain cleanliness and sanitation on their campuses, Kumar said while adding that “school authorities will keep a tab on whether any student is suffering from fever or having any symptoms of the virus.” The medical examination of students will be conducted on “random” basis in government schools, the Principal Secretary said.The coaching centres will have to submit a plan on starting physical classes while maintaining social distancing inside the classrooms to the regional officer and seek prior permissions from him, sources said.The Bihar government had on March 13, 2020 announced the closure of all schools, colleges, coaching institutes, zoos and public parks till March 31 as a precautionary measure against coronavirus pandemic.The educational institutions remained closed since the state government enforced a statewide lockdown on March 22, 2020 followed by the centres nationwide lockdown announced on March 25, 2020.The educational centres remained closed following the rising numbers of Covid cases.Earlier, the state govenrment had announced to reopen schools from classes IX to XII from September 28, 2020 but due to rising Covid-19 cases the schools were remained shut.After reviewing the situation and obtaining proper feedback on how things went during the past 15 days, the government will take a call on resuming physical classes for the students of class VIII and below on January 18, the Principal Secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-to-reopen-in-bihar-from-monday-govt-issues-safety-guidelines/story-SysLozOb6PDvM2obDscXNJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Congress leaders raise concern over DCGI approval to indigenous Covid-19 vaccine||Some Congress leaders on Sunday raised serious concern over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine for restricted use, saying it is “premature” and can prove dangerous. However, there were different voices within the party as its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine. Leaders like Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor asked the health minister to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data “had been dispensed with”, prompting a sharp retort from Union Minister Hardeep Puri who said the Congress leaders were behaving “true to their form” and were on a “quest for permanent political marginalisation”. Sharma, who heads the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs which dealt with the issue at length, said the matter of granting authorisation for vaccine use needs to be taken up carefully as no country has dispensed with the mandatory phase 3 trials and verification of data. India’s drugs regulator DCGI on Sunday approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use.             As per submissions made before the expert panel, phase 3 trials have not been completed and therefore, the data on safety and efficacy has not been reviewed, which is a mandatory requirement, Sharma said referring to Covaxin. “The health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category,” Sharma told PTI. “The restricted use emergency authorisation for the Bharat Biotech vaccine presently undergoing Phase 3 trials raises bonafide concerns. “Standard protocols and mandatory requirement of publication of data on safety and efficacy which is reviewed and verifiable is important for the integrity of the process,” he said. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said the approval is premature and Covaxin’s use should be avoided as it could be dangerous. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. Dr Harsh Vardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he tweeted. Another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh asked Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to clarify why internationally-accepted protocols on phase 3 trials “are being modified”. “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should clarify,” he said on Twitter. However, Surjewala tweeted, “Kudos to our scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech on approval of the indigenously developed Corona vaccine and Serum Institute and its scientists too. India has always led the way in path-breaking innovations in the past and will continue to do the same. Great start for New Year.” Hitting out at the Congress leaders for their scepticism, Puri tweeted, “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor and Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers and are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization.” Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav had on Saturday termed the anti-Covid vaccine to be rolled out in the country as a “vaccine of the BJP” and said he would not take the shot. On Sunday, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said the Covid-19 vaccination programme is a “sensitive process”, and the government should not treat it as a “cosmetic” event as it is a matter of lives. Sharma said the news of the imminent arrival and rollout of the nation-wide vaccination drive is “truly uplifting and reassuring” for a country paralysed by the pandemic and is a tribute to India’s scientists, researchers and institutions that have made India the largest vaccine manufacturer of the world. “The DCGI statement is puzzling and the government must reveal the final data of global efficacy trials and the final trials in the UK which has been shared officially by the UK’s MHRA (Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency) following a government-to-government agreement signed between the two countries. “This should be put in the public domain to avoid any confusion on the proven efficacy of the vaccine,” Sharma also said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). This paves the way for the roll-out of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days, while two more are in advanced stages of development. The issue was earlier dealt with by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs. The panel has recommended to the government that any vaccine against Covid-19 should be granted emergency use authorisation only after proper consideration and conducting its trials on sufficient sample size. In its report submitted on December 21 to Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, the committee noted that the CDSCO has given no emergency use authorisation in the past and suggested that all necessary and mandatory requirements must be duly fulfilled and all trial phases completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-raise-concern-over-dcgi-approval-to-indigenous-covid-19-vaccine/story-WCPtMeZojBkcGslYQiXYuK.html
03-01-2021||India||Akhada Parishad divided over inclusion of ‘Kinnar Akhada’||Differences have emerged within Akhada Parishad over the inclusion of transgender or ‘Kinnar Akhada’ as the 14th unit in the apex body of the existing 13 Akhadas. The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of the 13 Akhadas, is divided on giving recognition to ‘Kinnar Akhada’ as the 14th Akhada and thereby allowing them the sacred Ganga dip during Shahi Snaan (Royal Bath) in Haridwar Mahakumbh. While Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri has termed ‘Kinnar Akahada’ along with ‘Pari Akhada’ and ‘Vishwa Akahada’ as fake and having no resemblance to official 13 Akhadas, a section within Akhada Parishad has stood in support of the Kinnar Akhada. Notably, in a recent meeting of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad held at Prayagraj, a resolution was passed regarding non-recognition of so-called Kinnar Akhada, Pari Akhada and Vishwa Adhyatm Akhada terming them as a fake Akhadas. Also read: 17 dead as roof of shelter at cremation ground in UP’s Muradnagar collapsesLed by general secretary of Akhada Parishad Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, this pro-Kinnar Akhada has warned of giving resignation if the Parishad doesn’t give recognition to Kinnar Akhada before Haridwar Mahakumbh. “I will resign from Akhada Parishad as I have given them a written assurance of their inclusion in Shri Panchdash Nam Juna Akhada and thereby privileged right to take holy Ganga dip during Haridwar Mahakumbh. Kinnar Akhada also took bath along with Juna Akhada during Prayagraj Kumbh two years back and it’s apt for them to be recognised as an integral part of the Akhada Parishad,” said Hari Giri Maharaj. Opposing Kinnar Akhada inclusion, Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said there are only 13 Akhadas and that is what will continue to be the case. “It is not apt to meddle with Akhada customs and age-old traditions. Whether it is Kinnar, Pari or Vishwa Adhyatm Akhada, they don’t have any Kumbh lineage, historic, religious, spiritual and mass acceptance. These are fake bodies and Akhada Parishad opposes any privilege, recognition or facilities for them during Haridwar Kumbh,” said Akhada Parishad chief Narendra Giri. Urging Akhada Parishad to change its rigid stance over non-recognition, Kinnar Akahada’s Mahamandaleshwar Lakshmi Narayan Tripathi said that they are also followers of Sanatan Dharma and will duly abide by Akhada norms and traditions. “Akhada Parishad should be progressive, flexible and futuristic in its view. We also hope Uttarakhand government will provide us with facilities and due land allocation during Mahakumbh as is done for other Akhadas,” said Kinnar Akhada’s Mahamandaleshwar Lakshmi Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhada-parishad-divided-over-inclusion-of-kinnar-akhada/story-soaupMdHzuOnsTIspFeBZO.html
03-01-2021||India||Hope farmers’ protest may end tomorrow, says Kailash Choudhary ahead of next round of talks||Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary on Sunday expressed hope that a solution will be found out of talks with farmer unions tomorrow and their agitation against three agriculture laws may end as well.Speaking to ANI, the minister accused the Congress and some other Opposition of adding fuel to fire in the agitation which has been going on for over a month at different borders of the national capital. “The Narendra Modi government takes the decision in the interest of farmers and stands with them in their problems. Rahul Gandhi is doing politics (on these laws) and is provoking farmers. Why does he forget that he did not go to meet Anna Hazare in 2011 during his government and the way he forced Baba Ramdev to run away from a protest site? These people are talking about justice and injustice. Narendra Modi government stands with farmers to resolve their issues,” Choudhary told ANI.“We are talking to farmers who are protesting. We are hopeful that there will be a positive result out of talks which will be held tomorrow. Seven round of talks were held in a peaceful atmosphere. Congress, AAP and Communists are adding fuel to fire. They will not succeed. We hope that their issues will be resolved in discussions tomorrow and protest too may end tomorrow,” he said.Attacking Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi who said over 50 farmers lost their lives due to the government’s “harsh attitude” towards the protests, Choudhary said: “In Congress manifesto, they said they will bring these laws once they come to power. We did the same. These laws give freedom to farmers.”Farmers have been agitating at the gates of the national capital since November 26 against the recently enacted three farm laws -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The next round of talks will take place on January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-farmers-protest-may-end-tomorrow-says-kailash-choudhary-ahead-of-next-round-of-talks/story-qfUJBxq1KdEVptiQ0zWPGP.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Akhilesh Yadav cautions Centre against treating Covid-19 vaccination drive like a ‘cosmetic event’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Akhilesh Yadav urges Centre to not treat vaccination programme like ‘cosmetic event’Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav said that the coronavirus vaccination programme was a sensitive process and the Centre should not treat it like a ‘sajaawati-dikhaawati’ (cosmetic) event. Read More‘True meaning of democracy is...’: Sonia Gandhi hits out at Centre over farmers’ protestCongress party president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and called for the repeal of three agricultural laws that have triggered widespread protests. Read More‘Never listened to his father’: MP home minister jabs Akhilesh Yadav for Covid-19 vaccine remarkMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra ha hit back at Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav for saying he would not get vaccinated.“We can’t even call him a misled youth..” Read MoreTesla opens world’s largest Supercharger station in China’s ShanghaiTesla is adding more and more electric vehicles to the roads and to support its ecosystem, the EV maker has also been quickly expanding its Supercharger network. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘Man born to lead cricket teams’, Ian Chappell lauds Rahane’s captaincy in Melbourne TestIndia’s stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane has been receiving accolades from fans and cricket pundits ever since India have thumped Australia under his leadership in Melbourne. He led the visitors to an eight-wicket victory in the Boxing Day Test, shrugging off the memories of Adelaide horror. Read MoreMira Rajput’s DIY routines for healthy skin and hair include only kitchen ingredientsIf there is one thing that most of us indulged in during the lockdown, it was self-care. Taking care of our skin, hair, working out and trying everything that made us happy and a better version of ourselves, we did it. Read MoreRhea Chakraborty, brother Showik go house hunting in Mumbai. See picsRhea Chakraborty was spotted out of her house, months after her release from jail. The actor and her brother Showik are looking for a new house in Mumbai and were spotted giving one a visit on Sunday. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-akhilesh-yadav-cautions-centre-against-treating-covid-19-vaccination-drive-like-a-cosmetic-event-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WEegWuIZWTB0hHzQ45EA6N.html
03-01-2021||India||Delhi records 424 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 7 months||Delhi on Sunday recorded 424 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lowest in over seven months, according to news agency PTI which quoted health authorities. The national capital has been recording less than 500 new Covid-19 cases for two days in a row now. While 708 people have recovered, as many as 14 deaths have been reported due to the disease in the last 24 hours, according to health authorities.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19On Saturday, Delhi recorded 494 new coronavirus cases. The capital has been recording a steady decline Covid-19 cases since the last week of December. In an order on Thursday, Delhi’s health minister Satyender Jain asked the number of beds dedicated for Covid treatment in the hospitals to be reduced in view of the plummeting cases of the disease. Orders have been issued to Delhi hospitals, to de-escalate the number of covid dedicated beds with immediate effect. This has been done in light of the decreasing cases of covid-19 in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/oao6EG3zshThe coronavirus positivity rate in Delhi has also dipped below one per cent to 0.62 per cent. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi currently stands at 6,26,872 with total recoveries amounting to 6,11,243, while active cases remain 5,044. India started off the new year with the drug controller of the country granting emergency use approval to Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and homegrown Covaxin of Bharat Biotech. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also expressed the pleasure on the restricted emergency use approval granted to the vaccines by the Drugs Controller General of India ( DGCI).Applauding the scientists and doctors for their hard work, Kejriwal said, “The approval of DCGI for the emergency use of two vaccines made in India will give a positive direction to India’s fight against Corona. Salute to the scientists and doctors whose hard work day and night has brought us here today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-424-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-7-months/story-gCYjQeS8EKY02i9nfr52HM.html
03-01-2021||India||NCW received 23,722 complaints in 2020, highest in six years||The National Commission for Women received 23,722 complaints of crimes committed against women in 2020, the highest in the last six years. Nearly one-fourth of the total complaints were of domestic violence, according to NCW data. Among states, the highest number of complaints were received from Uttar Pradesh at 11,872 followed by Delhi 2,635, Haryana 1,266 and Maharashtra 1,188, it added. Of the 23,722 complaints, 7,708 complaints were received under the right to live with dignity clause. The right to live with dignity clause takes into account the emotional abuse of women. According to the NCW data, a total of 5,294 complaints were related to domestic violence. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said economic insecurity, increased stress levels, anxiety, financial worry, and lack of other such emotional support from parents/family’s side may have resulted in domestic violence in many instances in 2020. “More so, home has become the workplace of both the spouses and as well as schools and colleges for their children. In such situations, women are multitasking being professional at the same time supporting their families from the same space. But the biggest challenge for women this year is not only to adapt but to thrive in this unprecedented situation,” she told PTI. The number of complaints received in 2020 have been the highest in six years. In 2014, a total of 33,906 complaints were received, according to the NCW data. The NCW was flooded with complaints of domestic violence in March as the lockdown, imposed in view of the coronavirus outbreak, forced women to remain confined to their homes with their abusers. The number of complaints of domestic violence went on increasing through the months and in July, a record number of 660 such complaints were received. Sharma underlined how domestic violence remained a serious concern for the commission through the year. “Victims of domestic violence are distanced from their regular support systems making it difficult for them to call out for help. The series of Covid-19 lockdowns in India reduced the opportunities of reporting of domestic violence cases,” she said. The NCW chairperson said the lockdown incapacitated women by preventing them from moving to safer places in cases of violence and abuse, reduced contact with the natal family which is usually the first point of contact for the victim. “The machinery under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act had not been identified as an essential service during the lockdown. Hence, protection officers and NGOs were not able to visit households of victims and police officers being at the frontline to tackle Covid-19 were overstretched to help victims effectively,” she said. After the right to live with dignity and domestic violence, the third highest number of complaints have been of harassment of married women or dowry harassment at 3.784 followed by that of molestation at 1,679. According to the data, 1,276 complaints of police apathy towards women and 704 complaints of cyber crime were received by the commission. As many as 1,234 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 376 complaints of sexual harassment were received by the commission in 2020, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they want. In 2021, she said the commission will continue to work with commitment to ensure justice and empowerment to even the last woman standing at periphery and will continue with its endeavours. Women rights activist Yogita Bhayana, who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), the high rate might also be because of high awareness among women to talk about such incidents and report them. “There has been an increase because there is also an increase in awareness because women are getting more proactive reporting it and talking about it. Earlier they used to suppress their grievances and the government is also spreading awareness and women get motivated by other women reporting it,” she said. “Because of social media the reporting of domestic violence has increased. Women have become more vocal and they have less tolerance which is very good,” Bhayana added. Another women rights activist Shamina Shafiq said the government needs to talk strongly about domestic violence. “Unfortunately a man feels it is his right to beat a woman and he enjoys the fact that I am the one in control of the life of another person. There should be writing on the wall that spousal violence is wrong,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-received-23-722-complaints-in-2020-highest-in-six-years/story-m2hDa1u7LXeX2rBlX6qsHM.html
03-01-2021||India||17 dead as roof of shelter at cremation ground in UP’s Muradnagar collapses||Seventeen people were killed when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar collapsed on Sunday, news agency ANI reported. “17 people have died so far while 38 people have been rescued after a shed collapsed in Muradnagar. We’ve started a probe and we’ll take strict action against those found guilty,” Anita C Meshram, Divisional Commissioner, Meerut told ANI.According to HT’s sister publication Livehindustan, over 40 people were initially trapped in the debris. The police and administration team arrived at the spot on receiving information and rescued the people, who were then admitted to Ghaziabad District Hospital. Around 100 people were attending the funeral procession of a local resident of Dayanand Colony, who died on Saturday, when the roof collapsed and hardly anyone got a chance to escape, according to Livehindustan. While a few got trapped in the rubble, some managed to save their lives by running. The building structure at the cremation ground was not very old and it is feared that the incident took place because the building was constructed in an area where frequent water-logging takes place. Due to heavy rain, the soil moved and thr mishap took place, according to Livehindustan. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has condoled the death of people in the incident. He has instructed officials to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the dependents of the deceased in this accident. He has also instructed the Mandalayukta, Meerut and ADG, Meerut Zone to submit a report regarding the incident.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-dead-as-roof-of-shelter-at-cremation-ground-in-up-s-muradnagar-collapses/story-czC36ApQar4Dz2uJ6MNtZM.html
03-01-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav urges Centre to not treat vaccination programme like ‘cosmetic event’||Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav said that the coronavirus vaccination programme was a sensitive process and the Centre should not treat it like a ‘sajaawati-dikhaawati’ (cosmetic) event. He also said that the process should commence only after making concrete arrangements. Yadav stirred up a controversy on Saturday when he said that he could not trust the BJP government’s vaccine and that he would not be taking it. His remarks have drawn criticism not only from BJP leaders but from leaders of other parties as well. “I am not going to get vaccinated for now. How can I trust BJP’s vaccine, when our government will be formed everyone will get free vaccine. We cannot take BJP’s vaccine,” the SP president said. He went on to accuse the government of trying to ward off the virus by clanging plates, clapping, and hovering helicopters over hospitals.Madhya Pradesh home minister slammed Yadav for his comments, questioning how he could listen to the country when he did not even listen to his father or uncle. “We can’t even call him a misled youth. When he never listened to his uncle or father, why would he listen to the country? This is a policy of appeasement. It’s not good to spread rumour about vaccine,” Mishra said. Reacting to the SP leader’s remarks, Jammu Kashmir National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted that he would ‘happily get’ a vaccine when it becomes available, and that it belongs to no political party. “I don’t know about anyone else but when my turn comes I’ll happily roll up my sleeve & get a COVID vaccine. This damn virus has been far too disruptive & if a vaccine helps bring about a semblance of normalcy after all the chaos then sign me up,” he said. “The more people that get vaccinated the better it will be for the country & the economy. No vaccine belongs to any political party, they belong to humanity & the sooner we get vulnerable people vaccinated the better,” he added.The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) approved the vaccines of Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency authorization earlier today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-urges-centre-to-not-treat-vaccination-programme-like-cosmetic-event/story-gQRgeciDv94aqvu9YtGXzI.html
03-01-2021||India||‘First soldiers, now vaccine’: Hardeep Singh Puri slams Akhilesh Yadav, Shashi Tharoor over Covid-19 vaccine||A day after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav questioned India’s Covid-19 vaccines and said he won’t take “BJP’s vaccine”, Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor too doubted the approval given to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine while its third phase trial is going on. Slamming their doubts, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Jairam, Tharoor and Akhilesh are behaving true to form. “They first questioned the valour of our soldiers and now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India,” he wrote. “Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalisation,” he added. So says the in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert SpeerAs Hardeep Singh Puri termed the three politicians as the “in-house cynics”, Jairam Ramesh replied to Puri by calling him the “in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert Speer”, referring to two politicians who were close to Adolf Hitler.‘Never listened to his father’: MP home minister jabs Akhilesh Yadav for Covid-19 vaccine remarkBefore the Drug Control General of India gave the go-ahead to Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use of their vaccines on Sunday, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Twitter claimed that though Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, internationally accepted protocols relating to phase three trials are being modified for Covaxin.  Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister @drharshvardhan should clarify. pic.twitter.com/5HAWZtmW9sIn the same strain, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor claimed that the approval to Bharat Biotech was premature. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. @drharshvardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” Tharoor said. The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. @drharshvardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime. https://t.co/H7Gis9UTQbThe DGCI while announcing the approval to the two vaccine candidates clarified that both are running their third phase of trial which will continue.‘How can I trust BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine’: Akhilesh Yadav won’t get vaccinated for nowAIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria too said that the approvals have been given keeping all aspects in mind, including the new mutant strain. He also clarified that Bharat Biotech’s vaccine can be used as a backup while Serum’s Oxford vaccine will be primarily given. “Initially, Serum Institute vaccine will be given. They already have 50 million doses available and they’ll be able to give that in initial phase where we will vaccinate around three crore people. Gradually, we will build on it and by the time Bharat Biotech data will also be available,” Guleria said.On Saturday, Akhilesh Yadav doubted the efficacy of the vaccines stirring a controversy, to which his party MLC Ashutosh Sinha contributed and said anything can happen. The vaccine can make you impotent, he claimed.DCGI VG Somani on Sunday rubbished all these claims and said the apex body would never have approved anything, had there been even the slightest safety concerns. he also said that vaccines are 100 per cent safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-soldiers-now-vaccine-hardeep-singh-puri-slams-akhilesh-yadav-shahsi-tharoor-over-covid-19-vaccine/story-6i8GDGIs7RbEOkKgClBVXL.html
03-01-2021||India||Zydus Cadila gets DCGI nod to initiate Phase-3 clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Sunday said it has received DCGI approval to initiate Phase III clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D.The company will now be initiating Phase III clinical trial in around 30,000 volunteers, Zydus Cadila said in a statement.ZyCoV-D was found to be safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic in phase I and II clinical trials, it added.The phase II study of ZyCoV-D had been conducted in over 1,000 healthy adult volunteers as part of the adaptive Phase I/II dose-escalation, multi-centric, randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled study, the drug firm said.The trial was reviewed by an independent data safety monitoring board (DSMB) and reports were submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) regularly for the update on safety outcome.“We are reaching a critical milestone in our vaccine development programme and towards our goal of helping people fight the pandemic with an indigenously discovered, safe and efficacious vaccine,” Zydus Group Chairman Pankaj R Patel said.The launch of the Phase 3 trial will determine the efficacy of the company’s vaccine in preventing COVID-19, which continues to pose a major threat world over, he added.The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday granted emergency approval to Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for their respective vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-gets-dcgi-nod-to-initiate-phase-3-clinical-trials-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-OG3V1DwSuxsEKfotjKaXAP.html
03-01-2021||India||Jharkhand MGNREGS workers likely to get a hike of Rs 31 in minimum wage||Labourers working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) are likely to get a hike of Rs 31 in their minimum wage in Jharkhand soon, as the state government has decided to increase the wage from Rs 194 to Rs 225 from its own pocket. The state rural development department has finalised a draft to this effect, and it is expected to get the government’s approval soon. A high level-meeting is scheduled in this regard on Monday, officials said. Chief minister Hemant Soren, on occasion of one-year of government’s celebration, said, “MGNREGA is a lifeline for rural poor people. But, people do not show much interest due to poor wage. So, we have decided to enhance the wage from the existing amount fixed by the Centre at Rs 194 to Rs 225 from the state exchequer.” Labourers working under MGNREGS get much lower minimum wage than the state’s minimum wage rate. State’s minimum wage is Rs 283, while a MGNREGS labourer gets Rs 194 as minimum wage. State MGNREGS commissioner Sidhartha Tripathy said, “There are provisions in MGNREGS under which a state can increase the minimum wage of workers from its own exchequer. Several states like Bihar and Odisha have already done it.” When asked if the state needs consent from the Centre in this regard, Tripathy said, “The Centre’s consent is not required in it, but we need to request Centre for creating a separate column for the state’s wage contribution in the management information system (MIS) of MGNREGA. It’s a process of just 30 minutes.” In a bid to raise workers’ income, the state would also request the Centre to revise the CFT (cubic feet) provision per man-day for labourers working under MGNREGS, rural development officials said. A worker’s man-day under the Centre’s scheme is considered after he digs 73 CFT soil in Jharkhand. In other words, a worker gets the minimum wage of Rs 194 after he digs 73 CFT soil in Jharkhand. MGNREGS labourers in Andhra Pradesh get the minimum wage after digging just 28 CFT. In Chhattisgarh, it is 48 CFT, officials said. However, a time-motion study is begin carried out in Jharkhand by the National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR) for revision in the CFT rule. Jharkhand has already achieved man days target of 8 crore this year. The state had requested the Centre to revise it. The Centre has set new target of 9 crore man days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-mgnregs-workers-likely-to-get-a-hike-of-rs-31-in-minimum-wage/story-YeTis0WULlbO0WEGfILiZM.html
03-01-2021||India||Sacked Tripura school teacher found dead, family allege suicide over debt burden||A terminated school teacher in Tripura allegedly killed himself after failing to clear debt. The incident happened at Belonia in South district of Tripura, over 80 kilometres away from Agartala on Friday late evening, said police on Sunday. A case of unnatural death was recorded at PR Bari police station.According to the deceased’s family members, they used to lead a peaceful life till the school teacher lost his job after March last year. He took loans to meet his family’s daily requirements.“He could not repay the loans he had taken. He died by suicide over debt burden,” said his family members.“We took an unnatural death case. We are investigating the matter,” said a police official.Also read: Chinese economy is recovering. But there are gaps The deceased was one among the total 10,323 school teachers who were terminated by Tripura High Court due to their faulty recruitment process in 2014. These teachers were appointed in postgraduate, graduate and undergraduate posts in different phases since 2010. Challenging the order, the sacked teachers and the erstwhile Left Front government filed Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court and the apex court upheld the High Court’s order in 2017.Of the total 10,323 teachers, over 8,000 teachers were reappointed on an ad hoc basis, the tenure of which expired on March 31 last year.The sacked teachers formed a joint forum comprising three separate organizations, namely, Justice for 10323, Amra 10323 and All Tripura Ad Hoc Teachers’ Association, and are protesting at Agartala since December 7 last demanding the state government to provide a permanent solution to their crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacked-tripura-school-teacher-found-dead-family-allege-suicide-over-debt-burden/story-WZmDcA9O7r3dWrrYqIPu0O.html
03-01-2021||India||Approval to Covaxin premature, could be dangerous: Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said that the emergency approval to Covid-19 vaccine--Covaxin is premature and could be dangerous as it is still under phase 3 trial. He urged Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to wait till full trials of the vaccine are completed. Taking to Twitter, Member of Parliament from Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram said, “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous.”He further urged Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to avoid Covaxin till full trials are over. “Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he added in the tweet.Earlier today, Covid-19 vaccines of Serum Institue of India and Bharat Biotech have been granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation, said DCGI.“After adequate examination, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(CDSCO) has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation and permission is being granted to M/s Cadila Healthcare for conduct of the Phase III clinical trial,” said VG Somani, DCGI, during a media briefing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approval-to-covaxin-premature-could-be-dangerous-shashi-tharoor/story-MXaud26vlgjLH7YkCJlsmK.html
03-01-2021||India||2 Chinese among 4 held for running instant loan app||Two Chinese and as many Indian nationals have been arrested for allegedly operating instant loan apps, police said on Saturday. Investigation, based on a complaint here, revealed the prime accused to be operating from China, the police said.The two Indians had been operating the call centre from Bengaluru and had employed over 100 people to provide quick online loans, they said. Each employee had been asked to sanction instant loans to at least 10 people in a week and threatened of being sacked if they failed to do so, said the police.The Chinese nationals ran the call centre with the assistance of the two Indians. All of them were arrested in Bengaluru on December 31, 2020 and January 1, 2021, according to Chennai Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. The arrest was made following Ganesan’s complaint stating that he was subjected to agony, abuse, threats and harassment by the online loan app firms over repayment with higher rate of interest, the Commissioner said in a press release. It was also revealed that another Chinese national was the head of the call centre and he operated from China, the release said. “We are investigating whether the Chinese are running loan apps targeting only India,” the Commissioner further said. Of late, there have been many instances of app-based money-lenders harassing borrowers over repayment, which led to suicides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-chinese-among-4-held-for-running-instant-loan-app/story-ijcZwdW3qbrzkNfaJFmVgI.html
03-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave final approval to two Covid-19 vaccines, paving the way for a huge inoculation program to stem the pandemic in the second worst-hit country. Lauding the development, All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria said “it is a great day for the country and a good way to start the new year.” He also said that indigenously developed Covaxin - one of the two vaccines approved - can be used as backup.“It’s a great day for our country and it’s a very good way to start the new year. Both the vaccines are made in India. They are cost-effective & easy to administer. We should, in a very short period, start rolling out vaccines,” said Guleria.Also Read | Approval for Covaxin a giant leap for novel product development in India: Bharat BiotechHe also said that vaccines go through various stages to make sure it’s safe. “All data is critically looked at by experts after which vaccine is approved,” the AIIMS director further added.The DCGI gave approval for the emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).He said that the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech will be used as backup. “In an emergency situation when there is a sudden increase in cases & we need to vaccinate, Bharat Biotech vaccine will be used. It can also be used as a backup when we’re not sure how efficacious the Serum Institute vaccine is going to be,” said Guleria.“Initially, Serum Institute vaccine will be given. They already have 50 million doses available & they’ll be able to give that in the initial phase where we’ll vaccinate around 3 Cr ppl. Gradually,we’ll build on it & by the time Bharat Biotech data will also be available,” he added.The nod marks the first vaccine approvals for India, which after the United States, has recorded the most infections of the coronavirus disease.Also Read | Mixing of Covid-19 vaccines: Where do health agencies stand?The DCGI granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media on Sunday.Both of the vaccines are two-dose regimen and need 2-8 degrees Celsius storing temperature which make them more cost-effective in comparison to the other vaccine being developed by the US-based pharma giant Pfizer with its German partner BioNTech.Watch |  ‘The Covid-19 vaccines are 110% safe…’: DCGI VG SomaniThe country is now expected to start the immunisation drive within days and targeting to inoculate 300 million people. In the first phase of vaccination drive, frontline workers including doctors and people working in the healthcare sector will get the shots first. It will be free of cost for the first six to eight months of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-day-for-the-country-says-aiims-director-after-2-covid-19-vaccines-get-govt-nod/story-Q5KUMGZEKnakU5Cnm6GMCK.html
03-01-2021||India||‘True meaning of democracy is...’: Sonia Gandhi hits out at Centre over farmers’ protest||Congress party president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and called for the repeal of three agricultural laws that have triggered widespread protests. “In this biting cold and rain, our farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for 39 days now. Their plight is concern for all the citizens and I,” Gandhi said. “More than 50 farmers have lost their lives because of the government’s harsh attitude towards the protests. Some have even committed suicide. Neither has their decision moved the Modi government or any of its ministers, nor have they uttered a word of consolation. I offer my tribute to those who have passed away and prayers and strength to their families,” she added. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi says farmers being martyred while ‘Modi’s friends’ benefitGandhi’s statement comes a day after a farmer at the UP-Delhi border allegedly committed suicide. The farmers have demanded a repeal of the three controversial farm laws.Gandhi said that the government’s stand is tantamount to arrogance and it must recognize that the true meaning of democracy is to protect the rights and interests of the farmers and workers. “Ever since independence, this is the first arrogant government to have come to power that doesn’t care for the farmers who feed, let alone the citizens,” Gandhi said. “It is evident that the government is practising a policy of “tire them and drive them away. But our farmers will not bend before them. The government must let of its ego and repeal the three farm laws and bring an end to the protests. The true meaning of democracy is protecting the interests of the farmers and workers, the Modi government should learn that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-hits-out-at-centre-over-farmers-protest/story-ed52oo0tVRay8221HiwscP.html
03-01-2021||India||AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine: What’s been said about dosage, efficacy||India’s drugs regulator on Sunday gave final approval for the emergency use of a two-dose coronavirus vaccine, Covidshield, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. The regulator did not discuss the recommended intervals between shots. Authorities in Britain, the first to have authorised the Covid-19 vaccine, on Wednesday recommended giving as many people as possible a first dose right away and following up with a second injection four to 12 weeks later.The differences in findings are outlined below.Astrazeneca-OxfordDosage:AstraZeneca’s late-stage trial was designed for two injections four weeks apart.But in late-stage trial data published in the Lancet on Dec. 12, the company said most participants had delays in receiving their second shot.The median time between two standard doses in UK volunteers was about 10 weeks, and six weeks in Brazil, it said.Efficacy:In late-stage trials, two full doses were given to the majority of participants in the UK and Brazil and were shown to be 62% effective - but a smaller group of volunteers received by accident half a dose followed by a full dose, and registered 90% effectiveness. They were in Britain and under 55 years of age.Many regulators set 50% as the minimum efficacy rate, but Pfizer-BioNTech’s and Moderna’s vaccines achieved over 90% in their trials.AstraZeneca said last month it did not know the reason for the higher efficacy rate, but it was preparing further tests to confirm whether the half-dose regimen could be 90% effective. One single dose was seen as 64% effective. UK RegulatorDosage: The UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) has approved a two-full-dose regimen.The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation has recommended that people get one dose followed by a second four to 12 weeks later in a bid to speed up the vaccination programme.Efficacy: On Wednesday, the authorities cleared up one doubt raised by the AstraZeneca-Oxford data, saying that a 90% success rate for a half-dose followed by a full dose had not stood up to analysis.The vaccine can be 80% effective when there are three months between shots, an official involved in approving the vaccine in Britain said at a briefing, higher than the average that the developers themselves had found. Later in the same briefing, a British scientist involved in the approval of the vaccine said one dose of the vaccine is around 70% effective after 21 days and before the second dose is given.Wei Shen Lim, chair for Covid-19 immunisation of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, said the data for that finding was shared with the regulator, but was not “entirely in the public domain”. India RegulatorDosageThe Drugs Controller General of India, VG Somani, who heads the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation, approved a full two-dose regimen.In announcing the approval on Jan. 3, Somani did not clarify the intervals between shots. Sources told Reuters the doses would be given four weeks apart.Efficacy Somani said the overall efficacy of the AstraZeneca vaccine was 70.42%, based on overseas studies on 23,745 participants aged 18 or above. Phase II/III clinical trials on 1,600 participants in India showed data “comparable with those from the overseas clinical studies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-what-s-been-said-about-dosage-efficacy/story-aJsEGVLoZvwU6RUXOuT4OK.html
03-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says farmers being martyred while ‘Modi’s friends’ benefit||The Congress party on Sunday accused the Central government of being apathetic towards farmers and being empathetic to its “suit-boot friends”. Former Congress party president Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the country is witnessing a moment akin to the Champaran struggle, a farmers uprising led by Mahatma Gandhi against the Colonial rule in 1917.“The country is facing a situation like Champaran once again,” Gandhi said. “Back then, collaborators supported the British company, now the friends of Modi are in-cahoots. But every agitating farmer-worker is a satyagrahi, who will secure his rights,” Rahul’s tweet said. Gandhi’s comments come in the backdrop of Central ministers holding the sixth round of talks with the protesting farm leaders on Wednesday. They rejected the demand to repeal the three agricultural laws that the cultivators say will hurt their livelihoods. The Centre, however, proposed to set up a committee to examine the new farm laws. Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash also discussed the possibility of a law on guaranteeing minimum prices for farm prices, HT reported on Wednesday. The farmers, however, remain firm on their demand for the repeal of the laws.Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, in a press briefing at the party headquarters in New Delhi, urged the government to take cognisance of the cold, urgently address the farmers’ demands and repeal the laws. He said that amid the impasse with the government, farmers were being martyred at the border. “On one hand, there has been a complete lack of sensitivity towards the plight of the protesting farmers and their demands and on the other, close friends of this BJP government have been receiving complete empathy and blessings for expanding their dominance in all spheres of business,” Vallabh said.“On one hand, the farmers in return for their protests have only been receiving false promises, (while) the friends have been receiving contracts after contracts to fill their pockets. This is a matter of serious concern as all this is happening as the farmers continue to protest. The government is fooling the nation,” he added.Also Read: Rains, waterlogging cause inconvenience to farmers protesting at Delhi bordersVallabh said that a 30-year-long contract has been allocated to the Adani Agro Logistics Limited to store food grain, where the government has provided a guarantee that their services will be used and revenue has been linked to inflation. “The government is prepared to provide a revenue guarantee to AALL that too with price escalation based on an inflation-linked formula, but for farmers, there is no such guarantee for minimum support price,” Vallabh said. He added that the government had also failed to procure the promised 60 lakh metric tonne of rice from the farmers in Chhattisgarh, citing the lack of storage space as a reason. “Are they waiting for AALL to set up storage spaces in Chhattisgarh; will they procure the rice only then,” he asked. The Congress leader also stressed that the three farm bills need to be repealed since their “negative” impact had already begun to show in the state of Madhya Pradesh.“Nearly 70% of the mandis have been shut down. Moreover, farmers who were asked to plant their crops by private players have not been able to sell the produce as the company says the quality is not good enough,” Vallabh said. “This is exactly what the farmers are protesting against. Misuse of the legislation by the private sector,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-farmers-being-martyred-while-modi-s-friends-benefit/story-kyBidL8uW9T5vQUkiBHNaM.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Never listened to his father’: MP home minister jabs Akhilesh Yadav for Covid-19 vaccine remark||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra ha hit back at Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav for saying he would not get vaccinated.“We can’t even call him a misled youth. When he never listened to his uncle or father, why would he listen to the country? This is a policy of appeasement. It’s not good to spread rumour about vaccine,” Mishra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Speaking about the vaccine on Saturday, Yadav discouraged people in Uttar Pradesh from getting vaccinated. “How can I trust the BJP’s vaccine, no chance? When our government is formed, everyone will get a free vaccine. We cannot take the BJP vaccine. The inoculation programme under the BJP-led regime cannot be trusted,” Yadav had said.Also Read | ‘How can I trust BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine’: Akhilesh Yadav won’t get vaccinated for nowKeshav Prasad Maurya, the deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, said that Yadav has insulted the country’s doctors and scientists.“Akhilesh Yadav doesn’t trust the vaccine and people of Uttar Pradesh do not trust him. Questioning the vaccine is an insult to our doctors and scientists. He should apologise,” Maurya said.He also said that a person who has been chief minister should think twice before making such remarks.Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani on Sunday gave final approval to Covid-19 vaccines made by Bharat Biotech and Oxford-AstraZeneca for use in India. He also assured people about the safety of the two vaccines.“After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Somani said during a press conference. “We’ll never approve anything if there is slightest of safety concern. The vaccines are 100 per cent safe. Some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine. It is absolute rubbish that people may become impotent,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The approval by DCGI was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he congratulated the drugs regulator and scientists who he said worked hard to develop the Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-listened-to-his-father-mp-home-minister-jabs-akhilesh-yadav-for-covid-19-vaccine-remark/story-akl883jHbAYgqKdWILueTJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Approval for Covaxin a giant leap for novel product development in India: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Sunday said the DCGI approval for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin is a giant leap for novel product development in the country. Earlier in the day, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use. “The approval of COVAXIN for emergency use is a giant leap for innovation and novel product development in India. It is a proud moment for the nation and a great milestone in India’s scientific capability, a kickstart to the innovation ecosystem in India,” Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said in a statement. While this vaccine addresses an unmet medical need during this pandemic, the company’s goal is to provide global access to populations that need it the most, he added. Covaxin has generated excellent safety data with robust immune responses to multiple viral proteins that persist, Ella noted. The DCGI approval for the vaccines was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told a press conference. This paves the way for the roll-out of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The phase-III human clinical trials of Covaxin began mid-November. Bharat Biotech aims to recruit 26,000 volunteers across the country for the phase-III trials. It has already crossed the 23,000-volunteers mark so far. The Hyderabad-based firm said Covaxin has been evaluated in around 1,000 subjects in phase-I and phase-II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, with acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approval-for-covaxin-a-giant-leap-for-novel-product-development-in-india-bharat-biotech/story-iXv5roeLquqmSdJRxAKKRK.html
03-01-2021||India||Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh praise Modi’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ vision as vaccines get green signal||After the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave green signal to two vaccine candidates for restricted, emergency use, Union minister Rajnath Singh heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for Aatmanirbhar Bharat, which he said has helped India tremendously in coming up with indigenous solutions in India’s fight against the global pandemic. “India today takes a giant step towards decisively defeating the Covid-19 pandemic with DCGI granting approval to vaccines of Serum Institute of Bharat Biotech. We are proud of our scientists who made this vaccine possible in a very short span of time,” Rajnath tweeted. “Time and again, we have seen a New India eager to innovate and help the humanity during crisis. The approval to Made in India vaccines will prove to be a game changer in boosting PM @NarendraModi’s vision of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” Union home minister Amit Shah said adding visionary leadership can make a huge difference.Several ministers on Sunday took to Twitter congratulating the collaborative efforts of scientists, vaccine makers. “A big and historic moment for India. Indian vaccines is reality now. Thank you Narendra Modiji for this significant and reassuring announcement,” minister Prakash Javadekar said.Calling it a “proud moment”, minister Nitin Gadkari congratulated PM Modi under “whose leadership our scientists have achieved this in such short duration”. Congratulations all. Vaccination will begin soon. This is a result of focused work by scientists, national laboratories, government agencies, regulators, health care workers, and most importantly, all our people who have waited patiently following all COVID appropriate behaviour. https://t.co/mPR0Lz8YAXGovernment of India’s principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan said vaccination will begin soon. “This is a result of focussed work by scientists, national laboratories, government agencies, regulators, healthcare workers, and most importantly, all our people who have waited patiently following all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he tweeted. Both Covishield and Covaxin are indigenous. Though Covishield has been developed by oxford University in collaboration with Astrazeneca, Pune’s Serum Institute of India is its manufacturing partner in India. SII also conducted the second phase trial in India and the third phase trial is going on. On the other hand, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is completely indigenous as it has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV). Both the vaccines hold major prospects in the international market as several countries have shown interest in these two vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-praises-modi-s-aatmanirbhar-bharat-vision-as-vaccines-get-green-signal/story-Gy73Ptyd3rNImrOCMxRT2K.html
03-01-2021||India||Bihar govt using IT device to monitor Nitish Kumar’s tap water supply project||Taking serious note of the complaints about frequent disruptions in rural water supply scheme, the panchayati raj department has resorted to the use of computer-based application to keep a tab on operation of motorised pumps across Bihar.As part of the state’s mission to provide tap water supply to each and every household, the state government has assigned the department with the task of rolling out the scheme in over 58,000 wards of rural areas by the end of this fiscal under the chief minister’s flagship Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal project.Additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena said that all water towers would be equipped with specially designed device, internet of things (IOT), to calculate operation time of pumps and flow of water from the towers. “The device will be connected with a centralised computer network and operation status of each and every pumping station and water tower could be watched from the control room on realtime basis,” added Meena.The IOT devices have already been installed in water towers in over 6,000 gram panchayats of Sheohar district on a pilot basis. “Now it will be installed in water towers of the remaining panchayats in the next two months. This will also allow the officials to monitor functioning of motorised pumps. The device will also detect wastage or excessive use of water by the people,” said Meena.The department has already removed more than 50 mukhiyas from their posts and some of them have been barred from contesting elections in future after they were found guilty of not executing the project properly. The department allocates necessary funds to the gram panchayats for implementation of the tap water supply schemes in villages.Also Read: Bihar govt plans Didi Ki Rasoi canteens in all district hospitalsProject leader of the department, Ashutosh, said so far, 55,874 wards out of the total 58,612, allocated to the department for setting up tap water supply schemes under the CM’s flagship programme, had been covered. “Work on about 2300 projects is going on, while 105 projects have been declared non-feasible,” he added.The department has already facilitated the setting up of the ward management committees and allowed them to hire pump operators at the monthly remuneration of ₹3,000 (₹2000 from the committee and ₹1000 from user charges) for the timely operation of the installations. Besides, one technical assistant has been assigned to take care of the projects in four panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-using-it-device-to-monitor-nitish-kumar-s-tap-water-supply-project/story-eBKscE1CKoD4HBy1Va5P6L.html
03-01-2021||India||Is Co-WIN app for Covid-19 vaccine launched? How to download, register||With both Covishield and Covaxin getting the Drug Control General of India(DCGI)’s approval for restricted emergency use, vaccination drive now is only a matter of announcement as both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are prepared to supply the doses required for phase one vaccination.In this phase, frontline workers will be vaccinated. The cost will be borne by the Centre. For vaccination process, Centre has brought in an application named Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network).Here is all you need to know1. The Union health minister has earlier said that people would be able to self-register themselves for vaccine through this app. But that would happen at a later stage after the frontline workers identified by the local authorities are vaccinated.2. The application is not yet launched. It is not available at present in the play store.3. The application is in the pre-product stage being accessed by health officials who are uploading the data of the health workers who will get vaccines in the first stage. More than 75 lakh beneficiaries have already been registered during the dry run.4. The Union health ministry and the ministry of electronics and information technology jointly announced a challenge inviting participants to take part where they will have to strengthen the final app.5. As of now, the app can not be accessed by people and there is no self-registration going on. It is being only accessed by officials as the app was tested during vaccine dry run too.6. Once launched, the app will have four modules: User administrator module, beneficiary registration, vaccination and beneficiary acknowledgement and status updation.7. The module of beneficiary registration will be for people to use in case they want to register themselves. There will be three options under this: self registration, individual registration and bulk upload.8. In self-registration, the beneficiaries can directly register themselves through the web as well as the mobile application. Photo identity will be required for registration. And if an individual registers himself or herself, the data will be verified to check whether he or she is above 50, or below 50 but with co-morbidity issues.9. Surveyors and district administrators can also register multiple beneficiaries.10. There will be no spot registration in any phase of priority group vaccination.Only frontline workers will be vaccinated in the first two phases. Next, people above 50 years of age, who are at a greater risk of contracting Covid-19, will be vaccinated. People below that age group but with co-morbidity issues will be considered after that. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has clarified that vaccine will be free for frontline workers. It is not yet clear whether the vaccine for people above 50 years and people with co-morbidities will be free or subsidised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-co-win-app-for-covid-19-vaccine-launched-how-to-download-register/story-IrdA4OcU32QAFG135pRXIP.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Watershed moment in India’s battle against Covid-19’: Harsh Vardhan||Welcoming the final approval for Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for emergency use ,Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said it was a watershed moment in India’s battle against Covid-19 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“A watershed moment in India’s famed battle against Covid-19 under leadership of PM Modi. Our wait for the vaccine is over with Covishield from Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech approved for emergency use in India,” Vardhan tweeted.Congratulating the scientists and researchers for their “untiring efforts”, Vardhan said, “These vaccines are a fitting tribute to our corona warriors! My heartfelt gratitude to all healthcare professionals and frontline workers for their exemplary efforts during these unprecedented times.”“It’s now time to reap the benefits of the robust supply chain infrastructure we’ve put in place for quick & equitable distribution of the vaccine. Urge all citizens to entrust the stringent protocols followed for ensuring safety, efficacy & immunogenicity of the approved vaccines,” he added.India’s drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media.“Serum and Bharat Biotech vaccines have to be administered in two doses. All the three vaccines have to be stored at 2-8° C,” he said.PM Modi termed the approval a decisive turning point in India’s fight against coronavirus.”DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and COVID-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” he tweeted.“It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” he said in another tweet. He also saluted the frontline workers who have been leading the country’s fight against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watershed-moment-in-india-s-battle-against-covid-19-harsh-vardhan/story-im8mXbUT9XZWwQHOlmOkDP.html
03-01-2021||India||Fresh snowfall closes highway in J&K, Board exams postponed||There was widespread snowfall in Kashmir and parts of Jammu division on Sunday, prompting the authorities to close the Srinagar-Jammu national highway and postpone class-11 board exams. The snow started laying a white cover on the valley since the wee hours on Sunday, a day ahead of the forecast made by the weather office. Director meteorological centre based in Srinagar, Sonam Lotus said moderate snowfall was reported from most places of J&K and at Zojila, connecting the Valley with Ladakh. “As of now, snowfall of the same intensity is likely to continue till afternoon and thereafter there will be a temporary break till evening,” he said. He said the maximum snow depth--12 inches or 30 cm-- till 10 am was in Kulgam in South Kashmir. The MeT office said that there was 21 cm snowfall till morning in Qazigund, 18.5 cm in Kokernag, 11.5 cm in Pahalgam and 6 cm in summer capital Srinagar. The snowfall is going to intensify further. “Moderate to heavy snowfall with isolated very heavy snowfall most likely to occur in South Kashmir, Gulmarg in North Kashmir, Banihal-Ramban, Poonch, Rajouri, Kishtwar, Zanskar Drass and on higher reaches of Ladakh region,” Lotus said. He said that the snowfall will continue from 3rd to 6th January forenoon with occasional breaks. “This may lead to a disruption of surface and air transportation, water logging in plains of Jammu and Srinagar cities,” he said. The electricity has already started to play hide and seek in the region while roads in many parts are covered with snow. The authorities have deployed men and machinery to clear snow from important roads. Also Read: ‘No vaccine belongs to any political party’: Omar Abdullah after Akhilesh Yadav rejects Covid-19 vaccineThe traffic authorities closed Srinagar-Jammu national highway for traffic. “Jammu-Srinagar NHW closed for traffic movement due to heavy snowfall around Jawahar Tunnel,” the traffic department said in a tweet. Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education said that the examination of students of class 11th, scheduled today, was postponed in view of the bad weather.Also Read: J&K police investigate jeweller’s killing as parties condemn attackThe 40-day intense winter period of ‘Chillai Kalan’ started in Kashmir valley on December 21 with sub zero night temperatures across the region. There have been spells of snow in the region in December. This year, the winter has started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record minus 6.6 degrees celsius in summer capital Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season and also the second coldest December night in the past one decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snowfall-closes-highway-in-j-k-board-exams-postponed/story-wGz36AAIwSKhXM7d4WUJnK.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Adar Poonawalla thanks DCGI after Covishield gets final approval for restricted use in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Finally paid off’: Adar Poonawalla thanks PM Modi, DCGI after Covishield gets final approvalFor Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla, the happy new year moment came on January 3 after the Drug Controller General of India on Sunday gave the final nod to Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and pharma major Astrazeneca and manufactured in India by Poonawalla’s Serum Institute. Read moreShabana Azmi links women empowerment with upbringing of boys, redefines ‘mardangi’Drawing attention to the issue of female foeticide with her Netflix horror film, Kaali Khuhi, veteran star Shabana Azmi was also a part of 2020’s much-acclaimed feminist OTT movie, Mee Raqsam that was an ode to the strong bond between a father and his daughter. Read moreDubai Crown Prince ‘races’ with ostriches. WatchDubai’s Crown Prince Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum took to Instagram to share a video involving ostriches which has now created a buzz. The clip shows the Crown Prince engaged in a ‘race’ against two birds. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘That’s the first I’ve heard of it,’ Matthew Wade on reports of India’s Brisbane reluctanceMatthew Wade has said that Australia fully expects to play the fourth Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy at its scheduled venue – The Gabba in Brisbane – after reports emerged that India are not keen on travelling to the city in view of quarantine proposals. Read moreMeet Asagumo, a spider-like rover that is going to the moon later this yearBritish firm Spacebit has announced it will send a rover to the moon later this year. The mission has caught everyone’s attention over the unique rover that will land on the moon. Unlike the conventional wheeled rovers, Spacebit is sending a rover that looks and walks like a spider. Read moreBefore India, Tesla EVs touch down in Nepal. Models, prices and other detailsUS electric vehicle giant Tesla is yet to enter the Indian market but its electric vehicles have already touched down in the neighbouring country of Nepal. This despite the fact that Tesla, the company, hasn’t officially made its debut here. Read moreBCCI president Sourav Ganguly stable after coronary angiographyFormer Indian Cricket team captain Sourav Ganguly underwent coronary angiography after a ‘mild’ heart attack and is stable now. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries on Saturday. Authorities at the hospital said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family. Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, said that angiography was done followed by angioplasty. She informed that Ganguly was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy. Basu added that a team of seven doctors are looking after Ganguly. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also rushed to the hospital to visit Ganguly. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-adar-poonawalla-thanks-dcgi-after-covishield-gets-final-approval-for-restricted-use-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MiAcfgGdkLj412SD7uHk9H.html
03-01-2021||India||WHO welcomes India’s decision giving emergency use approval to Covid-19 vaccines||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Sunday welcomed India’s decision giving emergency use authorization to Covid-19 vaccines.Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region said, “World Health Organization welcomes India’s decision giving emergency use authorization to Covid-19 vaccines.”“The use of vaccine in prioritised populations, along with the continued implementation of other public health measures and community participation, will be important in reducing impact of Covid-19,” Singh added in a tweet.Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani has formally announced the approval for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. “CDSCO (Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) accepts the subject expert committee reform rations on Serum and Bharat Biotech Covid vaccines,” Somani during a press conference. “Vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Somani read out from a written statement.Somani said the overall efficacy of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine was 70.42% and that of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was “safe and provides a robust immune response”. “We will never approve anything if there is slightest of safety concern. The vaccines are 100% safe. Some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine,” he added.The subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Even before getting the approval from the apex drug controller of India, SII stockpiled about 40-50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, which involved a major risk in case its application got turned down by the drug regulator. Overall, Serum’s investment on Covishield is around $100 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-welcomes-india-s-decision-giving-emergency-use-approval-to-covid-19-vaccines/story-ujaLic08r7R3ZzXLbUId7O.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Ready to roll-out’: Adar Poonawala after Covishield, Covaxin win limited use nod||Two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been approved for restricted emergency use in India, with the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), VG Somani announcing on Sunday that he had approved both Serum Institute of India (SII) Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech vaccines.The drugs controller announced that he had accepted recommendations made by the subject expert committee (SEC) of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Friday and Saturday, to grant restricted emergency approval to both the vaccines. Soon after the approval was announced, Prime Minister Narendra Modi put out three tweets congratulating the country and its scientists and innovators. “A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” his first tweet said. “It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” read the second tweet. “We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives,” read his final tweet. The World Health Organisation (WHO) also welcomed the first emergency use authorisation given to Covid-19 vaccine in the WHO-South Asia Region. The CDSCO subject expert committee consists of domain knowledge experts from the fields of pulmonology, immunology, microbiology, pharmacology, paediatrics, internal medicine, etc. For SII Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Somani said, “After detailed deliberations, Subject Expert Committee has recommended for the grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue.” Also Read: WHO welcomes India’s decision giving emergency use approval to Covid-19 vaccinesPune based SII, which is manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and testing it in India, presented a recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield) encoding the SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) glycoprotein with technology transfer from AstraZeneca/Oxford University. The firm submitted safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years or older from overseas clinical studies. “The overall vaccine efficacy was found to be 70.42%. Further, M/s Serum was granted permission to conduct Phase-II/III clinical trial on 1600 participants within the country. The firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data generated from this trial and the data was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies,” Somani said. Also Read: Amid vaccine hopes, UK variant of coronavirus continues to spread in 2021Bharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine (Covaxin) in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (Pune), from where they received the virus seed strains. The vaccine is developed on a vero cell platform, which has well established track record of safety and efficacy in the country and globally. The firm has generated safety and immunogenicity data in various animal species such as mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamster, and also conducted challenge studies on non-human primates (Rhesus macaques) and hamsters. The company had shared the data with CDSCO, and also put out phase 1 and 2 trial results for publication in December. Phase-I and Phase-II clinical trials were conducted on approximately 800 subjects and the results have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response. The Phase III efficacy trial was initiated in India in 25,800 volunteers and to date, 22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country and the vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available currently, according to the drugs controller “The subject expert committee has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” said Somani. Minutes after the drugs controller announced grant of approval for the vaccines in India, SII CEO, Adar Poonawalla, tweeted that the vaccine was ready to be shipped in the coming weeks. “Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine have finally paid off. Covishield, India’s first Covid-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective, and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, Cadila Healthcare’s Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCov-D, received the drugs controller’s approval to begin phase 3 clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-astrazeneca-bharat-biotech-vaccines-get-restricted-emergency-use-nod/story-0aERrr6DBtL7Ig7yO81vUL.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Finally paid off’: Adar Poonawalla thanks PM Modi, DCGI after Covishield gets final approval||For Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla, the happy new year moment came on Sunday after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its final nod to Covishield, the vaccine which is being developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and is manufactured in India by SII. Covishield got the nod for restricted emergency use in India after the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO’s)’s subject expert committee went through its data and recommended the vaccine. Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. COVISHIELD, India's first COVID-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks. pic.twitter.com/TcKh4bZIKK“Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. COVISHIELD, India’s first COVID-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks,” Adar tweeted, thanking PM Modi, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and all other stakeholders including Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the department of biotechnology (DBT), the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), Gavi, the international vaccine alliance, and Gates Foundation etc.Even before getting the approval from the apex drug controller of India, Serum Institute of India stockpiled about 40-50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, which involved a major risk in case its application got turned down by the drug regulator. The largest vaccine maker of the world, by the volume it produces, has also set a target of producing around 300 million doses of Covishield by July 2021. Overall, Serum’s investment in Covishield has crossed $100 million. According to a Forbes interview, Adar Poonawalla in November said he has already spent $300 million and another $500 will be done in due course of time. Serum has set up a new company, Serum Institute Life Sciences, to support the new initiatives, which is a first-of-its kind “pandemic level” manufacturing facility in Pune. Serum Institute has also collaborated with Gavi and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for manufacturing and delivering of up to 100 million doses of vaccines for other low and middle-income countries as part of the Gavi COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finally-paid-off-adar-poonawalla-thanks-pm-modi-dcgi-after-covishield-gets-final-approval/story-UJLfFp82xihqbl0BNABV5O.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Congratulations India’: PM Modi tweets after nod to Covid-19 vaccines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said approval to the vaccines of AstraZeneca-Oxford, being manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech Ltd “accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation”, minutes after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) nod for the two shots for emergency use. The Prime Minister also, in a series of tweet, expressed gratitude to the frontline workers involved in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.“A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and COVID-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” PM Modi tweeted. “It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” he said. A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and COVID-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators.“We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all Corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives,” he added.The Prime Minister’s tweet came after Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani formally announced the approval for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. “CDSCO (Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) accepts the subject expert committee reform rations on Serum and Bharat Biotech Covid vaccines,” Somani during a press conference. “Vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Somani read out from a written statement.Somani said the overall efficacy of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine was 70.42% and that of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was “safe and provides a robust immune response”. “We will never approve anything if there is slightest of safety concern. The vaccines are 100% safe. Some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine,” he added. The subject expert committee (SEC) under CDSCO had recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Covaxin is the indigenous vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congratulations-india-pm-modi-tweets-after-nod-to-covid-19-vaccines/story-gasbKgVhiByLmUxKUjO3fM.html
03-01-2021||India||Covishield vs Covaxin against Covid-19: All you need to know||The Drug Controller General of India on Sunday gave the final approval to two vaccines against Covid-19 for restricted emergency use. With this, it can be expected that the vaccination drive in India will begin soon. All states and union territories have already conducted dry run of vaccines. With more than one vaccine now approved for emergency use, the scope of India’s first phase vaccination in which the frontline workers will be vaccinated at free of cost gets widened.Here is all you need to know about these two vaccines: Developers and manufacturersCovishield has been developed by Oxford University in collaboration with pharma major Astrazeneca. India’s Serum Institute is their manufacturing and trial partner.Covaxin is India’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19. It has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology.Drug regulator gives final approval for Covid-19 vaccines of SII, Bharat BiotechHow the vaccines have been developedCovishield uses a replication-deficient chimpanzee viral vector based on a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees and contains the genetic material of the SARS-CoV-2 virus spike protein. After vaccination, the surface spike protein is produced, priming the immune system to attack the SARS-CoV-2 virus if it later infects the body. Also Watch | DCGI approves SII & Bharat Biotech’s Covid vaccines for restricted emergency use‘Congratulations India’: PM Modi tweets after nod to Covid-19 vaccinesCovaxin is an inactivated vaccine. An inactivated vaccine is one which is developed by inactivating (killing) the live microorganisms that cause the disease. This destroys the pathogen’s ability to replicate, but keeps it intact so that the immune system can still recognise it and produce an immune response. There are many inactivated vaccines against Hepatitis A, Influenza, Polio, Rabies, which offer “excellent protection”, Bharat Biotech has said.Trial and efficacyThe Serum Institute of India submitted data of phase 1 clinical trial conducted over 23,745 overseas participants showing an overall result of 70.42 per cent efficacy, the drug controller said. In phase two and three, which were conducted in India, 1,600 participants took part and the results were comparable to that of the first phase of trial, the drug controller said.‘Finally paid off’: Adar Poonawalla thanks PM Modi, DCGI after Covishield gets final approvalBharat Biotech conducted phase one and two trials on 800 participants, apart from its several animal trials. Its third trial is going on and a total of 22,500 already participants took part in it. The vaccine has been found effective and safe, the drug controller said.CostIndia’s frontline workers will get the vaccine at free of cost, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has already clarified. So the cost angle will come at a later stage of vaccination and also for other countries as several countries have shown interest in both the vaccine candidates. Covishield will cost around Rs 400, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla earlier said. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine is likely to cost less than Rs 100. But no final word on cost has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-vs-covaxin-against-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know/story-yCYrL8RfhkOG4PmRdGajgK.html
03-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh against bid to acquire proposed elephant reserve land for coal mining||Chhattisgarh government is to protest against the Central notification to acquire roughly 712 hectares (ha) land in Madanpur South coal block in Hasdeo forest area, the proposed site for Lemru elephant reserve, for mining.According to the notification, published on December 24, around 490 ha is protected forest land and 160 ha comprise revenue and other forest land. The notification invokes the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, according to which, the Centre can issue a notice of intention to acquire if satisfied that coal is obtainable from a tract of land. As per the senior officials in the state, the government will not “compromise” on this issue and will soon write to the Union coal ministry and also talk to the concerned minister. “Chhattisgarh government will protest against the notification issued by the Central government over (its) intention of acquiring land of Madanpur south. We will protest against two things – Firstly, the central government’s decision to acquire it under Coal Bearing Act and secondly, it comes under the proposed Lemru Elephant Corridor of Chhattisgarh. We are not going to compromise,” said Vinod Verma , the political advisor of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. Verma further said that two major rivers in the Hasdeo area –Hasdeo and Mand—will die because of mining in Madanpur south. Activists claimed that the coal block is in the core area of Hasdeo Arand forest and it made no sense to acquire Madanpur south since the ministry of coal has withdrawn Madanpur North from the commercial coal block auction in September 2020 following Chhattisgarh’s objection. “The coal block has been awarded to APMDC for commercial mining. How come mineral wealth of a state can be given to PSUs of other states for commercial sale? One can even understand the allotment if the produced coal was supposed to be consumed by PSUs own power plants. Such an exercise of power by the central government through Coal Bearing Areas Acquisition and Development Act is a clear attack on the federal structure,” said Sudiep Shrivastva , a lawyer and activist based in Chhattisgarh. Shrivastava further said that the CB act only confers power to acquire land if the coal areas are to be mined and developed by the Central government and its PSUs. In July 2020, Union minister of coal and mines Pralhad Joshi accepted the Chhattisgarh government’s suggestion to replace five coal blocks out of the nine blocks put under commercial coal auctions from the state. They included Morga -2, Morga (South), Madanpur north, Shyang and Fathehpur (east). Also Read: CM Bhupesh Baghel complains to PM Modi over paddy procurement delayIn June, the Chhattisgarh government asked the Centre not to allow auction of coal blocks which fall under Hasdeo Arand, Lemru elephant reserve and the Mand river catchment area, which are biodiversity-rich forests. “Firstly, when Madanpur north coal block was removed from the list of auctioning in July, why is the Central government acquiring land of Madanpur south, which is in the same area. Secondly, the acquisition is the violation of PESA Act 1996 and Forest Rights Recognition Act,” said Alok Shukla, convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, which works for tribal rights in Chhattisgarh.Shukla claimed that the notification overlooks the process of diversion of forest land. “The notification is not only an attack on the rights of the gram sabha but also the state government,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-against-bid-to-acquire-proposed-elephant-reserve-land-for-coal-mining/story-UC0pqTMccdn3IWsRgqmv3O.html
03-01-2021||India||Pioneer of women’s education, Indian feminist movement: Remembering Savitribai Phule on her 190th birth anniversary||Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule was born on January 3, 1831, in a village called Naigaon in the Satara district of Maharashtra. She was a feminist and social reformer who fought for women’s empowerment and education in India. This year marks the 190th birth anniversary of Phule, and the day is observed in Maharashtra as Balika Din.Savitribai Phule is considered to be one of the pioneers of the feminist movement in India. She started the first-ever school for girls in the country in 1848 at Bhide Wada, Pune. Her efforts to spread awareness about women’s education saw her face boycotts and abuses mostly from men at the time. Jyotirao Phule, her husband, was one of the pillars of support to her in her journey to spreading awareness about the importance of women’s education and uplifting the status of women and India. Phule was married to Jyotirao Phule at the age of nine when she was not literate.By 1851, Phule had set up three schools and was the teacher of 150 students. She would go on to established 17 schools in the country and although most of them were for upper-caste women, she and her husband set up schools for Dalit and lower-caste women as well. Phule encouraged women to attend school by offering them stipends.Women’s education was not the only thing Phule wanted Indians to take up. She also fought against social injustices of the time like Sati, child marriage and the still prevalent caste system and was also one of the first advocates for women’s rights in the country. She opened a well for ‘untouchables’ at her residence in a defiant act against the caste system and also started a care centre for pregnant rape victims called ‘Balhatya Pratibandhak Griha’. Phule also set up a ‘Mahila Seva Mandal’ where women would gather and she would raise awareness about women’s rights.Apart from being a pioneer of Indian feminism, Phule was a plague warrior. She helped several people when the bubonic plague hit the world, opening up a clinic with her son, Yashwant, in 1897 to help patients. The plague ended up being the reason of her demise as she passed away on March 10, 1897.She was also a hard-hitting, radical writer and poet who questioned the brahminical hegemony and openly criticised social evils at the time like Sati, child marriage, class distinctions, gender inequalities and the caste system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pioneer-of-women-s-education-indian-feminist-movement-remembering-savitribai-phule-on-her-190th-birth-anniversary/story-Q49iQXwK1wuh6gT9EOAOqK.html
03-01-2021||India||India reports 18,177 Covid-19 cases, 217 deaths in 24 hours||India reported 18,177 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lowest in months, and 217 related deaths in the last 24 hours, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed on Sunday morning. As the infection tally stood at 10,323,965, the number of active cases Covid-19 also dipped to 247,220 even as the country’s death toll rose to 149,435.The Union health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am showed there were 20,923 recoveries between Saturday and Sunday morning, which have taken the total number of patients cured of the viral disease to 9,927,310 and the national recovery rate to 96.15%.The dip in fresh cases of the coronavirus disease comes on a day the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is likely to formally announce the approval for two vaccines by Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech. Experts at India’s drug regulators have recommended that the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccines be allowed for use in India, which is the world’s second worst-hit country.Also read |96,000 vaccinators trained till now, says health minister as day 1 of nationwide dry run endsThe subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Covaxin is the indigenous vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also read | 30 million people to be vaccinated by August in MaharashtraUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said that free vaccine shall be given to most prioritised beneficiaries, including 10 million healthcare and 20 million frontline workers, across the nation in the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination. He had also warned people against falling prey to rumours and disinformation campaigns regarding the safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine and dismissed rumours on social media.The Union health ministry on Saturday conducted a nationwide mock drill at 285 session sites to test the end-to-end planned operations and the mechanism that has been set up to ensure smooth conduct of the Covid-19 vaccination that is expected to begin soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-18-177-covid-19-cases-217-deaths-in-24-hours/story-eLJLxWt5VtmEydJdH4lnWP.html
03-01-2021||India||96,000 vaccinators trained till now, says health minister as day 1 of nationwide dry run ends||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday the dry run of the coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccination drive on Saturday was based on poll process planned down to the booth level and that more than 57,000 participants across 719 districts had completed training.“The vaccination drive has been based on election process planned down to the booth level. Over 57,000 participants across 719 districts have completed training. 96,000 vaccinators have been trained so far,” Vardhan said, according to news agency ANI.Also Read| Amplifying reach, fake science biggest challenges to vaccinationVardhan on Saturday had visited two mock vaccination centres in the national capital of Delhi to monitor the dry run drill for administering vaccine doses. He said that free vaccines would be given to the most prioritised beneficiaries which include one crore health care workers and 20 million frontline workers adding that details of how further 270 million prioritised beneficiaries are to be vaccinated until July were being finalised. Vaccination drive has been based on election process planned down to the booth level. Over 57,000 participants across 719 districts have completed training. 96,000 vaccinators have been trained so far: Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan(file pic) pic.twitter.com/KnpDZCzQsBThe Union health minister also urged citizens to not pay attention to rumours as the vaccination drive was underway. “I appeal to people not to pay heed to rumours. Ensuring the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is our priority. Different kinds of rumours were spread during polio immunisation but people took the vaccine and India is now polio-free,” he had said.Also Read| Drugs regulator chief’s press conference today, approval of Covid-19 vaccines likelyThe Union health ministry had carried out an all-India mock drill at 286 sites across 125 districts in order to test the end-end planned operations and the apparatus which had been put up to ensure the smooth conduction of the coronavirus vaccination drive that would begin shortly. This exercise was earlier performed in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab between December 28 and December 29.Meanwhile, the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) will hold a news briefing at 11am on Sunday on the coronavirus vaccine. This comes after the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended that the vaccines manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech be granted permission for restricted emergency use.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-000-vaccinators-trained-till-now-says-health-minister-as-day-1-of-nationwide-dry-run-ends/story-Q5MXR4NW9BVm7Y1kiJ1HyH.html
03-01-2021||India||Drugs regulator chief’s press conference today, approval of Covid-19 vaccines likely||The chief of India’s drugs regulator will address a press conference on Sunday, a day after its experts recommended that the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) be allowed for emergency use in the country, reports have said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) will speak with at 11am and according to reports the watchdog may formally announce the approval for these two vaccines. The development comes after the subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Covaxin is the indigenous vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also read | All you need to know about Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine’s efficacy, priceThe recommendations by the SEC have been sent to DCGI VG Somani, who heads Central Drugs Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO). “The approval is confirmed. It’s now a mere formality for the national drugs controller to put out an order,” said a senior health ministry official, who asked not to be named.The country’s top drug regulator had indicated earlier this week that India is likely to get a vaccine against Covid-19 in the New Year. “We will have a Happy New Year with something in hand, that’s all I can hint at,” VG Somani, DCGI, had said on Thursday.Also read | India approves AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccineIf DCGI grants his nod, India will be among a handful of countries, including the US and UK, that have begun vaccinations. Both the US and the UK too have approved two vaccines, but in their case, all of the candidates have completed the requisite scientific process.Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar had said on Saturday said India is perhaps the only country where four vaccines against Covid-19 are getting ready. “One was approved yesterday for emergency use, Serum’s Covishield,” he said.Javadekar had told reporters earlier that two other vaccines were waiting to be approved - Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and Russia’s Sputnik V that are both on trial in India. Six Covid-19 vaccines are undergoing clinical trials in India, including the frontrunners Covishield and Covaxin. There are also ZyCOV-D, which is developed by Cadila Healthcare Ltd in Ahmedabad in collaboration with the Centre’s department of biotechnology, and NVX-CoV2373, which is being developed by Serum Institute in collaboration with Novavax. There are two other vaccines, one manufactured by Biological E Ltd, Hyderabad, in collaboration with MIT, US and the other one developed by Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd in collaboration with HDT, US.Another vaccine is being developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd in collaboration with Thomas Jefferson University, US, which is at the pre-clinical stages. The trial of Russia’s Sputnik V is also going on by Dr Reddy’s Lab.Also read | Staff shortfall, improved internet connectivity among issues identified in vaccination dry runSII’s Covishield, which is based on an adenovirus vector, has shown an efficacy rate of 62% in trials held in the United Kingdom and Brazil. The Bharat Biotech vaccine is based on an inactivated virus platform, one of the oldest known methods to develop an inoculation. This technique has been used historically for several other diseases including Hepatitis A, Influenza, Polio and Rabies.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine will be available in UP near Makar Sankranti: Yogi AdityanathAll states and Union territories conducted mock inoculation drills in a test run on Saturday ahead of the launch as India is also gearing up to carry out the world’s largest vaccination programme. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday that shots administered in the first phase of India’s inoculation drive will be free of cost. The government aims to vaccinate 300 million people in the high-risk category of the population by July-August in the first phase.India reported 19,078 new cases of Covid-19 and 224 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday, which have taken the second worst-affected country’s tally to over 10.3 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-regulator-chief-s-press-conference-today-approval-of-covid-19-vaccines-likely/story-yfwScMM7lon56sv0J1FaBM.html
03-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly stable, had dinner hours after coronary angioplasty||Former India captain and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president, Sourav Ganguly, 48, was stable and had a light dinner hours after undergoing coronary angioplasty at 3 pm on Saturday at a private hospital in Kolkata, where he was detected with three blocked arteries. The authorities at Woodlands Hospital said around midnight on Saturday that percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCS) and stenting in his right coronary artery was done through the radial route.Revasculation to the left anterior descending artery and obtuse marginal artery will be done later. Doctors will decide on Monday how to treat these. The authorities said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family. Ganguly, recognized as India’s one of the finest captains, was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy around 11 am. Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, said in a statement on Saturday midnight that Ganguly arrived at the emergency department around 1 pm. He had discomfort in the chest and had vomited while working out. The ECG report showed acute inferolateral wall myocardial infarction and echocardiography pointed at mild inferior wall hypokinesia. Ganguly tested negative for Covid-19. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, a number of cabinet ministers rushed to the hospital to visit Ganguly in the evening. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders also inquired about Ganguly’s health. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said Union home minister Amit Shah told state BJP leaders that the Centre would make available all facilities required for Ganguly’s treatment. Also Read: ‘Sourav Ganguly is stable, I’ve spoken to his family’: Jay ShahGanguly is the most prominent public figure whose name has been making the rounds in political circles of Bengal as the BJP’s probable chief ministerial face for the crucial assembly polls due in a few months. Ganguly, however, brushed aside the speculation, although he never categorically ruled out the possibility of joining politics. The speculations were fanned by the fact that Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah is the secretary of the BCCI. “I cannot believe that a sportsperson so fit could have a heart attack. He smiled at me and asked about my health instead. I came to know that he never underwent any precautionary test. This must be made mandatory for all cricketers,” said Mamata Banerjee after visiting Ganguly. The VIP patient at bed no 516 is being treated by Dr Saroj Mandal, Dr Soutik Panda and Dr Saptarshi Basu. The doctors decided to restrict the entry of visitors from Sunday so that Ganguly may have some rest. Ganguly has been the BCCI president since October 2019. His elder brother Snehasish was also a first-class cricketer and is now an administrator at the Cricket Association of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sourav-ganguly-stable-had-dinner-hours-after-coronary-angiography/story-E7kTQNU404dfaNZj48aNWL.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP to formulate Uttar Pradesh panchayat poll strategy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP to formulate Uttar Pradesh panchayat poll strategy in meetingThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is set to hold a meeting on Sunday to formulate a plan of action for the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. Radha Mohan Singh, the BJP’s national vice president and in-charge of the state affairs, will be a part of the meeting. Read moreGehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in JaipurThe Congress party’s Rajasthan unit, lead by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress Rajasthan chief Govind Singh Dotasara and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, will on Sunday hold demonstrations against the recently passed farm laws at Jaipur’s Shaheed Smarak demanding for their repeal. Read moreIntense thunder, lightning and rain over several parts of DelhiSeveral parts of Delhi recorded moderate rain and thunder showers early Sunday morning. It continues to rain in many parts of the city and neighbouring parts of northwest India. Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station reported 2.4mm rain between 8.30 am on Saturday to 5:30 am on Sunday. 1mm rain was recorded between 3 am and 5.30 am today. Read moreFormer employees, grocery store owner held for snatching ₹2.5 lakh cash in Mohali’s Phase 9The Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) of Mohali police have arrested three persons, including two former employees and a grocery store owner, for snatching a bag containing ₹2.5 lakh cash from a chemist shop owner in Phase 9 and injuring him on December 30. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘He cannot do that on Australian pitches,’ Sunil Gavaskar explains what’s ailing Mayank AgarwalBack in 2018, Indian opener Mayank Agarwal made headlines after making a dynamic Test debut at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. His batting brilliance against a potent Australian bowling line-up turned out to be so impressive that he sidelined the likes of Murali Vijay and Shikhar Dhawan from the Indian Test set-up. Read moreKareena Kapoor designs her ‘dream home’ ahead of arrival of her second child, shares a glimpse. See hereActor Kareena Kapoor took to her Instagram account on Saturday to share a picture of herself from her new Mumbai apartment which is currently being redesigned. She called it her ‘dream home’. Read moreKiara Advani adds boho touch to bikini with accessories worth Rs 36k in MaldivesThe Maldives is the place to be at the moment. The clear blue water, white sand on the beaches combined with picturesque sunsets makes for the perfect holiday destination and that is why Bollywood celebrities have been flying there to ring in the New Year. Kiara Advani is also currently in the tropical heaven. Read moreNASA shares pic of ‘slow motion firework’ that lasted over 150 yearsYou may have had the chance to see various types of fireworks throughout your life. But, have you seen a ‘firework show’ in space? Well, if so, then lucky you. But if no, then worry not as today is your lucky day. Read moreWatch: Explained: India close to first Covid vaccine; what it may cost, how it’s madeIndia has taken a crucial step towards approving a vaccine for Covid-19. A committee of experts assessing coronavirus vaccines recommended that the candidate developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca and manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India be cleared. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-to-formulate-uttar-pradesh-panchayat-poll-strategy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6nIrRvmlB4x0uE9NVs1JZN.html
03-01-2021||India||Bihar govt plans Didi Ki Rasoi canteens in all district hospitals||Buoyed by the success of the canteen called ‘Didi Ki Rasoi (DKR)’ run by women SHGs popularly known by the name of Jeevika didis along with the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society (BRLPS) at seven district hospitals of the state, chief minister Nitish Kumar had asked authorities to ensure that all canteens in the remaining districts should all be handed over to them. The move is seen as one more step towards women’s empowerment by the Bihar government, one of the main polls promises by the NDA The project, which first started at Vaishali district hospital, was later extended to Gaya, Purnia, Buxar, Sheohar, Sheikhpura, and Saharsa. “In November 2020, the RBI signed an agreement with DKR and today 10 didis are providing food to 50 RBI employees daily,” said secretary of rural development department Balamurugan D. “Jeevika didis are doing wonderful work on contract farming, milk production, bee keeping, and several other fields. The participation of women has increased in small scale industries. All district hospital canteens should now be made to run by these jeevika didis,” said Kumar while holding a meeting in state capital on Friday night. The DKR chain of community-based canteens is efficiently managed by the empowered rural women who also happen to be the members of the self- help groups (SHGs) of JEEViKA (or Bihar State Rural Livelihoods Mission). “DKRs have emerged as the true axiom of collective leadership aiming at meaningful changes in the rural community in terms of poverty elimination in Bihar. These entrepreneurs are charged with commitment to serve the customers (mostly in patients of district hospitals) with hygienic and home-like quality food at fair price. This is an innovation wherein no one is the master and every one is the owner (partner),” said Arvin Kumar Chaudhary, principal secretary of the department. “The didis are not the employees of DKR; they are the proud partners of their enterprise. Contribution of seed money to begin the venture entitles them for a partnership. They now earn a monthly salary and also get an equitable share in profit at the end of the year,” said Balamurugan. Providing quality and hygienic food to a large number of patients of district hospitals had been a challenge for government. “While from JEEViKA’s perspective; diversification in JEEViKA’s livelihood interventions was the need of the hour to provide sustainable and scalable livelihood options to poor-rural women. Solutions of both the challenges were sought in an amalgam and thus, DKR was conceptualized,” said Chaudhary. Apart from catering to the in-patients of district hospitals and their attendants, the DKRs have also been making their presence felt in fairs and exhibitions at district, state and national levels through food courts. DKR Buxar and Vaishali served food to Bihar State Election Commission during General Elections, 2019. “Total sales during the General Elections 2019 were worth Rs 18 lakh,” said an official. “DKR has not only given a consistent means of income to the didis, it has also generated employment opportunities for many other employees and other workers who work in these canteens,” said Balamurugan. The state currently spends at least Rs 130 per patient per day on food in accordance with rates. Allotted by the state government, this amount is routed to women SHGs through BRLPS, which is a state government initiative. The SHSB has already been directed to make space available at the concerned facilities for the canteen. The state of Bihar currently has 8.25 lakh SHGs which cover 94.85 lakh households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-plans-didi-ki-rasoi-canteens-in-all-district-hospitals/story-gYawSfVANsi5jVaoCJTYPN.html
03-01-2021||India||7 more Covid-19 patients die in Uttarakhand, state reports 263 new cases||Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 263 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 91,544. Seven more Covid-19 patients also died in the state, taking the death toll to 1522. Out of 91,544 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 84,461 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 92.26%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.07% and death rate at 1.66%. On Saturday, 463 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with the maximum of 186 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Saturday, a maximum of 73 cases were reported from Dehradun district. Almora and Champawat districts reported at least four cases each on Saturday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 27,470 Covid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (13,440), Nainital (11,476) and US Nagar (11,150). The state health department has so far tested 18.05 lakh people of which results of over 11,400 are pending. Uttarakhand at present has a total of 22 containment zones with a maximum of eight such zones in Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-reports-263-new-cases/story-iV6lyy0j4EJsKPIafxr0TK.html
03-01-2021||India||ICMR: UK strain successfully cultured in India||The National Institute of Virology in Pune has successfully isolated and cultured the new UK variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the samples of the UK returnees, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday.India is the second country, after the UK, to have done so. “No country has yet reported successful isolation and culture of the UK variant of Sars-CoV-2,” the ICMR statement said. Culture is the process by which cells are grown under controlled conditions, generally outside their natural environment.The researchers at the institute used “vero cell line” to culture the virus. These are cells derived from the kidney of the African green monkeys and are one of the most common cell lines used for molecular and cell biology research. These cultures will help the country in studying whether the current vaccines and the natural immunity gained through exposure to the infection will be effective against the new variant. “This is a very important step and the expected next step for the top virology institute. These cell cultures are extremely important for various studies, including studies to answer the pertinent question on whether the vaccines will be effective against the new variant,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-uk-strain-successfully-cultured-in-india/story-eteLa1EzGLay23fYofzHpO.html
03-01-2021||India||Villagers turn 3 barren hillocks into dense forest in Bengal’s Purulia, wild animals make it their home||Every morning when 67-year-old Dwijapada Mahanty, a retired village school headmaster wakes up, he is greeted by the chirping of hundreds of birds, the sight of wild rabbits playing in the field near his house and the view of a lush green forest on three hillocks at a distance. “They all come from the forest, which we have developed on the hillocks, at a stone’s throw from our village. Earlier it was all rocky and barren. But now there is a lush green forest out there, inhabited by wild animals and birds. The villagers protect them,” said Mahanty, a resident of Jharbagda, a remote village in West Bengal’s Purulia district, about 250 km northwest of Kolkata. The situation was, however, starkly different even in the early 90’s. Back then, years of deforestation had left the hillocks totally denuded and rocky. Villagers said that in one of the hillocks there was just one tree left – a palm tree. “While during the summer the temperature would soar to 47-48 degrees Celsius making life unbearable in the rocky terrain, during the monsoons streams of water would gush down the hillocks, through the gullies, eroding the land at the foothills and rendering the farmlands almost infertile,” said Tapas Mahanty, a farmer in the village. With hardly any forest land around, the village’s women folk had to walk to a wooded area around five kilometers away to collect twigs and leaves for fuel. The ponds and tubewells in and around the village would all run dry in the summer and villagers had to walk about two kilometers to collect water in the scorching heat. The farmlands bore very little grains and vegetables. It was around 1998 that the villagers decided to restore the greenery of the area with the hope that it would put an end to the drudgery. They approached a NGO, Tagore Society for Rural Development (TSRD), which was already engaged in greening projects in the area and in Jharkhand. Jharbagda is located close to the Bengal-Jharkhand border. “We had to start from scratch as the area was totally denuded. A detailed plan was made to restore the greenery, stop the water erosion, recharge the ground water and raise the ground water level without which the trees wouldn’t survive for long. The villagers dived headlong with us and work started around 1999,” said Nandalal Bakshi, coordinator of the TSRD’s project in Jharbagda. More than three lakh saplings of around 75 species were planted all across the hillocks that spread over 300 acres in the next five to six years. Villagers ensured that none of the saplings were damaged by any person or cattle. There are around 400–425 households in the village. On an average the district receives 1100 mm–1500 mm of rain every year. But as the district has a very undulating terrain, run-off is very high and more than 50% of this water is wasted making large parts prone to droughts. Thus the district is called ‘Ahalya Bhumi’ the land with a stony heart. “Gullies were plugged and staggered trenches were dug to stop the soil erosion and arrest the rain water during the monsoon. The saplings were also chosen carefully keeping in mind the soil condition and the slope. Four categories of saplings – timber, fuel, fodder and fruits – were planted,” said Bakshi. Once the saplings matured into trees, the water content of soil increased automatically and the erosion dropped. Farmers could now start intercropping and their farm produce also shot up. The ground water table started rising. The once barren fields were covered with lush green grass and plants which became suitable for cattle. The women can now collect twigs and leaves for cooking from the hillocks which saves much of their time. The village ponds and tubewells also don’t run dry in the summer, which means women need not walk for about two kilometers in the unbearable heat to collect water. “I own two bighas of land at the foothills of the hillocks. Earlier I used to get around 6-7 quintals of paddy. Now, I get around 9–10 quintals. The moisture content has increased. The two cows which I own can also graze on the village fields. Earlier they used to feed only on paddy straw,” said Sujit Mahanty, a villager. The villagers could notice yet another change. The lush green forest also acts like a natural air conditioner and has been able to bring down the summer temperature. “Earlier when the area had become denuded, the summers used to become unbearable. The land used to remain hot till around 9 pm in the night. Now we can feel the difference. The temperature doesn’t shoot up to that extreme and it is at least 4–5 degrees cooler that before. Villagers said that wild animals including wild boars, jackals, rabbits and many birds have made the forest their home. Every year a herd of around a dozen elephants also come and stay here for some months. “We found that during the summer the wild animals had to face severe scarcity of water and often used to come out of the forest in search of drinking water. With the help of villagers, we decided to dig a pond inside the forest so that there is no scarcity of water for them. The water is not used by the villagers. It is solely for the wild animals to drink,” said Bakshi. The area has now turned into a major area of interest for not just the locals but also for the Japanese agency which funded the greening project. They come and visit the area at least once every year. The locals and the NGO have also named the hills Makino-Raghunath hill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-turn-3-barren-hillocks-into-dense-forest-in-bengal-s-purulia-wild-animals-make-it-their-home/story-s9fjfhgvpwT9OnUh7W3FtK.html
03-01-2021||India||AAP extended legal aid to farmers against BJP leaders for defamatory remarks: Chadha||The newly appointed Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Saturday said his party has decided to offer legal assistance to the farmers who have decided to approach the court against the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders’ alleged defamatory remarks.“If someone abuses an honest farmer, it is similar to that of abusing Mother India,” said Chadha, who is on a visit to the state.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, a farmer from Amritsar; Ramneek Singh Randhawa from Jalandhar and Sukhwinder Singh Sidhu from Sangrur have filed defamation cases against certain BJP leaders for their alleged derogatory statements regarding farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the recently enacted farm legislation.“Farmers had been requesting the (Narendra) Modi-led central government to listen to them and repeal farm laws, but in turn were only abused. BJP leaders have at different times described farmers as terrorists, anti-nationals, agents of Pakistan and China. I would like to tell BJP that our farmers have had enough,” said Chadha.“Party vows to stand with the farmers in their fight till BJP leaders are punished. Right from filing a case, to fighting in court, AAP will work with the farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-extended-legal-aid-to-farmers-against-bjp-leaders-for-defamatory-remarks-chadha/story-0kicdM7KmZ3YtAkHdGVxBI.html
03-01-2021||India||DMK cadre manhandle AIADMK woman functionary at Stalin’s gram sabha||DMK cadre manhandled a woman who raised a question to their leader MK Stalin during a gram sabha meeting he was conducting in Devarayapuram village panchayat in Coimbatore district on Saturday.Videos surfaced of the skirmish which shows Stalin alleging that the woman was sent to the meeting to create a nuisance by AIADMK minister SP Velumani who hails from Coimbatore. Stalin had recently submitted a list of corruption charges against chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and other ministers including Velumani.“Madam, I can’t answer your question. Velumani has sent you. Leave the venue,” Stalin tells the woman who was identified as Poongodi and local news reports said that she belonged to the AIADMK’s women’s wing.DMK cadre can be seen trying to drag her out but Stalin asked them not to touch her and wanted her to be handed over to the police. The woman went out holding a DMK cap and shouting a slogan, “Destroy DMK.”Also read: Expert panel gives nod to Covaxin for restricted useDMK cadre chased her, while the police took her out of the venue and managed to put her inside a vehicle but the cadre assaulted a man who had accompanied her. “We took her to the hospital (Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital) because she complained of dizziness,” said superintendent of police A Arularasu. “AIADMK staged a road roko and we dispersed them. So far no one has registered any complaint.”Stalin continued the meeting warning Velumani not to repeat the incident. “You (Velumani) can do this in one meeting but if we want, we’ll make sure you and your chief minister cannot conduct any meetings, so stop with this,” Stalin said. “If she had the guts, she should have said she’s from AIADMK and sat here, why did she wear a DMK camp?”Later, another video emerged of party workers handing over a mobile phone to her and telling her, “Poongodi, talk to the minister.” On the call, she says that she couldn’t be patient when Stalin was accusing him so she questioned him and created chaos and that police rescued her.Also read: ‘Perfect score’ - Nine ace CAT exam, bag 100 percentileAIADMK’s IT Wing condemned Stalin for expelling a woman for questioning him. Their ally, BJP’s vice-president K Annamalai tweeted a video of the incident and said that the DMK was no place for a woman.Stalin has been conducting gram sabha meetings as part of the DMK’s ‘reject ADMK’ campaign ahead of the 2021 assembly elections. The ruling AIADMK government had ordered its district collectors not to permit these meetings stating that it violated the Panchayat Raj Act.Meanwhile, DMK’s organising secretary RS Bharathi has filed a complaint with Tamil Nadu’s director general of police, JK Tripathy on the incident. In his complaint, he said that minister Velumani ‘conspired with unnamed officers’ including Poongodi who is the “deputy president, women’s wing, Coimbatore, ADMK... to incite violence in the peaceful Makkal Grama Sabha meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/dmk-cadre-manhandle-aiadmk-woman-functionary-at-stalin-s-gram-sabha/story-Gl0ZWW4oE86v45qHbFQbnL.html
03-01-2021||India||Newly-married Jammu woman found dead, parents accuse in-laws of murder||Following the death of a newly-married woman on Friday in Jammu’s Samba town, her family members and relatives staged a strong demonstration in front of the DC office in Kathua. They accused her in-laws of murdering her.The victim, identified as Pallavi, aged around 22 and hailed from Kathua. She was married to Abhishek Badyal in Samba.The family members had kept the dead body of the newly-married on the road and demanded that her in-laws be booked and arrested for murdering her. However, senior police officers reached the spot and pacified them.“The body was later cremated in the evening,” said Kathua district SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra.Also read: ‘Perfect score’ - Nine ace CAT exam, bag 100 percentileSamba district SSP Rajesh Sharma said, “we have initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 CrPC. Post mortem report of the deceased is awaited and further action will be taken accordingly. The in-laws of the deceased have been detained for questioning.”The husband of the deceased, her mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law have been taken into custody.Family members claimed that Pallavi had sent seven to eight messages on a WhatsApp group of her family on the night of December 31 claiming that her life was in danger and that she was being beaten up by her in-laws.“But none saw them on the fateful night and the next morning her in-laws told us that she died by suicide. Her body bore marks of severe assault,” said one of the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-married-jammu-woman-found-dead-parents-accuse-in-laws-of-murder/story-0sagQtw2ivu4uS1vhYvGMJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Odisha BJP leader killed, associate critical; police suspect past enmity||A BJP leader in Odisha was allegedly killed by unidentified men over past enmity on Saturday evening.Kulamani Baral, BJP’s Salepur in-charge and former chairman of the Mahanga Panchayat Samity under Cuttack district was returning home with his associate Dibyasingh Baral on a bike when six men caught up with him at Jankoti on Shukanai embankment road.The men hacked the duo repeatedly leaving them seriously injured. Though the two of them were immediately taken to the Mahanga Hospital, Baral was declared dead by doctors at the facility. His associate has been shifted to the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack and is in a critical condition.Though the exact reason is not known, BJP Cuttack district unit president Prakash Behera alleged that BJD leaders were behind the attack.In April 2019, a BJP leader in Khurda district was shot dead a day before PM Narendra Modi’s visit to the state during the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls.BJP’s Khurda Mandal president Manguli Jena was shot dead by two scooty-borne men on April 14 night just outside the party office. The two men are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bjp-leader-killed-associate-critical-police-suspect-past-enmity/story-OQkxVpwpoDTWhLK9J5hnxH.html
03-01-2021||India||Expert panel gives nod to Covaxin for restricted use||Experts at India’s drug regulators recommended that the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech coronavirus vaccines be allowed for use in India, the government said on Saturday, paving the way for a formal confirmation before which mass inoculations can begin in the world’s second-most populous country.The endorsement by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the candidate made by University of Oxford and British pharma firm AstraZeneca was communicated on Friday by officials who were aware of developments. This vaccine is being manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India, which will market it as Covishield.The second endorsement, which carries additional conditions that the use may only be “in clinical trial mode” of the candidate by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech was unexpected since the developer is yet to determine efficacy data, and it was described as perplexing by independent experts.The Bharat Biotech vaccine, known as Covaxin, is in phase III trials that began in mid-November. The SEC recommended it be given permission “for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, specially in the context of infection by mutant strains,” the ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement on Saturday.Read more| Bharat Biotech recruits 23,000 volunteers for phase 3 clinical trial of CovaxinExplaining what use in emergency situation means, a member of the expert panel, who did not wish to be named, said: “This pandemic is an emergency situation, and this vaccine has been allowed to be used in this situation for lack of any other alternatives before us to control the pandemic. One company alone will not be able to fulfil country’s requirement as India is a vast country so Covaxin is the only another option right now.”“Clinical trial mode would mean the data that is there currently is not sufficient for it to be called a full-fledged therapy. It’s working more on an experimental basis,” this person added.It appears that the roll-out of the Bharat Biotech vaccine will more restricted than the Serum Institute of India-manufactured vaccine, which has an efficacy rate of 62%.“Serum Institute’s vaccine will be the main vaccine. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine is a backup for emergency situation, which may happen if there is a sudden surge in cases or reinfection,” Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS director, told NDTV. Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor in the department of Gastrointestinal Sciences at Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, and one of the country’s topmost vaccine experts said: “We actually do not have EUA (emergency use authorisations), so I have no clue what the language in the statement today means, except that it is different for Covishield and Covaxin.” Read more| Covaxin approval: All you need to know about Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine’s efficacy, priceThe recommendations by the SEC have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India Dr VG Somani, who heads India’s drug regulator Central Drugs Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO).“The approval is confirmed. It’s now a mere formality for the national drugs controller to put out an order,” said a senior health ministry official, who asked not to be named.The DCGI’s final grant could put India among a handful of countries, including the US and UK, that have begun vaccinations. Both the US and the UK too have approved two vaccines, but in their case, all of the candidates have completed requisite scientific process.So far, the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate – globally known as AZD1222 – remains India’s strongest contender to facilitate immunisation of tens of thousands of people. SII officials have said in recent weeks that they may have 40-50 million doses ready for shipping across India shortly. Termed as the “vaccine of the world”, the Oxford antidote is easier to store and transport than the vaccines approved in other western countries. It can be kept at refrigerator temperatures (between 2-8°C) for up to six months, a feature that facilitates utilisation of India’s vast immunisation infrastructure.Read more| India perhaps only country with 4 vaccines almost ready, says Prakash JavadekarLike the Oxford vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is also easy to store and transport, and is being indigenously produced. The company is aiming to produce up to 300 million doses annually, and it did not disclose if it has stockpiled any volumes.“Bharat Biotech has announced successful recruitment of 23,000 volunteers, and continued progress towards achieving the goal of 26,000 participants for Phase-3 clinical trial of Covaxin across multiple sites in India. The clinical trials... is India’s first and only Phase III efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase III efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India. Covaxin has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 subjects in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, with acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals,” the company said in a statement on Saturday.In December, the company released data from phase I/II trials showing most volunteers who were given the dose developed antibodies and these were comparable to antibodies developed after a natural infection.Efficacy data, which the company has said in its protocol will be analysed at 130 infections, is yet to be announced. Developers calculate efficacy when they hit the preset number of infections, at which point they ‘un-blind’ the trial to check how many of these were in people who actually got the vaccine (as compared to a placebo).If the number of infections among those vaccinated is at least 50% fewer, the vaccine is deemed to have an efficacy rate of 50% -- the minimum bar any coronavirus vaccine needs to meet for approval.Covishield, based on an adenovirus vector, has shown an efficacy rate of 62% in trials held in UK and Brazil.Read more| Reading the clues from Covaxin early trial dataThe Bharat Biotech vaccine is based on an inactivated virus platform, one of the oldest known methods to develop an inoculation. This technique has been used historically for several other diseases including Hepatitis A, Influenza, Polio and Rabies. The country is also gearing up to carry out the world’s largest vaccination programme, with all states and Union territories conducting mock inoculation drills in a test run ahead of the launch. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday announced that shots administered in the first phase of India’s inoculation drive will be free of cost. The government aims to vaccinate 300 million people in the high-risk category of the population by July-August in this phase. The SEC on Saturday also granted permission to Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila to conduct Phase 3 trials of its vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-gives-nod-to-covaxin-for-restricted-use/story-kJxA3z0Xz0SPWc0k3fgrEJ.html
03-01-2021||India||25-year-old man killed in Panipat in suspected hate crime||A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death in Haryana’s Panipat allegedly by his wife’s relatives who were against the intercaste marriage. The deceased has been identified as Neeraj Kumar of Bhola Chowk in Panipat. According to the police, the incident took place in Panipat’s busy market area on Friday night, and the accused can be seen running away in a CCTV footage from the cameras installed in the locality. Neeraj and Komal (21), who lived in the same locality, got married nearly 45 days ago in a local court. The woman’s family members, however, were not happy with the union as the man belonged to the Other Backward Classes while the woman was a member of the Scheduled Caste, read the complaint lodged by Gulshan Kumar, father of the deceased. Kumar alleged that Komal’s brother Vijay Kumar, alias Chhota, and her cousin Pawan Kumar were not happy with their marriage and had threatened to kill him a few days ago. “Based on the complaint lodged by Neeraj’s family, an FIR has been registered against Pawan Kumar and Vijay Kumar under sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Panel Code and sections 25 and 54 of the Arms Act,” deputy superintendent of police (Panipat ) Virender Saini said. A few people have been detained in connection with the case and further probe is on, added an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-year-old-man-killed-in-panipat-in-suspected-hate-crime/story-WHhRq60tNDi8rZC6jJYEqM.html
03-01-2021||India||In Bihar, online nomination for panchayat polls likely to get approval||Candidates for the upcoming panchayat polls are likely to get the facility of filing their nomination papers online, apart from the conventional method, as part of the State Election Commission’s (SEC’s) efforts to introduce digital processes in the conduct of these elections.People familiar with the developments said the state poll panel had been holding deliberations to make the election process more transparent and less time consuming. The digital processes are also aimed at reducing physical interfaces during the polls to be held amid Covid-19.“There is a proposal to provide facility of filing nominations both online and offline,” said an official in the SEC, on condition of anonymity.For filing nominations online, candidates will have to go to designated portals and deposit the requisite fee through a challan digitally and subsequently visit the office of the returning officer (RO) at an appointed time, sources said. The same system was adopted in the recently concluded assembly polls in Bihar.Officials said a proposal of voting for panchayat polls through EVMs is also under consideration of the state government and awaiting nod from the cabinet.Another initiative under consideration is to generate e-certificates soon after results are declared so that it could be issued to winning candidates. “The proposals are all being weighed and would be implemented in a phase-wise manner,” said another SEC official.The draft publication of the updated rolls for panchayat polls would be done on January 19 and the final publication of rolls would be done on February 19 after disposal of claims and objections.Officials said the updated voters’ list would be put online and voters would be able to download it and also search for their names by using various apps. “The entire voters’ list is being digitized for easy accessibility of voters,” said an official.Meanwhile, sources said the SEC is likely to send the schedule for conduct of the panchayat polls by next month to the state government for approval. The panchayat polls are likely to be held in April- May in a phase-wise manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-online-nomination-for-panchayat-polls-likely-to-get-approval/story-SMfYxLJUk99nZUnmsjQYBI.html
03-01-2021||India||Amplifying reach, fake science biggest challenges to vaccination||The Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat biotech vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are all set to get the Drug Controller General of India nod for restricted emergency use, with the priority vaccination of health workers, frontline workers and older populations scheduled to begin in January. India aims to vaccinate around 300 million people over the next six months. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine costs US$5-6 per dose, but it will be given free to those who need it under the Central government’s vaccination drive. Bharat Biotech has not disclosed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine. “The vaccines are free not just in Delhi but the entire country,” said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday. The UK became the first country to approve the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine on December 30 and will begin vaccination before India on January 4. Only India has cleared the Bharat Biotech vaccine for approval. Vaccines work. Mass vaccination led to the global eradication of smallpox in 1979, with the last case reported in Somalia in 1977. Before its eradication, variola virus that causes smallpox infected at least 50 million people annually in the 1950s and killed around 300 million in 20th century, compared to the 100 million people who died in wars and armed conflict in the same period. Read more| Day 1 of nationwide dry run concludes as two Covid-19 vaccines await final nodNot getting vaccinated not just leaves people unprotected but fuels the unfettered spread of disease. Politics and fake science are fuelling safety concerns about the AstraZeneca vaccine on social media even before it’s approved for use in India. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said, “I am not going to get vaccinated for now. How can I trust BJP’s vaccine…?”, while former Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy tweeted if Indians were going to be guinea pigs. Politically-motivated leaders, discredited researchers, and uninformed influencers can mislead people with little or no understanding of science, which has led World Health Organisation (WHO) to list “vaccine hesitancy” as one of the top 10 threats to global health in 2019, along with air pollution and climate change. Vaccine hesitancy is a reluctance or refusal to get vaccinated despite availability and affordability of a vaccine.With fake science spreading within minutes on social media, the Central and state governments and public health professionals have the additional task of debunking emotionally-charged rumours.Dr Harsh Vardhan, a trained clinician who led India’s polio eradication efforts both in Delhi and the country as the state and then the national health minister, fired an opening salvo on Saturday and said people should reject misinformation rumours against the new Covid-19 vaccines. “I appeal to people to not believe in any rumours. Different kinds of rumours were spread during polio immunisation, but people got their children vaccinated, which led to India being declared polio free. The safety and efficacy of the vaccine is the government’s priority, and these will not be compromised,” said Dr Harsh Vardhan. Read more| Covid-19 vaccination dry run underway; health minister urges people not to pay heed to rumoursConducting nationwide innoculation campaigns is not new to India. Mass vaccination ended smallpox in the country within a year of the disease devastating Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal in 1974, when India recorded at least 61,000 cases and 15,000 deaths. The last indigenous case was reported in the Katihar district of Bihar on July 5, 1975, following which India was declared small-pox free in 1977. Following extensive nationwide vaccination drives, India was officially declared polio-free in 2014, three years after the last case was reported in West Bengal on January 13. Massive outreach programmes to dispel conspiracy theories about the polio vaccine being a birth-control tool targeting Muslims in parts of western Uttar Pradesh and Bihar finally led to reduction in cases. Polio cases declined from a global high of 741 in 2009 to one in 2011. Interrupted vaccination coverage has led to polio persisting in Pakistan and Afghanistan, which together reported 451 cases in 2020, according to data reported to WHO till Dec 30. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic interrupted vaccination services, unfounded rumours about the safety of measles-rubella vaccine had slowed coverage in some states despite the vaccine saving at least 21 million lives globally since 2000. The biggest challenge is ensuring vaccines reach those who need it as soon as possible. “Priority populations will not account for more than 10% hence need a plan for general population or else we too will encounter suboptimal vaccination rollout like US. Government should consider 50:50 deployment for three months and then lift restrictions to augment access… Why not have 50:50 split in vaccine deployment between priority and general population?” tweeted Kiran Majumdar Shaw, executive chairperson, Biocon Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amplifying-reach-fake-science-biggest-challenges-to-vaccination/story-sGK8NVZyb1Lknk4Kx1qRdI.html
03-01-2021||India||Bangladesh army to take part in Republic Day parade||A marching contingent of the Bangladesh army will take part in the Republic Day parade this year -- the second time foreign soldiers will be marching down Rajpath as part of India’s biggest ceremonial event, officials familiar with the development said on Saturday. The Bangladeshi contingent has been invited to take part in the parade at a time the two countries are celebrating the golden jubilee of the birth of Bangladesh. The marching contingent will comprise 96 soldiers, and will carry their BD-08 rifles -- a licence-produced variant of the Chinese Type 81 7.62mm assault weapon. The Bangladesh Ordnance Factories produce more than 10,000 such assault rifles every year.Foreign soldiers took part in the parade for the first time in 2016 when a French army contingent of 130 soldiers marched down Rajpath. The then French President, Francois Hollande, witnessed the parade as the chief guest that year. The parade this year will be shorter, involve fewer participants and only a fourth of the usual number of spectators, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as reported by Hindustan Times on December 30. Not more than 25,000 spectators will be allowed at Rajpath this year, compared to over 100,000 people who usually turn up for the parade. Children below the age of 15 will not be permitted at the parade. The marching contingents will be seen in a rectangular formation this year, instead of the traditional square formation as fewer participants are being allowed in the squads. The squads will only have 96 participants, as compared to 144 in the ordinary course. The shortened route of the parade will see it end at the National Stadium instead of Red Fort, the officials said. Last year’s Independence Day celebrations were also muted as a result of the coronavirus outbreak and measures imposed to check the spread of the disease, with fewer VIPs attending the annual August 15 event at Delhi’s Red Fort while schoolchildren skipped it altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b-desh-army-to-take-part-in-r-day-parade/story-EAeXeO1JbNvvI8FwNawloK.html
03-01-2021||India||Nothing can deter Indian forces: CDS Rawat at LAC||The Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, visited on Saturday air bases and interacted with frontline soldiers in forward areas near the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh amid a border row with China in eastern Ladakh, officials said. “Nothing can deter the Indian armed forces from remaining steadfast in their call of duty,” an official statement quoted Rawat as saying. While the current border row is confined to the Ladakh theatre, the Indian military is on high alert to deal with any misadventure by the Chinese forces all along the border --- stretching from Ladakh in the north to Arunachal Pradesh in the east. Rawat completed one year as India’s first CDS on December 31. As CDS, Rawat is the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), heads the department of military affairs, and is the single point military adviser to the defence minister. The CDS also interacted with personnel from the army, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the Special Frontier Force in Dibang Valley and Lohit Sector of Arunachal Pradesh, the statement said. Complimenting the soldiers for their operational readiness, Rawat said that only Indian soldiers could remain vigilant under the challenging conditions and they were willing to go beyond the call of duty to safeguard the country’s farthest frontiers. Rawat’s visit to the eastern sector comes amid the nearly eight-month-long military standoff between Indian and Chinese troops on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low. The two sides haven’t been able to agree on disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talksEarlier this week, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that talks with China on disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector did not yield any meaningful solution. Both India and China are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh sector and are firm about holding forward positions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) through the harsh winter months. Both sides are expected to hold the ninth round of military talks to reduce border but there is no indication of when India and China will hold the dialogue. Both countries had agreed to hold the corps commander-level dialogue at an early date during diplomatic talks on the dispute on December 18. While India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-can-deter-indian-forces-cds-rawat-at-lac/story-8UmlkZcWWBRNt35mIz7zNP.html
03-01-2021||India||J&K police investigate jeweller’s killing as parties condemn attack||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday said they were investigating the killing of a jeweller by terrorists in Srinagar earlier this week, as leaders across political lines condemned the attack. On Thursday, 70-year-old Satpal Nischal, who had been running a jewellery shop in Srinagar for at least 40 years, was gunned down weeks after he obtained a certificate under the new domicile law, which allows people who have lived in J&K for more than 15 years the right to purchase property. The Resistance Front (TRF), a new terror group that is controlled by top handlers of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), took responsibility for the attack in a statement. The terror group said the jeweller was part of a “settler project” and those who obtain the domicile certificate will be treated as “occupiers”.“For a long time we warned and now the time has come when we shall warn no more. We know your names, we know where you live and we know what you do. We are coming for you,” TRF said in a statement. Police said they have begun an investigation into the case and were looking at all possible angles. “We are investigating into the case and are looking at what TRF has said in a Facebook post,” sub-divisional police officer Shahjahan Ahmad said. Originally a resident of Punjab’s Gurdaspur, Nischal had purchased two properties after he acquired the domicile certificate, which was provided for after the Centre revoked the Constitution’s Article 370 that gave a special status to J&K in August 2019, people familiar with the matter said. Condemning the attack, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said Nischal’s killing was an assault on the idea of a unified India.“In India, we embrace all religions but it is a matter of concern and shame that the leaders of self-proclaimed secular parties in Kashmir have once again failed to condemn Pakistan and its proxy TRF,” J&K BJP spokesperson Brigadier (retired) Anil Gupta said in a statement.Taking to Twitter, National Conference (NC) leader and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah said that no form of violence can be justified. “Very unfortunate. There can be no justification for this kind of violence. May the soul of the departed rest in peace & may his family find strength at this difficult time,” he said. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti echoed Abdullah’s views. “Condemn the gruesome killing of an innocent man in Srinagar… Violence has no place in a civilised society. Deepest condolences to the bereaved family,” she said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-investigate-jeweller-s-killing-as-parties-condemn-attack/story-GcqS8aleeCyLyebgQwWv5O.html
03-01-2021||India||Large-scale study in UK finds new strain could be tougher to control||The new variant of the coronavirus continued to grow across parts of England during a month-long lockdown that was otherwise successful in containing the older strain, a large analysis of infection trends in the UK shows, raising concerns that the world could find it harder to contain the pandemic if the mutation takes hold.The new variant – known as VOC 202012/01 or B.1.1.7 – was first detected in the UK in mid-September and has since raged across the east, south-east and the midlands part of England, as well as the capital London.The variant has 23 changes in its genetic code, with some that experts say makes it more transmissible. Its outbreak forced several countries to stop travel to and from the UK in the days leading to Christmas.In the period since, at least 33 countries – including India – have said that they have found the strain among their populations. Authorities around the world have now stepped up genomic surveillance and are expediting vaccinations to be able to head off the new strain from taking hold.Read more| In a first, India successfully isolates, cultures UK-variant of Sars-CoV-2: ICMRThe new analysis now provides further evidence that the variant of concern (VOC) is significantly more transmissible and infects younger people more readily. The Sars-Cov-2 virus has until now been unable to infect young people in the same way as it does someone older – a characteristic that slowed its spread in at least some populations.“Critically, we find evidence that non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs, or containment strategies such as lockdowns) were sufficient to control non-VOC lineages to reproduction numbers below 1 during the November 2020 lockdown in England, but that at the same time the NPIs were insufficient to control the VOC,” said the authors of the report released on Thursday.Reproduction number refers to the average number of secondary infections that one case can cause; bringing it to under 1 by containment efforts is crucial to reduce an outbreak and ease the burden on health care facilities.The analysis, carried out by researchers from the Imperial College London, University of Edinburgh, Public Health England (PHE), the Wellcome Sanger Institute, the University of Birmingham, and the COVID-19 Genomics UK (COG-UK) Consortium, found the VOC’s R number up till December 6 was 1.74 times its predecessor’s.The researchers used genome surveillance data and tests results with characteristic known as the “S-gene dropout” – which signals the presence of the VOC – and paired it with statistical analysis to determine how the new variant spread and whom it infected.Read more| ‘Situation worsening’: New Covid-19 strain increasing across UK, officials say“These analyses, which have informed UK government planning in recent weeks, show that the new variant of concern, B.1.1.7, has substantially higher transmissibility than previous Sars-CoV-2 viruses circulating in the UK. This will make control more difficult and further accentuates the urgency of rolling out vaccination as quickly as possible,” said Neil Ferguson, the vice-dean of School of Public Health, Imperial College London, and of the authors.“These new analyses provide further evidence of the increased transmissibility of the novel variant of Covid-19... this research underlines the importance of doing everything we can to reduce the spread of the virus while the vaccines are being rolled out. The basics remain very important: Comply with social distancing and abide by the restrictions in place,” said Dr Meera Chand, incident director for Covid-19 at PHE, a UK government agency.Similar concerns appeared to have forced the hands of Indian experts who on Saturday recommended to the drugs regulator that a vaccine made by local developer Bharat Biotech be rolled out under an experimental and emergency basis particularly in light of the new variant’s spread.The outbreak has also forced the UK to adopt what has been described as a radical shift in its vaccination strategy by focussing on getting as many first doses to different people as possible instead of stockpiling the requisite second doses that will need to be giving within 3-4 weeks. The country will now give second doses up to three months later.“I am still a proponent of 2-dose vaccine but given the urgency, we can delay the 2nd dose until more vaccines become available. I know many others have been saying this all along, but it was the B.1.1.7 variant transmission rate that did it for me,” said professor Akiko Iwasaki, professor of immunology and molecular biology at Yale School of Medicine, in a tweet on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-lockdown-didn-t-help-curb-new-strain-report/story-WzRAjAXySGZAaxSD8L1EyL.html
03-01-2021||India||Assam transgenders release video, seek mainstreaming, inclusion in festivities||In a bid to create awareness against social alienation of the community, the All Assam Transgender Association (AATA) has released a short video seeking inclusion in festivals and other occasions. Called ‘Ami Tritiyo’ (We, the Third), the 2:24 minute video, a collaborative effort of AATA and a local NGO, North East Voluntary Association of Rural Development (NEVARD), was released on Friday. Made with the support of transgender welfare board under the social welfare department of Assam government, the video, made public ahead of this month’s Magh Bihu, the harvesting festival marked with feasting and celebrations, hopes to help transgender people get included in the festivities. “This video was part of a project by the social welfare department for mass sensitization on the issue of discrimination faced by the transgender community,” said Swati Bidhan Baruah, an eminent transgender activist and the associate vice-chairperson of the transgender welfare board. “Hope this video will spread awareness and help rid of gender discrimination against the transgender community. Since Magh Bihu is nearby, we want people to include transgenders in the festivities as well in other celebrations without any stigma,” Baruah added. Also Read: Assam professor dies of burn injuries; one acquaintance arrestedShot last month at Dihina village in Kamrup (Rural) district close to Guwahati, the video shows a transgender woman dressing up to take part in Bihu dance along with other men and women of the village. But as she goes out to join the others, a villager says she can’t dance with the group as she’s not a woman. Hurt by the harsh words, the transgender woman sits alone crying when a Bihu dancer from the group asks her to join them. The video ends with the message- ‘breaking all gender stereotypes, let’s celebrate Bihu together’. “Like us, transgender people also want to be accepted and loved without discrimination. We have seen some of them suffering from mental trauma because of social alienation. Some even start substance abuse or hurt themselves. This should stop,” said a member of NEVARD. According to Census 2011, Assam has a transgender population of 11,374. In June last year, the Assam government set up a welfare board for the transgender people. A separate gender category for transgender people was introduced in the state civil services examination in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-transgenders-release-video-seek-mainstreaming-inclusion-in-festivities/story-MElyDdVtwBu89HKjDUEXbJ.html
03-01-2021||India||No such thing as goodbye: A teacher’s family shares why they donated her organs after death||In death, there’s the promise of life. The two are uniquely entwined. It has been six days since Syed Rafath Parveen,40, left this world after a sudden brain haemorrhage. Her heart is healthy and ticking in Bhairav Singh, 56, who has miraculously slipped out of death’s grasp. Recuperating from a life saving timely heart transplant, the 18 Assam Rifles havildar is happy that he will finally be able to meet his teenage son and daughter eagerly waiting for him in his village in Khatima, Uttarakhand. “Apne bachhon ka chehra dekh paunga...doosra jeevan mila hai (finally, I will get to see the faces of my children...it’s a rebirth for me),” he says. Singh had been diagnosed with end-stage heart failure. Running from one hospital to another, his wife, Pushpa Devi had lost all hope that Bhairav Singh would survive. The heart transplant brings her ordeal to an end. “I am forever indebted to the donor’s family…I wish them all the joy in this world,” says Devi, 50. A final act of compassion Syed Rafath Parveen, the donor whose heart was transplanted in Bhairav Singh, had returned home from Dubai to spend her short winter vacation with her family in Ghaziabad just two weeks ago. The last movie she had watched before leaving for India was Phir Zindagi, a short film on organ donation. “Only lucky people get the opportunity to give the gift of life to someone while departing,” Rafath had told one of her friends over the phone. On 24 December, doctors declared Rafath brain dead after she suffered a brain hemorrhage. Even as they dealt with unimaginable shock, her family took no time to decide that they wanted to donate her organs. Her parents felt that this would be the most befitting tribute to the person they say she was – compassionate, courageous, committed to the cause of others. Syed Rafath Parveen taught primary school students in DPS Mathura Road for 20 years. Last year, took up a teaching job in Delhi Private School, Dubai. As she returned home, Rafath wanted to spend every bit of her winter holidays with her family – husband, two sons and her parents in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. “She was jovial and chirpy as always. Her husband and elder son went to receive her at the airport. We were so happy that she was back. We could have never imagined that we were going to lose her in a few days,” says her father, Syed Ahmad AliShah. The very next day of her arrival, Rafath had gone out with her friends. “She hung out with us, had noodles from a road side stall, went to the salon…she wanted to live every moment to the fullest. Every time we would say, let’s go home, she would reply, “five minutes more, please”. May be she wanted to grasp every bit of life that remained,” says Maninder Jit Kaur, her friend of 20 years. Kaur recalls how Rafath would always find ways to bring joy in the lives of other people. “She used to stay back in the school to teach underprivileged children. She had so many plans…she wanted to register an NGO for children. She often pondered over the purpose of life. She would have endless discussions on the purpose of human life. While she leaves so much unfinished, even in her death, she managed to do something so beautiful,” says the 52-year-old Kaur who teaches primary school students in DPS Mathura Road. It started with a headache that grew worse. A CT scan of Rafath’s brain was conducted the next day that detected an abnormality. She was taken to Max Super Speciality Hospital, Vaishali. Despite sustained efforts by a multidisciplinary team of doctors, Rafath could not be saved. The doctors announced that she was brain dead. She had suffered subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) caused by intracranial aneurysm rupture (bleeding caused due to dilated blood vessels in the brain). Kindness…the thing that survives death Even in the face of grief, Rafath’s family requested the doctors to facilitate donation of her organs. “It could not have been any other way for her… she always stood out from others, always wanted to do something worthwhile,” says her mother, Sirajunnisa Begum, 60. Rafath’s father believes that his daughter would be glad with this decision, wherever she is. “This is the best decision we could have taken. It gives some solace…the fact that my daughter could save four lives even in her death. It makes me proud of her,” says Alishah, vice president, Andhra Education Society. Five years ago, Alishah himself had pledged to donate his organs after his death. The 67- year-old says that his faith teaches him to practice selfless compassion for all, and in this decision, he only stayed true to this learning. “We believe that there can be no bigger act of compassion than this for a human being. My daughter is indeed lucky to get an opportunity to give the gift of life to four people. May Allah grant her the highest place in jannat,” says Alishah who retired as assistant general manager, Kendriya Bhandar. Rafath’s husband, Shaikh Salim Durrani is also trying to find relief in the fact that his childhood sweetheart and life partner of 21 years could give the gift of life to others. Durrani, 50, works as manager, operations in a Noida based digital firm. The couple had a love marriage. Their families knew each other for a long time. Rafath and Durrani used to play together as children. Soon, Raffath’s family left for Libya, where she finished her schooling. They returned to India when Raffath was 16. The childhood buddies met once again and the soft-spoken, introverted Durrani fell in love with the spirited, bubbly girl. After a courtship of five years, they married. The couple had two sons, Aman, 18 and Arsh, 11.Professional commitments often forced the couple to live apart. For the last one year, Rafath had been living in Dubai to work. So naturally, her husband and sons wanted to spend as much time with her as possible when she returned for winter holidays. But little did one know that death was going to snatch her away so cruelly. Durrani says that organ donation was the only way to for him to ensure that his wife lives on. “We had reached a point where there was no question of resurrection. Brain death is irreversible. I wanted my wife to be alive, to be in this world in some or the other way, so I gave my consent,” he says. Dr Gaurav Aggarwal, VP-Operations, Max Hospital, Vaishali, says the family has set a truly beautiful example of humanity with this noble deed. “Religious beliefs pose the biggest hurdle to organ transplants in India. It’s rare for people to come ahead and donate the organs of their deceased loved ones. This family is an inspiration for all,” he says. Dr Aggarwal says that the number of people suffering from end stage diseases is rising steady. Cadaveric transplants can be the only way to save their live, and thus more and more people should donate the organs of loved ones who pass away due to sudden death. “Live transplants are rare as it is tough to find willing donors. Cadavers (deceased donors) can be an important source of organ transplantations, especially in a post Covid 19 world, where many who have recovered from the virus might also need lung transplants,” says Dr Aggarwal. The doctor urges religious leaders and the recipients of cadaver donations to come ahead and encourage people to donate the organs of their deceased relatives, just like Rafath’s family. “You will be doing the biggest service to mankind,” he says. Apart from her heart, Rafath’s kidney was transplanted in a 37-year-old female patient from Jharkhand who was on dialysis for the last four years. Rafath’s liver was transplanted in a terminally ill 59-year-old female patient from Delhi, a journalist who works in the PMO. Rafath’s second kidney was transported to Artemis Hospital, Gurgaon. Some are indeed born to give. Every year, nearly 500,000 people die in India because of non-availability of organs, 200,000 people die due to liver disease, and 50,000 people die due to heart disease. Out of the 150,000 people awaiting a kidney transplant, only 5,000 of them find a donor, says a survey. If you wish to pledge to donate your organs, log on to www.notto.gov.in to know more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-such-thing-as-goodbye-a-teacher-s-family-shares-why-they-donated-her-organs/story-2zuYNgCPoZZcvp5yRInO8N.html
