04-01-2021||India||2020 was eighth warmest year on record for India: IMD||New Delhi: Last year was the eighth warmest since India started keeping records in 1901, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Statement on Climate of India in 2020. During the year, the annual average temperature in the country was 0.29 degree Celsius (°C) above normal ( 29-year average from 1981-2010), said the report which looks at temperature and rainfall trends annually. Such temperature trends were reported despite the cooling effect of La Nina, a global weather pattern that prevailed in 2020 and is linked to substantially below normal temperatures in winter.  In 2016, India recorded the warmest year when the mean land surface temperature was 0.71°C above normal. WHICH YEAR? The temperature during the pre-monsoon season was below normal by 0.03°C. But both monsoon and post-monsoon seasons were 0.43°C and 0.53°C above normal, respectively, and that contributed to warming. The mean temperature during winter was 0.14°C above normal. India’s warming was, however, significantly lower than the global average. The global mean temperature rise during 2020 (January to October, as per the World Meteorological Organisation’s State of the Global Climate) was 1.2°C above pre-industrial levels. The annual rainfall over the country was 109% of the Long Period Average (LPA) calculated for the period of 1961-2010. The IMD statement said 12 out of the 15 warmest years were reported between 2006 and 2020, and that the past decade (2011-2020) was the warmest decade on record. Last year, the mean monthly temperatures were warmer than the normal during all months except March and June. Average annual mean temperature during 1901-2020 showed an increasing trend of 0.62°C in that century, with an increasing trend in maximum temperature (0.99°C in 100 years) and a relatively lower increasing trend (0.24°C in100 years) in minimum temperature. “2020 was one of the warmest years despite having a La Niña with cool waters in the east Pacific. La Niñas typically has a cooling effect on global temperatures, but this is now offset by global warming due to greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, La Niña years now are warmer than years with El Niño events of the past. As for India, data shows that the increasing trend in temperatures is the largest during the post-monsoon season and this is reflected in the 2020 post-monsoon temperatures over India, despite a full-fledged La Nina,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean. It has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. The IMD statement also said India experienced some extreme weather events such as heavy rainfall, floods, landslide, thunderstorm, lightning, and cold waves that killed hundreds of people IN 2020. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were the most affected states during the year with over 350 deaths from each state due to thunderstorm, lightning and cold wave. Heavy rainfall and floods claimed over 600 lives from different parts of the country during pre-monsoon, monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. Thunderstorms and lightning also claimed over 815 lives in different parts of the country. Last year five cyclones formed over the North Indian Ocean. Super cyclonic storm Amphan formed in the pre-monsoon season and crossed the West Bengal coast over Sunderbans on May 20. It claimed 90 lives and about 4,000 livestock mainly in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-was-eighth-warmest-year-on-record-for-india-imd/story-QsKv3x2dRal04LCrQz7G1M.html
04-01-2021||India||India starts UN Security Council term vowing to speak against terror||India began its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council on Monday with the stated objective of raising its voice against terrorism, speaking for the developing world and bringing “human-centric inclusive solutions” to matters of global peace and security.India joined the Security Council technically on January 1, which was a public holiday. The term got underway on Monday with a flag installation ceremony, accompanied by the four other countries joining as non-permanent members: Norway, Ireland, Kenya and Mexico.“We will use our tenure to bring human-centric and inclusive solutions to matters of international peace and security. India will be a voice for the developing world,” said TS Tirumurti, the Indian permanent representative to the UN, after brief ceremony.“We will not shy away from raising our voice against the common enemies of humanity like terrorism,” he added.The permanent representative also reiterated India’s “very strong commitment to reformed multilateralism”, which in the context of the United Nations chiefly includes an expanded Security Council — with a permanent membership for itself — to make the body more representative of the current world.“India comes into the Security Council as the largest democracy representing 1/6th of humanity and with a strong commitment to reformed multilateralism, rule of law, a fair and equitable international system and to peace, security and development,” Tirumurti said. “From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, we stand united as one, bound by our ethos of democracy, pluralism and commitment to fundamental rights.”India will also use the term to focus on peacekeeping, peace building, maritime security, women and youth, especially in conflict situations, and technology with a human face, will receive our attention while on the Council, he added.India, Norway, Kenya, Ireland and Mexico will join Vietnam, Niger, Estonia, Tunisia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, as the five non-permanent members already there, and the five permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China.India won the eighth term in an election last June securing 184 of the 192 votes cast. It was last on the council in a two-year term ending 2012. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-starts-un-security-council-term-vowing-to-speak-against-terror/story-p4mBE9oPo8cIWVO0ceFeyL.html
04-01-2021||India||Supreme Court to pronounce judgment on Central Vista project on Tuesday||The Supreme Court on Tuesday will pronounce its decision on the validity of the Central Vista project on a slew of petitions that questioned the lack of transparency and objectivity in awarding clearances to the project by the Government and the Central Vista Committee. A three-judge bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar and comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, will pronounce its decision on various aspects of the project relating to grant of environmental clearance, violation of statutory and municipal laws, conservation of heritage, change of land use under the Delhi Development Act, and manner of inviting public hearing and objections involved with the Central Vista Redevelopment plan.Exactly a month ago, on November 5, the Supreme Court had reserved orders on the fate of the Central Vista project including the construction of a new Parliament building and Central Secretariat after finishing arguments in 10 separate petitions that were heard for over five months.Senior advocates Shyam Divan, Sanjay Hegde and Shikhil Suri had extensively argued for the petitioners in the 10 writ petitions. The Centre was defended by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta while the project consultant HCP Design, Planning and Management was represented by senior advocate Harish Salve.Also read: Farmers adamant on repeal of farm laws demand: Agri min on why talks failedOn December 7, the apex court had allowed the government to proceed with the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Central Vista project on December 10. The Court, however, made it clear that there will be a stop on all construction activity of any nature on the concerned site(s). This included demolition of any structure or trans-location of trees. A statement made to this effect by the Solicitor General was recorded by the Court in its order.It had been the stand of the Centre throughout that it followed all the procedure and obtained clearances from the relevant authorities for the project. The petitioner, however, submitted that before the award of tender for the Central Vista project to HCP Designs on September 2, 2019, no document was available in public domain. For HCP, Salve appeared and said that decision to award tender was a policy decision of the government and that the courts should not venture into in the name of participative democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-pronounce-judgment-on-central-vista-project-on-tuesday/story-QXMZ2Wab6ryx0ES6JAlGlM.html
04-01-2021||India||115 people, over 17000 livestock killed in cyclones in 2020: IMD||Cyclones killed 115 people and more than 17,000 livestock in the country in 2020, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Five cyclones formed over the north Indian Ocean -- Amphan (super cyclonic storm), Nivar and Gati (very severe cyclonic storms), Nisarga (severe cyclonic storm), and Burevi (cyclonic storm) -- in 2020. While Nisarga and Gati formed over the Arabian Sea, the remaining three were over the Bay of Bengal. Amphan was the most devastating of these cyclones. It formed in the pre-monsoon season and crossed West Bengal coast over the Sundarbans on May 20. “It claimed 90 lives and about 4,000 livestock, mainly in West Bengal,” the IMD said in its State of Climate of India during 2020. The Severe Cyclonic Storm Nisarga was formed in the monsoon season and crossed Maharashtra coast on June 3. It claimed four lives and 2,000 livestock in Maharashtra. The remaining three cyclones -- Nivar, Burevi and Gati -- formed during the post-monsoon season. Nivar crossed Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts and claimed 12 lives and 10,836 livestock in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Burevi claimed nine lives and 200 livestock in Tamil Nadu. The Very Severe Cyclonic Storm Gati made landfall over the Somalia coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/115-people-over-17000-livestock-killed-in-cyclones-in-2020-imd/story-o8motJQ4iLBCpTNEoAf0QI.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Can’t deny child’s custody to mother living with another person sans divorce’: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad High Court has held that the fact that a woman entered into a new relationship without securing divorce would not deprive her of off custody of her minor child.Disposing of a petition filed by one Ram Kumar Gupta in the name of his son Anmol Shivhare, Justice JJ Munir observed, “The fact that the mother has walked away from her husband’s home without securing a divorce and entered into a new relationship with another person, which she ostensibly believes to be a second marriage, may be something that the law and the society frown upon, but, in itself, is something not so depraved or immoral as to deprive the mother of her special place in the minor’s life.”The court further observed that “depriving the minor of his mother’s company might have an adverse impact on his overall development.”Also read: ‘From Andhra to Assam’ - How states are gearing up for Covid-19 vaccinationPetitioner Gupta said that Sanyogita’s marriage to another person is nullity because it is a second marriage in the lifetime of her husband and due to this she has lost her right to Anmol’s custody. Further, the minor’s custody with Sanyogita, in the home of a stranger, has been dubbed as unlawful. According to him, the minor’s life in the stranger’s home is at risk. The minor has a bleak future, he said.It is the minor’s welfare that he may be placed in his father’s custody, who is his natural guardian, in preference to the mother, who has walked out on her lawfully wedded husband without a divorce, and is staying in a live-in relationship with a stranger, said the petition.During the court proceedings, mother Sanyogita indicated that Gupta is an unkind father. Further, she said she was treated with cruelty by him and that is why she walked out on him.On this, the court said that this is the court’s concern to determine whether the minor would be safe and his welfare ensured in his mother’s new home.After interacting with Sanyogita and her minor son, the court said, “The way the minor’s mother has detailed her circumstances in new home, this court feels that the minor, for the present, is well adapted into his mother’s new family”.“So far as dominant and substantial part of the minor’s custody and care are concerned, this court is of opinion that these would be better secured in the mother’s hands, in comparison to the father,” remarked the court.However, the court ensured the visitation rights of the father, saying that the rights of the minor to his father’s company have to be ensured at all costs. The court directed that wife Sanyogita would be obliged to take the minor to his father’s home at Kanpur once in two months, on any Sunday of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-deny-child-s-custody-to-mother-living-with-another-person-sans-divorce-allahabad-hc/story-YPeT3drbMbPOhXQtMOwTEK.html
04-01-2021||India||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal slams Centre for ‘misusing’ Punjab Governor’s office||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday accused the Centre of misusing the office of the Punjab Governor by summoning the state’s top officers for explanations. Badal also asked the Governor not to become a “mouthpiece” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh too had taken a strong exception to the Governor summoning the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police instead of seeking a report directly from him, as home minister, on the law and order situation. Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore had on December 30 decided to summon the CS and the DGP while taking a serious note of vandalism of over 1,600 mobile towers during the ongoing protests of farmers against the Centre’s new agri laws. The SAD chief on Monday said the office of the Governor was being “misused” in the same manner as was happening in West Bengal. Badal was addressing a gathering at a gurdwara here where an ‘Akhand Path’ (continuous recitation of religious texts) was conducted to pay homage to Sant Ram Singh Singhri Wale and several farmers who died during the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, according to a party release. Badal claimed that the SAD had approached the Governor with numerous memorandums on public issues like the hooch tragedy, liquor and wrongdoings of sand mafia and criminalization of politics during the last few years “but he did not act on a single issue”. “Now when the interest of BJP workers is at stake, the Governor has taken prompt action and summoned the senior-most officers for a dressing down,” he alleged. Targeting Amarinder Singh, Badal said instead of objecting to the Governor’s action in the media, the chief minister should have stopped his officers from going to the Raj Bhavan. “This and several other actions of the chief minister prove that he is playing a double game and is essentially with the central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and not with the farmers,” Badal alleged. Badal said the current situation had arisen due to the “arrogance” of the prime minister. “The longer the PM delays repealing of the agri laws, the stronger the agitation will become,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-slams-centre-for-misusing-punjab-governor-s-office/story-YSZQecga9wxgaDc0vD5C4I.html
04-01-2021||India||Why Mira found Lucknow Suitable!||Padma Bhushan and Indian-American filmmaker Mira Nair’s latest work ‘A Suitable Boy’ based on Vikram Seth’s bestseller book, showcased the treasures of Awadh which she says is an integral part of the period drama. “Colonial, churches, bungalows, heritage, race-course (in Lucknow), Kakori, Malihabad and Mahmudabad — the city has so much to offer,” said the ‘The Namesake’ and ‘Salaam Bombay’ director on why she chose to shoot ‘A Suitable Boy’ here. She was recently in conversation with ‘Citizens for Lucknow’ group members. Edited excerpts: “I have been coming to Lucknow since I was eight-years-old. I knew that Vikram has written a large part of his book in Lucknow at Mahmudabad House — the ‘quila’ (fort) outside Lucknow and the Qaiserbagh house. Looking at the economics, Lucknow gave us so much for the many different parts of the story, and we actually couldn’t afford to move such a large unit (600 persons), besides a second unit in Kanpur which was directed by Shimit Amin (Chak De! India director).” The Kolkata part was also shot in Kanpur and Lucknow. Partially, the series was shot in Maheshwar as well. She revealed that Adity Chakravarti’s book ‘Reha’ish’ led her to Dr Khalid Hameed’s bungalow where she shot extensively. Besides, she mentioned the Talwar family’s bungalow, Oel House, Noor-MA Khan’s bungalow, Moin’s house (Nakkhas) and the availability of vintage cars. King George’s Medical University turned into Brahmpur University.She always wanted to film it. “I loved Vikram’s novel ever since it came out and loved the era (early 50s) it was set in. That was an idealistic time when we were creating free-India. In 1993, the book was too big for me to make into a film and there were no questions of TV series in those days. So, inspired by it, I created a microcosmic version of my own which turned out to be ‘Monsoon Wedding’ — my little film that became too big.”It was three years back when BBC decided to make this series with the adaptation by Andrew Davies when Nair stepped in. She mentioned the local talent. “I would like to talk about actors in Lucknow. Many of them don’t know they can act but they are extraordinary actors. Around 60 locals acted in it.” She will be coming back for another project. “In a few years, I will be back to shoot ‘Jungle Prince of Delhi’ (based on an article published in The New York Times) which probably will be partly shot in Lucknow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/why-mira-found-lucknow-suitable/story-f1VAMdw6k94lGqeEz6MQWM.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh gears up for Covid vaccine dry run on January 5||As India gears up for a Covid-19 vaccination drive, the government is conducting dry runs to assess the preparedness for administering shots to millions of people. One such dry run will be conducted in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday (January 5).“This drive will be carried out in six sites in every district - three of them urban and three rural,” Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said on Monday, according to a tweet posted by Government of UP. यह अभियान प्रत्येक जनपद के 06 स्थानों पर, जिनमें 03 शहरी क्षेत्र तथा 03 ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में चलाया जाएगा: ACS, चिकित्सा एवं स्वास्थ्य, श्री अमित मोहन प्रसाद जीThe Uttar Pradesh government has released detailed guidelines for the statewide dry run which will start at 10 am.The guidelines have been issued by Prasad which have directions for divisional commissioners and district magistrates. They have been asked to make syringes, vaccine, AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization) kit and other logistics available at dry run sites.Also Read: UP chalks statewide plan for Covid-19 vaccine dry runThe setup at the dry run centres includes a waiting and observation area. The district authorities have been asked to ensure proper sitting arrangements in these areas. The district authorities have to ensure that the vaccination team reaches the site 45 minutes in advance, according to the guidelines.Prasad also said that sector officers will be appointed to ensure that the dry run sessions take place on time.The Centre has already successfully conducted a two-day pilot Covid-19 vaccination drive in eight districts in four states on December 28-29. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab.Around 1,50,000 vaccinators have been trained so far, covering over 700 districts across the country.The focus of the dry run being conducted in coordination with the Centre will be on management of any possible AEFI. In addition, the states will also emphasise adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site, to prevent disease transmission.India’s drugs regulator had on Sunday approved AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute (SII), and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-gears-up-for-covid-vaccine-dry-run-on-january-5/story-ux5Bt0c7fPKfFwN0IwxmrK.html
04-01-2021||India||Delhi’s Environment Committee summons MCD Commissioners over air pollution||Expressing serious concerns over the rising levels of dust and air pollution due to manual sweeping across the city, the Environment Committee of the Delhi Legislative Assembly on Monday summoned the Commissioners of the three MCDs and sought an explanation as to why mechanical sweeping was not being done.According to a press statement, Kalkaji MLA Atishi who heads the House Panel said that it was “very shocking” that the MCD commissioners of Delhi have no clue regarding the length of roads under their jurisdiction.She said that there is no mechanism for fines or penalties in case the contractor running the machine does not clean the prescribed area.MLA Ajay Dutt, who is a member of the panel, said that all the 3 MCDs have been asked to submit an action plan for reducing dust pollution. “The DPCC has been asked to take strict action against individual officers responsible for rising dust levels in Delhi.”In the meeting that was held in view of the rising air pollution highlighted that road dust has been a major component of air pollution in Delhi. It was found that officials were not fully aware of NGT orders. According to the NGT orders, all MCDs were directed to use MRS machines to decrease the SPM caused by manual sweeping. “However, it was found that the machines were being under-utilised by the MCDs as highlighted by the TERI report. When questioned about the total area/length of road swept, criteria for employing the total number of machines and basis of contract, the officials from MCDs seemed unaware. In this regards the committee has requested the Corporations to submit a detailed plan in 7 days.”The MCDs were directed to submit to the committee a detailed report within seven days, highlighting the Length of roads under Mechanised sweeping, running shifts, measures for checks and balances and penal provisions on part of the contractors for no compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-environment-committee-summons-mcd-commissioners-over-air-pollution/story-EXlm5P4Y2bAiQCKBDy0PoL.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Farmers were adamant on demand for repeal of farm laws,’ says Union minister Narendra Tomar on what happened in talks||The government said on Monday that the seventh round of talks with the farmers remained inconclusive because the protesters were adamant over withdrawal of the three farm laws. Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar said that he is “hopeful” that a conclusion will be found in the next round of talks which will be held on January 8.“We wanted farmer unions to discuss three laws clause-wise. We could not reach any solution as farmer unions remained adamant on the repeal of the laws,” the minister told reporters after the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi.“Looking at today’s discussion, I hope that we will have a meaningful discussion during our next meeting and we will come to a conclusion,” he added. The minister also asserted that efforts need to be made from both sides for a solution to be reached. “Taali dono haathon se bajti hai (both hands are needed to clap).”Meanwhile, farmers said that they will not back down until the government withdraws the three laws and gives them a legal guarantee over the MSP (minimum support price) system for procurement of their crops. “Discussion took place on our demands - repeal of the three laws and MSP... kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” news agency ANI quoted Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, as saying.Also Read | Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8Farmers have been protesting at the gates of Delhi since November 26 last year against the newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Now, the next round of talks will take place on January 8 at 2 pm. The leaders of the farm unions will have their own meeting on Tuesday to decide their next course of action.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points of Delhi demanding the repeal of the three laws passed in September. They have stayed put despite heavy rains and water-logging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital.Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting some amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-were-adamant-on-demand-for-repeal-of-farm-laws-union-minister-narendra-tomar-on-why-talks-failed/story-QufbKmwkPuYhzQgehOCEHJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Bengal politics made bipolar by TMC, BJP; issues ignored: Sitaram Yechury||The main objective of the Left-Congress alliance is to stop the Bharatiya Janata Party from coming to power in the upcoming West Bengal assembly election but it won’t ally with the ruling Trinamool Congress because of strong anti-incumbency factor, Communist Party of India (Marxists) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on MondayYechury was in Kolkata to attend the first physical meeting of the CPI (M)’s West Bengal state committee since March 2019. After the two-day meeting ended on Monday afternoon, Yechury said some preliminary discussion on seat sharing for the upcoming assembly election has taken place with the Congress. The Left Front allies have also met. “A bipolarity has been created in Bengal (politics) by the BJP and TMC. This bipolarity suits both the parties. And it is also ably aided and abetted by the media,” said Yechury. He drew a comparison between discontent against policies of the Centre and the anti-incumbency factor in Bengal. “The basic issues involving people’s livelihood have been raised at the ongoing farmers’ rally in Delhi in the midst of the most severe cold wave. Nothing has affected the resolution of the agitators. This is remarkable,” said the veteran Left leader. “The discontent building up against the Centre’s policies is there in Bengal as well. For example, farmers in Bengal are getting Rs 1,250 (per quintal) for selling paddy while the minimum purchase price in India is Rs 1,880,” he added. “We will rupture the bipolarity by taking up the issues of people’s livelihood and focus on job, health and education. We have appealed to all parties, including the Congress, to join the demonstrations. The anti-incumbency against the TMC government is so deep and large that it will favour the BJP. Our primary objective is to not let the BJP benefit from the anti-incumbency,” Yechury said. Asked about CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya’s statement last month that in Bengal the focus should be more on defeating the BJP and not the TMC, Yechury said, “Politics does not run on assumptions. We work on reality. There is public anger against the TMC. If anyone takes a soft stance the entire advantage will go to the BJP.” Asked about the role Asaduddin Owaisi, leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) may play in the coming polls, Yechury said, “It is not clear what mission the AIMIM has. We want to know where it stands when it comes to defeating the BJP. If its activities help the BJP then who is the ultimate beneficiary?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-politics-made-bipolar-by-tmc-bjp-issues-ignored-sitaram-yechury/story-q4UMabj8BztPc17RGMze0I.html
04-01-2021||India||Bird flu confirmed in dead migratory birds in Himachal; outbreak reported in four states now||Himachal Pradesh on Monday became the fourth state to report cases of bird flu after Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, with officials confirming that migratory birds found dead at Pong Dam Lake in Kangra district have tested positive for the dreaded avian influenza. In Rajasthan, deaths of more than 170 new birds were reported from some districts on Monday, taking the total fatalities in recent days to over 425. “Bird flu has been confirmed only in Jhalawar (district). Report of other deaths is yet to come,” according to the state animal husbandry department. As some parts of Kerala too reported the influenza outbreak, authorities have ordered culling of ducks, hens and other domestic birds within one km radius of the affected areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts. Officials said some 40,000 birds will have to be culled to check the spread of the H5N8 virus. A farm in Kerala’s Kottayam has recently seen deaths of around 1,500 ducks due to bird flu recently. Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the H5N1 influenza virus, which can occasionally infect humans as well. In Himachal Pradesh, around 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, have been found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Archana Sharma said the laboratory at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly detected avian influenza in the samples of dead birds, while citing the information conveyed by the Centre. At the same time, she said that her department was awaiting confirmation by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, as it was the nodal body for testing this disease. Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar has also suspected avian influenza in the bird samples, she added. Kangra District Magistrate Rakesh Prajapati has prohibited slaughtering, sale, purchase and export of any poultry, birds, fish of any breed and their related products, including eggs, meat, chicken, etc, in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora subdivisions of the district. Exercising his powers under Sections 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the official said that shops selling these products would also remain closed in these four subdivisions. Prajapati also banned the movement of locals and tourists within a kilometre radius of Pong Dam.  In Himachal’s Pong Dam Lake wildlife sanctuary, wildlife staff first reported the sudden death of four bar-headed geese and one common teal in the Fatehpur area last Monday. The next day, over four hundred migratory waterfowl were found dead in Majhar, Bathari, Sihal, Jagnoli, Chatta, Dhameta and Kuthera areas in the wildlife ranges of Dhameta and Nagrota. Subsequently, hundreds of more birds were found dead each day, totalling 1,773 till Sunday, she said. She said that more than 90 per cent of the dead birds were bar-headed geese, the most common migratory species at the lake who arrive here from Central Asia, Russia, Mongolia and other regions in winters after crossing the Himalayan ranges. There are eight-nine other bird species whose members have been found dead. Last year, more than one lakh migratory birds had camped at the lake by late January and this year, over 50,000 have arrived so far. The dead birds are being disposed off as per bird-flu protocol, officials said, adding that no such deaths have been reported so far from other water bodies in the state. Wildlife, veterinary and animal husbandry staff across the state have been put on alert and asked to immediately report the death of any bird or animal. The Gopalpur zoo in Kangra which is situated near the Pong Lake has been put on high alert. Recently, a bird flu alert has been sounded in Rajasthan after crows were found dead in half a dozen districts. Bird flu cases were also confirmed in dead crows in Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Bird flu virus was detected in around 50 crows whose carcasses were found in Indore in Madhya Pradesh last week, prompting authorities to issue an alert. In Rajasthan, 80 bird deaths were reported in Bikaner on Sunday, 42 in Sawai Madhopur, 12 in Kota, 12 in Baran, eight each in Pali and Jaipur, six in Dausa, five in Jodhpur and two in Jhalawar, according to the state animal husbandry department. The deaths have been reported in 15 districts of the state. Kerala, which saw the last major case of bird flu in 2016, has sounded high alert in the affected districts considering the potential of the virus to infect humans, even though officials said that the situation was under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-confirmed-in-dead-migratory-birds-in-himachal-outbreak-reported-in-four-states-now/story-QgQnEZd90WwjjaB2kJbUlM.html
04-01-2021||India||Railways conduct first trial run of double-stack container train in Western Dedicated Freight Corridor||Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal on Monday said that Railways successfully conducted the first trial run of double-stack container train operation in the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor.“Another record by Indian Railways as it successfully conducts the first trial run of double-stack container train operation in Western Dedicated Freight Corridor,” Goyal tweeted.“Railways under PM NarendraModi ji’s inspiring leadership is transforming the way India transports goods,” he added sharing a video of the double stack container train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-conduct-first-trial-run-of-double-stack-container-train-in-western-dedicated-freight-corridor/story-8H7s7alvPbz1MwQDtgAUzI.html
04-01-2021||India||Theatres in Kerala to reopen from January 5, permission granted for temple and art festivals too||The cinema theatres in Kerala will reopen on Tuesday, after remaining shut for over nine months. They were shut in March due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic; Kerala had reported the country’s first Covid-19 case in January.“The theatres have been completely shut since nearly a year due to which thousands of people are facing severe crises. Taking this into account, the government has decided to reopen the theatres with restrictions,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters on New Year’s day.However, Covid protocols will be in place and theatre owners have been asked to strictly follow them. Theatres will be allowed to admit only half of the capacity and Covid-19 protocol like maintenance of social distancing, wearing face masks and hand hygiene will be followed.Stringent action would be taken against theatre owners if they flout the guidelines, according to the chief minister’s office.Similarly, temple festivals and other art festivals will also be allowed from January 5 but participants’ numbers will be restricted to 200 for outdoor events and 100 for indoor events.Vijayan had said this will alleviate the suffering of artists. Many drama, orchestra, DJ and dance artists were wallowing in penury due to Covid-19 restrictions.In January, a 20-year-old Kerala student had tested positive for the dreaded disease upon her return from Wuhan, the capital of China’s Hubei province from where the contagion first emerged.Two other students from the Chinese city also subsequently tested positive but all three had later recovered.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theatres-in-kerala-to-reopen-from-january-5-permission-granted-for-temple-and-art-festivals-too/story-ON7tqLng0ANH2YJoL8CMSP.html
04-01-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear on Jan 7 pleas against HC order on 6 BSP Rajasthan MLAs joining Congress||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear on January 7 the appeals of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar against the Rajasthan High Court order asking the Assembly Speaker to decide within three months a disqualification petition against all the six BSP MLAs ‘merging’ with the ruling Congress party. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and K M Joseph listed the appeals for further hearing on Thursday. On August 24, the high court had asked the Rajasthan Assembly Speaker to decide within three months the disqualification petition filed by Dilawar against the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress.   Allowing Dilawar’s plea partially, the high court had set aside the July 22 order of the Speaker rejecting the disqualification petition filed by him in March last year. It had dismissed a writ petition filed by the BSP in the matter, while giving the party liberty to file a disqualification petition with the Speaker. Dilawar had filed the petition in the high court challenging the merger of six MLAs - Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha - with the Congress and demanded a stay on the execution of the order passed by the Speaker. The top court had on the same day disposed of as “infructuous” Dilawar’s plea seeking stay on the Rajasthan Speaker’s decision, which allowed the six BSP MLAs to merge with the Congress after the high court had passed its order on the same issue.   The six MLAs had contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets but later defected to the Congress party in September 2019.The MLAs had submitted an application for the merger on September 16, 2019 and the Speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019.    Dilawar has said that the six BSP MLAs have been wrongly allowed by the Speaker to merge with the ruling Congress party. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led state government as the tally of the Congress increased to over 100 in the house of 200 MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-on-jan-7-pleas-against-hc-order-on-6-bsp-rajasthan-mlas-joining-congress/story-o0cTO0d9xufxlQoIVdMY6N.html
04-01-2021||India||Atal Pension Yojana gets over 52 lakh new subscribers in FY21 so far||Over 52 lakh new subscribers have joined Atal Pension Yojana (APY) during 2020-21 so far, taking the total enrolment under the government’s social security scheme to 2.75 crore at end-December, an official release said. APY is a guaranteed pension scheme of the government which offers triple benefits to subscribers on attaining 60 years of age. It offers minimum guaranteed pension to subscribers, same guaranteed pension to the spouse after the demise of a subscriber and return of the accumulated pension wealth to the nominee.Despite the unprecedented challenges poised due to pandemic, addition of more than 52 lakh new subscribers in the financial year 2020-21 so far has been remarkable and result of untiring efforts of banks, the Pension Regulatory Fund and Development Authority of India (PFRDA) said in the release. State Bank of India alone enrolled more than 15 lakh new APY subscribers. PFRDA said it is committed to continue its endeavour to popularise the scheme through various campaigns at national and state levels, constant engagement with bankers, participation in State-Level Banker’s Committee (SLBC) meetings, publicity through media and introducing digital on-boarding of APY subscribers. PFRDA is the statutory authority established by an enactment of the Parliament to regulate, promote and ensure orderly growth of the National Pension System (NPS) and pension schemes to which this Act applies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-pension-yojana-gets-over-52-lakh-new-subscribers-in-fy21-so-far/story-Fm0QchpoJKM5GmGELJGwWI.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Landmark day’: PM Modi to inaugurate Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline to the nation on Tuesday via video conferencing.“Tomorrow, 5th January is a landmark day in India’s quest for #UrjaAatmanirbharta! At 11 AM, the Kochi - Mangaluru Natural Gas Pipeline would be dedicated to the nation. This is a futuristic project that will positively impact many people,” the Prime Minister tweeted from his handle. Tomorrow, 5th January is a landmark day in India’s quest for #UrjaAatmanirbharta! At 11 AM, the Kochi - Mangaluru Natural Gas Pipeline would be dedicated to the nation. This is a futuristic project that will positively impact many people. https://t.co/T1NsFeAKWp pic.twitter.com/fmwlSw7f5ZA statement accompanying the tweet said that the event marks an important milestone towards the creation of “One Nation One Gas Grid”.Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, along with their Karnataka counterparts and Union minister for petroleum and natural gas, will also be present on the occasion.The 450-km-long pipeline has been built by Gail (India) Ltd.With a capacity of 12 million metric standard cubic metres per day, the pipeline will carry natural gas from the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) regasification terminal at Kochi in Kerala, to Mangaluru in Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada district.The total cost of the project is about Rs 3,000 crore and its construction created over 12 lakh man-days of employment.“The pipeline will supply environment friendly and affordable fuel in the form of Piped Natural Gas (PNG) to households and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) to the transportation sector,” the statement said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-day-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline-on-tuesday/story-EyYNGasTGBmBLE0PN4PAcK.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times:Mamata Banerjee to convene special Assembly session for passing resolution against farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will make arrangement to convene Assembly session to pass resolution against farm laws’: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her government will soon convene a session of the state assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws passed by Parliament. Read More‘Give me one week’s time’: Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covid-19 efficacyAmid concerns regarding the efficacy data of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the company’s managing director Krishna Ella said that its vaccine is safe and the company is conducting trials in more than 12 countries apart from India. Read More‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealedShortly after the seventh round of talks between the farmers and the government ended without a breakthrough, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters won’t go home. Read More‘It’s not social media, it’s Trump Media’: 5 key points from Donald Trump’s phone callUS President Donald Trump on Sunday was recorded on call by Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, putting pressure on the state secretary and his legal counsel to overturn Joe Biden’s victory in the state. Read MoreFan asks Akhtar to pick between Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar, Shoaib doesn’t hesitate to make his choiceFormer Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar is known for his blunt remarks and to the point answers. So there was no surprise when he had no hesitation when asked to pick between Indian batting legends Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar. Read MoreAnushka Sharma goes for indoor jog in last stretch of pregnancy, does cardio workout on treadmillEven the cold and rainy weather could not deter mommy-to-be Anushka Sharma’s fitness routine as the diva turned to indoor jog on a treadmill. Read MoreKangana Ranaut mocks Diljit Dosanjh for holidaying abroad after ‘instigating’ farmers protest: ‘This is a true local revolution’Actor Kangana Ranaut has lobbed another attack at actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh, with whom she’s been involved in a Twitter feud that has extended into the new year. Read MoreWoman recreates famous artworks with her dog. They are ‘woofderful’When thinking of artistic classics such as The Starry Night by Vincent van Gogh or the American Gothic by Grant Wood, words such as “stunning” or “captivating” may come to one’s mind. Read More‘Ayurveda gave world first surgeon’: UP CM Yogi on doctors opposing new normsUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath criticised doctors opposed to the Central government’s move to allow Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-banerjee-to-convene-special-assembly-session-for-passing-resolution-against-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NW8TFzrABbpiR1tYeBpShM.html
04-01-2021||India||4 killed, BJP MLA among 4 injured in separate road accidents in Bihar||A BJP lawmaker was injured after his car collided head-on with a truck in Munger district on Sunday night, said police on Monday.Police said Niki Membram, MLA from Katoria in Banka district was referred to Patna after getting first-aid treatment in Bhagalpur. Police suspect that the truck driver was driving under the influence of alcohol as he was driving rashly. The first-time MLA’s two bodyguards and driver were also injured and the SUV was also damaged. The three men are stated to be stable and would be discharged from the hospital in a few days.In another incident in Gaya, two men heading to the railway station on a motorcycle were crushed to death after a truck loaded with rice bags toppled on their bike at Chakand station bazaar on Patna-Gaya road on Monday afternoon.Gaya’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aditya Kumar said cranes had to be used to remove the truck.“The errant driver fled the spot. The circumstances of the mishap are still being probed,” teh SSP said.Irate over the incident, a group of people set the truck on fire. They also blocked vehicular traffic for more than three hours. The situation was brought under control in around two hours, officials said, adding that those involved in the vandalism and arson will be identified with the help of CCTV footage and booked.In another incident, two people were killed at Sati-Pokhra village in Saran after an auto-rickshaw collided with a truck.Police said the incident occurred when the speeding truck rammed into the autorickshaw killing two unidentified passengers. Police said prima facie it looks like the truck driver lost control and hit the autorickshaw. The police are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-killed-bjp-mla-among-4-injured-in-separate-road-accidents-in-bihar/story-4dr2pFcPxPXy69bLeOBHMO.html
04-01-2021||India||‘From Andhra Pradesh to Assam’: How states are gearing up for Covid-19 vaccination||State governments across the country are waiting for instructions from the Centre on when to start the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Close to 300 million frontline workers are expected to get the vaccine dose in the first phase.State government health officials said that in the second phase those above 50 and with co-morbidities would be given vaccine. To prepare for the vaccination, the state government officials said the data of frontline workers have been updated on the Central government portal. The officials said that various task forces have been set to implement the Centre’s guidelines on vaccination.Here’s a quick look at the level of preparedness ahead of the vaccination drive across states: MaharashtraMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state administration is waiting for a communication from the Centre on the availability of the Covid-19 vaccine and has done pre-runs for administering it. “The approval for Serum Institute of India’s vaccine is only for emergency use and is subject to the consent of the patient, which means no one else would be held responsible for any health complications, if any, post-vaccination,” he said.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee said the state has started preparing list of 7,58,000 Covid warriors, who will receive the vaccination in the first phase. “A detailed district-wise list of health care providers have been provided to the Centre on its Co-WIN app,” he said, adding that state will additionally provide vaccine to 30 million people.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state vaccination task force, said, the Centre is expected to procure the vaccine and distribute to states. “By when will this process start, we don’t know,” he said.Also read: Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8RajasthanHealth minister Raghu Sharma said the state is fully prepared to execute vaccination from developing centres and ambulance service will be available at all the centres in case of any adverse reaction. “We have conducted dry-run at 19 places including Jaipur and even at private hospitals,” he said. Sharma said that the Centre is yet to communicate on the number of vaccines, its cost, and the procurement procedure.AssamHealth officials in Assam said around 1.5 lakh healthcare workers and frontline staff registered with the government would be administered the vaccine in the first phase which will begin most likely in February. “We have not received any confirmation from the Centre on the number of vaccine doses that Assam would get,” said S Lakshmanan, director, National Health Mission, Assam. He said the state governments cannot directly purchase the medicines.KarnatakaDr K Sudhakar, medical education minister, Karnataka, said all corona warriors will be administered the vaccine in the first phase free of cost. “We will also use the existing infrastructure and the Centre will augment the additional infrastructure as required,” he said. The minister said that the vaccine is expected to be available in January itself. “We are awaiting directions from the Centre on next steps,” he said.PunjabAccording to Punjab’s Covid nodal officer, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, as of now, there is no information when will the vaccine be administered. “State has also not received any tentative plan either,” he said, adding the state has already submitted data of 1.6 lakh frontline workers to the Centre. Health secretary Hussan Lal said the vaccine will be given to about 70 lakh people in a phased manner.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh is waiting for Centre’s nod to start the vaccination drive. Health minister TS Singhdeo said the state will receive vaccines from the Central government and the exact date has not been decided. “In the first phase, the vaccine would be given to 2.54 lakh registered health functionaries in the state,” he said.Also read: ‘Give me one week’s time’ - Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covaxin efficacyUttarakhandKuldeep Singh Martoliya, state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination said that the Uttarakhand government is expecting to receive vaccines from the Central government soon. “We have been assured that vaccines will be provided to us by early 2021. Uttarakhand government has shared the data of over 94,000 health care workers with Centre,” he said, adding that in the second phase, they will share data of citizens above the age of 50 and with co-morbidities.Madhya PradeshAbout 4.5 lakh health workers will be administered vaccines at primary health centres, community health centres and district hospitals, said the nodal officer for vaccination Dr Santosh Shukla. He said more than 2,000 ice-lined refrigerators have been provided for storage of vaccines. “Whenever we receive the vaccines we will start the inoculation process within the next two days,” he said, adding that all dry runs have been successful and vaccination will be done by maintaining social distancing norms. HaryanaThe Haryana health department will conduct a dry run across the state on January 7 as a precursor to the Covid-19 vaccine roll out to test preparedness. The department has already identified 19,000 vaccination session sites and about 5,145 vaccinators have been mapped for the process of administering the vaccine.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said, “The number of vaccines available and priority groups would depend on the Central government. We will expeditiously roll out the vaccine as soon as it is made available,” he said. Data of 1.9 lakh health care workers have been uploaded on the ‘CoWIN’ portal.” He added the vaccination drive will continue for over a year.BiharAround 4.39 lakh healthcare workers will be vaccinated in Bihar and 14,724 vaccinators have been identified so far, said health minister Mangal Pandey, adding the state is in the process of giving last-minute training to its vaccinators and immunisation officers. “The picture will be clear later this week,” said a Bihar government officer requesting anonymity. Around 20 million people of the state’s 120 million are expected to get the vaccine in the first phase.JharkhandClose to 2.5 lakh health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. State health official said that every district would have a vaccine distribution centre from where the vaccines would be sent in refrigerated vans to block community health centres for vaccination.Also read: Andhra administration likely to operate from Visakhapatnam from April 13, hints ministerTamil NaduHealth secretary J Radhakrishnan said that six lakh health workers will get the vaccine once the Centre informs them about when the vaccination drive would start. “The Centre has instructed to hold dry runs in the states, which is being done in five districts,” he said. Over 2,000 personnel and 100 people for vaccination are participating in the dry run, he said. The secretary also said that the over 5,000 refrigerated facilities have been created for storing the vaccine.Andhra PradeshHealth commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said there is no information from the Centre on when the vaccination for Covid-19 should start and how much doses would be made available to the state. Another official of the health department, who refused to be quoted said, the state was likely to get 1.70 lakh vaccine vials in the first phase and efforts were being made for cold-chain management, which was the most crucial part of storage and distribution. TelanganaHealth minister Eatala Rajender said the Centre might supply five lakh doses in the first phase, which would be ramped up in the subsequent phases. An official familiar with the development said the registration process for the vaccine is expected to start in the second week of January. The government is setting up 10,000 vaccination centres all over the state. The vaccination for healthcare and frontline warriors is expected to be completed within three days. Uttar PradeshAdditional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said, nine lakh health care workers have been enrolled in the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Chief minister Yogi Aditynath on Sunday said the Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available in Uttar Pradesh around Makar Sankranti - January 14. Officials said the district magistrates have been asked to constitute district task force, tehsil task force and block task force to review the vaccination drive in the respective areas. The Uttar Pradesh government is creating 2,03,938 litre space for cold chain maintenance at temperatures between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius for the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccines, said a state health department officer.KeralaHealth minister KK Shailaja said there was no official information from the union government when the vaccine vials will be made available to the state but it said the state was fully geared up to carry out the massive drive. “Our strategy was to delay the peak and restrict casualties and we succeeded in both. Since the state’s density of population is quite high and so is the prevalence of high incidences of lifestyle disease, we need to get more vaccines in the first stage itself. We have informed the Union health ministry about this,” said Shailaja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-andhra-pradesh-to-assam-here-s-how-states-are-gearing-up-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-Kskr8ACbk8Cjx0eE5TLzTI.html
04-01-2021||India||Centre taking up Covid-19 vaccination in a big way: Harsh Vardhan||Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the spread of coronavirus and that it is now taking up the vaccination drive in a big way. Vardhan’s remarks came a day after India’s drug regulator approved the restricted use of Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech in the country. In his address at the 32nd Convocation of city-based Sri Ramachandra rpt Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER) held virtually, he said the pandemic showcased the contribution of the government sector towards adequate healthcare - both Intensive Care and otherwise.He also called for a powerful societal commitment to overcome the barriers imposed by the pandemic. “The Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the spread (of coronavirus). Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) himself interacted with the Chief Ministers of all states and union territories and all stakeholders to regularly understand issues and collaborate with them for effective COVID management,” Vardhan said.Acknowledging that Covid-19 has turned the clock back by many years, if not decades, he said the deadly virus has derailed painstaking efforts of many decades and diverted scientific attention, adding, the lockdowns raised insurmountable barriers, interrupted supply chains, diversion of manufacturing capacity and imposed many roadblocks. This year, the Centre has already made a substantial increase in the healthcare spend and the Finance Commission has projected a massive increase in the health outlay in the next five years. “The recent pandemic has showcased the contribution of the Government sector towards adequate healthcare.... both intensive care and otherwise.The Central Government is taking up the vaccination drive in a big way,” Vardhan said. This period needed strategised thinking, thought leadership and disruptive social entrepreneurship besides mass mobilisation, aggressive campaigns, powerful partners and deep commitments. “And most of all, it needs a powerful societal commitment.Doctors are the backbone of any society.If our doctors are committed, then many things will automatically fall into place,” he said. Listing out the government initiatives, the minister said telemedicine has been promoted in a big way to ensure accessibility of quality treatment for both Covid and non-Covid health issues in far-flung areas. He said eSanjeevani, a web-based comprehensive telemedicine solution, is being utilised in 23 states with over 11 lakh teleconsultations held on this platform till date. To improve the nations health, the worlds largest health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat was launched to create 1.50 lakh health and wellness centres by upgrading sub health centres and rural and urban primary health centres. Around 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families have been identified for a health cover of Rs five lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation, the minister said. The present doctor-patient ratio of 1:1700 needed to be improved to 1:1000 as per WHO norms. Similarly, the number of hospital beds available is 9 per 10,000 population and this needs to be immediately increased to 40 per 10,000. The number of people covered under Health insurance has to drastically increase from the present 8-10 percent,he added. “There is a lot of scope for medical professionals to innovate and improvise to facilitate the PMs dream of Atma Nirbhar India and Make in India concepts through Research and Development Initiatives,” Vardhan said and saluted the frontline health workers and all those who supported patient- care during the pandemic risking their own lives. He complimented SRIHER for providing a separate block for Covid patients and for conducting ICMR vaccine trials and serving as a testing centre since April 2020. Chancellor V R Venkataachalam conferred the degrees and along with Pro Chancellor R V Sengutuvan and Vice Chancellor P V Vijayaraghavan presented 94 gold medals to meritorious students and distributed certificates to 1,266 students including in Ph.D., super specialities, post graduate and under graduate disciplines. Earlier in his report, the Vice Chancellor said “our hospital has been undertaking clinical trials for Covid- 19 vaccines with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech International besides BCG vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-taking-up-covid-19-vaccination-in-a-big-way-harsh-vardhan/story-sgJN9aw7vXK1bmLgOZafDM.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Reliance’s affidavit in Punjab & Haryana HC full of false claims’: Farmers’ body||Hours after Reliance approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the damage to its cellular infrastructure and forcible closure of its stores, a pan-India farmers’ body said the affidavit filed by the firm in the court is full of “false” claims.The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), representing 250 farmers’ organisations in the country, said the affidavit given by Reliance Industries in the court is simply a “ploy to serve its business interests”. “The Reliance industry’s affidavit is full of false claims of it not entering the crop market and taking over farm land. In Raigarh, Maharashtra, and other places, large tracts of land have been taken over by Reliance and it must return all those before making any false claim,” The AIKSCC said in a statement. Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s firm’s subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking “the urgent intervention of government authorities to bring a complete stop to the illegal acts of vandalism (of telecom towers) by miscreants.” Reliance said it “has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them”. The company said it does not do “corporate or contract farming” and has not bought “any agricultural land, directly or indirectly, in Punjab/Haryana or anywhere else in India, for the purpose of ‘corporate’ or ‘contract’ farming.” Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited in the petition before the court sought action against miscreants for causing damage to its network infrastructure and forcible closure of its stores in Punjab.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi borders for over a month against the Centre’s three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reliance-s-affidavit-in-punjab-haryana-hc-full-of-false-claims-farmers-body/story-JsETgkZbT9ZfJPa21AgVgN.html
04-01-2021||India||India strongly condemns terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger||India on Monday strongly condemned the terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger that left over 70 civilians dead and many injured.The ministry of external affairs (MEA) said India has always opposed and rejected terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and urged concerted global action against the menace, including cross-border terrorism.Over 70 people were killed and many injured in terror attacks on two villages in southwestern Niger on Saturday. In a statement, the MEA said India stands in solidarity with the government and people of Niger in the fight against terrorism.“India strongly condemns the terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger on January 2, where more than 70 civilians have been killed and many injured. We extend our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and to the people and government of Niger,” it said.“India stands in solidarity with the Government and people of Niger in the fight against terrorism. India has always opposed and rejected terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and has urged concerted action by the international community against terrorism, including cross-border terrorism,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-strongly-condemns-terrorist-attacks-in-southwestern-niger/story-UeS52ocPnxV4n2reKkAL6O.html
04-01-2021||India||JD (U) banks on Nitish Kumar’s goodwill, eyes 32 assembly seats in Assam||Despite the recent setback in Arunachal Pradesh where six of its seven MLAs joined the ruling BJP, the JD (U) has set its eye on northeastern states and has identified 32 out of 126 seats where the party may field candidates in Assembly polls due in April this year.The party had contested our seats in the 2016 Assembly polls in Assam but drew a blank.In 2020, the JD (U) became a recognised state party in Arunachal Pradesh where it won seven seats in the Assembly election. In Tripura, where Assembly elections are due in 2023, the JD (U) has started strengthening its organizational set-up.“We want to capitalise on the sentiments prevailing against the All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) of Badruddin Ajmal. The BJP is a strong force in the state but it hardly fields candidates against Ajmal’s party,” said JD (U) national secretary and in-charge for the northeast, Sanjay Verma.“What has added to our belief of a better performance in these two states is that people have great respect and trust on Nitish Kumar. The development works done by Kumar, especially in Assam’s Nagaon district, during his tenure as Union railway minister when rail lines were laid for over 120 km, is still remembered by people. This rail line became the lifeline for many and they profusely thank him for this,” Verma said, and added that people believe in the party’s secular credential, which will certainly pay rich dividends in the polls.Verma also claimed that the JD (U) plans to cash in on “sentiments against the AIUDF”.“The party has identified at least 32 seats in districts such as Nagaon, Tinsukia and Barpeta and to encash sentiments against the AIUDF. The Congress’s presence in Assam is virtually negligible and the AIUDF has also lost the people’s trust. A final decision will be taken by the senior party leaders,” he said.Verma said many young Muslims have been inducted recently into the party in Assam. “They will have an added advantage of the party’s secular image under Nitish Kumar’s leadership,” he said.The JD (U) general secretary said the party has also stepped up its activity in Tripura where it aims to fill up the political space vacated by the CPI (M) and is planning to take on the BJP. “We have started strengthening the organizational set-up in the state,” said Verma.At its recent national executive meeting, JD(U) had announced its plan to contest the West Bengal assembly election as well.The JD (U) suffered a setback recently when six of the seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh defected to BJP. The party had won seven seats in the 60-member assembly in the state, next only to the ruling BJP which bagged 41 seats and secured a majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-banks-of-nitish-kumar-s-goodwill-eyes-32-assembly-seats-in-assam/story-AzqBptxJdbniU76NX4I20J.html
04-01-2021||India||Snow envelopes J-K, strands over 3000 vehicles on Jammu-Srinagar highway||Traffic on the 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained suspended for the second straight day on Monday due to heavy snowfall around Jawahar Tunnel and in Banihal of Ramban district. Though the road was cleared of landslides at Magerkot, Battery Chashma, Mom Passi, Marog and Panthial in Ramban distict, heavy accumulation of snow on the north portal of Jawahar Tunnel in Lower Munda has been hampering vehicular movement. Hundreds of trucks from avalanche prone area in Lower Munda were cleared and allowed to pass through the Jawahar tunnel towards Banihal. Traffic Police have pressed into service their mobile teams making announcements on loudspeakers telling the people that no vehicle will be allowed to Srinagar because of landslides and snowfall in Ramban and rains in Udhampur area. “Around 2,500 vehicles including trucks have been stranded between Udhampur and Ramban since Saturday evening,” said a traffic police officer. Similarly, 170 Srinagar-bound light motor vehicles (LMVs) and 150 heavy vehicles besides 20 Jammu-bound LMVs were stranded between Ramsu and Jawahar Tunnel. Around 80 Srinagar-bound LMVs have been stranded in Ramban and 50 HMVs in Chanderkot while 190 Srinagar- bound tankers have been stranded in Batote area. The Mughal Road, an alternate road that connects the Kashmir valley to Jammu region through Shopian-Rajouri axis, also remains closed in the winter due to heavy snowfall. National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has pressed into service their men and machineries to clear snow and debris from the affected stretches of the Jammu-Srinagar highway. Meanwhile, the Met office has forecast widespread moderate to heavy snowfall with isolated very heavy snowfall from Monday evening to January 6 forenoon with peak activity during Monday night to Tuesday afternoon in both Jammu and Kashmir regions. The weather is predicted to improve significantly from January 6 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snow-envelopes-j-k-strands-over-3000-vehicles-on-jammu-srinagar-highway/story-OUpybcKAU6MQf66RniNlbI.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Will make arrangement to convene Assembly session to pass resolution against farm laws’: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her government will soon convene a session of the state assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. “We will make arrangements to convene assembly session soon to pass resolution against three new farm laws,” Banerjee said at a press conference, according to news agency PTI.“I’m in favour of farmers and want withdrawal of these three bills for the sake of the country and farmers. Before the bills came in, they had godowns made. Their political intention is clear and that’s why they are not taking it back,” she further said while attacking the Centre.Five state assemblies have so far passed resolution against Centre’s farm laws, Kerala being the latest one.The Kerala assembly passed the resolution on Thursday which was supported by all 140 members of the House, including the lone Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member.O Rajagopal, 91, who was minister of state for railways in the Atal Bihari Vajapyee government, opposed the resolution initially, but when it was put to voice vote, he did not walk out and supported it, much to the surprise of both the treasury and opposition benches.Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan are other states which have passed similar resolutions. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently triggered a controversy by tearing copies of the farm laws in the Assembly.DMK president and Tamil Nadu leader MK Stalin has also asked chief minister E Palaniswami to convene a special session of the state Assembly to pass a resolution against farm laws.The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system. They have been protesting near Delhi demanding the repeal of these laws.The farmers and government have held seven rounds of talks so far, but no solution has been found. In the latest round of talks on Monday, the government made it clear that the laws won’t be repealed and the farmers reiterated that they will not end their protest till that happens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-arrangement-to-convene-assembly-session-to-pass-resolution-against-farm-laws-mamata-banerjee/story-yFqtfBd8H7GxzBnU4r8t4O.html
04-01-2021||India||‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealed||Shortly after the seventh round of talks between the farmers and the government ended without a breakthrough, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters won’t go home.“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” he said as quoted by news agency ANI.Tikait’s statement comes after the Centre ruled out any possibility of repealing the laws at the talks, adding that it can look into any clause the farmers had issues with. The Centre was represented by Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ghar-wapasi-farmer-leader-vows-to-keep-protesting-till-farm-laws-are-repealed/story-SytXMGCGKDhl15XQPV5efL.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Moderate’ air in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida after 37 days; Gurugram records ‘satisfactory’ AQI||After a spell of rain, the average air quality improved from “very poor” to “moderate” levels in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad, while it reached “satisfactory” category in Gurgaon, according to a 24-hour data issued by a government agency on Monday. Gurgaon and Faridabad last had a ‘moderate’ air day on December 15, Noida on December 14, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad on November 27, official figures from corresponding dates showed. Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 although remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Monday was 168 in Ghaziabad, 134 in Greater Noida, 152 in Noida, 179 in Faridabad and 65 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB’s ‘Sameer’ application. On Sunday, it was 384 in Ghaziabad, 348 in Greater Noida, 364 in Noida, 358 in Faridabad and 260 in Gurgaon. On Saturday, it was 462 in Ghaziabad, 450 in Greater Noida, 448 in Noida, 415 in Faridabad and 336 in Gurgaon. The CPCB states that an AQI in the “satisfactory” category may cause minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people, while “moderate” may lead to breathing discomfort to those with lungs, asthma and heat diseases. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations, while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderate-air-in-ghaziabad-greater-noida-after-37-days-gurugram-records-satisfactory-aqi/story-cFGONXFlYMZoCR5Q3hvXoM.html
04-01-2021||India||Families of 2 men killed in Srinagar encounter protest, cops insist they were OGWs||The families of the two of the three young men who were killed in an encounter by security forces on December 30 protested in Srinagar on Monday demanding their bodies that have been buried in Ganderbal and impartial investigation into the encounter.While the army and police have insisted that they were militants, the youths’ families continued to claim that they were innocent.The police also released purported videos of the cordoned house where the trio – Zubair Ahmad from Turkawangam Shopian, Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq(16-17 years) from Putrigam Pulwama - was killed in Hokersar-Lawaypora Srinagar claiming that they were repeatedly asked to surrender on the night of December 29 and in the morning of December 30.The family members of Athar Mushtaq and Zubair Ahmad converged at Press Colony in Srinagar carrying banners which read “Stop innocents killings” and “We want complete investigation”. Amid wails, the protestors including elderly and women were shouting slogans demanding justice. The protest lasted about an hour with a few dozen people participating in it.“He had bullets in his chest. The mothers and sisters of soldiers then congratulate them saying that you have shot terrorists on the front. But he was just a 16-year-old child,” a wailing Mushtaq Ahmad, father of Athar said.“Are the soldiers happy now snatching a piece of my heart? You killed my son to feed your children. Shame on you,” he said.While the police and army have said that the trio was killed in exchange of fire at Hokersar-Lawaypora in Srinagar, their families have rebutted the claim and said that they were civilians. Athar was a class 11 student, Aijaz was pursuing graduation while Zubair was a skilled worker, according to their families.Mushtaq said that he wanted justice. “I don’t want money. I just want the body of my son,” he said.“He lies buried there in the snow (in Ganderbal). Whom should I tell? Aren’t people of India listening? I want to tell people of the world that I want justice. I want my son, he is just 16. I am already dead. Either give me my son or bury me there,” he said.As part of the protocol, the authorities have been burying the bodies of militants far away from their homes only allowing a few family members to be part of the burial arranged by police. The trio killed on December 30 was taken to Ganderbal, some 110 km from Pulwama, for burial. The police have rejected the claims of the families but promised to probe the case from all possible angles.On Monday, the police released two videos of the surrounded house purportedly showing forces asking those inside to surrender. “On 29/12/20 evening after the cordon at Hokersar, troops are repeatedly appealing to the trapped terrorists to come out and surrender with assurances that they will not be harmed,” Kashmir police said in a tweet.“At Hokersar on 30/12/2020 in the morning hours, troops are once again appealing the trapped terrorists to come out in the ground and surrender before them,” it said in another tweet with a video.Almost all the mainstream political parties in Kashmir have raised questions over the encounter after the claims of the families.National conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Monday asked lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to facilitate the handing over of the bodies. “The LG has promised a fair & speedy probe in to this encounter when JKNC Lok sabha member Hansain Masoodi spoke to him about it recently. In the interim we hope the LG will order the handing over of the bodies to the families,” he said in a tweet.“It is very important that the probe in to this encounter be concluded at the earliest. Only a fair & transparent probe, already promised by @manojsinha, will satisfy the families who have lost their loved ones who they insist were innocent,” he said.However, police have said that their checks have revealed that the Aijaz and Athar were over ground workers of militants.“Background checks also revealed that Aijaz and Ather Mushtaq, both OGWs (over ground workers of militants) variously provided logistic support to terrorists. Antecedents and verifications too shows that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of LeT (now so-called TRF) outfit,” the police said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-of-2-men-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-protest-cops-insist-they-were-ogws/story-cVclJz2Rdbo7tmK6JoAd6N.html
04-01-2021||India||Indigenous Covid-19 vaccine demonstrates benefits of Atmanirbhar Bharat, says Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||A day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its nod for the emergency use approval for two indigenous vaccines against Covid-19 on Sunday, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday termed it as India’s leap of science and manifestation of the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Naidu, as quoted in a release from Vice President’s Secretariat, stressed that this development can benefit not only Indians but the larger humanity. He also appealed the people to express same spirit in taking the vaccine as they did while persevering through the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. “India is in the forefront of shielding the humanity from the deadly disease by demonstrating its ability to mass produce the much-needed vaccine and offer its own version as well. India’s indigenous vaccine (Covaxin) has certain unique features based on the whole virus approach. This is a commendable achievement and all concerned deserve kudos for foresight perseverance and fruition of spirited efforts,” the release read. Referring to the devastating effects of Covid-19 in preceding year, Naidu hailed the spirited scientific efforts to come out with vaccines.He further said, “While the celebrations can wait till every needy person gets the vaccine shot, it’s not out of context to say cheers to this optimistic moment.” He noted that India’s spirited efforts towards making vaccines available offers hope to people across the globe conferring on India the leadership role in the collective fight against the most dreaded health challenge of the last 100 years since the outbreak of Spanish Flu.Noting that development and administering of vaccine is guided by a stringent regime of protocols and strict monitoring of attendant data without any compromise, the Vice President referred to the regulator’s assurance to the nation of due diligence before giving nod to the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin yesterday.“India’s leap of science with the vaccine announcement is a clear manifestation of the spirit of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. It demonstrates what a self-reliant India means not only to its people but also to the rest of the world. India standing tall at this critical moment is one of great reckoning. It vindicates our ethos of sharing with and caring for all. The soon to start vaccine roll out is a certain beginning towards leaving the miseries and anxieties of the last year behind,” the release stated. Naidu observed that the country rose in unison in 2020 in handling the Covid situation with the national leadership both in the Centre and in the States/Union Territories (UTs) working together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-covid-19-vaccine-demonstrates-benefits-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-says-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu/story-1kRlS6OW2Eb4wViTEseo5N.html
04-01-2021||India||Covid vaccination in Delhi: Over 500 centres in phase-1, facility being set up for 2-8 degrees C storage||Work is underway in full swing to set up centres for Covid-19 vaccination in the national capital with 500 such units to come up in the first phase, even as the storage facility is getting equipped with freezers to hold vaccines in a temperature range of 2-8 degrees Celsius. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday had welcomed the approval given for emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, and asserted that the city government was all set for the vaccination drive as soon as any vaccine arrives. A total of 1,000 vaccination centres will be set up. And, 500-600 centres will be set up in the first phase, for which work is underway in full swing, officials said. India’s drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. “We are all ready with our preparations, from storage to logistics, and on Saturday, a dry run was conducted at three sites to assess the preparedness for the vaccination roll-out. Vaccination can begin as soon as the vaccine arrives in Delhi, which we expect in a few days,” Jain said on Sunday. As part of the first phase, about three lakh healthcare workers and nearly six lakh frontline workers will get the vaccine. The city government has announced that the vaccine will be provided to people in Delhi for free-of-cost. While the Covid-19 situation seems significantly under control, several people arriving here from the UK and being detected with the new strain of the coronavirus, has caused a bit of concern, but authorities said they were totally alert. Delhi recorded 424 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over seven months, and 14 new fatalities on Sunday, even as the positivity rate slipped to 0.62 per cent. The infection tally in the city stood at over 6.26 lakh and death toll rose to 10,585. The minister has said the Delhi government has so far made preparations to vaccinate one lakh people in a day. Social distancing will be maintained, and people will be admitted to the centres in batches of 10, he added. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, the minister had earlier said. These include healthcare workers, who will be thr first to receive, followed by frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities, he added. Vaccination centres will either be hospitals or facilities linked to hospitals.Emergency rooms will be set up at the centres, and those getting the vaccine dose will be kept there under observation for half an hour, to see if there is any side effect. “A monitoring station has been created at a vaccination centre and any side effects, like headache, body pain will be immediately looked into, and hospital linkage anyway is there,” Jain said. On the storage facility preparations at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), sources said, 90 freezers have arrived and nearly half of those have been installed, adding cold chain equipment have also been set up. “The facility being set up at RGSSH can store vaccine in a temperature range of 2-8 degree Celsius.... But, as of now, we have not received any information, as to which vaccine will be sent here,” a source told PTI. RGSSH, recently made a partially Covid-19 facility, has 650 beds and played a significant role in the combat against the pandemic in 2020. There will be two cold chain equipment for storage. The ground and first floors of the utility block, measuring about 4,700 sq ft, will be used for the storage facility on the hospital premises. “Officials of Delhi State Health Mission are monitoring the setting up of the storage facility on a daily basis,” the source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-in-delhi-over-500-centres-in-phase-1-facility-being-set-up-for-2-8-degrees-c-storage/story-AX053L8OiNITuF3oUoN8WO.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Give me one week’s time’: Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covaxin efficacy||Amid concerns over the relatively less amount of data on the efficacy and safety of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the company’s managing director Krishna Ella said on Monday that the company’s vaccine is safe and the company is conducting trials in more than 12 countries apart from India. “We are not a company without experience in vaccines. We have tremendous experience in vaccines,” ANI quoted Ella as saying.“We are touching 123 countries. We are the only company that has got such extensive experience & extensive publication in review journals,” he also said.“We are not just conducting clinical trials in India. We have done clinical trials more than 12 countries including the UK. We are doing clinical trials in Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh & other countries. We are not just an Indian company, we are truly a global company,” Ella also said.Asked if the vaccine will be effective on new strain of the virus, Ella said, “Give me one week’s time, I will give you confirmed data.”The government recently approved emergency authorisation use of Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield. The government has also cleared Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally-developed vaccine for “restricted use in emergency situation” triggering a debate among experts over the approval despite the shorter duration of human trials and relatively less data.Meanwhile, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava had said on Sunday that Covaxin is based on an inactivated whole virus, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains including the UK variant, and it was a major reason for giving it a conditional nod.Speaking on the controversy around the vaccine, Ella said, “Now that vaccine is being politicised, I want to state very clearly that none of my family members are associated with any political party.”“Approval of Covaxin for emergency use is a giant leap for innovation and novel product development in India. It is a proud moment for the nation and a great milestone in India’s scientific capability, a kickstart to the innovation ecosystem in India,” Ella also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-tremendous-experience-in-vaccines-says-bharat-biotech-md-amid-debate-over-efficacy-data/story-aky4n5WwBtIisnBRBbhE6I.html
04-01-2021||India||#MeToo: Priya Ramani called me predator without any basis, MJ Akbar tells court||Former union minister MJ Akbar on Monday told a court here that journalist Priya Ramani called him ‘media’s biggest sexual predator’ without any investigation or basis.Akbar made the submission through senior advocate Geeta Luthra during the final hearing in a criminal defamation complaint filed by him against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct 20 years back.Ramani had made allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018.Luthra referred to Ramani’s tweet which accued Akbar of being media’s biggest sexual predator.“If we look at what has been said, a conclusion is drawn that this is a predator. On what basis? All these averments (in the article) are based without any investigation or basis,” she submitted before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar.She further read Ramani’s “premature tweet” on Akbar’s resignation.   “This had further tweets. In my (Akbar) cross examination I asked if this was not correct. He resigned later is wholly immaterial. This shows malafide, maliciousness.“This is trial outside the court. Due process is in a court of law. One cannot become law onto oneself. This (the tweet) was incorrect,” she said.The senior advocate further accused Ramani of not telling the truth before the court.“I asked did you issue any corrigendum. She said yes. I said show. She said I would show on the next date. This was not necessary. She knew she had not issued any corrigendum.“She says her defense is truth but she knows it is not the truth. Only in cross examination she says it was not the truth. It shows her credibility as a witness,” Luthra said.She further said, “Can people repeat something incorrect? Repeating of lies by 10 persons doesn’t become the truth. Being a journalist, she could have independently verified. This is how responsible journalism works.” “A blatantly false, incorrect statement was made to court and a blatantly false defense was taken,” she said.The court will further resume the hearing on January 7.Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani in October 15, 2018.He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018.Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him with adjectives such as ‘media’s biggest predator’ that harmed his reputation.He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by Akbar while they were working as journalists under him.He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metoo-priya-ramani-called-me-predator-without-any-basis-mj-akbar-tells-court/story-N4hZLLFJjGZNSVHWtlgjSM.html
04-01-2021||India||Duo moves Bombay HC to plug loopholes in POSH Act, protect ICC members||A former corporate executive and an activist lawyer have moved the Bombay high court seeking service protection for members of internal complaints committees (ICC) set up to deal with complaints of sexual harassment in private companies on grounds that they are susceptible to victimization.The petitioners - Janaki Chaudhary, a former corporate executive who was allegedly targeted and unfairly dealt with by her employer due to the decisions she took as presiding officer of the internal complaints committee at her former workplace, and activist lawyer Abha Singh, have also sought a direction to set up a commission to review the deficiencies in the Protection of Women from Sexual Harassment (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) (POSH) Act, 2013, and to frame guidelines to extend protection to ICC members.Their public interest litigation stated that the POSH Act provides for mandatory constitution of ICC by companies having 10 or more employees to deal with complaints of sexual harassment at workplace but does not provide safeguards for the members.“These committees are bestowed with the power of civil courts, and are under obligation to conduct a free and fair inquiry into the alleged incident and give an impartial recommendation to the employer,” states their PIL. “However, the Members of such committees, akin to judges, have not been provided with any safeguards, which will enable them to act without fear and favour,” it adds.“Thus, an anomalous situation has arisen where ICC members have been conferred quasi-judicial powers without the requisite independence and safeguards,” it states, adding, “This creates a highly unjust and iniquitous situation for ICC members as well as the parties to the case. This acts as a barrier to holistically address the issue of sexual harassment.”Thus, they have complained, the present law as it stands today “leaves room for arm twisting of ICC members by the senior management of the company in the form of arbitrary transfers, termination, victimisation in unrelated areas of work etc.”They contended that the risk of this form of retribution is more likely in cases where the person accused of sexual harassment is a senior official with considerable influence in the company. “This conflict of interest, where the ICC members are on the payroll of the company and may have to take decisions against their seniors, creates a precarious situation for ICC members as well as for women members at the workplace. It further defeats the objective of the Act - which is to provide protection against sexual harassment of women at workplace and for the prevention and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment.”In this backdrop, the petitioners have sought service protection for ICC members, at par with public servants, as they are tasked with the statutory duty of adjudicating sexual harassment complaints while being on the payroll of the company and can be terminated with just three months pay, as there is no legal obligation on the private sector to follow the principles of natural justice. “This creates a serious conflict of interest and constrains ICC members from taking free, fair and impartial decisions.According to then, the POSH Act intended the ICC to function as an adjudicatory body and under section 19 of the Indian Penal Code, ICC members can be considered as judges, especially because section 11 of the POSH Act confers upon them the powers to make an inquiry into a complaint of sexual harassment. Section 18 of the Act provides for an appeal against the decision of the ICC.“Thus, the POSH Act empowers ICC members to pass definitive judgements, which can be appealed against, thereby treating them as judges,” states the PIL, asserting that “therefore, in order to reflect the true spirit of the Vishaka guidelines (laid down by the Supreme Court) and India’s international obligations under the CEDAW (Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women), ICC members must be provided robust safeguards similar to those of judicial officers.”The PIL will come up for hearing before a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni but a date is yet is yet to be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duo-moves-bombay-hc-to-plug-loopholes-in-posh-act-protect-icc-members/story-UvbBpm001kC6nMX1ym3i0H.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Varsha Raut appears before ED in PMC Bank scam case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Varsha Raut appears before ED in PMC Bank scam case Varsha Raut, the wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, reached Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Mumbai on Monday, news agency ANI reported. She was summoned by the ED to appear before it in connection with PMC Bank scam case. Read moreBird flu: Jharkhand zoos on high alert after reports of bird deaths in different statesThe wildlife wing of Jharkhand forest department has sounded a high alert for zoos and bird sanctuary in wake of death reports of a large number of birds, including migratory birds, in different states of the country, officials said on Monday. Read moreMadan Kaushik ran away from debate: Manish Sisodia on Uttarakhand minister’s no-showA day after Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik wrote a four-page open letter to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Delhi deputy chief minister (CM) Manish Sisodia calling him a “tourist politician”, Sisodia on Monday alleged that Kaushik “ran away from the debate as he had nothing to talk about on development in Uttarakhand.” Read moreExplained: Why are Georgia Senate runoffs extremely crucial for Joe Biden?US President-elect Joe Biden won the southern state of Georgia with a slim margin but another important election went undecided - the race to Senate. In November, no candidate for two Senate seats from Georgia received a minimum of 50 per cent votes required to win the race, according to the state rules, which meant the top two candidates go through another election, a so-called runoff, on January 5. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘It’s a big gimmick to take pressure off Australia and try to get under skin of Indians’, says Pragyan OjhaFormer Indian spinner Pragyan Ojha has condemned a section of Australian media, stating that they are trying to get under the skin of Indian cricket team. Read moreBigg Boss 14 promo: Rubina Dilaik and husband Abhinav Shukla get into massive fight, he accuses her of doing ‘drama’ In a new promo of Bigg Boss 14, Rubina Dilaik and Abhinav Shukla got into a massive argument as he reiterated what host Salman Khan told her during the Weekend Ka Vaar episode. Read moreSamsung Galaxy S21 Ultra: Here’s everything we know about this iPhone 13 rivalSamsung has just announced the launch date of its Galaxy S21 smartphone series, which will also be its flagship series of the year 2021. The firm is said to launch three devices in the series and the most powerful of them all is said to be the Galaxy S21 Ultra. Read moreNissan Magnite gets 32,800 bookings in 1 month, most introductory prices to stayNissan Magnite has had a rousing one month since being launched in the Indian car market as the most affordable sub-compact SUV on December 2, receiving 38,200 bookings. The car maker has confirmed that introductory prices of all variants of Magnite, except the base variant priced at ₹5.49 lakh (ex showroom), will continue to remain valid. Read moreHina Khan flaunts washboard abs in new post, says fit girls are the best girlsDuring the lockdown, Hina Khan shared a lot of workout posts with her fans on Instagram in an attempt to urge them to stop being lazy and get fit. During that time, the actor revealed how she was exercising at home with a few gym equipments and gave tips to her followers too. She is still trying to inspire her fans to stop being lazy and work out. Read moreStay in your ‘orbit’: Mumbai Police shares advisory post inspired by our solar systemMumbai Police is renowned for sharing super innovative advisory posts. Its latest share is a testament to its original thinking and excellent creativity skills. Seeing the post, inspired by our solar system, may make you believe the same. Read moreWatch: ‘Will not get vaccinated first’: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan explains reasonMadhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that he will not be among the first ones to get vaccinated as her wants priority groups to be vaccinated first. ‘I have decided that I will not get vaccinated for now. First it should be administered to others. My turn should come afterwards. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-varsha-raut-appears-before-ed-in-pmc-bank-scam-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eElUu85IG1uBzwIE5y1U0I.html
04-01-2021||India||I-T dept visits Robert Vadra’s premises in connection with benami assets case||The Income Tax department on Monday visited the premises of Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Congress President Sonia Gandhi, to record his statement in connection with its probe against him under the benami assets law, official sources said.They said Vadra was asked to join the investigation at the tax authority’s office but as he cited Covid-19 restrictions, a team of officials visited his premises in Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar area.A department team has gone to record Vadra’s statement under the provisions of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, they said.The department has been probing Vadra, the husband of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on charges of alleged possession of some undisclosed assets in the UK.The Enforcement Directorate too is investigating these charges, under the anti-money laundering law, against the businessman.Vadra had denied any wrongdoing in the past even as the Congress party had called the action political vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-visits-robert-vadra-s-premises-in-connection-with-benami-assets-case/story-PDAsIcyBSa8QInZuzsocyN.html
04-01-2021||India||Health ministry says 38 people in India test positive for new Covid-19 strain||A total of 38 people have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.These include the 29 cases which were announced till Friday.All these people have been kept in single room isolation in designated healthcare facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine, the ministry said.Of the 38, the mutated UK strain was detected in eight samples at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, 11 in the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, one in the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani (near Kolkata), five in the National Institute of Virology in Pune, three in Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and 10 were sequenced at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS), Bengaluru.  The NCBS, InSTEM in Bengaluru, CDFD in Hyderabad, ILS in Bhubaneswar and NCCS in Pune have so far found no UK mutant virus, the ministry said.“A total of 38 samples have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome,” the ministry said.It said comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, it added.“The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs,” the ministry stated.The positive Covid-19 samples are being tested at 10 INSACOG labs (NIBMG Kolkata, ILS Bhubaneswar, NIV Pune, NCCS Pune, CCMB Hyderabad, CDFD Hyderabad, InSTEM Bengaluru, NIMHANS Bengaluru, IGIB Delhi and NCDC Delhi) for genome sequencing.The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.The government of India took cognizance of the reports of virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, it said.This strategy includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test.  The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs - INSACOG.  Further, all the international passengers who have arrived in India between December 9 to 22, if symptomatic and tested positive for Covid-19, will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre’s strategy to detect the mutated UK variant in them.Others will be followed up by the respective state and district surveillance officers and will be tested as per ICMR guidelines (even if asymptomatic) between fifth and tenth day, according to the Union Health Ministry’s guidance document on genomic sequencing.Further, epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23 will be conducted in the community through active follow up.      Besides, standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-strain-total-38-people-in-india-test-positive/story-7BeZ2dktp9eI1hdOA5hjfJ.html
04-01-2021||India||SC accepts petition sent to CJI seeking inquiry against Haryana Police for using water cannons on farmers||The Supreme Court accepted a letter petition sent to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde by a group of students from Punjab seeking an inquiry against Haryana Police for using water cannons, tear gases shells on farmers to stop them from proceeding to Delhi to protest against the Centre’s newly-enacted farm laws.The students wrote an open letter to the CJI and urged that Haryana and Delhi police withdraw all the cases against farmers which were registered under alleged political vendetta.The letter, written by former and current human rights students of the Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Punjab University, also asked that the cases of illegal detention of protesters be looked into.The letter signed by Gurmohan Preet Singh and 34 other students requested that the governments at both Central and State level ensure the safety of all protesters, and provide basic amenities for all, especially women, children and elderly. It also asked for mobile toilet vans to be provided at protest places.“Issue appropriate guidelines, as the court may deem fit, regarding hygienic conditions at protest sites in the backdrop of Covid-19. Take an action to curb fake news and against media channels, engaged in misrepresentation, polarisation and sensationalisation of the whole issue,” it stated.They sought top court’s immediate intervention to protect “gross neglect of human rights”.“We, being students of human rights are very much disturbed and disheartened by witnessing the execrable way in which the government of India is dealing with its own farmers, who are protesting much peacefully as per their constitutional rights,” the letter said.Farmers’ protest at several Delhi borders has been going on for over a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-accepts-petition-sent-to-cji-seeking-inquiry-against-haryana-police-for-using-water-cannons-on-farmers/story-Sc06Lza85rkKbYvuStktqI.html
04-01-2021||India||Asian Development Bank to provide USD 100 million loan to upgrade power distribution in Bengaluru||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) will provide a USD 100 million (around Rs 730 crore) loan to modernise and upgrade the power distribution system in Bengaluru city, a finance ministry statement said. Beside the USD 100 million sovereign loan, ADB will provide a USD 90 million loan without sovereign guarantee for the project to Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd (BESCOM), one of the five state-owned distribution utilities in Karnataka. “The ADB and the Government of India on December 31, 2020 signed a USD 100 million loan to modernise and upgrade the power distribution system to enhance the quality and reliability of electricity supply in Bengaluru city in the state of Karnataka,” the statement said. In parallel to underground distribution cables, over 2,800 km of fibre optical cables will be installed to strengthen communication network. Moving about 7,200 km of distribution lines underground will help reduce technical and commercial losses by about 30 per cent, it said. The fibre optical cables will be used for smart metering systems, distribution automation system (DAS) in the distribution grid, and other communication networks. The project will install 1,700 automated ring main units adapted with a DAS to monitor and control the distribution line switchgears from the control centre, it added. The statement further said the loan will strengthen the capacity of BESCOM in operation and maintenance of underground cabling, environment and social safeguards, financial management and commercial financing. Improved financial management capability will help BESCOM access domestic and international commercial financing market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asian-development-bank-to-provide-usd-100-million-loan-to-upgrade-power-distribution-in-bengaluru/story-wTylMcYgNKbiUL9uH1wEaM.html
04-01-2021||India||PMC Bank scam: Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha appears before ED||Varsha Raut, the wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, reached Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Mumbai on Monday, news agency ANI reported. She was summoned by the ED to appear before it in connection with PMC Bank scam case.The agency had said on Friday (January 1) last week said that it attached assets worth Rs 72 crore of a Maharashtra-based man whose wife allegedly transferred money in the account of Raut’s wife.The ED claimed that the arrested man, Pravin Raut, had “siphoned off” Rs 95 crore worth of funds from the scam-hit bank in the garb of loan, out of which he paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife, Madhuri Raut, who subsequently transferred Rs 50 lakh in two tranches to Varsha Raut, wife of Sanjay Raut, as an “interest-free loan”.Also Read | PMC Bank: ED attaches Rs 72-cr assets of man whose wife transferred funds to Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s spouseThe ED has summoned Varsha Raut for questioning with regard to this transaction. She has skipped the agency’s notice thrice.The issue led to a political blame game between the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Bharatya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre.Sanjay Raut said that the BJP wants to pull down the Maharashtra government and thus by issuing the notice to his wife, it was trying to put pressure on the Sena.“We have been getting messages from BJP leaders here [in the state] that they have prepared a list of 22 leaders from the three ruling parties to book them in various financial cases. Our MLA (Member of Legislative Assembly) Pratap Sarnaik [who, along with his relatives, has also been questioned by ED in another case] is one of them. A few state BJP leaders regularly visit the ED office and obtain important documents related to leaders from the ruling parties in Maharashtra. The BJP is playing a dirty game in political rivalry by involving wives and family members of the leaders who speak out against them,” Raut had claimed during a press conference on December 28.He also said that details regarding the Rs 50 lakh transaction have already been submitted to the ED during the correspondence.The ED had filed a criminal case of money laundering to probe the alleged loan fraud in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank in October last year against Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan, its former chairman Waryam Singh and ex-managing director Joy Thomas.It took cognisance of a Mumbai Police economic offences wing FIR against them that charged them for causing “wrongful loss, prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank, and corresponding gains to themselves”.The ED has attached assets of Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Wadhawan family trust and others worth Rs 293 crore and had seized jewellery worth Rs 63 crore.A chargesheet had also been filed by it in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-bank-scam-sanjay-raut-s-wife-varsha-appears-before-ed/story-Ud8MwW3koLx6QtV7YquApK.html
04-01-2021||India||Youth urge Asaduddin Owaisi to launch party in Kerala, Muslim League cautious||The Muslim League is wary and on its toes with several youth bodies urging Asaduddin Owaisi to launch his party in Kerala, which has 26 per cent Muslim population. The AIMIM has recently tasted success in the Bihar assembly elections, winning five seats. The party is also involved in intense negotiations with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.Though League leaders say Owaisi’s brand of politics won’t sell in Kerala, they are cautious about his possible entry at a time when another minority, Christians, appeared to have moved to the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) camp against the Muslim consolidation. The recent local body election hints towards it.League leaders said the ruling CPI(M) played a “dirty communal card” to shore up the support of Christians, who constitute 18 per cent of the population, and a section of the majority community to tilt the balance in its favour. An article written by a League leader in party mouthpiece ‘Chandrika’ lauding the takeover of Hagia Sophia, a 1500-old Orthodox Christian cathedral in Turkey, and ‘love jihad’ bogey were used extensively to influence them, they said.In Kerala, the League has been enjoying the support of the community for more than four decades and political observers often attribute its presence to peaceful communal co-existence in the state. But there is a strong feeling in the community recently that League MPs had shown little regard in reflecting Muslim sentiment in Parliament during discussion on vital issues like Ram temple, Citizenship (Amendment) Act(CAA), triple talaq, among others.Many organisations which nurse extreme views have started a campaign against the League citing these issues. Cut-outs of Owaisi had appeared at many places in north Kerala after Parliament debates on temple and CAA. But League leaders dubbed it “a futile whisper campaign” and felt fascination for Owaisi was only an emotional reaction from a miniscule section of youth.“The Muslim League has a strong presence in Kerala for many decades and nobody can weaken its base. Earlier also many outfits with extreme views tried to hijack our plank but failed. Owaisi’s brand of politics is not suitable for Kerala,” said League senior leader PK Kunhalikutty MP, who is planning to return to state politics after a brief sojourn in Delhi. The party had announced its decision to field the Malappuram MP in assembly elections due in four months.He said the situation of the community in north and south India was totally different. “In Kerala there is no ghettoisation and people from community enjoy an equal footing and status in all spheres. Their rights and privileges are protected strongly. People are educated and informed which acts as a bulwark against hatred or extremist views here,” he said.Since coalition politics was experimented in Kerala by the late Congress leader K Karunakaran in the late 1970s, the League has been in the Congress camp. Unlike its northern counterpart, in Kerala the League is known for its moderate face. Its late leader E Ahamed was twice the minister of state for external affairs in former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s cabinet. Many young leaders now want the League to take a strong position in the light of campaign carried out by Sangh Parivar and Communists and ensure a pan-India presence. Though the party has units in many states, it is mainly confined to Kerala and other southern states, they feel.“Owaisi can’t make any impact in other southern states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu where the community is more focused and socially developed. In the last two-three decades, the community gave much importance to education so unlike north India, its members can’t be swayed easily on emotional issues,” said Ashraf Kadakkal, an Islamic historian and author.However, even as IUML was apprehensive of MIM’s possible foray, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led party said it had no plans to enter the southern state. While Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi could not be reached, a party leader who did not want to be identified said the MIM had no plans to contest elections in Kerala.“Right from the beginning, Owaisi saab has been making it clear that the party won’t foray into at least three states - Kerala, Assam and Kashmir. We have been standing by it. Our party doesn’t have any base in Kerala and so there’s no chance of us contesting the elections,” the MIM leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-urge-asaduddin-owaisi-to-launch-party-in-kerala-muslim-league-cautious/story-uCK18m0hInAfgDY3NzfbvM.html
04-01-2021||India||Indian products must win customer confidence: PM Modi at National Metrology Conclave||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is not looking to fill the world with Indian products but ensure customer satisfaction across the globe.Speaking at the National Metrology Conclave, Modi said “Make in India” products should not only meet the global demand but also be globally accepted for their quality.On Monday, while dedicating the national atomic timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya Pranali (Certified Indian Reference Material programme) to the nation and laying the foundation stone for National Environmental Standards Laboratory, the prime minister said India is on the verge of starting the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination programme.Also Read: PM Modi should take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, says Bihar Congress leader“Indian scientists have successfully made two Covid-19 vaccines in India in this new year and the world’s largest Covid vaccination programme is about to start here,” he said in Hindi.Speaking on the certified Indian reference materials programme of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Modi remarked the programme will help the industry make good quality products in sectors like heavy metals, pesticides, pharmaceuticals and textiles by drafting a reference material system.“Industry is moving towards a consumer-oriented approach instead of the regulation centric-approach. With these new standards, there is a campaign to bring global identity to local products in districts across the country, which will be of particular benefit to our MSME sector.”This will also help the large foreign manufacturing companies coming to India to find a local supply chain.Certified reference materials (CRM) are used for the calibration of measuring apparatus, for the evaluation of measurement procedures and for the internal or external quality control of measurements and laboratories. CSIR-NPL has initiated CRM production under “Make in India” according to a statement issued by CSIR on Monday.With the atomic time scale, the Indian Standard Time achieve an accuracy level of 2.9 nanoseconds.Precise time with nanosecond accuracy is maintained the world over using atomic clocks at various national measurement institutes (NMIs) in more than 70 countries including India. CSIR-NPL maintains Indian Standard Time here.CSIR-NPL is now working on synchronising all the clocks in the nation to IST for securing digital infrastructure and reducing cybercrime. It is providing IST traceability to ISRO timing centres in Bengaluru and Lucknow for the NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) programme.“Now Indian Standard Time is matching the International Standard Time with the accuracy range of less than 3 nanoseconds. This will benefit organisations like Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), banking, railways, defence, health, telecom, weather forecast, disaster management and similar sectors…” the prime minister said.Modi also laid the foundation stone for the National Environmental Standards Laboratory under CSIR. According to a note by CSIR, most air pollution measuring instruments being used in India are imported with product certifications from international agencies.“These certificates are issued based on the environmental conditions of the certificate-issuing country which are very different from the environmental conditions prevalent in India. This affects the quality of measurements by the instrument operating for a long time in Indian conditions,” it said.The estimated global market value of air pollution monitoring equipment and network is US$3,997.8 million which is projected to grow to US$71,187 million by the end of 2025. India and other developing countries are markets where such equipment will get installed.“India is moving towards a leading position in the field of environment. Still, for technology and tools for measuring air quality and emission, India is dependent on others. This achievement will lead to self-reliance in the field and will lead to creation of more effective and cheaper tools for pollution control. This will also enhance India’s share in the global market for technologies related to air quality and emission technology,” Modi said.“The national atomic timescale synchronisation will make our navigation system more accurate. It may help India’s Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (Navic) programme. It will also help our civil and military aviation systems and take us closer to global standards,” said Ajay Lele, Senior Fellow working with space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-products-must-win-customer-confidence-pm-modi-at-national-metrology-conclave/story-CZOsbnKdcTylQqX8kPTEhP.html
04-01-2021||India||Alappuzha, Kottayam in Kerala on high alert after bird flu cases detected||Two districts in Kerala, Alappuzha and Kottayam, have been put on high alert after bird flu cases have been confirmed in ducks, said state animal husbandry minister K Raju. He said at least 50,000 ducks will be culled to check the spread of the virus and the government will compensate farmers.Fresh cases were detected after ducks started dying in large numbers, said Alappuzha district veterinary officer K Lekha. Later tests at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal confirmed the presence of the virus in dead birds. The minister has called a meeting tomorrow to coordinate steps to contain the outbreak.In 2016, bird flu was reported in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts and at least 2 lakh chicken and ducks were culled to control the outbreak. Highly contagious vet experts said all rearing birds in the vicinity will have to be culled to contain the disease. In the two districts, chicken prices have plummeted after the news surfaced.Bird flu, also known as avian flu, is a variety of influenza caused by a virus in birds. It can spread to humans and can trigger a person to person transmission, experts say. There are many varieties of viruses and H7N9 is considered dangerous among them, they say. According to the World Health Organization, there are many subtypes of avian influenza virus and only some of them will be dangerous to humans. Winged guests are reported to be the main carriers of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alappuzha-kottayam-in-kerala-on-high-alert-after-bird-flu-cases-detected/story-IjQjE8Rq3P45GsM4M4oIeO.html
04-01-2021||India||UP: Dalit family claims beaten up by village strongmen for using hand pump, leaves home||A Dalit family has left their home in a village here after they were allegedly beaten up and threatened with dire consequences by local strongmen for using a government hand pump, a family member claimed on Monday.The police have booked three people in connection with the incident. However, they did not comment on the family’s claim of leaving their house.A member of the Dalit family from Tendura village under Bisanda police station told PTI that on December 25, he along with his father had gone to get water from the hand pump. Some strongmen living in their neighbourhood beat him and his 80-year-old father with sticks for using the hand pump.He claimed the strongmen also threatened to burn him and his father alive in their home.The family member said they left their home because of the fear of the strongmen and are now living in a hut in a farm.In an application to the superintendent of police, the family alleged that though the local police has registered a case, there is no mention of injuries sustained by the octogenarian father.SHO of Bisanda police station Narendra Pratap Singh told PTI that it is a case of beating that is being investigated by the Baberu circle officer. On the basis of the complaint lodged by the family, a case has been registered against three people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-dalit-family-claims-beaten-up-by-village-strongmen-for-using-hand-pump-leaves-home/story-CMG9nrsvVvZJl68e8i0IyI.html
04-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu minister takes potshot at DMK’s Stalin citing Alagiri’s remark||Tamil Nadu Minister S P Velumani on Monday took a dig at DMK president M K Stalin by saying that the latter’s elder brother and expelled DMK leader M K Alagiri himself has said Stalin can never become the Chief Minister of the state.This remark from the Municipal Administration Minister comes at a time when Stalin has been saying that the DMK would capture power after the Assembly elections scheduled in April-May.Talking to reporters on the sidelines of distributing Pongal gifts, Velumani said Alagiri had made the statement while addressing his supporters in Madurai on Sunday.Earlier, the Minister said despite a group wanting to prevent distribution of money for Pongal festival, the state government would ensure that the cash reached the beneficiaries without any problem.He said a little over 10.11 lakh cardholders would get the festival gift and Rs 269.83 crore has been allocated to Coimbatore district.The gift scheme was started by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-minister-takes-potshot-at-dmk-s-stalin-citing-alagiri-s-remark/story-mwNCu5sWhWqJ3csZHY2PnO.html
04-01-2021||India||Jaishankar to fly to Sri Lanka tomorrow, sked includes meeting with Prez, PM||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will travel to Sri Lanka on Tuesday on a visit to cement India’s relationship with the island nation. The external affairs minister is expected to take up the release of Indian fishermen apprehended last month during the visit that is designed to review the developments in bilateral relations between the two neighbours from a strategic and long-term perspective.Jaishankar had rushed to Colombo within a day of Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa taking charge in November 2019, setting the foundation for both countries to reset ties. Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had travelled to New Delhi soon after on his maiden foreign visit. The effort to deepen ties continued in September last when Prime Minister Narendra Modi held the first virtual bilateral summit with Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, their first after he began a fresh term as prime minister a month earlier after the Sri Lanka People’s Front party secured a two-thirds majority in parliamentary polls.Jaishankar is scheduled to hold discussions with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena.Officials said Jaishankar’s visit would look at smoothing the rough edges in the relationship between the two countries that has turned complicated over the last decade, mostly on account of China’s efforts to expand its influence in the Indian Ocean region including Sri Lanka.Colombo has, over the past year, signalled on multiple occasions that India is a priority for his government, that Sri Lanka’s strategic security policy will have an “India first” approach though it is open to dealing with other key players for economic development.Jaishankar’s visit is the second high-profile visit to Colombo in two months. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval had flown to Sri Lanka in November for the trilateral discussion on maritime cooperation and security with Colombo and Male.The arrest of 36 Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu and seizure of their vessels allegedly on charges of poaching was discussed at the December 30 virtual meeting of the joint working group on fisheries but there has been no breakthrough yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-fly-to-sri-lanka-tomorrow-sked-includes-meeting-with-prez-pm/story-Sg4RoqRSIpC9ZmEyDeTajJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Govt, farmers’ talks over agri laws underway, both sides hope for positive solution||The seventh round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the central leadership to end the impasse over agricultural laws, enacted in September last year, began at the Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi on Monday. Both the parties observed two-minute silence as a mark of tribute to the 50 protesting farmers who died during the agitation.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash along with government officials are in a meeting with farmers represented by a team of 41 leaders. Before the meet, Tomar said. “I am hopeful that we will find a positive solution today. We will discuss all issues in the meeting.” Follow latest updates on farmers protest here Speaking to news agency ANI, a farm union leader too said, “We hope there is a breakthrough in this meeting in the new year.” Hannan Mollah,general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha said, “It is up to the government whether it wants to solve the farmers’ problems or conspire against the farmers to fizzle out their struggle. We hope government will take a human approach towards the farmers.”During the sixth round of negotiations, some common ground was reached on concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning. The Centre had agreed to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP).Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closedAhead of the meeting Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, “Many issues are to be discussed today. The government must understand, the farmer has taken this movement to his heart and won’t consider less than the repeal of these laws. The government should implement Swaminathan’s report and make law on MSP.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders to demand a complete rollback of three contentious agri laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020— for over a month. They have threatened to carry out a tractor rally in the national capital on January 26 if the their demands are not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-farmers-observe-2-min-silence-for-50-peasants-who-died-during-agitation/story-vFv5bZw3dxcZHK7xD2KRSL.html
04-01-2021||India||Schools, colleges reopen in Bihar after over 9 months, attendance thin as parents concerned||Schools, colleges and other educational institutions in Bihar welcomed students as they reopened after a gap of more than nine months. These institutes were closed on March 14 last year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Physical classes were held for students of Classes 9-12 in schools and final year students in colleges.“I am happy that schools have reopened as students were getting badly affected. Most of the children studying in government schools do not have laptops to carry out online studies. Our syllabus is lagging and we will work hard to cover it,” a class 9 student of Patna’s Miller High School told news agency PTI.Teachers too seemed happy to be able to take physical classes again.“It is good that we are getting an opportunity to teach students in physical classrooms. All these months we used to come to schools but did not have teaching work,” said a teacher at the Miller High School.Also Read | Schools, colleges reopen in Bihar today. Read guidelines here Students have to bring consent letters from their guardians to be able to attend the classes, another teacher said.Attendance, however, remained thin as many parents were apprehensive of sending their wards to the educational institutions till they are inoculated.“We will not send our children to schools till they are vaccinated for Covid-19. We cannot take risks despite the precautionary measures being taken by the state government,” Rajiv Singh, a resident of Jethiyan village in Gaya district said.Students, teachers and other non-teaching staff have been asked to take all Covid-19 precautions and adhere to the guidelines issued by the government while attending school.Also Read | Bihar govt to distribute 73 lakh face masks among students as schools set to reopenSchools that provide pick and drop services to students have been asked to ensure that the service providers always have their masks on. A minimum distance of 1 to 2 feet should be there between the students and they have been told not to talk to each other during the drive.Morning assembly sessions and games periods have been removed from the schedule to avoid the spread of the infection. To prevent a large gathering of students, their lunchtime has also been changed to scattered timings.Authorities of the educational institutions will keep a tab on students to check whether they have any Covid symptoms and medical examination of pupils will be conducted in government schools on a random basis, Education Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar.He also said that the students will be allowed to enter the school premises wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-reopen-in-bihar-after-over-9-months-attendance-thin-as-parents-concerned/story-z9KtZX4E7jtfLCBbMDNRPJ.html
04-01-2021||India||PM Modi should take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, says Bihar Congress leader||Bihar Congress leader Ajit Sharma on Monday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take the first shot of COVID-19 vaccine to assure the people of the country.“We are delighted to have got two vaccines in the new year but there is also doubt among people about this. In order to remove this doubt, head of state in Russia and America have taken the first shot of the vaccine, I believe that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the senior-most Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader should win the trust of the people by taking the first vaccine shot,” said the Congress leader.Sharma claimed that BJP is trying to take credit for the two vaccines but both the companies Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, which have prepared the coronavirus vaccine, were established during the Congress tenure so the people should also congratulate and give credit to Congress party.Another, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said that the emergency approval to COVID-19 vaccine--Covaxin is premature and could be dangerous as it is still under phase 3 trial. He urged Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to wait till full trials of the vaccine are completed.COVID-19 vaccines of Serum Institue of India and Bharat Biotech have been granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-should-take-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-says-bihar-congress-leader/story-rDdQ3rwrYVYatlcOOBL78N.html
04-01-2021||India||Active caseload falling due to decline in daily cases: Health ministry||The decline in India’s daily Covid-19 cases has ensured a consistent fall in the active caseload, which constitutes 2.36% of the total infections, while higher testing has led to the positivity rate further going down to 5.89%, the Union health ministry said on Monday.India’s cumulative tests have gone past 17.5 crore (17,56,35,761), with 7,35,978 samples being tested the previous day, it said.“One crore tests were conducted in the last 11 days. Higher testing has led to a further decline in the cumulative positivity rate at 5.89%,” the ministry said.India’s testing infrastructure has received a boost with 2,299 labs across the country, it said.A net decline of 3,267 cases was recorded in the total active cases the previous day, the ministry said.As on date, India’s active caseload stands at 2,43,953.India’s Covid-19 recoveries are inching closer to one crore. The total number of recovered cases has surged to 99,46,867, which translates to a recovery rate of 96.19%.A total of 19,557 people recovered the previous day, the ministry said.Of the new recoveries, 76.76% were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories (UTs) -- Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Karnataka.Kerala reported the highest number of single-day recoveries at 4,668, followed by 2,064 in Maharashtra and 1,432 in West Bengal.Of the new cases, 83.90% were concentrated in 10 states and UTs --Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan.Kerala reported the highest number of new cases at 4,600. Maharashtra reported 3,282 new cases while West Bengal reported 896.Another 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu -- accounted for 77.57% of the 214 deaths reported the previous day.Maharashtra reported 35 deaths, followed by 26 in West Bengal and 25 in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-caseload-declining-due-to-decline-in-daily-cases-health-ministry/story-OoZdJ1Ud0xJWoI0z85Q73H.html
04-01-2021||India||Enough stockpile of vaccines for priority groups in first phase: VK Paul||India has enough stockpile of the Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of priority groups, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, in the first phase, Niti Aayog member VK Paul said on Monday.Paul, who is also the Chairman of National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) further said the government will soon announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine.“Our first phase (of vaccination) comprises priority groups with high risk of mortality and our healthcare and frontline workers. For them, we believe, we have enough (Covid-19 vaccine) stockpile,” he told PTI in an interview.India’s drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.Also Read: ‘Will not get Covid-19 vaccine right away,’ says Shivraj Singh Chouhan, explains whyPaul noted that “three to four months from now, there will be other vaccines and the stockpile will be even bigger. “And more acceleration can be brought about in the vaccination programme,” Paul added.Asked when the government will announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine, he said, “this will follow. Now the essential has taken place, all these steps will be taken.” Asked what would be the single biggest challenge in mass vaccination for Covid-19, Paul noted that the biggest challenge encompasses the huge mobilisation that is required for such an effort.“Well, the single most important challenge for mass vaccination on such a scale is mobilising beneficiaries on the appointed day and to conduct sessions in smooth, systemic protocols, ensuring Covid-19 appropriate precautions, I think is the single biggest challenge,” he observed.According to Paul, the purpose of vaccination is a staggered ambition and can be seen as hierarchical.“Ultimately, we would like vaccination to stop, stall and extinguish the pandemic, that is the ultimate purpose,” he said adding that for that to be achieved, a herd immunity of about 70% has to be created either through vaccination or by adding those people who have undergone natural infection.Also Read: Hyderabad, Dubai airports sign MoU for seamless vaccine movementPaul pointed out that for normal life to go on, there should be enough vaccinated people, so that the country’s industry, schools, transportation, judicial system and Parliamentary activity go on.“Even though the virus may be there, the pandemic may not have finished but enough of economic and social life could go on,” he emphasised.Replying to a question that India does not have experience in adult vaccination, the Niti Aayog member noted that countries face new challenges and then they respond on the basis of their intrinsic capability.“We have tremendous experience of running immunisation programs. We have experience of running affairs like national elections which happen over a short period of time across the country,” he said.“So those experiences and those SOP will come handy and build on that India’s ingenuity, India’s innovation and India’s experience will make it possible for us to mount a successful vaccination programme, even though it is unprecedented,” he added.Referring to the health ministry’s recently issued ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines’, Paul said, “God forbid, if you have any comorbidity, then you will get a vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination programme. Otherwise, you will get after these high priority groups have been covered.” Also Read: India will soon start world’s largest vaccination drive, says PM ModiIndia’s drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.The approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).“After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr VG Somani had said.This paves the way for the rollout of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days.The Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield.Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also, the authority granted Cadila Healthcare the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India, Somani had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enough-stockpile-of-vaccines-for-priority-groups-in-first-phase-vk-paul/story-SkSfFKszSYJ6pSVe6wzY5O.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Will not get Covid-19 vaccine right away,’ says Shivraj Singh Chouhan, explains why||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday he will not get the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) administered, saying those who fall under the priority groups should get the preference. “I have decided that I will not get vaccinated for now. First it should be administered to others. My turn should come afterwards. We have to work to ensure that priority groups are administered with the vaccine,” Chouhan said, according to news agency ANI.The comment by the senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came a day after Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani gave approval for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. Soon after the approval of the two vaccines, Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, on Sunday raised concerns over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine for restricted use, saying it is “premature” and can prove dangerous.The leaders then drew flak from Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and senior BJP leader JP Nadda who said the opposition led by the Congress is filled with anger, ridicule and disdain. In a tweet, Puri said, “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization.”Jairam Ramesh retorted, “So says the in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert Speer.” Both Goebbels and Speer were close allies of German dictator Hitler.Tharoor, a Congress MP and former Union minister, also countered Puri, saying he had never questioned the valour of our soldiers. “I would be happy and proud if more Indian vaccines are approved — but only after a full 3-phase trial confirms they are safe & effective. Short-circuiting the process is unprecedented, inadvisable & risks lives||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-get-covid-19-vaccine-shivraj-singh-chouhan-says-explains-why/story-UuC1Gec3RViG6MxRtgG9qN.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Malegaon blast case accused Pragya Thakur appears before special NIA court and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Malegaon blast case accused Pragya Thakur appears before Special NIA CourtBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Pragya Singh Thakur, accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, appeared before the Special NIA Court in Mumbai. Read morePunjab’s Harike Pattan wetland on alert after bird deaths at Pong Dam in HimachalThe state forest and wildlife authorities are on alert at Harike Pattan wetland after scores of migratory birds were found dead under mysterious circumstances in Pong Dam sanctuary in Himachal Pradesh. Read moreFirst hilltop Buddhist monastery found in Bihar’s LakhisaraiThe first hilltop Buddhist monastery of the Gangetic Valley has been found at Lal Pahari in Lakhisarai district of the state, said its excavation team director Anil Kumar. Read moreIndo-Canadian MP quits key post after violating Covid travel curbsAmid hysteria in Canada within political circles over non-essential international travel as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic surges in the country, an Indo-Canadian MP has resigned as parliamentary secretary after attending a memorial service for her uncle in the US. Read more‘Have you ever had any dealings with the BCCI?’: Andrew Symonds comments on reports of India’s Brisbane quarantine demandsTeam India courted controversy recently after some of its players were seen eating at a restaurant in Melbourne. There were reports that five Indian players -- Rohit Sharma, Prithvi Shaw, Rishabh Pant, Shubman Gill, and Navdeep Saini - had breached the bio-bubble as they allegedly met an Indian fan at the restaurant. Then reports surfaced that the Indian cricket team is reluctant to travel to Brisbane due to strict quarantine rules. Read moreRhea Chakraborty arrives at NCB office with brother Showik to mark attendance, talks to paparazzi. Watch videoRhea Chakraborty, the girlfriend of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and her brother Showik Chakraborty marked their attendance at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in Mumbai on Monday. As per the conditions of her bail, she must report before the agency on the first Monday of every month, for six months. Read moreAlaya F flaunts luxurious silhouette in Rs 89k chiffon-organza draped ruffle saree and we are smittenJust one movie old, Jawaani Jaaneman star Alaya F is already grabbing headlines for her sartorial elegance and for pushing the corridors of conventional looks. Recently, the diva dressed up in a saree for an endorsement shoot along with actor Neena Gupta and Sayani Gupta and the fashion police was on immediate alert. Read more‘Cupid’ cockatoo helps man propose to girlfriend at zoo in Australia. WatchWe all love a good proposal story. But do you know what is even better? A proposal story involving an animal. Just like this one where a man proposed to his girlfriend with the help of a cockatoo. Did hearing that piqued your interest? Wait till you see this video of the proposal which is not just sweet but super entertaining too. Read moreWatch: Passenger falls while boarding moving train at Mumbai stationA passenger escaped death by whisker at Mumbai’s Dahisar railway station. The passenger fell while boarding a moving train at Mumbai station. Another man pulled the passenger away from the moving train to safety. The incident took place on 2 January 2021 and was captured on CCTV. Watch the full video for more details. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-malegaon-blast-case-accused-pragya-thakur-appears-before-special-nia-court-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4fS1BIHbDEKTRaQm36Df1L.html
04-01-2021||India||Malegaon blast case: Special NIA court adjourns hearing for tomorrow||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur, one of the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, on Monday appeared before the special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mumbai. The court, however, adjourned the hearing for December 5 and asked the Thakur to be present in court whenever asked after she sought exemption from daily appearance in court on health and security grounds, according to ANI.Thakur’s lawyer, advocate JP Mishra, had confirmed that she will be appearing in the NIA court on Monday. Mishra had said on December 19 last year that probe agency was delaying the trial in the 2008 Malegaon blast case and not them. The special court had asked all the accused to remain present before it on that day. However, only Lt Col Prasad Purohit, Ramesh Upadhyay, Sameer Kulkarni, Ajay Rahikar and Sudhakar Dwiwedi appeared before the court. The remaining accused — Pragya Singh Thakur, Ramesh Upadhayay, Sudhakar Diwedi and Sudhakar Chaturvedi — could not appear before the court. Six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon, a town in north Maharashtra, on September 29, 2008. The court had framed terror charges against Purohit, Thakur and five other accused in October 2018. They have been charged under Sections 16 (committing terrorist act) and 18 (conspiring to commit terrorist act) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).They have also been charged under sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 153 (a) (promoting enmity between two religious groups), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant provisions of the Explosive Substances Act.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pragya-thakur-appears-before-special-nia-court-in-connection-with-malegaon-blast-case/story-VqsXzWLmLO8DbBCs7h98EO.html
04-01-2021||India||First hilltop Buddhist monastery found in Bihar’s Lakhisarai||The first hilltop Buddhist monastery of the Gangetic Valley has been found at Lal Pahari in Lakhisarai district of the state, said its excavation team director Anil Kumar.Excavated during a joint collaboration of the Bihar Heritage Development Society, a part of the department of art, culture and youth affairs and the Visva-Bharati University, Santiniketan, West Bengal, this finding is believed to be a great centre of Mahayana Buddhism.“Monasteries have been discovered at many locations in this area. But this is the first set up located at the top of a hill. Seems the Mahayani Buddhists set up the monastery far from the hustle and bustle of the human population to practise Mahayana rituals in isolation,” said Dr Anil Kumar from Visva Bharati University.It was a Vihara, named as Srimaddharmaviharik aryabhiksusanghasya. This can be translated as ‘this is the sealing of the council of monks of Srimaddharma Vihara’. Two burnt clay seals carrying the name of the monastery have also been discovered at the site,” he said.The Visva-Bharati University teacher said the discovery of the monastery has proved what the Chinese traveller Hieun Tsang had written in his travel account. He had mentioned that the area had numbers of monasteries and caves and that even Lord Buddha used to stay here.“This area was known as Krimila. This name is mentioned in Buddhist literature also,” Kumar said. During the Pala period this area turned into a great trade point and was the administrative centre of the Pala rulers, he added.“Importantly the great archaeologist Alexander Cunningham too had discovered many monasteries and temples in the area and had discussed it in his book. But excavation was not conducted here,” he said.The state government has made elaborate conservation plans to preserve the monastic structure.To stop Natural decay of the excavated structures because of exposure to extreme weather conditions and weathering, the state archaeology has planned to erect a shed over the remains of the monastery. While a pathway will be created to reach to the hilltop, the area around the monastic remains will be barricaded to stop unwanted movement at the excavated site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-hilltop-buddhist-monastery-found-in-bihar-s-lakhisarai/story-mbgH6ZPvDvDV76H27Ho6rI.html
04-01-2021||India||Snowfall leads to closure of Jammu-Srinagar national highway||Kashmir was cut off from rest of the country on Monday as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar national highway and Mughal road were closed due to snowfall across the valley, leaving nearly 4500 vehicles stranded.“The Jammu-Srinagar National Highway is closed due to accumulation of snow at many places, especially around Jawahar Tunnel,” an official of the traffic control department said.He said snow clearance operations were in full swing and efforts were on to restore movement of stranded vehicles along the 260 kilometre road. The official said nearly 4500 vehicles, mostly trucks carrying essentials to the valley, are stranded along the highway at various places.Mughal Road, which connects the valley to Jammu division through Shopian-Rajouri axis, has been closed for several days due to heavy snowfall in the region. The officials said south Kashmir’s Kulgam district received highest snowfall with two to three feet of snow accumulated at some places. Anantnag district has also received heavy snowfall between one foot and two feet,  they said. The flight operations to and from Srinagar remained suspended for second consecutive day due to poor visibility, the officials said.The minimum temperature improved in most places in the valley due to the snowfall but still stayed below the freezing point, the officials said.Srinagar city -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of minus 0.9 degrees Celsius -- up from the previous night’s minus 1.5 degrees Celsius, they said.The minimum temperature in Gulmarg tourist resort remained unchanged at minus 5 degrees Celsius on Sunday night compared to a night earlier.Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 6.7 degrees Celsius – plunging from minus 1.45 degrees Celsius on the previous night, the officials said.Qazigund recorded a minimum of minus 0.3 degrees Celsius, Kupwara, in the north, minus 0.3 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, minus 1.4 degrees Celsius.The MET Office said moderate to heavy snowfall, with isolated very heavy snowfall, was most likely to take place, especially in south Kashmir, Gulmarg, Banihal-Ramban, Poonch, Rajouri, Kistawar and Zanskar, Drass as well as on the higher reaches of Ladakh UT, over two days from Monday. “Overall, the snowfall will continue from Sunday to Tuesday forenoon with the occasional break. This may lead to the disruption of surface and air transportation, water-logging in plains of Jammu and Srinagar cities,” the MET Office said.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-leads-to-closure-of-jammu-srinagar-national-highway/story-K4SXAkAqTaheXONyatHRcN.html
04-01-2021||India||FSSAI reduces trans fat levels in food from 5% to 3%||The long-pending demand of experts to reduce the level of trans fats in food items has been met, with India’s top food regulator Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) reducing it to 3%. The current permissible limit is 5%.“India is committed to the elimination of industrial trans fats in fats/oils, and in foods containing fats/oils in a phased manner. The trans fat content in fats and oils has already been limited to 5%, and the notification to further reduce it to 3% by 2021, and to 2% by 2022 is under process. The regulation is also being extended to food products having fats or oils,” said the FSSAI draft notification that has been in the works for a couple of years. The regulator, on December 29, brought out a gazette notification that the level of trans fats in oils and fats will not be more than 3% from January 1, 2021 onwards. The level shall be further reduced to 2% by January 1, 2022 onwards.Also Read: Swiggy to onboard nearly 30,000 street food vendors under PM SVANidhi schemeIndustrial trans fats are toxic compounds that can lead to several non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases. These are formed during the hydrogenation of vegetable oils (adding hydrogen to liquid vegetable oils to make them more solid) to increase the shelf life of foods, and other processes such as heating of oil at high temperature.Industrial trans fats are largely present in partially hydrogenated fats such as margarine, and bakery shortenings used in preparation of bakery products, and in vanaspati that is used to prepare sweets and deep fried items.In October last year, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had launched the “Trans Fat Free” logo during the 8th International Chefs Conference in the national Capital.The logo is meant to be used by restaurants and food manufacturers, on voluntary basis, that use trans-fat free fats or oils, which do not have industrial trans fats more than 0.2g/100g of the food.An estimated 540,000 people die each year globally of cardiovascular diseases, and consumption of food laced with industrial trans fats is a contributing factor. In India, the number of deaths is around 60,000, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fssai-reduces-trans-fat-levels-in-food-from-5-to-3/story-UIFEutSysq2wMDr6p6HmeN.html
04-01-2021||India||UP ropes in ‘progressive’ farmers from state to help raise farm incomes||The Uttar Pradesh government will rope in what it calls “progressive” farmers to help increase income of other farmers by guiding them to use advanced agri methods, said the state government in a statement.These farmers will share their success stories and techniques with others at farmers’ fairs and seminars to be held at the local level.“From every district, the agriculture department will select 100 progressive farmers as role models for local farmers. They will also be given a platform to present their views in the ‘Farmers Welfare Mission’ programmes, which will be held in 350 blocks from January 6,” said the statement.Farmers producers’ organisation (FPO) functionaries constituted at the block level will also be invited to the event. Along with giving certificates, the approved farm machinery bank and seeding equipment will also be distributed to the farmers.The campaign will be monitored by the government and the agriculture department will create a microsite of Kisan Kalyan. All information will be posted on the web portal of the department and the information department will ensure publicity of this event on every platform. District-wise information will also be collected about how many farmer interactions took place during the campaign. Mobile and WhatsApp numbers of the farmers concerned will also be collected and a database will be maintained, the statement said.A committee will be constituted at the government level under the chairmanship of the agricultural production commissioner (APC) to conduct the campaign.Considering the scant exposure of women in the agricultural sector, adequate participation of women will also be ensured in ‘Mission Farmers Welfare’, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-ropes-in-progressive-farmers-from-state-to-help-raise-farm-incomes/story-uhJbci7YW4cTRx7MXWeh7K.html
04-01-2021||India||Farm law protests: Its towers vandalised in Punjab, Reliance says will move high court today||Business tycoon Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), whose Jio Infocomm towers have been allegedly targeted by a section of farmers in Punjab protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws, on Monday said it will file a petition in Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking “immediate intervention” in this regard. RIL further accused “vested interests” of instigating and aiding the vandals.“Reliance Industries Limited, through its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, in a petition mentioned to be filed in Punjab and Haryana High Court today, has sought urgent intervention of govt authorities to bring a complete stop to illegal acts of vandalism by miscreants,” news agency ANI quoted RIL as saying. “These acts of violence have endangered the lives of thousands of employees and caused damage and disruption to the vital communications infrastructure. The miscreants indulging in vandalism have been instigated and aided by vested interests and our business rivals,” RIL added.The Ambani-owned conglomerate also stressed it has no plans of entering a contract or corporate farming, adding that it has not purchased any land in India for the purpose. “We shall insist on our suppliers to strictly abide by the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism. We have immense gratitude and the greatest respect for India’s kisans, who are the ‘ANNA DATA’ of 1.3 billion Indians,” RIL said.Farmers protesting against the three laws have, in particular, directed their ire at Reliance, as well as businessman Gautam Adani, believing that they shall be the beneficiaries of the laws. While anti-farm law protests have largely been peaceful, more than 1,500 towers have been vandalised in Punjab. Jio has more than 9,000 towers in the state.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Protestors damage over 1,500 telecom towers in PunjabAfter his appeal to the farmers to not vandalise the towers went unheard, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had last week directed the police to take action against the vandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-its-towers-vandalised-in-punjab-reliance-says-will-move-high-court-today/story-sPdZtvf3326NqGk596sj2O.html
04-01-2021||India||Landslide in Kinnaur leaves hundreds of people stranded||Hundreds of people have been left stranded after a landslide at Malling Nullah near Naco in Kinnaur district blocked the Kinnaur-Kaza national highway on Monday, a district official said.  The road link of Kaza subdivision in Lahaul-Spiti district and several villages of Kinnaur district have been cut off from the other parts due to the landslide that followed snowfall.  The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is trying to remove the debris to clear the Kinnaur-Kaza road.  Hundreds of vehicles have been stranded on both sides of the road due to the landslide, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-in-kinnaur-leaves-hundreds-of-people-stranded/story-i12f6mo6slNLM4isvFryyL.html
04-01-2021||India||India will soon start world’s largest vaccination drive, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday India is on the threshold of starting the largest vaccination programme in the world, a day after the country formally approved the emergency use of two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “The entire country is indebted to all scientists and technicians,” PM Modi said while addressing at the National Metrology Conclave via video conferencing.PM Modi also dedicated the National Atomic Timescale, and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya to the nation, and laid the foundation stone of the National Environmental Standards Laboratory. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan was also present on the occasion.Pitching the Make In India programme, PM Modi said, “We do not want to fill the world with Indian products, but we must win the hearts of every customer of Indian products in every corner of the world. We’ve to make sure that ‘Made In India’ needs to have global demand as well as acceptance.”PM Modi also asked scientists of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to discuss and converse with students of educational institutes in the country and share their experiences. “CSIR scientists should interact with more and more students of the country, share their experiences of the coronavirus period and the work done in this research field with the new generation,” PM Modi said.This will help them in preparing a new generation of young scientists in the coming tomorrow, he added.The Prime Minister lauded India’s position among the top 50 countries in the world in the Global Innovation Rankings and said basic research is also being emphasised in the country today. “In any progressive society, research is key and effective. Its effects are commercial, social and help widen our approach and thinking. Past teaches us that the more a country concentrates on science, the most it’s technology gets strengthened. This technology in turn helps new industries and promotes research. This cycle takes the country ahead,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-on-threshold-of-starting-the-largest-vaccination-programme-in-world-says-pm-modi/story-msfUgw0oDb2XuFfSN2RzeL.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh chalks statewide plan for Covid vaccine dry run on January 5||With Covid vaccination likely to be announced soon, a micro plan is being made in Uttar Pradesh to vaccinate about 51,000 healthcare workers first. This will be followed by frontline workers and then elderly and people with comorbidities. In a review meeting, chief medical officer Sanjay Bhatnagar informed district and senior police officials about the plan. “In all, 40 cold chain points and 510 vaccination sites are being made for Covid vaccination,” the CMO told officials on Sunday. Cops will ensure smooth and safe transport of the vaccine from cold chain points to vaccination sites during Covid inoculation drill on January 5 and also when the actual vaccination takes place. One vaccination team would vaccinate 100 beneficiaries. There would be up to 180 vaccination sessions run by about 350 vaccination teams, said a press statement. The review meeting was conducted for Covid vaccination dry run slated on Tuesday. Lucknow will have the dry run at 12 places which includes six places that have already had the dry run on January 2 – King George’s Medical University, PGI, community health centres Mal and Malihabad, Lohia institute and Sahara hospital. The other six places are Medanta hospital, Lok Bandhu hospital, RSM Hospital, Era Medical College and community health centres Indira Nagar and Kakori. Home guards, policemen and anganwadi workers will be deployed during the dry run. “We have had a dry run on January 2 and a second dry run in Lucknow on January 5 will ensure all issues are sorted out. This will pave the way for smooth vaccination when it is announced,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. It was decided that for the dry run scheduled to begin at 10 am, vaccinators should reach at 9 am along with the beneficiaries to be vaccinated in the drill. In the first dry run, beneficiaries could not reach on time due to some technical issue. Cops deployed for smooth transport of the vaccine will submit their mobile and vehicles numbers to the nodal officers to avoid any confusion. The police vehicle drivers will also keep their GPS locators on while transportation of vaccine takes place from cold chain points to the vaccination sites, on January 5 and also on actual vaccination day. Each vaccination site will have a nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-chalks-statewide-plan-for-covid-vaccine-dry-run-on-january-5/story-Qe35n3lRLuhVMcbRm7eCrO.html
04-01-2021||India||77% Indian adults lost income due to Covid-19 pandemic: Survey||2020 has been a challenging year that no one could have predicted would turn out in the manner in which it did. The outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic sent economic shockwaves globally, and its impact extended beyond an international health crisis.The economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, in India, led to the reduction in economic activities, subsequently forcing businesses to scale or shut down their operations. It resulted in many families being affected due to the sharp increase in unemployment.In November 2020, Lotto247.com conducted a survey to understand the financial impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on its Indian market. Over 1,700 adults participated in the survey.The survey found that 77% of economically active adults in India had lost income due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the findings, the most affected age group were adults in their 40’s. Over 80% of adults in the 40’s lost income as a result of the pandemic. Adults in their 50’s, compared to those in their 40’s, were less affected. However, 73% of them still lost income. Those aged 70 and older were the least affected age group. Only 30% of them lost income due to the pandemic.Men were impacted more than women, according to the survey results. Just under 78% of men reported having lost income, while 67% of women lost income.The survey also revealed adults who were divorced were greatly affected, with 87.5% of them losing income. While those in a relationship, but not married, were less affected as only 59% of them lost income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/77-indian-adults-lost-income-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-survey/story-QjCVwkt4xNmJwcHw4I5wMP.html
04-01-2021||India||Nyay scheme to be hit? Centre limits rice procurement from Chhattisgarh||The Centre on Sunday allowed the Chhattisgarh government to deliver 24 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of rice to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) under central pool during Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21. However, sources from the state government say that is down from the 60 lakh MT that they were assured. The state government fears that the central government will ask the state to discontinue Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. “The state government hopes that the remaining rice will also be taken later. But the worrying thing is that the central government has made a condition that the state government will not give any kind of bonus with the purchase of crops right now or in future. Actually, the Centre has objections with the state government’s ‘Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana’. The BJP leaders of the state have complained to the Centre that the Congress government is giving bonus to the farmers. Whereas the truth is that after the central government’s condition of not giving bonus, the state started the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana and announced to give it per acre instead of crop,” said a senior official in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Another source from the government said that “we are apprehensive that the central government will ask to discontinue the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana in the future….Actually the central government is not okay with cash going in the pockets of farmers. They want the farmer to keep going through Modi ji’s 500 rupees per month plan”.The BJP state unit pointed out that the directive about not giving bonus have been issued to the Madhya Pradesh government as well. “There is federal structure and every state has to follow it because we follow constitution. The central government has issued such directions to Madhya Pradesh also which is BJP ruled state. The Chhattisgarh government is doing politics by saying that state BJP unit has complained about Nyay Yojana or bonus,” said Sacchinand Upasane, senior BJP leader and spokesperson.Meanwhile, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel thanked the Centre and also hoped that the permission for more procurement would be granted further in the central pool. CM Baghel had recently spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone and requested to ensure issuance of final order from the Centre to lift rice after custom milling from the state for the central pool. The Centre had earlier given in principle approval to take 60 lakh MT rice from the state in the central pool. As per a letter issued by the Government of India on Sunday, “The Government of India has decided to allow 24 lakh MT of rice to be delivered to FCI under central pool during KMS 2020-21 which is equivalent to the quantity as allowed in previous years to Chhattisgarh.” The Centre had categorically stated that it could not purchase excess paddy procured by the states by giving bonus and incentives in direct or indirect form citing the clauses of procurement scheme agreement. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between Government of India, State Government and Food Corporation of India in both DCP (decentralized procurement scheme) and non-DCP States for procurement of paddy from farmers under central pool, the letter stated. As per Clause No.3 of MoU of DCP State, “In the situation of state giving any bonus/ financial incentive in direct or indirect form, over and above minimum support price (MSP), if the overall procurement of the state is in excess of the total allocation of the state made by the Government of India under TPDS (Targeted Public Distribution System)/ OWS (Other Welfare Schemes), such excess quantity shall be treated to be outside the Central Pool.” The Chhattisgarh government had also published an advertisement/press release on December 17, 2020 detailing the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana that they would procure paddy from the farmers at Rs 2,500 per quintal during KMS 2020-21 by paying Rs 10,000 per acre which is a form of indirect incentive over and above the MSP which is as good as bonus on procurement of paddy, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nyay-scheme-to-be-hit-centre-limits-rice-procurement-from-chhattisgarh/story-kY9emfrfrv2RecABYzKhPL.html
04-01-2021||India||India logs 16,504 new Covid-19 cases, 214 deaths in 24 hours||India logged 16,504 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 214 related deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, which have taken the country’s tally to 10,340,469. There were 16,432 cases of the coronavirus disease on December 29 last year. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below the 250,000 mark for the second day on a row at 243,953.According to the health ministry, 9,946,867 people have recovered so far with 19,557 patients of Covid-19 cured or discharged across the country in the last 24 hours. The national recovery rate has gone up to 96.19%. The daily new recoveries have been more than the daily cases registered since the last 38 days, the health ministry’s data shows. The gap between recovered and active cases has widened further and now stands at 9,702,914. Also read | After Covishield and Covaxin, these are other Covid-19 vaccine candidatesDrugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani on Sunday approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use, clearing way for the government’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease in about 10 days. However, the emergency use approval to the Serum Institute of India (SII) vaccine against Covid-19 developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and the “restricted use in emergency situation” consent to Bharat Biotech’s locally developed vaccine has triggered a debate among experts.Also read | Covid-19: India approves first 2 vaccines, UK to begin another immunisation driveMeanwhile, SII’s Adar Poonawalla has told Associated Press that the government will not allow the export of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine for several months. Poonawall said his company also has been barred from selling the vaccine on the private market. “We can only give (the vaccines) to the government of India at the moment,” Poonawalla told AP, adding the decision was also made to prevent hoarding.The Pune-based company’s chief executive also said the first 100 million doses of the vaccine were being sold to the government at a “special price” of Rs 200 per dose, after which prices would be higher. The vaccine will be sold on the private market at Rs 1,000, he said. He said vaccines could be delivered to states where they were needed within seven to 10 days of the company finalising a deal with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-16-504-new-covid-19-cases-214-deaths-in-24-hours/story-Hp71r86n5nLnKKcH9XddVK.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Heavy rain with thunderstorm, lightning likely over northwest India till Tuesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rain and thunderstorms likely over N-W India till TuesdaySeveral parts of northwest India continue to receive widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning.Moderately intense rain is likely occur over Alwar, Tizara, Kotputli, Deeg, Bharatpur in Rajasthan; Aligarh, Jattari, Iglas, Khair, Sahaswan, Hathras, Barsana, Khurja, Anupshahar, Gabbana, Chandausi, Bhajoi, Sambhal in UP; Palwal, Hodal, Aurangabad, Nuh in Haryana during the next two hours according to India Meteorological Department.Read more. Farmer-govt talks today; 2 key demands on tableThe Centre and farm unions protesting against a set of laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets will hold their seventh round of negotiations on Monday that could shape the outcome of the long-drawn-out dialogue process. Two of the biggest demands of farmers will be on the agenda on Monday.Read more.‘Can deliver vaccines 7-10 days after purchase order’: Adar PoonawallaAdar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India (SII), the local manufacturer of the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, spoke to Rhythma Kaul about the future course of action after emergency use authorisation by India’s drugs regulator for the vaccine.Read more. After Covishield and Covaxin, these are other Covid-19 vaccine candidates in IndiaIndia has formally approved the emergency use of two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it prepares for one of the world’s biggest drives and plans to inoculate some 300 million people on a priority list this year. Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani gave the green light for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called it “a decisive turning point”.Read more. Nancy Pelosi re-elected as US House speaker amid political uncertaintyNancy Pelosi was narrowly re-elected speaker of the US House of Representatives on Sunday, as a new Congress took office amid political uncertainty, with Senate control undecided and a Republican fight looming over presidential election results.Read more. EXCLUSIVE | Congratulations to Rahane, India deserve a pat on the back for MCG turnaround: Chris GayleThe 2020 edition of the Indian Premier League presented a series of firsts for many. The tournament was hosted outside of India and matches were played in front of empty stadiums. The world saw MS Dhoni return to the field after over a year, a timeframe during which the former India captain announced his retirement from international cricket. There was no Suresh Raina, or Harbhajan Singh, and for the first time in the history of the tournament, Chennai Super Kings did not make it to the Playoffs.Read more. Hrithik Roshan’s on-set look will make you skip a heartbeat, fans wonder what his next project isHrithik Roshan has finally resumed work after several months of staying at home due to the coronavirus pandemic. The actor shared a new selfie from a set on Instagram and needless to say, his good looks created a storm on social media, with over one million likes within a few hours.Read more.Samsung Galaxy S21 launch date officially announcedIt’s official. Samsung Galaxy S21 series will launch on January 14. The company has also released an official invitation to a new Galaxy Unpacked event with a tagline: “Welcome to the Everyday Epic.” The virtual event is scheduled to start at 10 AM ET (8:30 PM IST).Read more.American man and son grab netizens’ attention again with peppy dance on O Beta Ji. WatchIf you are someone who was thoroughly entertained by the dhamakedar dance video of this dad and daughter duo from Washington, then you’ll be glad to know that he is back with yet another happy dance number. Ricky Pond shared the dance video with his son this time, but the result is equally fun to watch.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-heavy-rain-with-thunderstorm-lightning-likely-over-northwest-india-till-tuesday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IJnBi0hQveB9r6koDuY45K.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh deputy CM Keshav Maurya tours Bengal, next up Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, on his second visit in two weeks’ time to West Bengal, engaged with Matuas, a Dalit refugee group with origins in Bangladesh and whose influence is spread over 50 assembly seats in the state. Maurya, an OBC leader, not only connected with Matuas, but also spoke of the alleged neglect of Bangladeshi Hindu community, who he claimed were denied citizenship rights due to vote bank concerns, said BJP men accompanying Maurya on his Bengal campaign. “As soon as we form our government in West Bengal, we will restore the dignity of Bangladeshi Hindus and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) could well help to ensure that they get their due. The BJP under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership has been doing a series of things for the poor but the benefits aren’t reaching Bengal,” Maurya said while addressing a meeting of intellectuals in Uluberia assembly segment. Maurya played up the Hindu factor with a reason. “In the 2018 Lok Sabha bypolls in Uluberia, the BJP had put up a Hindu candidate while TMC, Left and Congress had fielded Muslims. It stood second in the bypolls after TMC, pushing the Left behind and relegating the Congress to the fourth position,” BJP leaders said. Engaging with such key vote banks as indeed playing the Hindu card is part of BJP’s plan in West Bengal for which a host of senior party leaders from UP are being drafted and with a reason. In the 2017 UP polls, the BJP had targeted OBCs and Dalits in a big way to come to power in the most populous state after 14 years. Ever since, the BJP has continued to connect with OBCs and backwards to retain its political dominance. A series of meetings featuring chief minister Yogi Adityanath too are being drafted. “The BJP has drafted battle hardened leaders from UP to Bengal who have started mixing patriotism, Bengali culture and Hindu pride to create a potent mix, which they believe would help them form their first ever government in Bengal,” said Maluka Khanna, a political science professor from Lucknow University. “There is great demand for Yogi Adityanath’s rallies in WB,” a senior BJP leader said. Various cadres from UP, committed to the party and its ideology, including those who know Bengali language and culture would be regularly sent to Bengal to establish connection with the electorate there through road corner meetings, party leaders said. “Even bigger leaders would be holding local meets, some of them even making door-to-door visits,” a BJP leader said, adding that close to the elections, a massive blitzkrieg would be unleashed. Khanna said that the party’s growing vote share in Bengal has made the BJP more confident about Mission Bengal than it ever was. “Since 2016 the BJP has been playing up the issue of incidents like clashes in Dhulagarh where it charged the TMC government of remaining quiet on the issue of atrocities on Hindus who it claimed were at the receiving end of clashes. In the 2016 assembly elections, the BJP improved its vote share to 10.3 per cent against 4.1 per cent votes it got in the 2011 polls. In the 2014 LS polls, the BJP got 17 per cent votes and won two seats too. In the 2019 LS polls the BJP won 40.3 per cent vote. So the party’s graph has been growing,” said Maluka Khanna, a professor of political science from Lucknow University (LU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-deputy-cm-keshav-maurya-tours-bengal-next-up-yogi-adiyanath/story-rXfuwPSSQDCCZj6ag7yWOK.html
04-01-2021||India||Muradnagar roof collapse: 3 arrested, 2-member probe committee formed||Three people, including a junior engineer, have been arrested after at least two dozen people were killed when the roof of a crematorium collapsed in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar town, news agency ANI reported on Monday. A two-member probe committee has also been formed to investigate Sunday’s roof collapse, ANI added.“24 people have died, 17-18 injured in Muradnagar roof collapse incident. Three peeople have been arrested on the basis of initial investigation. A two-member probe committee constituted to invetsigate the matter,” ANI quoted SP Rural, Ghaziabad, as saying. Earlier in the day, police personnel were deployed as family members of the victims held a protest. 24 people have died, 17-18 injured in Muradnagar roof collapse incident. Three peeople have been arrested on the basis of initial investigation. A two-member probe committee constituted to invetsigate the matter: SP Rural, Ghaziabad https://t.co/jyYy3Wsqcc pic.twitter.com/v19SqaAcbPA junior engineer is among the three persons arrested by the police.The incident took place around 11.30am at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground when around 50 to 60 people were attending the cremation rituals of Jai Ram, who had died on Saturday night, the police said. Many of the families and the injured said they were rescued after hectic efforts that lasted till 6pm on Sunday.“The priest at the cremation ground was speaking to us about the rituals to be performed after the cremation when the entire roof came crashing down and all of us got buried. I was standing on the outer edge so half of my body was under the debris,” Krishan Pal, the son-in-law of a 65-year-old man whose last rites were being performed when the roof of a Muradnagar cremation ground collapsed, said.Ghaziabad Police have registered a first information report or FIR under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (causing damages) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant etc).A host of national leaders, including President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, conveyed their condolences to the families of the victims. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also instructed officials to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the dependents of the deceased. He has also instructed the divisional commissioner of Meerut and additional director general of police (ADGP) of the zone to submit a report regarding the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junior-engineer-2-others-arrested-in-connection-with-muradnagar-roof-collapse/story-TlCBCcf0Y98tZuR7vu9bRK.html
04-01-2021||India||37-year-old man found stabbed to death in south Delhi apartment||A 37-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death in his apartment in south Delhi and his wife was lying unconscious, the police informed.The police received a PCR call from the landlord that his tenants were not opening their door. At the same time, the police also found a post on Facebook in which a woman had shared information about her husband’s murder.Acting on the complaint, the Delhi Police reached Chattarpur Extension on Saturday, where the deceased, Chirag, was found in stabbed condition on the floor and his wife Renuka was lying unconscious on the bed.The deceased Chirag Sharma was declared dead by the doctors, while Renuka is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital. The couple did not have any child. From the initial inquiry, it was found that there were differences between them. A case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered.The police said that on inquiry it was revealed that the couple had been living at the apartment since 2013 and worked at an insurance company.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/37-year-old-man-found-stabbed-to-death-in-south-delhi-apartment/story-CKJR6oIsFFquhHzsG6ciJI.html
04-01-2021||India||After Covishield and Covaxin, these are other Covid-19 vaccine candidates in India||India has formally approved the emergency use of two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it prepares for one of the world’s biggest drives and plans to inoculate some 300 million people on a priority list this year. Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani gave the green light for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called it “a decisive turning point”.Serum Institute of India (SII) is producing the vaccine Covishield developed by Oxford University and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. It has got permission for restricted use in an emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions. The ongoing clinical trial within the country by the firm will continue.Also read | Centre draws plan for vaccine roll-outBharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (Pune). “The Subject Expert Committee has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in an emergency situation in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” Somani said on Sunday.Here are some of the other vaccines candidates in the country:1. ZyCoV-D: Zydus Cadila’s vaccine is being made on the DNA platform and is named ZyCoV-D. Cadila has collaborated with the Department of Biotechnology for this. DCGI has given its approval to the Ahmedabad-based drug firm to initiate Phase III clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D.2. Sputnik V: This is a vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is conducting phases 2 and 3 clinical trials of Russian vaccine Sputnik V, while Biological E is conducting phase 1 trial of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate. Russia said on November 24 last year that its Sputnik V vaccine was 91.4% effective based on interim late-stage trial results. It started vaccinations in August and has inoculated more than 100,000 people so far. India plans to make 300 million doses of Sputnik V this year.Also read | Cong, BJP trade barbs over Indian vaccine’s DCGI nod3. NVX-Cov 2373: NVX-COV-2373 is being developed by Serum Institute of India in collaboration with American company NovaVax. Phase 3 trial under consideration.4. Biological E Limited vaccine: Biological E Ltd plans to start large late-stage trials of its potential Covid-19 vaccine candidate in April this year. The Hyderabad-based privately held company had said in November it had started early-stage and mid-stage human trials of its vaccine candidate, being developed in collaboration with Baylor College of Medicine in Houston and US-based Dynavax Technologies Corp, and expects results by February.5. HGCO19: The novel mRNA vaccine candidate, HGCO19, has been developed by Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, and supported with a seed grant under the Ind-CEPI mission of the department of biotechnology of the Union ministry of science and technology. Gennova has worked in collaboration with US’ HDT Biotech Corporation to develop the mRNA vaccine candidate. Gennova will start the phase 1 clinical trial of its indigenous vaccine candidate with the enrolment of 120 participants starting from early January, Mint reported in December last year.Also read | ‘2 vaccines a result proactive approach,’ says DG-ICMR6. Bharat Biotech’s second vaccine: Another vaccine is being developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd in collaboration with Thomas Jefferson University, US, which is at the pre-clinical stages. 7. Aurobindo Pharma vaccine: Aurobindo Pharma Ltd has announced its own Covid-19 vaccine development programme through its US subsidiary Auro Vaccines. That vaccine, which uses recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (RVSV) vector platform, is being developed by Profectus BioSciences. This vaccine is still in the pre-clinical phase. Aurobindo Pharma has said it would also make and sell US-based COVAXX’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate for supply in India and to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) under a licensing deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covishield-and-covaxin-these-are-other-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-in-india/story-Yf6xFHNiSbWCP4eJgvVNEK.html
04-01-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over N-W India till Tuesday||Several parts of northwest India continue to receive widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning.Moderately intense rain is likely to occur over Alwar, Tizara, Kotputli, Deeg, Bharatpur in Rajasthan; Aligarh, Jattari, Iglas, Khair, Sahaswan, Hathras, Barsana, Khurja, Anupshahar, Gabbana, Chandausi, Bhajoi, Sambhal in UP; Palwal, Hodal, Aurangabad, Nuh in Haryana during the next two hours according to India Meteorological Department.Delhi recorded 39.9mm rain between 8.30am on Saturday and 2.30pm on Sunday — far higher than the 21.7mm average rain quota for all of January.Also Read: 40mm rain in 36 hrs throws Delhi out of gear, more likely today: IMDMore rain, as well as hailstorm and thunderstorms are expected till Tuesday, according to IMD scientists.An active western disturbance is lying as a middle and upper level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan. A north-south zone of wind confluence is also observed from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with a strong interaction between southwesterly winds and lower level moist southeasterlies.All these favourable meteorological features for rain are likely to persist till January 5 and continue to cause moderate to intense rain with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places in northwest India till the night of January 5 with peak activity on January 3 and 4 over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan ) and on January 4 and 5 over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand).Northerly-northwesterly winds likely to set in over northwest India causing “cold” wave to “severe cold” wave conditions at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan from January 7.“When there is an induced cyclonic circulation in association with a western disturbance, the system is very intense. Moisture is feeding in from the Arabian Sea, so we are seeing widespread snowfall in the hills and intense thundershowers in the plains. We are expecting hailstorm in some parts of the city on Monday and thundershowers on Tuesday. Once the western disturbance moves away, minimum temperatures are likely to fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius but they may not fall as low as 1 or 2 degrees Celsius,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-thunderstorms-likely-over-n-w-india-till-tuesday/story-6P5REIFmWg54aAhMEF4BpM.html
04-01-2021||India||PM Modi to deliver inaugural address at National Metrology Conclave today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually deliver the inaugural address at National Metrology Conclave on Monday. The theme of the conclave is ‘Metrology for the Inclusive Growth of the Nation’. The conclave, being organised by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Physical Laboratory (CSIR-NPL), New Delhi, has completed 74 years after its inception..On Sunday, the PM made the announcement on Twitter. “At 11 AM, 4th January, the National Metrology Conclave would be inaugurated. The National Atomic Timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya would be dedicated to the nation. Foundation stone for the National Environmental Standards Lab would also be laid,” he tweeted. At 11 AM, 4th January, the National Metrology Conclave would be inaugurated. The National Atomic Timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya would be dedicated to the nation. Foundation stone for the National Environmental Standards Lab would also be laid. https://t.co/nSsqgi9eNR pic.twitter.com/KfaktUkSjDThe National Atomic Timescale generates Indian Standard Time with an accuracy of 2.8 nanoseconds, news agency PTI reported. Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya is supporting testing and calibration of laboratories for quality assurance. The National Environmental Standards Laboratory will aid self-reliance in the certification of ambient air and industrial emission monitoring equipment, according to PTI.A release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Sunday said that Union minister for science and technology, earth sciences, Dr Harsh Vardhan, will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-inaugural-address-at-national-metrology-conclave-today/story-bBmTHDwSokaNWm2UqrL4lJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Police orders inquiry after video of cop beating man inside Atal tunnel goes viral||A probe has been ordered after officials of the Himachal Pradesh police were seen thrashing a man inside the Atal tunnel in a video that has been widely circulated on social media. “One person was from border road organization and one cop from Himachal Pradesh police, we have initiated inquiry into the matter,” said Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh.In the video, seen by HT, the officer on duty can been seen kicking the man, who is seen squatting, inside the tunnel as the traffic moved slowly. The incident is said to have taken place on Saturday. Officials said several incidents of hooliganism have been reported from the tunnel since it was inaugurated. “Numerous incidents of tourist dancing with loud music inside the tunnel have been reported to the police. Tourists don’t keep a check on the speed limits inside the tunnel,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-orders-inquiry-after-video-of-cop-beating-man-inside-atal-tunnel-goes-viral/story-6M3Zjui35ztllCY9UOJ5LK.html
04-01-2021||India||Centre draws plan for vaccine roll-out||From retired doctors and nurses to home guards and civil defence personnel and even volunteers from the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathans, the Centre and state governments will tap every human resource that is available for the smooth implementation of the world’s largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Each vaccination site, according to official guidelines, would consist of at least three rooms and require a number of personnel to perform specific duties. Vaccination Officer 1 would be from the police, home guards, civil defence, the National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) or the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan. His or her job would be to “check the registration status of a vaccine recipient and to ensure” that entry into the vaccination centre is regulated. India’s vaccination campaign against Covid-19 is targeting offering protection against the viral disease to 300 million people by July, including health-care workers, front-line workers and the people most at risk of infection. They would be inoculated at both large public and private health facilities with a minimum of 100 vaccine recipients covered in each session.Read more| Healthcare, frontline workers to be vaccinated in first phase in Delhi: Satyendar Jain as Centre approves 2 vaccines“For health facilities with less than 100 beneficiaries, its frontline health workers would be sent to another vaccination site,” an official aware of the plan said on condition of anonymity. . The duty of Vaccination Officer 2 would be to verify the identification documents of the recipients.Vaccination Officers 3 and 4 will be support staff who will be responsible for crowd management and ensure every recipient spends 30 minutes at the site after receiving a shot to see if there is an adverse reaction. The support staff would also provide information, education and communication (IEC) messages and support to the vaccinator as well as the vaccination team. While the document verification and identification of the beneficiaries would be done in the first room, the second room would be used exclusively for administering the vaccine. In this room, the vaccinator officers--doctors, nurses, pharmacists, auxiliary nurse midwifes, lady health visitors anyone else authorized to administer the vaccine -- would inject the intramuscular vaccine by an auto-disabled syringe. Indian drug authorities have last week approved Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for emergency use for the intended list of recipients. Officials have identified Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc., as the main vaccine for India’s immunization drive against Covid-19 while Covaxin would be a supplementary measure. Read more| Oxford, Bharat Biotech vaccines cleared for useOfficials added that the Covid-19 vaccination may not take place daily but on select days in a week. “We also have to ensure that the ongoing universal immunization programme is not hampered. Each state has specific days allotted for the UIP. The Covid vaccination programme is likely to take place on the other days,” said a senior official involved in the planning. The Centre’s guidelines sent to the states says: “Essential health services including existing routine immunization sessions should not be impacted or interrupted.” While the vaccine maker would be responsible for safely transporting the vaccine to the designated consignee points in state capitals and big cities, the state authorities have to maintain vaccine safety during storage, transportation and delivery of the vaccine to the inoculation sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-draws-plan-for-vaccine-roll-out/story-8etCcg99dqlqnX6ysTVjOJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Congress plans massive push to win back women voters||The Congress, after its setback in the recent Bihar assembly elections, is planning a massive outreach to win back women voters in upcoming state polls, party functionaries familiar with the plan said. The party is planning to appoint five women workers for every polling booth, at least across Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry, to secure the support of female voters. Elections are to be held in the states and Puducherry, a Union territory, before May. “Five booth level workers will be appointed who will be responsible for translating the party’s larger narrative for women empowerment at the ground level,” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev told Hindustan Times. The push comes two days after the Mahila Congress’s national executive met to discuss and brainstorm ideas to win the support of women voters. The meeting was attended by general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal. A report will be submitted on Friday to senior party leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, capturing the salient points of the discussion and the Congress’s outreach plan. “All state party presidents have been asked to offer their suggestions,” a party functionary said on condition of anonymity. “Just like schedule castes and schedule tribes are treated as a separate vote-bank, so should women be.” The need to recognise women as a separate electoral force was also noted at the meeting of the Mahila Congress’s national executive. Issues such as domestic violence against women and the difficulties they were experiencing during the pandemic were discussed. Under the Congress’s Garima campaign, 2.5 million sanitary napkins have distributed during the pandemic. A state Congress chief said on condition of anonymity that the party was in the process of gathering suggestions. “There are three focus areas for us, women, social media and block level outreach,” the state president said. “We have already appointed 280 observers at the block-level who are in the process of identifying women who are active in politics to play a key role in the outreach.”The state party chief added that the party would especially want to focus on housewives, semi-urban and rural women. “The percentage of working women is relatively low. We want more women from the other demographics to actively take part in politics.”The party performed poorly in the October-November Bihar assembly elections, in which it won only 19 of the 70 seats it contested. Hindustan Times on 11 November reported how women voters influenced party-wise performance, by contrasting the number of electors and voter turnout figures, both of which are available by gender.The data showed a massive lead of 19 percentage points in the National Democratic Alliance’s strike rate (seats won as a proportion of those contested) in assembly constituencies where the number of women who voted exceeded male voters. In fact, the higher the share of women voters in a constituency, the better was the NDA’s performance. The NDA won 62% of the seats where women voters were more compared to just 24% seats where they were fewer.The first party functionary cited above, however, said that an analysis showed that more women than men had voted for the Congress party. “Congress may not have received the greater share of votes, but an overall analysis shows that more women than men voted for the party. This makes them integral to our outreach.” The functionary added that a national narrative that flowed from the top to reclaim its legacy of women empowerment was the need of the hour for the party. “Look at {Prime Minister} Narendra Modi. After they won Bihar, he said he had received the silent vote. He addressed the women directly. Congress’s problem is that its top leaders aren’t talking to women directly.”The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rakesh Sinha said the Congress had lost its ideological glamour as well as organizational calibre. “Therefore, whatever it claims or whichever resolution it passes becomes ritualistic and a non-starter,” Sinha said. “Both rural and urban women experienced the worst of the Congress regime. It is the Modi government which empowered them and showed genuine concerns for them. Therefore, Congress would continue to miss women support.”Experts too are sceptical of how much success the party’s outreach to women will yield. Sanjay Kumar, director of the Centre for Study of Developing Societies, said the outreach can only help the party in states where it is viewed as a serious contender. “In states like West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, the Congress is not a player, so the outreach is unlikely to make an impact,” Kumar said. “In Assam, the faultlines are different, such as the linguistic divide or Hindu-Muslim polarisation. The narrative is different. The one state where it may make an impact is Kerala.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-massive-push-to-win-back-women-voters/story-mZqLgP4SE7GHqECJcGcLuK.html
04-01-2021||India||Cong, BJP trade barbs over Indian vaccine’s DCGI nod||The Congress on Sunday called the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine for restricted use “premature”, saying it can prove dangerous. Party leaders like Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor asked the Union health minister to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data “had been dispensed with” while approving the indigenous vaccine.Sharma, who heads the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs, said the matter of granting authorisation for vaccine use needs to be taken up carefully as no country has dispensed with the mandatory phase 3 trials and verification of data.India’s drugs regulator DCGI on Sunday approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use. As per submissions made before the expert panel, phase 3 trials have not been completed and therefore, the data on safety and efficacy has not been reviewed, which is a mandatory requirement, Sharma said referring to Covaxin.“The health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category,” Sharma told PTI.Senior party leader Shashi Tharoor said the approval is premature and Covaxin’s use should be avoided as it could be dangerous. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. Dr Harsh Vardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he tweeted.Another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh asked the government to clarify why internationally-accepted protocols on phase 3 trials “are being modified”. “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should clarify,” he said on Twitter.The party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine. “Kudos to our scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech on approval of the indigenously developed Corona vaccine and Serum Institute and its scientists too. India has always led the way in path-breaking innovations in the past and will continue to do the same. Great start for New Year,” Surjewala tweeted.The remarks from the leaders prompted sharp reactions from several Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. BJP chief JP Nadda hit out at the Congress, alleging that the opposition party was trying to “cause panic”. “Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccines,” Nadda said.“To further their own failed politics and nefarious agendas, Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people’s precious lives and hard earned livelihoods,” he said.Union minister Hardeep Puri said the Congress leaders were behaving “true to their form” and were on a “quest for permanent political marginalisation”. “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization,” Puri tweeted. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan hit back at the Congress saying that “belittling the nation’s accomplishments is an all-time hobby of INC India and its band of rent-a-cause leaders.”“Their pattern of reckless ranting, this time on the COVID vaccine is so obvious that it again goes on to expose their nefarious agendas,” said Pradhan in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-bjp-trade-barbs-over-indian-vaccine-s-dcgi-nod/story-WZtS5IucLygO4iw0M7xQCM.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Can deliver vaccines 7-10 days after purchase order’: Adar Poonawalla||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India (SII), the local manufacturer of the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, spoke to Rhythma Kaul about the future course of action after emergency use authorisation by India’s drugs regulator for the vaccine. SII has already produced millions of doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. How sure were you of the gamble paying off?We weren’t very sure at the beginning in March-April but we had committed 100%, financially and technically. We had a lot riding on it, and are happy that it worked. It’s not just financial; if it didn’t work, then we would have lost six months doing something else, and then people would have had the vaccine that much later. So, it’s a great victory that the drugs controller approved it.Do you think it took longer than expected for the approval to come?I am very happy and grateful about the way it has gone because we didn’t want to rush anyone into doing something. We wanted the drugs controller and the ministry of health to really go through all the data, examine everything, to double check what we have done, what Oxford has done that is safe and effective. What happens after receiving regulatory approvals?They (Indian government) have to still sign a purchase order with us, and tell us where to send the vaccine, and 7 to 10 days after that, we can deliver the vaccine. We have already offered to them in writing a very special price of ₹200, only for the government, for the first 100 million doses and then the price will be higher or different. In the private market, we have said it’s going to be a ₹1,000 per dose as an MRP, and we will probably sell it for ₹600-700. In exports also, it will be between $3-5, depending on the different countries we are signing with, but that is going to come in probably March-April because the government has said no exports right now. We cannot give it to the private market. Does the export restriction also mean you cannot supply to the Covax facility?I can only give it to Covax after they ease these restrictions, which I am sure they will in two months as this is not forever. This is just for a little while till the government has enough doses to take care of the most vulnerable people.How many quality tested doses do you have ready for the government?50 million. How difficult does rumour-mongering make things?Anyone has the right to question science or facts but the more we read up on what data is done; where it’s been tested, you talk and listen to some of the experts, then it builds the confidence over time that these vaccines are very safe and effective. Nobody is ever going to force anyone to take the vaccine.Is it correct that you said only three vaccines in the world have proven efficacy?Only three in the world have proven efficacy (Pfizer, Moderna and Oxofrd-AstraZeneca)... Nobody else in India, in Russia, in Europe or anywhere else has completed efficacy studies. They have all done safety and immunogenicity studies, which is what we have also done in India for other candidates; and some other companies in India, who I won’t name, have also done but without any efficacy studies we don’t know if any vaccine works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-deliver-vaccines-7-10-days-after-purchase-order-adar-poonawalla/story-0j2ez3faEYr1j3rPRbm6MN.html
04-01-2021||India||‘2 vaccines a result proactive approach,’ says DG-ICMR||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s director general Dr Balram Bhargava, secretary of the department of health research, talks about Covaxin, Bharat Biotech International Limited’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has been developed in collaboration with ICMR, receiving approval from India’s drug regulator for restricted use in an emergency situation. Edited excerpts from an interview:Ques: Two vaccines against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) got approval for emergency use in India in a span of 24 hours; were such quick approvals expected?Ans: The first joint monitoring committee meeting on Covid-19 vaccines happened on January 8, 2020, and in less than a year we have two vaccines in the pipeline that are ready to be used and granted regulatory approvals, which is indeed an extraordinary achievement. It has been a result of a pre-emptive, proactive and scientific approach by the members of the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) who deliberated for over eight hours looking in great deal at all the evidence at hand before recommending that these vaccines be granted emergency use approval.Ques: Has there been sufficient data for grant of approval, especially in the case of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech that has received criticism for having inadequate trial data?Ans: These kinds of approvals are purely data-driven, and in both these vaccines Phase 2 immunogenicity has been well established. The question of approving a vaccine without adequate data does not arise as the expert panel minutely scans the national as well international data presented to them before granting an approval. This is one of the best days for humanity as not just one but two of the vaccines have been approved. And this is good news not just for India but also for many low- and middle-income countries.Ques: What does permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest mean that has been said for Covaxin?Ans: The experts have looked at and taken into account the new UK strain (of Sars-Cov-2) before granting approval to Covaxin as they have kept in mind that Covaxin is a whole-viron inactivated vaccine (the whole virus vaccine) with more potential to target all parts of the virus rather than some parts. This also makes it a more effective tool against the new virus strain found in the United Kingdom. The virus is known to have undergone mutations also in the spike protein, and even Pfizer Inc. recently said that it needs about four to six weeks to make tweaks to their vaccine to adjust to the new mutations having been detected in the virus.Ques: The data will be updated as the clinical trials progress; is that likely to change the status of approval?Ans: Clinical trials will obviously continue and rolling review will also continue. It is not a one-off sort of a thing as we will be monitoring everyone who is vaccinated, and the data also gets updated accordingly. But having the option of two vaccines means their stockpile will be large, and the country is comfortably placed in terms of vaccination options. Ques: How soon is the immunisation likely to start now that the regulatory approvals are in place?Ans: This is for the Union ministry of health and family welfare to decide||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-possibility-of-whole-viron-inactivated-covaxin-working-against-the-new-uk-variant-of-sars-cov-2-says-dg-icmr/story-ya0nv7KdR4JCFTcljg1MJM.html
04-01-2021||India||22-year-old tourist from Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur found dead in Uttarakhand||A 22-year-old youth from Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur was found dead in the popular hill station of Auli, 300 km away from Dehradun on Sunday afternoon. The deceased had gone to visit the place along with four friends with whom he used to study in Noida. According to the police, the deceased identified as Udyot Sharma, was missing since Saturday evening. His body was found during a search operation by a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson said, “Sharma and four of his friends had come to Joshimath town of Chamoli district from where they trekked to Auli on Saturday. The five however, went ahead to another spot beyond Auli.” “By Saturday evening, four of them returned barring Sharma. His friends waited for him but in vain. They then approached the police which then informed the nearest SDRF team that rushed to the spot to look for him,” said Alok. The team, however, failed to find him because of the bad weather. “The SDRF team then returned and resumed the search operation on Sunday morning during which Sharma’s body was found four km away from Auli. His body was then brought down in a body bag and handed over to local police,” said Alok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-year-old-tourist-from-jammu-and-kashmir-s-udhampur-found-dead-in-uttarakhand/story-edCPlZTg5l7EE87PLb0ZOI.html
04-01-2021||India||MNREGA payments went to Bangladeshis; Bengal TMC panchayat leader under scanner||The administration in Bengal’s Murshidabad district has investigated a unique case of misappropriation of government funds in which at least Rs 7 lakh was collected for beneficiaries of rural employment schemes under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 2005 (MNREGA) and part of the money was sent to people in Bangladesh, officials said. Fake job cards were created to make the withdrawals. The main allegation is against the upa-pradhan (deputy head) of the Trinamool Congress-run Gurapashla gram panchayat in the Nabagram police station area. It has been alleged that Samsul Arfin, the upa-pradhan, made the fake job cards for his relatives, as many as 13 of whom are Bangladeshi nationals, officials said. Jobs were allegedly created in various areas by changing the names of the same beneficiaries and the money was withdrawn from banks and post offices. ATM cards were also used to make withdrawals. Officials said that the former community block development officer (BDO) of Nabagram completed an internal probe on the basis of a written complaint. The internal probe concluded that Arfin and some staff members of the gram panchayat were involved in the alleged fraud. The former BDO lodged a police complaint against which a first information report (FIR) was registered in December 2019. However, there has been no progress in the police probe although a year has passed. HT has also seen the copy of the FIR as well as the list of the Bangladeshi nationals who received the money. Officials said that after the FIR was registered, Arfin moved the Calcutta high court for anticipatory bail. The court rejected the petition but the accused was not arrested, a senior district official said on condition of anonymity. Arfin could not be contacted despite several attempts. Pankaj Das, the present BDO of Nabagram, said, “After joining duty, I got to know that the former BDO completed the internal probe and lodged an FIR against the accused at Nabagram PS under Sections 486,406,409,420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.” “It is for the police to complete the probe and take legal action. I cannot say why the police did not make any arrest,” Das added. Muslims comprise 66.28 % of Murshidabad’s population, making it the highest among all districts in Bengal. The district shares its eastern border with Bangladesh. District TMC spokesperson Apurba Sarkar said, “If the upa-pradhan is involved in the alleged embezzlement of government funds the administration has the right to take legal action against him. We are not going to shield him.” Nabagram block Congress president Mir Badam Ali said, “Arfin embezzled government funds with help from some staff members. Some of the beneficiaries are even minors. The TMC leader helped Bangladeshi nationals make money out of a Central government project.” No senior officer of the district police was ready to comment on the issue. An officer said on condition of anonymity that Arfin is on the run and will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mnrega-payments-went-to-bangladeshis-bengal-tmc-panchayat-leader-under-scanner/story-WVcxxOxCxELc6FF4itrLtK.html
04-01-2021||India||Maximum temp dips in Mumbai and suburbs, minimum to remain low for next 3-4 days||In some respite from rising temperatures, Mumbai and suburbs recorded a dip in maximum temperatures on Sunday. Temperatures are likely to remain low for the next three to four days, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The Colaba station of IMD recorded a maximum temperature of 27.4 degrees Celsius, which was 3.1 degrees below normal. This was a marginal drop from Saturday’s 28.8 degrees. Santacruz recorded a maximum temperature of 28.9 degrees Celsius, which was 2.1 degrees below normal and a drop from 30.1 degrees recorded on Saturday. Minimum temperature at Colaba was 21.2 degrees Celsius, 1.9 degrees above normal. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was 19.7 degrees Celsius, which was 2.6 above normal. “Maharashtra is experiencing a mini winter where the minimum temperatures are likely to drop significantly over the next three to four days. Minimum temperature at Mumbai and Thane can drop to 16-18 degrees Celsius,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD. The IMD has also predicted mild rainfall in some parts of the state. The drop in temperature has been attributed to an active western disturbance owing to cyclonic circulation over Central Pakistan and neighbouring areas. Meanwhile air quality continued to remain poor. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 276 (poor) was recorded. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 stations at which the air quality was measured, Navi Mumbai had the worst quality of air as an AQI of 327 (very poor) was measured. This was followed by Mazagaon where an AQI of 322 was recorded.“Lower variation in temperature along with inflow of polluted continental air will lead to poor AQI in next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-temp-dips-in-mumbai-and-suburbs-minimum-to-remain-low-for-next-3-4-days/story-6nGCVfWeBdnLvoxOKbDoDO.html
04-01-2021||India||Odisha law minister, 12 others booked for murder of BJP leader and his associate||Hours after a 75-year-old BJP leader and his associate were murdered in Salepur area of Cuttack district in Odisha, the Odisha police booked state law minister Pratap Jena and a dozen others as the BJP alleged that the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) had started retributive politics like the Trinamool Congress in neighbouring West Bengal. The BJP leader was murdered along with his 80-year-old associate by six men over past enmity.On Saturday evening, Kulamani Baral, 75, in-charge of Salepur mandal of BJP and former chairman of Mahanga Panchayat Samiti was hacked to death along with his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village while returning home on a motorcycle. The duo received grievous injuries on their face and chest. While Kulamani succumbed to his injuries on the spot, Dibyasingh died while undergoing treatment at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack on Sunday morning.Soon after the murder, police in Cuttack registered a case against 13 people, including state law minister Pratap Jena for their alleged involvement in the double murder of BJP leader Baral and his associate and relative Dibyasingh on Saturday evening. The law minister and others have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), 25 and 27 of the Arms Act.Angry over the twin murders, the BJP said that the ruling BJD had started eliminating rivals in a cold-blooded manner like the Trinamool Congress was doing in Bengal.“Anyone who raises their voice against Mamata is being killed in Bengal. Likewise, BJD leaders in Odisha are doing the same to their political rivals. As a senior BJP leader, Baral was raising his voice against corruption in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Nrutanga gram panchayat for quite some time. After he alleged that the well-to-do BJD leaders in the panchayat were appropriating the PMAY houses meant for poor people, the local administration had lodged cases against the ineligible beneficiaries. Those BJD leaders harboured a grudge against him for a long time. Now that the law minister has been accused in the case he should be sacked immediately,” alleged Golak Mohapatra, BJP’s state spokesperson.Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan also condemned the alleged murder of Baral and his associate and urged the administration to take exemplary action against the culprits. Expressing deep anguish over the incident, BJP national vice president Baijayant Panda said that stringent action should be taken against those involved in the incident after a probe. Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said, “Kulamani was a strong leader. His death shows that political killings have now begun in the state. I request the government to take stringent action against the accused.”Kulamani’s son Ramakant, who lodged an FIR against 13 people, said his father was raising his voice against corruption in several government schemes such as PMAY. “My father had already informed the police about the threat to his life. Yet no action was taken,” said Ramakant Baral. The husband of a local sarpanch and a former chairman of the Mahanga Panchayat Samiti have been named in the FIR.He also alleged that several people against whom he lodged an FIR were behind the murder of Bikash Jena, a local BJP leader in Jankoti village in December 2018. “Had the police taken action against those accused, then my father would not have been killed. These accused are protected by the law minister and Mahanga MLA Pratap Jena,” said Ramakant.However, law minister Pratap Jena denied the charges saying he would see to it that those who killed the BJP leader get punished. “There is no place for violence in politics,” he said.Cuttack rural SP Jugal Kishore Banoth said 6 teams have been formed to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-law-minister-12-others-booked-for-murder-of-bjp-leader-and-his-associate/story-oAfGhhjfUhr1WcPUSgl6JP.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand reports lowest Covid-19 infection rate this week in 5 months, deaths dip||In the past one week, Uttarakhand has reported the lowest Covid-19 infection rate in the last five months according to official records. In the week between December 27-January 2, the state reported an infection rate of 2.48%. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities that has been analyzing the Covid-19 data in the hill state said, “In the past one week, the state has reported the lowest weekly infection rate of 2.48% since the past five and half months. This week the state also witnessed 981 more recoveries than cases and there was a reduction in weekly deaths also.” “The only concern is that 15,000 lesser tests were conducted this week compared to last week,” he added. Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 267 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 91,811. Five more Covid-19 patients also died in the state, taking the death toll to 1527. Out of 91,811 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 84,705 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 92.26%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.05% and death rate at 1.66%. On Sunday, 244 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with a maximum of 149 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Sunday, a maximum of 123 cases were reported from Dehradun district. Almora, Bageshwar, Chamoli and Champawat districts reported one case each on Sunday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 27,593 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (13,462), Nainital (11,530) and US Nagar (11,161). The state health department has so far tested 18.17 lakh people of which results of over 7000 are pending. Uttarakhand at present has a total of 22 containment zones with maximum eight such zones in Nainital district. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and scientists in the country for developing an indigenous vaccine for Covid-19. Rawat said, “The long wait for an indigenous vaccine to fight the coronavirus epidemic under the guidance of Prime Minister Modi is over. It is a matter of pride for the entire country that both the vaccines approved for use are made in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-lowest-covid-19-infection-rate-this-week-in-5-months-deaths-dip/story-8UyJBqxaKlXvk9LdCOmdyI.html
04-01-2021||India||Launch Covid-19 vaccination drive only after concrete arrangements: Akhilesh Yadav to BJP||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the Covid-19 vaccination programme was a “sensitive process” and the government should not treat it as a “cosmetic” event as it concerned people’s lives. His fresh comment came the day after he announced that he would not get vaccinated for now, calling it a “BJP vaccine”.Saturday’s comment triggered sharp reactions not only from ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, but also from the National Conference’s vice-president Omar Abdullah.The fresh remarks by the SP chief come even as India’s drugs regulator approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India here, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.Yadav tweeted in Hindi: “The BJP government should not consider coronavirus vaccination as a sajaawati-dikhaawati (decorative-cosmetic) event and launch it only after concrete arrangements are made. This is a matter of the lives of people, so the risk of improvement at a later stage cannot be taken. A specific date for vaccinating the poor people should be declared.”On Saturday, he had said, “I will not get vaccinated. It’s the BJP’s vaccine. The BJP can’t be trusted.”Following an attack by BJP leaders, the SP chief had tweeted later on Saturday evening: “We have full faith in scientists’ abilities, but we do not have faith in the BJP’s unscientific thinking of the clanging of plates, clapping and the medical set-up for the vaccine. The medical set-up stayed paralysed during Covid-19 times. We will not get the BJP’s political vaccine administered. The SP government (when it comes to power) will do free vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/launch-covid-19-vaccination-drive-only-after-concrete-arrangements-akhilesh-yadav-to-bjp/story-UUdN2Q82gLOdpSNoATuNqJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Oxford, Bharat Biotech vaccines cleared for use||India could roll out the world’s largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in about 10 days after the national drug controller approved two vaccines for restricted emergency use in India on Sunday, officials with knowledge of the development said.Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani on Sunday announced that he had approved both the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Plc. vaccine being manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine candidate.He said that he had accepted recommendations made by the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Friday and Saturday to grant restricted emergency approval to both the vaccines. A top official with knowledge of the matter said the vaccination drive could begin as early as in 10 days. “It will take about a minimum of 10 days from now for the vaccine to be rolled out,” the official said on condition of anonymity.Soon after the approval was announced, Prime Minister Narendra Modi put out three tweets congratulating the country, scientists and innovators. Read more| AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine: What’s been said about dosage, efficacy“A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” his first tweet said.The Subject Expert Committee consists of domain experts from the fields of pulmonology, immunology, microbiology, pharmacology, paediatrics, internal medicine and so on . On SII’s Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Somani said: “After detailed deliberations Subject Expert Committee has recommended for the grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue.” Pune-based SII, which is manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and testing it in India, presented a recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield) encoding the Sars-CoV-2 Spike (S) glycoprotein with technology transfer from AstraZeneca/Oxford University. The firm submitted safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years or older from overseas clinical studies. “The overall vaccine efficacy was found to be 70.42%. Further, M/s Serum was granted permission to conduct Phase-II/III clinical trial on 1,600 participants within the country. The firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data generated from this trial and the data was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies,” Somani said. Bharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine (Covaxin) in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (Pune), from where it received the virus seed strains. The vaccine is developed on a vero cell platform, which has a well established track record of safety and efficacy in the country and globally. The firm has generated safety and immunogenicity data in various animal species such as mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamster, and also conducted challenge studies on non-human primates (Rhesus macaques) and hamsters. Read more| Amplifying reach, fake science biggest challenges to vaccinationThe company had shared the data with CDSCO, and also put out phase 1 and 2 trial results for publication in December. Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials were conducted in approximately 800 subjects, and the results have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response. The Phase 3 efficacy trial was initiated in India in 25,800 volunteers and to date, 22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country and the vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available currently, according to the drugs controller. “The Subject Expert Committee has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” said Somani.Both the vaccines have to be intramuscularly administered in two doses.On the sidelines of a media briefing, Somani said that people of India must rest assured that all safety concerns have been met before the vaccines were approved.“Even if there is smallest of doubt regarding safety of the vaccine, it won’t be approved. Of course, the ones approved are safe; I would say 110%. There are some side-effects but those are minor ones that are commonly seen in vaccines such as pain at the injection site, slight temperature, minor allergies, etc. Don’t believe in rumours as all scientific processes have been strictly adhered to,” he added.Clinical trial mode condition means that the company will closely monitor and take full responsibility for any side-effects to any participants.While there has been criticism from a large section of experts about the way approvals were given without adequate efficacy data, some experts say there is a provision for such approvals in the Indian regulatory system during emergency situations such as a pandemic.“There is a provision in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act for grant of approval even without the efficacy data but the terminology used is somewhat different from emergency use authorisation. The approval can be granted on the basis of phase 1 and 2 clinical trials’ safety and immunogenicity data. The data gradually has to be updated. I don’t see the fuss created around it by people, many of whom aren’t even domain experts,” said a senior public health expert, who requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-bharat-biotech-vaccines-cleared-for-use/story-8sZ0RPc7JwtjB6fnpcUPvJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Justice Mohd Rafiq takes oath as chief justice of Madhya Pradesh high court||Justice Mohammad Rafiq was administered oath as chief justice of the Madhya Pradesh high court by Governor Anandiben Patel at Raj Bhavan on Sunday, as per an official communiqué. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh, several ministerial colleagues of Chouhan, protem speaker of the state assembly Rameshwar Sharma and several bureaucrats were present on the occasion. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains conducted the oath taking ceremony stated the communiqué. As per the Madhya Pradesh high court website, born on May 25, 1960 at Sujangarh in Churu district of Rajasthan, Justice Mohammad Rafiq was earlier the chief justice of the Orissa high court transferred from Meghalaya high court on April 27, 2020. He became chief justice of the Meghalaya high court on November 13, 2019. He was appointed as judge of the Rajasthan high court on May 15, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-mohd-rafiq-takes-oath-as-chief-justice-of-madhya-pradesh-high-court/story-6Do81J322BNdmjLXlrH9GM.html
04-01-2021||India||‘My supporters won’t let you become CM’: Alagiri warns sibling and DMK chief Stalin||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin who is campaigning to become chief minister in the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu faced an open rebellion from his estranged elder brother and expelled DMK leader MK Alagiri on Sunday.“There are posters hailing you as the future chief minister but you can never become chief minister. My associates and supporters will never let you become one,” Alagiri said addressing a meeting with his supporters in Madurai district on Sunday. Alagiri held the meeting to mull his political entry into the assembly polls which is likely to be held in April or May. One of Alagiri’s loyalists who attended the meeting on condition of anonymity said that they were expecting the DMK to induct him back into the party. “If they don’t take annan (brother Alagiri) back, we won’t let Stalin become chief minister,” the Alagiri loyalist who attended the meeting said. Alagiri escalated a prolonged sibling rivalry even as he said that he didn’t wish to become chief minister. He accused Stalin of betraying him and said that their father and DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi was planning to take him back into the party before he fell ill.Alagiri also said that he would soon announce his decision on starting a party. “Whether it is good or bad, you (supporters) must accept it.” Thousands of people from Madurai, Theni and Nellai had gathered in the streets of Madurai and waited inside a jam-packed hall to welcome Alagiri who arrived in a campaign vehicle. His supporters egged him on to start a new political party. Posters and banners were lined up with photos of Alagiri and Karunanidhi. Alagiri, a former Union minister, was once the party’s organising secretary of Tamil Nadu’s southern districts and Madurai was his bastion. In 2014, Karunanidhi expelled him for violating party discipline. Alagiri has maintained a low profile since then except for when he took out a rally in Chennai to Karunanidhi’s mausoleum following his death in 2018. Alagiri said that some people had forced Karunanidhi to expel him.Alagiri also added that following the Thirumangalam assembly by-election in 2009, he supported Stalin to become the party’s “everything” and “chief minister” after their father. “I told Stalin that we will work for his victory,” Alagiri said. “His (Stalin) conscious knows this but I don’t know why he betrayed me.” He said that he accepted Stalin’s elevation as deputy chief minister and treasurer of the party when Karunanidhi had sought his permission. Through his speech he lamented that he worked hard for DMK’s victory in several places and made a mark in Madurai without wishing for a party post. “Did I betray the party?” Alagiri said. “What mistake did I make?”In December, Alagiri had said that the upcoming polls will see his participation either by way of floating a party or lending his support or simply voting. Though the DMK leadership is closely following the developments, they have remained silent. A day earlier, a senior DMK leader on condition of anonymity said that even if Alagiri starts a party it won’t impact them. “He has supporters and friends but not cadre,” the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-supporters-won-t-let-you-become-cm-alagiri-warns-sibling-and-dmk-chief-stalin/story-i14Qa7zWPbqoDAgYjykp1M.html
04-01-2021||India||46 farmers have died during protests so far, four in last 24 hours||At least four farmers, of the thousands camped at Delhi’s borders to demand a repeal of three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament in September last year, have died in the last 24 hours, police said.Police records showed that a total of nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh, have died at the Kundli-Singhu border, while 10 have died at Tikri border so far. Farmer leaders, on the other hand, claimed that 46 farmers had sacrificed their lives across all border points of the city.As per records, 18-year-old Jashanpreet Singh of Punjab died of heart attack and Jagbir Singh, 65, of Jind died due to biting cold on Saturday night at Tikri border. At Kundli-Singhu border, Kulbir Singh, 52, a resident of Gangana village in Sonepat was found dead on Sunday in a tent and Shamsher Singh, 45, a resident of Sangrur also died at Civil hospital in Sonepat, after his health deteriorated.PGIMS spokesman, Dr Gajender Singh said Jashanpreet was referred to PGIMS from Bahadurgarh civil hospital on Saturday night, after he suffered a heart attack.“After reaching here, he passed away. Another farmer, Jagbir Singh, who suffered a cold stroke, died here on Saturday night. We have conducted their post-mortem examinations and handed over their bodies to their family members,” he added.Read more| We are used to harsh weather: Farmers unfazedShamsher Singh, investigating officer of Kundli police station, said the protesting farmers had spotted the body of Kulbir Singh at a tent near the protesting here on Sunday morning.“The farmers said he had complained of body pain and had gone to bed on Saturday night after eating langar. After receiving news of his demise, his co-villager Yudhishthira suffered heart attack and was rushed to civil hospital in Sonepat, from where he was referred to a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. Another farmer, Shamsher Singh from Sangrur in Punjab, also suffered a heart attack and died during treatment at Civil hospital here. He had joined the stir five days ago, according to farmers. We have handed over the bodies to their family members after conducting autopsies,” he added.Singh said a total of nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh have died at Kundli-Singhu border so far and most of them died due to heart attack or cold conditions.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan sabha said as many as 46 farmers had given their sacrifice in the ongoing agitation.“ These people are those who died either on borders or on their way to join the stir,” he added.Addressing a press conference in Sonepat, former Haryana chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the government should take the matter up seriously and resolve the issue.“Four farmers have sacrificed their lives in the past 24 hours and over 45 people have died in the agitation. I am surprised why the government is neglecting the farmers and their demands,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/46-farmers-have-died-during-protests-so-far-four-in-last-24-hours/story-6OmK8CvjaueLngDxuZJ5rL.html
04-01-2021||India||We are used to harsh weather: Farmers unfazed||Muddy roads, waterlogged tents, wet mattress and blankets ---farmers protesting at Delhi borders braced it all amid heavy rainfall and the cold on Sunday. Despite continuous spells of showers, the spirit of the ongoing protest at different sites did not get dampened with many farmers saying that “rain is a sign of prosperity” for them. Sitting outside her waterlogged tent at the Singhu border, Kawalpreet Kaur, 75, a farmer from Gurdaspur district in Punjab, said she woke up to thunder and lightning on Sunday morning. “At around 6 am, water started coming into our tent and within minutes all the mattresses were soaked. The water did not come from the top since we have a waterproof tent. It entered after tent after the road got waterlogged. I was shifted to a trolley by a group of youngsters… The rain has caused some inconvenience but we are farmers and we are used to living in harsh weather conditions.”Water also entered into the trolleys of many protesters where protesters had kept their clothes and mattresses. Tonnes of wood, which is being used for cooking and bonfire at the protest sites also got soaked due to rain. “Around eight quintals(800 kg) of our firewood got wet. It will take days to dry it and make it usable. We are using LPG cylinders for cooking today. Some of the farmers who don’t have LPG are sharing the cooking space with us. We are all brothers here and will help each other in every possible way,” said Gurjeet Singh, 58, a farmer from Bhatinda. Harmeet Singh Kadian, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian), said the farmers’ union arranged more waterproof tents on Sunday. “We are also trying to arrange more blankets and mattresses for the protesters particularly for the elderly,” he said. Read more| Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP borderDespite the chaos caused by the rains, the protesting sites remained lively throughout the day on Sunday with farmers seen gathering around the stage, shouting slogans against the three new farm laws and singing songs of resistance. The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered its 39th day on Sunday. Harpreet Kaur, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) women’s wing, who is protesting at the Tikri border, said rains and harsh weather could not affect their determination. “Maybe many of us will catch cold and infections and fall sick. Some people might succumb to the chilly weather. But if these three farm laws are implemented by the government, we all will die eventually,” she said. At the Ghazipur border, protesters, especially women, said they fear that their kids might fall sick. “All our mattresses and blankets are wet. We do not know how we will sleep or make our kids sleep. But, we know that we are not stepping back. We are ready to brace for even harsher weather conditions. After all, we are farmers and rain is a sign of prosperity for us,” said Ranveer Kaur, a farmer from Uttarakhand. KABADDI AT SINGHU Earlier in the day, as many as eight kabaddi teams from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab arrived at the Singhu border and played a match to uplift the spirits of the protesters. The players placed mats and also tied ropes to make a makeshift kabaddi ring. Amarjeet Sindhu, an organiser, said, “Our farmer brethren have been sitting here for over a month now. We decided to organise a tournament here for their entertainment. We also wanted these young players to have a first-hand experience of this ongoing historic protest.” Meanwhile, later in the evening, farmer union leaders held a press conference at the Singhu border and announced to celebrate Lohri at the protest site by burning the copies of three new farm laws. “We will celebrate Lohri here on January 13th and burn the copies of the three black laws,” said farmer leader Manjeet Singh Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-fails-to-dampen-spirit-of-protest/story-SqchaP5AX1EBXL0OINJ2bL.html
04-01-2021||India||1 farmer hurt after clashes with police||Police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannon to stop hundreds of farmers who allegedly broke police barricades at Masani village near Dharuhera on Delhi-Jaipur highway on Sunday, in an attempt to move towards Gurugram and Delhi. At least one farmer has been injured, according to the initial reports from the spot. Haryana Police said more than 20 tractors and hundreds of farmers tried to force their way across the Rajasthan-Haryana border but they stopped later as police held back their counterparts. The protesters also stopped due to ongoing rain. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said farmers broke police barricades and tried to move towards Delhi. “Police had to use tear gas and water cannons to stop the protesters. They shouted slogans and forcefully tried to cross the barricades and we had to take the steps to stop them,” he said. Farmers alleged that the police fired shells indiscriminately and it could have triggered a blast in the LPG cylinders they were carrying for cooking. Last month, over a thousand farmers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana reached Jaisinghpur Khera and joined the agitation. The protesting farmers had earlier announced that they would start moving towards Delhi on Monday. Satnarayan Nehra, president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said due to rains the volume of protesters was low on Sunday. “Our plan to move to Delhi failed but we will try late Sunday night as farmers from nearby areas are gathering at Kheda border,” he said. On Sunday around 4pm, 20 tractors and hundreds of farmers crossed the Kheda border and reached Sangwari Chowk which is 20 kilometres ahead of the protest site. “Rajasthan Police allowed us to cross but Haryana Police is not cooperating. Many farmers have been camping since December 12 and are not well but they are not willing to return home,” said Rashid Ahmed, a protester from Nuh. The community leaders have requested the police to let them cross the stretch peacefully and have tried to pacify the protesters. Last Thursday, farmers had entered Shahjahanpur and reached Rewari on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, crossing the Shahjahanpur interstate border in Rajasthan, as the police were not letting them enter Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-farmer-hurt-after-clashes-with-police/story-0XyR6etf1OltixtGHLczGL.html
04-01-2021||India||Experts flag concern over ‘limited data’ for Covaxin||The emergency use approval in India to the Serum Institute of India (SII) vaccine against Covid-19 developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and the “restricted use in emergency situation” consent to Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine has triggered a debate among experts -- particularly over the decision to clear the Bharat Biotech vaccine despite the shorter duration of human trials and relatively less data.India’s nationwide vaccination drive is scheduled to begin in January with the AstraZeneca-Oxford shot. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine, according to experts aware of the matter, is a back-up in clinical trial conditions if a spike in cases triggers the need of doses.AstraZeneca-Oxford got the Drug Control General of India nod based on the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants from overseas studies, as well as interim data from Phase 2/3 trials on 1,600 people in India. What boosted its case was that it was granted approval last week by the Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority in the UK.Bharat Biotech’s vaccine was approved for “restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical mode, especially in the context of infection by mutant strains” based on safety and immunogenicity data from tests done mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamsters; and so-called challenge studies on Rhesus macaques and hamsters, and Phase I and Phase II clinical trials on around 800 participants, according to the drug regulator. Read more| ‘Congratulations India’: PM Modi tweets after nod to Covid-19 vaccinesEarly-stage trials found the vaccine to be safe and able to invoke a robust immune response, but Phase 2 data is under peer review and has not been published. Phase 3 trials were announced on November 16, and around 22,500 of 25,800 volunteers have enrolled of which around half have received two doses. “The terminology is very different for the two vaccines, so it does acknowledge that the stages of research for the two vaccines is different. The government will begin vaccinating with the Serum vaccine in the first few weeks, and keep the Bharat Biotech vaccine as a backup till the data becomes robust by the end of this month or the beginning of next month,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. “Emergency use authorisation is standard, which Serum has got. The emergency situation nod for Bharat Biotech means that if there is a surge in the number of cases or if there are issues with vaccine efficacy as far as the first one is concerned, then the vaccine may be used in a clinical trial situation, which will be closely monitored because the data is not sufficient. It is a backup plan for a possible surge in cases, like in the UK, where they have changed the vaccinations schedule from four weeks to 12 weeks because they want to vaccinate as many as people possible. If we are in a similar situation, we will not be able to do it with one vaccine. This (the approval) is just to tell them, okay, go ahead, your current data is good,” he added. Some other experts, however, argued that even in emergency situations, approval must be granted only after safety and efficacy is irrefutably established.Read more| ‘Disgraceful’: Health minister Vardhan slams Akhilesh Yadav, Tharoor over Covid-19 vaccine ‘doubts’“It’s absolutely shocking that the regulator has approved the Bharat Biotech vaccine, which has limited data for safety and immunogenicity and no data for efficacy. The Phase 3 trials are still completing enrolment and it is too early for data to meet the criterion for an interim analysis. The only human data available on safety and immunogenicity is on 755 participants in Phase 1 and 2 trials. This amounts to rolling out an untested and unproven vaccine,” said Malini Aisola, co-convenor of All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), which is a network of non-profit organisation working to increase access to and rational use of medicines. The vaccines use two different and established delivery platforms. While SII has a recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield), Bharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine (Covaxin). “Covaxin is a whole-viron inactivated vaccine with more potential to target all parts of the virus rather than specific parts. This makes it a more effective tool against the new virus strain found in the UK... even Pfizer recently said that it needs about four to six weeks to make tweaks to their vaccine to adjust to the new mutations in the virus,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research, in an interview to HT. ICMR has also partnered in developing the vaccine.Read more| Covishield vs Covaxin against Covid-19: All you need to knowBut other experts were not so sure.“I’m not aware of any data that demonstrates that Covaxin has any efficacy against any strain of the new coronavirus, let alone special efficacy against the (UK) variant strain,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, clinician scientist, and professor of gastrointestinal sciences at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Both vaccines will be administered under government supervision and will not be available to the general public till the data is complete and all trial results are out. “Restricted emergency use authorisation means only the government will procure the vaccines and decide who will get it under supervision. Under restricted emergency use, these vaccines will not be available commercially, they will not be available to the public on demand. As far as we know as of yesterday, there are no safety issues. The government will give free vaccination to people where protection delayed can be protection denied,” said Dr T Jacob John, senior virologist anda former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-flag-concern-over-limited-data-for-covaxin/story-2i9U0JJ3fo7C3rKp3Q4cYJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Farmers’ lives lost due to govt’s harsh attitude: Sonia Gandhi||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Narendra Modi government for not heeding the demands of farmers to repeal three laws aimed at opening up trade in agriculture that they say will harm the interests of cultivators and hurt their livelihoods. “In this biting cold and rain, our farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for 39 days now. Their plight is a concern for all the citizens and I,” Gandhi said. “More than 50 farmers have lost their lives because of the government’s harsh attitude towards the protests. Some have even committed suicide. Neither has their decision moved the Modi government or any of its ministers, nor have they uttered a word of consolation. I offer my tribute to those who have passed away and prayers and strength to their families.”Gandhi’s statement came a day after a farmer on the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border allegedly committed suicide because the government did not heed farmers’ demands. The farmers have demanded a repeal of the three controversial farm laws.In the latest round of talks held on December 30, the government has offered to set up a panel to examine the laws, but it has stayed firm on its decision to not repeal them.The three farm laws passed in September essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will enable large corporations to dictate prices and exploit them.Gandhi said that the government’s inaction was tantamount to arrogance and it must recognize that the true meaning of democracy is to protect the rights and interests of the farmers and workers. “Ever since independence, this is the first arrogant government to have come to power that doesn’t care for the farmers who feed, let alone the citizens,” Gandhi said. “It is evident that the government is practising a policy of “tire them and drive them away,” But our farmers will not bend before them. The government must let go of its ego and repeal the three farm laws and bring an end to the protests. The true meaning of democracy is protecting the interests of the farmers and workers, the Modi government should learn that.”Attacking the Centre, senior party leader Rahul Gandhi also tweeted: “The country is facing a situation like Champaran once again. Back then, it was the British that were in cahoots with the company, now it is the Modi government. But every agitating farmer-worker is a satyagrahi, who will secure his rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-lives-lost-due-to-govt-s-harsh-attitude-sonia/story-2CloY5Xpx2gHWBXEeNK2PP.html
04-01-2021||India||Farmer-govt talks today; 2 key demands on table||The Centre and farm unions protesting against a set of laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets will hold their seventh round of negotiations on Monday that could shape the outcome of the long-drawn-out dialogue process. Two of the biggest demands of farmers will be on the agenda on Monday. Monday’s talks are set to take up the farmers’ demand to repeal the three farm laws they say will hurt their livelihoods and a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for farm produce. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of farm unions, has hardened its stand, saying on Saturday that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital on their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash will lead the government side, while 40 leaders of farm union will represent farmers at the talks.The widely anticipated sixth round of talks on December 30 made some headway in the standoff between the Union government and protesting farm unions, with the Centre agreeing to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.Read more| Farmers in Rewari break barricades; police use tear gas to stop themThe two principal demands of a repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices were deferred until January 4. In the December 30 talks, the government offered to form a five-member panel to examine the farm laws and had asked farm leaders to suggest alternatives to a repeal of the laws, both of which were rejected by the farmers. The farm unions have been steadfast on their demand that the government scrap the three new agricultural laws approved by Parliament in September, and to being a new legislation guaranteeing that all farm produce be bought at federally fixed assured rates. Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.Read more| Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talksThese laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. “The success of tomorrow’s talks depend entirely on the repeal of these three Farm Acts,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a major platform of protesting farmers.Saha said there had been much speculation about procedures for repeal of the Acts. “AIKSCC clarifies that it can be done by an Ordinance followed by a Parliamentary repeal and the Constitution provides for the government and Parliament to make as well as repeal laws. They are neither time-consuming, nor complicated.”A government official, requesting anonymity said, the Centre would “take up each and every objection and apprehension of the farmers”. “I don’t want to speculate on anything now,” he said. Analysts say they don’t expect every issue to be concluded during Monday’s talks. “Both demands are complicated. It is unlikely that both can be settled in one round. The government may present a formula to ensure assured prices for farmers based purely on the possibilities,” said Ramesh Kavi, a former faculty member at Dharwad Agricultural University. Read more| Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP borderCongress chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Narendra Modi government for not heeding the demands of farmers to repeal the three laws “In this biting cold and rain, our farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for 39 days now. Their plight is a concern for all the citizens and I,” Gandhi said in a statement. “More than 50 farmers have lost their lives because of the government’s harsh attitude towards the protests. Some have even committed suicide. Neither has their decision moved the Modi government or any of its ministers, nor have they uttered a word of consolation. I offer my tribute to those who have passed away and prayers and strength to their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-govt-talks-today-2-key-demands-on-table/story-gG00Og6dLc5aV7miaq26BK.html
04-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech vaccine more likely to work against newer strains like UK variant: Vardhan||With some Congress leaders raising concerns over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine, health minister Harsh Vardhan asserted on Sunday that Covaxin is more likely to work against newer variants of the virus, including the UK variant, and asked politicians not to “discredit well laid out science-backed protocols” followed for approving the jab. Some Congress leaders, including Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, on Sunday raised serious concerns over the grant of approval to Covaxin for restricted use, saying it is “premature” and can prove dangerous. Responding to them, Vardhan said it is “disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue.” Tagging Tharoor, Ramesh and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yavad, the health minister said in a tweet, “...don’t try to discredit well laid out science-backed protocols followed for approving #COVID19vaccines. Wake up & realise you are only discrediting yourselves!” Vardhan said, “COVAXIN is more likely to work against newer variants like N501Y Variant (UK variant) & any other that may arise due to antigenic drift as it contains immunogens (epitopes) from other genes in addition to those from Spike protein.” SP president Yadav said the Covid-19 vaccination programme is a “sensitive process” and the government should not treat it as a “cosmetic” event as it is a matter of lives.Read more| Drug regulator gives final approval for Covid-19 vaccines of SII, Bharat Biotech Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava also said Covaxin is based on an inactivated whole virus, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains including the UK variant, which was a major ground for giving it a conditional nod. He, however, said no clear data regarding the efficacy of the vaccine is available so far. The data generated so far demonstrates a strong immune response  (both antibody as well as T cell) and in-vitro viral neutralisation. The ongoing clinical trial is the largest trial on 25,800 subjects, in which already 23,000 volunteers have been enrolled including subjects with comorbid conditions, and the vaccine has demonstrated safety till date, Bhargava said. Further allaying apprehensions surrounding the Bharat Biotech vaccine, Vardhan said there were no seroconversions in those who were provided vaccines in Phase II as well as Phase I of Covaxin clinical trials. Seroconversion is the transition from the point of viral infection to when antibodies of the virus become present in the blood. “Our experience with inactivated vaccines not having serious adverse events was also observed in Phase II done among 380 study participants in BBV152 trial in 21280 Person days follow up. No serious adverse events seen. Only 7 per cent persons receiving 6 microgram dose had mild symptoms,” Vardhan said in another tweet. “The data from COVAXIN Phase I & II clinical trials reveals that it not only produces neutralizing antibodies in all participants but also sensitises  CD4 T lymphocytes that imparts durable immune response,” Vardhan tweeted. He said vaccines approved globally based on gene encoding spike proteins have protective efficacy of over 90 per cent. “However, COVAXIN based on whole inactivated virus has other antigenic epitopes in addition to spike protein. So,it’s likely to have similar protective efficacy reported for others,” he said. India’s drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-vaccine-more-likely-to-work-against-newer-strains-like-uk-variant-vardhan/story-GkSibMkbIirGVKxSAZo1HK.html
04-01-2021||India||Day ahead of talks with farmers, Narendra Singh Tomar meets Rajnath Singh to discuss strategy to end deadlock||A day before the crucial seventh round of talks between the Centre and protesting farmer unions, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest, sources said. Tomar discussed with Singh “all possible options” to find a “middle path” to resolve the crisis, sources added. Singh, who served as agriculture minister in the erstwhile Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet, has emerged as a key troubleshooter and is working mostly behind the scenes on this issue. Protesting farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for the last 39 days braving bone-chilling cold and now rains have threatened to intensify their protest if their two major demands -- repeal of the three new farm laws and legal backing for the minimum support price (MSP) -- are not accepted by the government in the January 4 meeting. Rains since Saturday night led to waterlogging at the agitation venues, but the unions asserted that “we will not move from here until our demands are met”.Read more| Gehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in Jaipur After five rounds of inconclusive talks, the government and 40 farmer unions reached some common ground during the sixth round of negotiations on December 30 to resolve protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. On January 1, Tomar had told PTI that the government is hopeful of a “positive outcome” at its next meeting with farmers’ unions on January 4 but refrained from predicting whether the seventh round of talks will be the last one. Asked whether he expects the January 4 meeting to be the last one, the minister said, “I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers.” Last week, protesting farmer unions issued an “ultimatum” that they will march into Delhi with a “tractor parade” on the Republic Day if their demands are not met in the next round of talks. “The farmers’ movement delivered an ultimatum to the Government of India and announced that farmers will march into Delhi on January 26,” Sankyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting unions, had said in a statement. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month demanding repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Read more| Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talks Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers’ income, but protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met agriculture minister Tomar over the last few weeks to extend their support for the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-ahead-of-talks-with-farmers-narendra-singh-tomar-meets-rajnath-singh-to-discuss-strategy-to-end-deadlock/story-qsxUBlnhbHnohzgbluzyoI.html
04-01-2021||India||GST authority in Delhi nabs one for Rs 831 crore tax evasion||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) authority has unearthed evasion of Rs 831.72 crore tax in Delhi after raiding a manufacturing unit that was indulging in clandestine supply of gutkha, pan masala and other tobacco products without paying tax, the finance ministry said on Sunday.The Central GST Delhi West Commissionerate searched the premise and found illegal manufacturing of gutkha, pan masala and tobacco, it said.“Around 65 labourers were found working at the illegal factory. The finished product of gutkha is being supplied to various states in India. The searches resulted in the seizure of finished gutkha and raw materials such as chuna, sada kattha, tobacco leaves, etc. valued at Rs. 4.14 crore approximately,” it said. Also read: 15 dead as roof of shelter at cremation ground in UP’s Muradnagar collapsesBased on the evidence gathered, stocks seized and confessional statements recorded the total duty evasion as estimated to be approximately Rs 831.72 crore, it said, adding that the investigation is in progress. One person has been arrested in the matter on the based on his involvement in the manufacture and supply of goods without issue of any invoice to evade tax, as well as in transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing, supplying, or purchasing any goods in violation of various laws, which are cognizable and non-bailable offence, it said.The accused person has been arrested and produced before the Metropolitan Magistrate (MM), Patiala House Court on January 2. He is sent to 14 days judicial custody by the magistrate, it said. “Further investigation is underway to identify the key conspirators of the case and to recover the tax dues involved,” it added. Delhi Zone has been making sustained efforts to check evasion of GST, leading to detection of Rs 4,327 crore in the current financial year and 15 persons have been arrested in these matters, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-arrested-in-delhi-by-gst-authority-for-rs-831-crore-tax-evasion/story-aF52YhnounjUodlmJVbOFP.html
04-01-2021||India||Probe agencies carrying out ‘audit’ of my father’s grave, says Mehbooba Mufti||“Let them prove a single case, I am ready to face the consequences,” said PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti about the cases being probed by various investigating agencies, including the NIA which has arrested a senior leader of her party on terror funding charges.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also said it is mortifying that the probe agencies are running an “audit” on the mausoleum of her father Mufti Mohammed Sayeed.In her first reaction after her party’s youth wing leader Waheed Parra was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Mehbooba said the probe agencies have been burrowing through government files and her bank accounts for the last two years and found nothing.In an interview with PTI, she said, “It’s mortifying and disgusting that they are now running an audit on the mausoleum of my late father. How much lower will they stoop?” Sayeed died in 2016 and was laid to rest in his ancestral graveyard at Bijbehara in south Kashmir.Read more| Mehbooba Mufti is pro-separatist, shouldn’t talk about rights abuse: BJP leaderThere was no reaction either from the NIA or the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to the PDP chief’s claims.Referring to the alleged bunglings in Jammu and Kashmir Bank during her tenure as the chief minister, Mehbooba said, “What bungling? Let them prove a single case where I or anyone close to me has indulged in any kind of financial misappropriation. I am ready to face the consequences.” On the arrest of Parra by the NIA, she said, after having “failed to prove any corruption charge against me, they are resorting to other ways of maligning me by linking me to terror funding”.“Waheed is a great advocate of democracy, reconciliation and dialogue. He has motivated thousands of youths to join the mainstream. All these charges are figments of their imagination to force me to change track and parrot their narrative,” she said. Parra was arrested by the NIA in November for allegedly getting in touch with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists seeking support for Mehbooba during her Parliamentary elections.The NIA alleges that Parra had paid money through suspended Deputy SP of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh, who has already been arrested for ferrying terrorists from Srinagar to Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-agencies-carrying-out-audit-of-my-father-s-grave-says-mehbooba-mufti/story-UaxcGeR5B5C6N86mm5zo0N.html
04-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights: Every farmer part of movement a ‘satyagrahi’, says Rahul Gandhi||Farmer unions said on Saturday that the protesting farmers- who have been camping at border points near Delhi and neighbouring states- would enter the national capital on Republic Day (January 26) and hold a tractor march if their demands for a repeal of the farm laws and ensuring a legal guarantee of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) are not accepted. Futhermore, representatives of the unions said that a two-week long nationwide campaign named “Desh Jagriti Abhiyan” will be held across the country from January 6 to January 20. Also Read| Morning rains compound problems of protesting farmers at Delhi’s bordersThe seventh round of talks between the farmer unions and the central government will take place on Monday. Earlier, Union minister of state (MoS) for agriculture Kailash Choudhary said he was confident that this meeting would bring out a solution and also conclude the ongoing stir. He pointed out that the laws were in favour of the farmers adding that there should be no confusion on MSP. “The prime minister himself said many times that the provision of selling crops at MSP will continue,” the minister said. So far six rounds of talks have been held between the farmer unions and the Centre. The first five meetings remained inconclusive. However, during the sixth round of meeting which was held on December 30, the Centre addressed only two of the four issues raised by farmers and the main demand of repeal of the farm laws- introduced by the parliament in September- remained unanswered. Also Read| Farmer dies at protest site at Delhi-UP border, suicide suspected: PoliceMeanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi hit out at the Centre once again by saying that it was not listening to the farmers’ legitimate demands which has been going for over a month. Citing media reports,she wrote on Twitter, “The reports of death of farmers sitting on Delhi borders in this chilly weather are disturbing. According to several media reports, nearly 57 farmers have lost their lives and hundreds have fallen sick. The Central Government is acting insensitively by not listening to the farmers’ legitimate demands which has been going on for more than a month.”Follow live updates on the ongoing farmers’ protest here:Rains take down tents but not farmers’ spirit Protesting farmers at the Noida-Delhi border withstood rains and cold weather conditions as their demonstration against the Centre’s recent farm laws continues.We won’t go back till laws are taken back: Onkar Singh, Farmers’ LeaderToday is 37th day, govt should leave its stubbornness. We won’t go back till laws are taken back. It’s disappointing that farmers are losing their lives. So many farmers are braving the cold yet the govt is not taking it seriously: Onkar Singh, Farmers’ Leader at Singhu borderRajasthan CM and Cong leader Sachin Pilot join protest against farm lawsRajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Congress leader Sachin Pilot today joined the protest organised by state Congress against Farm Laws at Shaheed Smarak.Every farmer part of movement a ‘satyagrahi’, says Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday compared the ongoing agitation with the Champaran agitation during the British Raj and said that every farmer who was a part of the protests at present is a ‘satyagrahi’. “The country is going to face a Champaran-like tragedy. British were ‘company Bahadur’ back then and now Modi-friends are ‘company Bahadur’,” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed, Police urges commuters to take alternative routesThe Delhi Traffic Police said on Sunday that Chilla, Ghazipur borders continued to be closed for vehicular movement as the ongoing protests against the farm laws entered day 37. “Traffic Alert The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” Delhi Traffic Police wrote on Twitter.Farmers continue sit-in protests amid harsh weather conditionsFarmers camping at border points near Delhi continued to hold the sit protests against the Centre’s farm laws amid freezing temperatures and rainfall in the national capital. Delhi: Farmers continue to hold sit-in protest at Ghazipur (Delhi-UP border) for 37th day amid rain & cold.A protester says, "We're staying on streets in such harsh weather conditions away from our family. We're hopeful that the govt will accept our demands tomorrow." #FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/XHNPCST5nmRajasthan Congress leaders to protest against farm lawsSeveral leaders from Rajasthan Congress including chief minister Ashok Gehlot, party’s state unit president Govind Singh Dotasara and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will stage a protest at the Shaheed Smarak in capital city of Jaipur demanding the removal of the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-3-2020/story-CqiCqdIqLFSv7ZrG4PYCfO.html
04-01-2021||India||Centre plans AI-backed database to solve similar crimes faster, prevent them||The Centre is developing an Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP)-based database of modus operandi various criminal gangs or individuals use to commit crimes to help police solve such cases faster as well as help them learn about the new methods adopted by criminals. The Modus Operandi Bureau (MOB), the database, will have over 100 modus operandi or trademark of criminals/accused persons involved in crimes till date. It will be updated from time to time depending on new crimes, people familiar with the matter said. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) is developing the database under the Union home ministry’s supervision. It will be accessible to all 16,000 odd police stations across the country through Crime and Criminals Tracking Network Systems (CCTNS). “The criminals keep innovating on regular basis and adopt newer modus operandi. The list of modus operandi can never be exhaustive, but continues to become bigger and perhaps unwieldy. The police investigations will have technological solutions now where with the help of AI and NLP, they will be able to read the text in the FIRs [first information reports] of a large number of cases stored in the CCTNS system and categorize cases as per keywords related to modus operandi,” said a ministry official, requesting anonymity. Read more| Pvt firms, PSUs set to get access to crime databaseNCRB is also working on voice analysis to identify the criminals issuing threats/ransom calls over the phone. A database of voice samples of arrested criminals is being created in the CCTNS for that, said a second official.The second official added the MOB takes care of who the criminal may be and who committed a particular crime. “But another aspect deals with the psychology of criminals and why the offender committed the crime and did what he did.”The second official referred to the November 2019 rape and murder of a Hyderabad woman and added why did the accused burn her body and that too in a particular way. “And whether they would repeat the crime, had they not been shot dead? This relates to research with the help of psychologists based on interviews, family profile, socio-economic factors and so on for which the Bureau of Police Research and Development is currently engaged.”Police across states can read modus operandi and avert incidents, for instance, if there is a serial killer on the loose.The first official said the modus operandi module will produce quality results only if police stations are careful and regular in feeding the FIRs and criminal data into the CCTNS. Read more| Cyber crime cases went up during lockdown, shows Delhi police dataAn Indian Police Service officer, who did not want to be named, said traditionally, when computers were not in much use, details of each criminal used to be kept on cards, which were stored modus operandi wise. “Searching those cards for finding involvement of a possible criminal used to be manual and the investigating officers would visit local modus operandi bureau at the state level for relevant research. These MOBs were normally kept at district or state levels. With national digital MOB, an officer can check everything on his desktop or laptop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-ai-backed-database-to-solve-similar-crimes-faster-prevent-them/story-uOtsuDTF3HpTsxHUFZvwzH.html
