05-01-2021||India||Ladakh delegation to meet Amit Shah on Wednesday for 6th schedule||An 11-member delegation led by former MPs Thiksay Rinpoche and Thupstan Chhewang will meet home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday to press their demand of getting constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule to the strategic Ladakh region. “The home minister had to meet us today but the meeting has been deferred to Wednesday because of his busy schedule,” said Chhewang. He said that the constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule will be discussed with the home minister. “We are confident of getting it because the home minister had given us his commitment. In fact, he had invited us to meet him soon after elections to Leh Hill Development Council but we could not go to Delhi because of the Covid pandemic,” he said. Also read: US welcomes LeT commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi’s arrest on charges of terror financing“Delay happened on our end but we are now hopeful of a fruitful discussion. We are confident that the discussion will pave way for the constitutional safeguards to allay our fears,” said Chhewang. Besides Rinpoche and Chhewang, other members of the delegation include former BJP minister Chering Dorjay, chief executive councillor of Leh Council, Tashi Gyalson, sitting BJP MP and Ladakh unit president Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. On December 21, Apex Body of People’s Movement (ABPM) decided to reach out to the opinion-makers in Leh and Kargil districts to press for the sixth schedule to the strategic Ladakh region. Apex body of People’s Movement, an apolitical body which has former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Thiksay monastery head Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora, has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution to Ladakh on the lines of north-eastern states of having constitutional safeguards.The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organizations and all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers. It may be recalled here that Thupstan Chhewang, former BJP MP, had resigned from his post and primary membership of the party in November 2018 for not conferring UT status to Ladakh region and other promises made by the BJP in 2014 general elections. Sixth schedule also guaranteed no settlement of outsiders in the strategic region. According to the 2011 Census, Ladakh has a population of 1,34,000, the majority of them being Buddhists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-delegation-to-meet-amit-shah-on-wednesday-for-6th-schedule/story-WoF6MNk1TsFlP3Po2Y7WdO.html
05-01-2021||India||BJP MP wants ‘Work From Home’ for techies to be scrapped, says its hurting other sectors||A senior BJP Member of Parliament, PC Mohan, has stirred up a controversy by demanding that ‘work from home’ (WFH) regulations for technology workers should be cancelled as it is negatively impacting the business of other sectors. Mohan, a three-time MP from Bengaluru Central, has said that the state which accounts for nearly a third of the IT exports from the country should cancel the WFH option for tech workers.“Several other sectors whether it is transportation like cabs, rickshaws, or even the hotel and hospitality sector and real estate maintenance workers are severely impacted because of the WFH option being provided to tech workers. While all other sectors have resumed normal work, why don’t tech workers also contribute their bit in normalising economic recovery? The spending done by tech workers in cities like Bengaluru is what sustains and enables other sectors and it is unfair that they are doing WFH,” the parliamentarian said while speaking to the media.Pointing out that a large chunk of the economy especially in a city like Bengaluru had been impacted due to the services not being used by tech workers; Mohan has said that he would request CM BS Yediyurappa to talk to the industry, so that they withdraw WFH. “If flights, trains and buses are running at almost full capacity what prevents IT and BT workers from going back to work? Let them take whatever precaution is required but they should resume ‘normal’ working”Most technology companies have enabled the WFH option for their employees till the end of June at least. A senior IT industry consultant, Lakshmi Vishwanath, however slammed the MP’s demand, “The MP’s demand is ludicrous. What the pandemic did was made companies realise that several functions can be permanently done outside the office with even greater efficiency. It is like demanding that we should not use mechanized tools in construction industry because it will affect the livelihood of some workers. Even now companies will be careful of bringing back their entire workforce to office premises. That model I think is permanently broken.”However, Mohan has said that he would raise the issue with state government so that it could talk to leading technology companies so that they cancel the WFH option for their employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-wants-work-from-home-for-techies-to-be-scrapped-says-its-hurting-other-sectors/story-3v8OHbdSfNzmtIHqVx3tKP.html
05-01-2021||India||Odisha’s Chilika Lake logs its highest ever count with 11.42 lakh migratory birds||The bird population in Odisha’s Chilika Lake has touched its highest in the last two decades with officials estimating around 11.4 lakh birds during the annual bird census of the largest coastal lagoon in the country.Chief executive of Chilika Development Authority Susanta Nanda said the annual bird count of Asia’s largest brackish water lagoon undertaken on Tuesday revealed a record presence of 11.42 lakh migratory birds from 190 species. The annual bird census in the lagoon was carried out in five ranges under the Chilika Wildlife Division. As many as 21 teams comprising 111 wildlife officials, experts and environmentalists were deployed at Satpada in Puri, Rambha in Ganjam and Balugaon and Tangi of Khurda districts for carrying out the migratory bird count exercise.Nanda said last year, the number of birds was estimated at around 11.04 lakh. In 2019, 10.47 lakh birds were counted at the lagoon that is counted among the world’s most amazing biodiversity hotspots.“Wetland ecosystems are highly resilient and bounce bank to normalcy in the shortest possible time. Removal of 160 sq km of encroachment in 2018-19, has resulted in a record arrival of birds. Population of avifauna is the best indicator of health of a wetland ecosystem. Thanks to all the staff involved in making Chilika a safe haven for migratory birds,” he said.Covering an approx area of 1,100 sq km, the lagoon is the largest wintering ground for migratory birds in India. It welcomes numerous species of endangered birds every winter season. The lagoon hosts birds from as far as Russia, Mongolia, Central and Southeast Asia and Himalayas, that flock to the lagoon during the migratory season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-chilika-lake-logs-its-highest-ever-count-with-11-42-lakh-migratory-birds/story-jNWnWvaor6CgJYTb2fQUjO.html
05-01-2021||India||Now, vendor in Bulandshahr booked for selling ‘Thakur’ brand shoes||The Uttar Pradesh have registered against a roadside vendor for selling footwear of ‘Thakur’ brand in Gulaothi police station area of Bulandshahr district. The vendor Nasir’s family has accused the police of keeping him in custody for over 48 hours. “He was taken into custody on Monday morning and thereafter a case was registered against him,” Nasir’s father Saleem told mediapersons. Circle officer of Secundrabad area Namrata Srivastava said that a case under Sections 153A, 323C and 504 of IPC had been registered against Nasir and he had been taken into custody. “A team has been sent to the shop from where he bought the shoes for further investigation,” said the CO.He said that members of an organisation had gone to buy shoes and thereafter reported the matter to the police. “The case was registered on their complaint,” said the CO. He did not mention the name of the members of the organization but sources said they belonged to the Bajrang Dal. A video circulated on social media shows Nasir explaining to a group of activists that he was simply selling the shoes and knew nothing about the brand name. The same activists are seen advising him that he should have removed that particular lot of shoes to protect his trade from a bad name. Ironically, Thakur Footwear Company is an Agra-based brand which has been in business for over six decades. The company sells shoes by the name of TFC and has a good customer base. But it is not clear whether Nasir was selling shoes of the original brand or counterfeits. The police have justified the action through a tweet which claimed, “Had police not taken action in the case, many people would have reacted critically/ differently. Therefore, police initiated action under the purview of law.” The Samajwadi Party has criticised the police action and said the government should instead act against officials who approved Thakur brand name. Samajwadi Party leader and former member of state planning commission Sudhir Panwar said, “It seems the police acted in haste to please their political bosses because the shoe vendor did not commit a crime. He was just selling shoes after purchasing them from a wholesaler. Action should be taken against those government officials who approved Thakur brand name”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-vendor-in-bulandshahr-booked-for-selling-thakur-brand-shoes/story-gTMkSqAMUoV6Q5Ec3pe5UN.html
05-01-2021||India||US welcomes LeT commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi’s arrest on charges of terror financing||The United States on Tuesday welcomed the arrest of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi by Pakistani authorities on charges of terror financing but also called for his prosecution for his role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks. “We welcome Pakistan’s arrest of terrorist leader Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi as an important step in holding him responsible for his role in supporting terrorism and its financing,” the US state department’s bureau of South and Central Asian affairs said on Twitter.“We will follow his prosecution & sentencing closely & urge that he be held accountable for his involvement in the Mumbai attacks,” it said.Lakhvi, one of the alleged masterminds of the Mumbai attacks, was arrested by Pakistani authorities on January 2 on charges of involvement in terror financing, almost five years after he was freed on bail. His whereabouts had not been known since he was released on bail from a jail in Rawalpindi in April 2015. However, it was widely believed he had continued playing a key role in directing the activities of LeT even while he was in prison after being arrested in the aftermath of the Mumbai carnage. Six US citizens were among the 166 people killed when a 10-member LeT team attacked Mumbai in November 2008.A spokesperson for the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of Pakistan’s Punjab province said in a statement that Lakhvi was arrested on charges of terrorism financing during an intelligence-based operation. “He is accused of running a dispensary [and] using funds collected for terrorism financing. He [and] others also collected funds from this dispensary and used these funds for further terrorism financing. He also used these funds for personal expenses,” the spokesman said. Lakhvi, who is also a UN-designated terrorist, will face trial in an anti-terrorism court in Lahore, the spokesperson said.Last year, LeT founder Hafiz Saeed was convicted in five separate cases of terror financing and given a jail term ranging from five years to fifteen-and-half years. These sentences will run concurrently. Lakhvi’s arrest came weeks ahead of the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF) planned reassessment of Pakistan’s efforts to counter terror financing. In October last year, the multilateral watchdog retained Pakistan in its “grey list” for failing to fully deliver on an action plan to fight terror financing, and gave the country time till February to address what it said were “very serious deficiencies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-welcomes-let-commander-zakiur-rehman-lakhvi-s-arrest-on-charges-of-terror-financing/story-PjypeqBZXfkhinxE05lbhM.html
05-01-2021||India||Odisha POCSO court says accused in rape and murder of 5-year-old girl is minor||In a setback to Odisha police in the alleged rape and murder case of a 5-year-old girl, a POCSO court on Tuesday ruled that the prime accused is a minor and has to be produced before a Juvenile Justice Board.On Monday, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) which is probing the alleged rape and murder of a 5-year-old girl in Nayagarh district had filed an application at a POCSO court of Nayagarh for narco analysis test of the prime accused. The court pronounced the decision while hearing a petition filed by the parents of the accused claiming that he was a minor on the day of the incident last year.“Taking into account the age of the accused as per the matriculation certificate and birth certificate, the POCSO court ruled that the accused was a minor and hence needs to be produced before a juvenile justice board,” said public prosecutor Bansidhar Routray.The court also sent him to Angul Juvenile Home and ordered that hearing on SIT’s plea for a narco test on January 8 by the Juvenile Justice Board.The Opposition BJP which is demanding a CBI probe into the case, has been accusing SIT chief Arun Bothra of shielding BJD minister Arun Sahoo by arresting the youth. The party has made it a major political issue and organised a padyatra to the village of the victim demanding justice. Last year on July 14, the 5-year-old daughter of a rickshaw-puller in Nayagarh district, went missing while playing outside. Ten days later, her skeletal remains were discovered in a sack outside their house. The girl’s father alleged that his daughter was killed by one Babuli Nayak, an aide of higher education minister Arun Sahoo.The victim’s parents also alleged their daughter may have fallen victim to an organ racket which they claimed Nayan ran. With the local police slow to take action, the parents of the girl tried to bring attention to the case by attempting self-immolation outside the Odisha Assembly on November 24. The state government then set up the SIT which claimed that the accused was an 18-year-old youth.Bothra had also claimed that the accused had strangulated the little girl after failing to sexually assault her. The SIT even subjected him to bone ossification test and claimed he was above 18 years.Hours after the POCSO court order, the SIT issued a statement saying that as per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 amended after the Nirbhaya case, any accused between the age of 16-18 years would be tried as an adult in the POCSO Court if he is involved in heinous offence. “Since the present case relates to the most heinous crime the SIT will appraise the JJB to try the accused as an adult under appropriate provision of the law,” the SIT said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-pocso-court-says-accused-in-rape-and-murder-of-5-year-old-girl-is-minor/story-i2VUmbTOFwcb8SSs4gu8RK.html
05-01-2021||India||MiG-21 aircraft of IAF crashes in Rajasthan; pilot safe||A MiG-21 aircraft of the Indian Air Force crashed on Tuesday night near Suratgarh in Rajasthan, officials said. The pilot of the aircraft ejected safely, the IAF said, adding the incident took place around 8:15pm. During a training sortie in the western sector, a MiG-21 Bison aircraft experienced a major technical malfunction this evening. The pilot ejected safely at about 2015 hrs. There is no loss of life. An Court of Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident.“During a training sortie in the western sector, a MiG-21 Bison aircraft experienced a major technical malfunction this evening. The pilot ejected safely at about 2015 hrs. There is no loss of life,” the IAF tweeted.It said a court of inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mig-21-aircraft-of-iaf-crashes-in-rajasthan-pilot-safe/story-M7x0JBPySKvqiL7817qlxK.html
05-01-2021||India||In their world of beanie caps||As the temperature begins to plummet, we tend to get layered. From sweaters, coats, boots to cardigans all add to our winter style statement. Lucknow is witnessing sharp fall in temperature and youngsters are all game for putting their best fashion foot forward with various winter clothing accessories including beanie caps, berets, stoles, scarves, mufflers and shawls being available online and in local market. The youth are leaving no stone unturned to make a fashion statement.According to Dr Rashmi Munshi, associate professor NIFT, accessorising right is the key to winter fashion. “Winter dressing is all about layering and dressing tends to give a bulkier look. So, one should use contrasting colour beanies, mufflers and others to break monotony of dark winter clothes. Also, it keeps you all warm and then woollen items have resurfaced as the most fashionable trend.”For law student, Naureen Rizvi and home maker Ruchika Kumar winter fashion is all about beanie, pullovers and boots. “For me beanie cap is a must to complete my winter dressing. It helps me to complete my fashionable look. I have a large number of beanies of pastel as well as dark shades to match it with my sweaters,” said Naureen.Then for some beanies are not only a fashion wear but they sport it to keep all warm and cozy. Banking professional Richa Jhingran says, “I actually wear beanie caps as they keep me warm and saves from catching cold. Whenever I sport these caps, they do add a lot of statement to my winter attires.”Youngsters who are constantly travelling to hills have beanie caps as their essential winter wear. UX designer Yamina, said, “I’m an avid traveller and love mountains, so for me, beanies are my travelling partners and they take maximum of luggage space along with trench coats.”Dr Munshi adds that the only thing that one should keep in mind with these clothing accessories are to keep your collection up-to-date and one should avoid bubbled caps. “As beanie caps are largely made of woollen their storage is challenging and then due to regular wear they do get bubbled. I suggest one should have fabric shaver handy to solve the constant bubbling issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/in-their-world-of-beanie-caps/story-AiTS2JoLAAMOJFqu6YXuPM.html
05-01-2021||India||Pressure of sequel is more than the debut, says Ritam Srivastav||The preceding year saw Lucknow-lad Ritam Srivastav’s directorial debut with series ‘Raktanchal’ followed by another crime-drama ‘Beehad Ka Baghi’. Both the series got a good audience response and the young director is now gearing up for the next season of the series which he says will be much bigger. With second season in the making Ritam is being very guarded and watchful. “The curse of sequels is weighing too much on me. Seeing the debacle of second seasons of some big shows, the kind of pressure I’m facing is much more then my debut release. I extra careful with the show,” he said. Though he cites examples of franchisees like ‘Peaky Blinders’, ‘Breaking Bad’, ‘The Wire’, ‘Money Heist’ and others that took their second season to the next level. “From my experience, I can say that we need to be close to the original characters and storyline while integrating new angles. One should not be repetitive and try to add a fresh milieu with same characters. So, I am working with this vision and combination.” The shoot of the second season is expected to start in February-March in Varanasi. Ritam has been chief assistant director with Prakash Jha in films likes ‘Raajneeti’ ‘Aarakshan’, Chakravyuh, ‘Satyagraha’ and ‘Jai Gangaajal’. Before that he completed his masters from Lucknow University and ‘Vishrad’ from Bhatkhande Music Institute Deemed University then ventured into theatre with writing and back-stage management. His latest OTT series ‘Beehad Ka Baghi’ was originally his directorial debut film that he converted into five-edisode drama. He is also writing for his next feature film. “I have done enough of socio-thrillers with Prakashji and both my projects were crime drama. So, next I will make a love story which will be set and shot in my hometown Lucknow.” Before lockdown he also directed a short film ‘Maternity Blues’ with Mansi Parekh and Raj Arjun which is expecting an OTT release soon, he concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pressure-of-sequel-is-more-than-the-debut-says-ritam-srivastav/story-2ryGUqeULfZJzO4Be3BHWJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling: NIA files chargesheet against 20 accused||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Kerala gold smuggling case on Tuesday filed the first charge- sheet against selected accused in a special court in Kochi. In a surprise move, fourth accused in the case Sandip Nair, who was arrested along with prime accused Swapna Suresh from their hideout in Bengaluru in July, was made an approver in the case.The NIA filed the first chargesheet since some of the accused were planning to move court for bail citing their 6-month long judicial custody. Twenty people have been named in the charge-sheet and they were booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act Sections 16, 17, 18 and 20, said NIA in a statement.But senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, who was Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s secretary, did not figure in the initial charge-sheet. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested him in connection with money laundering related to the smuggling case. Among the 35 arrested, 20 figure in the first charge-sheet. A senior official familiar with the probe said a supplementary charge-sheet will be filed later as the investigation progressed. He also said hectic efforts are on to extradite some of accused staying in West Asian countries. The chargesheet was filed by investigating officer Radhakrishna Pillai before the NIA court. Earlier, while hearing the bail pleas of some of the accused, the court had repeatedly asked the agency to submit the terror angle evidence in the case. This is the first time the agency slapped the UAPA, which is usually invoked for terror incidents, in a smuggling case. “Investigation revealed that the accused had knowingly conspired since June 2019, raised funds and smuggled from the UAE, between November 19 and June 20 around 167 kgs of gold, through the import cargo addressed to diplomats at the consular general office of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram,” said the NIA. The main accused in the case also planned to smuggle more gold from countries like Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia, it said adding eight accused were absconding. The case was registered by the central agency on July 10. The sensational gold smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of the yellow metal was seized by the Customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later PS Sarith Kumar, a former public relations officer of the consulate who came to receive the baggage, was arrested by the Customs. Customs sniffed trouble after many household items were imported through the consular office. Five days later, two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru by the NIA. Later senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, Kerala CM’s principal secretary, was arrested after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced.Now a multi-agency team involving five central agencies is probing the case and has arrested 34 people. The Enforcement Directorate had grilled another secretary of the Chief Minister, CM Raveendran, and state minister KT Jaleel a couple of times in connection with the case. Meanwhile, Speaker P Sivaramakrishnan’s additional private secretary K Ayyappan, who was summoned by the Customs in connection with the case, failed to appear before the agency. He later informed the Commissionerate of Customs that he would appear after getting a proper notice. There is a strong speculation that the Speaker will also be summoned. There are many allegations saying he travelled with some of the accused during foreign trips.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-nia-files-chargesheet-against-20-accused/story-3NlZASK2ogrGp7y9RJGtpJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Flights to UK will begin from January 6 amid concerns over new mutant strain||Two Air India flights — one from Delhi and one from Mumbai — will fly for London on January 6, as the Indian government is reopening India-UK flights which were closed in the last week of December amid concerns over the new mutant strain first spotted in the United Kingdom. Flights from the UK will be allowed to come to India from January 8, the civil aviation ministry has clarified. According to UK government’s Covid-19 restrictions, people arriving in the UK need to complete a passenger locator form which requires passport details, travel details (times and dates), the address where you will stay in the UK (if applicable), a booking reference number and the name of the test provider, if you are using ‘Test to Release’ to find out if you can end self-isolation early. Test to Release is a travel scheme for international travellers who need to self-isolate. They can take a Covid-19 test with a private test provider to see if they can their self-isolation early.In the wake of the new mutant strain of Coronavirus, which is believed to be more contagious, India put an embargo on flight operations between the two countries on December 21, which became effective from December 23. Initially, the ban was till December 31, but was later extended to January 7. The ministry has clarified that while flights from the UK will be able to enter India from January 8, flights from India will start from January 6.As of now, only 30 flights will be operational between the countries instead of 70, the number with which India and the UK resumed flight services after lockdown.For passengers travelling to India from the UK, the health ministry has issued a detailed guideline where they will have to upload their RT-PCR test report on a portal. Department of Biotechnology secretary Renu Swarup on Tuesday said the number of people tested positive for the new mutant strain of Coronavirus has reached 71.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-to-uk-begin-from-january-6-amid-concerns-over-new-mutant-strain/story-Ca9fAbj4InxeakSTJgIP3M.html
05-01-2021||India||Budget session of Parliament expected to begin on January 29||The Budget session of Parliament is likely to begin on January 29 and is expected to be held in two phases; the first phase till February 15 and the second phase for a month beginning March 8, people aware of the details said. The tentative dates were decided after a meeting of the cabinet committee for parliamentary affairs on Tuesday, but a final decision will be taken after consultation with opposition parties by the end of the week, said a person aware of the details. The Budget session that comes amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation over the farm bills that were passed by Parliament in September and the controversy over the clearance given to indigenous Covid-19 vaccines, will be held keeping in view the protocols laid for the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure the safety of parliamentarians, the secretariat staff and mediapersons. On account of the pandemic, the Winter Session of Parliament could not be held. “Since the Budget has to be passed on February 1; the session has to be scheduled accordingly. All precautions will be taken to ensure the safety of the attending members,” said a BJP functionary not wishing to be quoted. The government is gearing up to face an aggressive opposition that has been critical of the farm bills that were passed amid a din during the Monsoon Session held in September. While the Opposition blames the government for not sending the bills to a select committee for further scrutiny, the government for its part said the opposition created a ruckus in the house and chose to disrupt the proceedings instead of seeking a division of votes when the bills were taken up for passage in the Rajya Sabha. The government has denied the accusation of the opposition and a faction of the protesting farmers that the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 will benefit corporates and end the minimum support price guaranteed by the government. The opposition is also expected to corner the government on the state of the economy, and its response to the coronavirus pandemic. “There is a whole gamut of issues that the government has to answer including the ongoing farmers agitation if that is not resolved by then (by the time Parliament convenes). Another important issue is the vaccine distribution; we need to know how the government plans to distribute the vaccine because the pandemic has been the biggest challenge. Besides there are other governance issues that the party will raise,” said Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP, Vivek Tankha. During the last session, owing to the pandemic, the Question Hour was dispensed with, which was criticised by the opposition. The opposition parties had alleged that the government was shying away from answering questions. “We hope the session is held in the usual way as is customary. There should be a Question Hour. The government seems to be gradually avoiding answering questions, whether it is inside Parliament or outside, even replies to questions filed under the Right to Information Act are either evasive or rejected on flimsy grounds,” said RS MP, Sukhendu Shekhar Ray of the Trinamool Congress. Pinaki Misra, Lok Sabha MP from Puri in Odisha and a BJD leader also said that the opposition will raise a range of issues during the session. “We are looking forward to the session because there are a lot of pressing issues to discuss,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-of-parliament-expected-to-begin-on-january-29/story-PbGlCElOG4NyuUhJKrj7qL.html
05-01-2021||India||SC says it is govt’s ‘bounden obligation’ to keep citizens well-informed about its actions||It is the “bounden obligation” of the government in a democratic set up to keep citizens well informed about its actions as disclosure of full information acts as an “enabler for meaningful participation”, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday.Granting open access to information also secures the goal of transparency to which “all public institutions are wedded”, the apex court said.It further said that unless complete and relevant information about government decision is placed in the public domain, the citizens would be ill-equipped to engage with the government in a meaningful manner.Dealing with the issue of participatory democracy in India, it said that the Right to Information Act, 2005 has empowered citizens to obtain information from the government but it would be “absolutely untenable” to say that there is no duty on the government to be open.The top court said this in its 2:1 majority verdict by which it paved way for the ambitious Central Vista Project, covering a 3-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens’ Delhi.“In a democratic setup where the citizen has entrusted abundant governance to the government, it is bounden obligation of the government to keep the citizens well informed about its actions, as a prudent trustee would,” Justice A M Khanwilkar, writing the 432-page majority verdict for himself and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, said.“In a democracy, disclosure of full information is empowerment and acts as an enabler for meaningful participation. Granting open access to information also secures the goal of transparency to which all public institutions are wedded,” the majority verdict said.It said that right from the days of struggle for freedom to the debates of Constituent Assembly and afterwards in independent India, “we have invariably embraced the representative model of democracy wherein political sovereignty vested in the people of India and legal sovereignty vested in the Constitution of India”.The majority verdict said that over a period of time, there has been a constant endeavour to encourage wider public participation, wherever possible and required, keeping in view the efficiency of administration and rule of law.“A holistic understanding of the dispensation envisaged under our Constitution would reveal that we are a representative democracy with strong elements of participatory democracy embedded in it. The element of participation, however, is regulated not only by statutes but also by the Constitution,” it said.It said the principle of participatory democracy has two integral elements -- public participation in decision making and placing information regarding government actions in public domain.“The citizens are completely free to advocate any notion along the government policy or the manner of making it in their free exercise of right to speech and expression, but enforcement of such notion cannot be fructified by resorting to judicial review,” it said.“The idea of public involvement in administrative matters is based upon the stage and extent of representation prescribed by the legislature. No country with a sizeable population like ours can give a promise of direct participation to every individual in the decision-making process (of the government) in administrative matters unless the law so prescribes,” it said.The top court said it must be borne in mind that such public participation is not to supplant the discretion of the government or to retard the development work. “We are in an information age and political justice would be incomplete without informational justice which essentially requires the decision makers to consider the subjects of their decisions as rightful recipients of all information that may have an impact on their lives,” it said.The verdict was delivered on a batch of petitions, which have questioned several aspects including the environmental clearance (EC) granted regarding the Central Vista project. The top court held that grant of EC and the notification for change in land use for construction of new parliament building under the project was valid.The Central Vista revamp, announced in September, 2019 envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is likely to be built by 2024 under the project.Justice Sanjiv Khanna, the third judge on the bench, wrote a dissenting judgement on aspects relating to public participation in the decision-making process and on alleged failure on the part of the authorities in taking prior approval of the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) for the project.He, however, concurred with the majority verdict on the aspects of “notice inviting bid, award of consultancy and the order of the Urban Arts Commission, as a standalone and independent order”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-it-is-govt-s-bounden-obligation-to-keep-citizens-well-informed-about-its-actions/story-oWLuKDVUNflFkOO3jnNqRN.html
05-01-2021||India||NDRF personnel deployed in firefighting operation at Dzukou Valley found dead||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) who was deployed to fight the Dzukou Valley wildfire was found dead inside a base camp in the hills near the valley in Manipur on Tuesday morning, police said.The ASI has been identified as Nongthombam Binoy Meetei,a resident of Luwangshangbam Maning Leikai in Manipur’s Imphal East District, a police official of Mao Police station in Senapati district said. The cause of the death is not yet known, police said.The body has been sent to JNIMS mortuary in Imphal for necessary procedure.Chief Minister N Biren Singh expressed shock and sorrow over the death of Binoy Meetei.NDRF teams from Guwahati along with state disaster response force, fire and police personnel besides volunteers from Mao area have been engaged in firefighting operations after the blaze that broke out in the Dzukou Range in Nagaland on December 29 spread across the border to Manipur on the morning of December 31. Indian Air Force helicopters were also pressed into service to fight the fire. Dzukou valley straddles Nagaland and Manipur and is a popular trekking destination for its picturesque biodiversity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-personnel-deployed-in-firefighting-operation-at-dzukou-valley-found-dead/story-4pj7LBnRLV71R66moyZj0L.html
05-01-2021||India||Apex court says judicial activism permissible to an extent in national interest||Judicial activism in “national interest” is certainly permissible to an extent, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday, rejecting submissions that it should not have transferred to itself the pleas challenging the Central Vista project from various forums as it led to denial of statutory right to approach other courts or panels. The observations were made by the top court in its majority judgement giving green signal to the Centre’s ambitious Central Vista Project, covering a 3-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens’ Delhi.A three-judge bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar, by 2:1 majority, dealt with the submissions that the top court should not have transferred to itself the pleas from the Delhi High Court and other judicial forum as it denied some of the litigants their statutory rights. “In any case, once a cause reaches this court and of this nature, the fundamental concern of the court is and must be not only of doing substantial and complete justice, but also expeditious resolution of all aspects in larger public interest. This we must do within the constitutional bounds. Judicial activism to this limited extent is certainly permissible, in national interest,” Justice Khanwilkar said in the 432-page majority judgement. While transferring the cases, the underlying principle at play is the duty of the top court to do complete justice as envisaged under Article 142 (extra-ordinary power of the apex court to impart justice) of the Constitution, he said. “We have had plethora of cases in the post-PIL period wherein prolonged litigation against infrastructural projects resulted in inordinate delays to the extent that the projects got buried forever or became unviable owing to excessive burden on the public exchequer (honest taxpayers’ money). That is where this Court’s power to do not only complete but substantial justice gets triggered,” it said.There is no doubt that the broad approach of a constitutional Court in dealing with a public interest matter has to be a vigilant one to further larger public interest, it said.“The laws delay due to tardy flow of Court processes (for variety of reasons attributable to different stakeholders or duty holders or so to say systematic one) must not let itself become an impediment in the fulfilment of development goals of our hallowed nation and consequently to the future generation,” it held.Depending on the subject matter, the Constitutional Courts must address the legal challenges at the earliest opportunity without being bogged down by technicalities, in national interest, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-says-judicial-activism-permissible-to-an-extent-in-national-interest/story-uRbMCIHpg68sbtcSAqnYFK.html
05-01-2021||India||India may have to make choices on arms deals, says outgoing US envoy Kenneth Juster||With the possibility of sanctions hanging over India’s $5.4-billion deal with Russia for the S-400 air defence systems, outgoing US envoy Kenneth Juster said on Tuesday that New Delhi may need to make hard decisions regarding the acquisition of military hardware. The US recently imposed secondary sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for a $2.5-billion deal with Russia for S-400 systems, and experts have warned that India could face similar strictures. Also Read: China flies choppers over Lhasa in military drill to tame TibetParticipating in a question and answer session after delivering a farewell address at an event organised by the Observer Research Foundation, Juster said sanctions under CAATSA weren’t aimed against friends of the US. However, he cautioned that India might soon need to make choices between “trade-offs” and acquiring hi-tech US military hardware. “The CAATSA sanctions were never designed to harm friends and allies. They were aimed at a particular country. And there are many variables involved in it and I think...I would put that issue to the side because I see other issues that potentially affect the future of the defence relationship,” he said. India has sought to keep its options open on the issue of arms purchases and the country’s leadership has signalled its intent to continue with the acquisition of military hardware from Russia, which accounts for more than 60% of the weapons systems of the three services. Russia too has said the S-400 deal is on track despite the threat of US sanctions and the five systems ordered by India will be delivered over a five-year period. Also Read: Ladakh was the starting point. India-China ties are getting complicatedHowever, Juster said India’s approach had its limitations and “choices that might ultimately need to be made”. “As systems get more technologically advanced, country A that does not get along with country B will be less willing to sell technology that could potentially be compromised to country B,” he said, in an oblique reference to concerns that the S-400 could gather the electronic signatures of US-origin aircraft operated by India. “We haven’t hit that point yet but that could come down in the future and that will be an issue that – there are trade-offs. India has to decide how much it matters to get the most sophisticated technology, how much it matters to be as inter-operable as it can be, within its technology and potentially with other friendly forces, and how much it matters to diversify its sources of procurement,” he added. Only the Indian government can decide on the trade-offs but this issue could be a constraint to the transfer of advanced technology and the broader defence relationship, he said. The Indian government’s choices will set the “ceiling” for defence cooperation. “From the US perspective, we’d like to do more, and in a sense, I think you’re pushing on an open door,” Juster said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-have-to-make-choices-on-arms-deals-says-outgoing-us-envoy-kenneth-juster/story-F0zSPPG02XYZsNk09ltogI.html
05-01-2021||India||Dry run blooper in Varanasi leads to vaccine boxes transported on bicycle||Health officials were left red-faced on Tuesday after Covid vaccine boxes were transported on a bicycle to Varanasi’s District Women’s Hospital at Kabir Chaura from the vaccine storage centre at the Government Hospital, Chauka Ghat during the dry run of the vaccine that began at six centres at 10 am. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr VB Singh has sought a written explanation on the issue from the cold chain handler looking after the arrangement of vaccine transportation to the hospital from the storage centre.“The dry run was completed at district women hospital, Kabir Chaura successfully. A vaccine porter transported the vaccine carrier (boxes) on a bicycle to the District Women Hospital from Urban CHC, Chauka Ghat. As the matter came to light, the porter was asked to go back to the Urban CHC, Chauka Ghat. In this regard, an explanation has been sought from the cold chain handler working at Chauka Ghat based Town hall Vaccine Distribution Center as to why he sent the porter while the vaccine carriers were already kept for the Corona Vaccination to be done in the coming days,” he said.During the actual transportation of vaccines, the cold chain will have to be maintained and all vaccines would be transported in an AC van from storage centres to hospitals, officials said. Dr Singh said the dry run was completed successfully.“Dry run (mock drill) of Covid-19 vaccination at pre-determined six sites, including District Women’s Hospital, Kabir Chaura, Urban Community Health Center, Shivpur, Community Health Centre (CHC) Haathi, CHC Misirpur , PHC Pindra and Heritage Hospital in the district was completed successfully. Dry run means the rehearsal of vaccination was done without applying Covid-19 vaccine,” he said in a statement.District magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said that there was no real vaccine in the dry run. Dry run was done using empty boxes, he said. “The vaccine storage point is already established at the Women Hospital. During the dry run, vaccine was not to be sent to the Women Hospital from Chauka Ghat. Therefore, a vehicle was not planned for the same,” Sharma said. The DM also said that a show cause notice has been issued to the cold chain handler at Chauka Ghat for sending the vaccine boxes by bicycle.He said a real vaccination round will be organised on the basis of feedback received in the dry run. Health department officials conceded that although it was merely a dry run, the transportation of the vaccine boxes in a bicycle was considered a lapse.“That’s because the dry run was held to ensure that such a lapse doesn’t occur during actual transportation,” an official said. “Twenty-five people in each of the 6 centres were present during the vaccine’s dry run,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dry-run-blooper-in-varanasi-leads-to-vaccine-boxes-transported-on-bicycle/story-243XkYqur8EbFVRe7xmGML.html
05-01-2021||India||‘Welcome SC verdict on Central Vista, govt sensitive to environmental concerns’: Puri||Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said the government welcomes the Supreme Court judgement giving green signal to the Central Vista redevelopment project. He asserted that the government has always been sensitive to environmental concerns.The apex court on Tuesday gave its nod to the Central Vista project by a 2:1 majority. The three-judge bench, however, insisted that the clearance of the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) will be mandatory and the same should be obtained by the project consultant before proceeding with the development work.“We welcome the Judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court giving the go ahead for the ambitious Central Vista Project. Central Govt has always been sensitive to environmental concerns & will continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction,” Puri tweeted.“Delhi is on course to becoming a World Class capital city and in the first step by the time nation completes 75 years of its Independence in 2022 a new Parliament building will be ready reflecting the aspirations of new India,” his tweet read.Also read: Karnataka to vaccinate 6.3 lakh healthcare workers in first phaseThe plan, being handled by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves a new Parliament by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022. The entire project is slated to be finished by 2024.According to the project implementing agency the Central Public Works Department, the construction of the new Parliament is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months with the “highest standards of quality and workmanship”.Last month, the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) conditionally approved new terms of reference for the development or redevelopment of common central secretariat buildings, a central conference centre, the Prime Minister’s Residence, Vice President’s Enclave and a building for the Special Protection Group (SPG) as part of the Central Vista project.Also read: Andhra ex-intelligence chief accuses Jagan govt of witch hunt, fears arrestThe EAC had specified as many as 18 conditions, asking the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to list the environmental, social and economic benefits of the project and the cumulative impact of all developments undertaken in the Central Vista avenue including its effect on baseline environmental quality, according to the minutes of a December 17 meeting.The total built-up area has been reduced from 18,37,057 sq.m to 17,21, 500 sq.m, but the cost of the redevelopment project has increased by Rs 1,656 crore, from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.The minutes suggest that around 4,58,820.0 sq m of built-up area will need to be demolished as part of the project.According to the tender for the next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project — the redevelopment and restructuring of the Central Vista Avenue, which includes most of the Rajpath stretch and the row of government offices that run parallel to it - the contractors will have to install air purifiers and keep construction noise under preset thresholds, HT had reported on November 9.The second phase of the project will include the demolition of dozens of office buildings. Broadly, the plan includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are spread over 30 buildings now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welcome-sc-verdict-on-central-vista-govt-sensitive-to-environmental-concerns-puri/story-SI2Ka02L0AUBeHfgXw6UMK.html
05-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Will take the vaccine which health ministry specifies for me, says Niti Aayog member and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will take that vaccine...’: What Niti Aayog member says about his preference between Covishield and CovaxinAmid the raging debate over the efficacy of indigenous Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and Pune’s National Institute of Virology, the Centre on Tuesday clarified why Covaxin has been given the emergency-use approval though its third phase trial is still going on. Read moreMixed response to Tamil Nadu allowing 100% seating in theatresTamil Nadu government’s decision to allow 100 per cent seating in cinemas from the current 50 per cent capacity has evoked mixed response amidst the Covid-19 pandemic and a new variant of the virus being detected in four people in the state. While some movie goers welcomed the move, experts are worried that people gathered inside an enclosed space will lead to further spread of the virus. Read moreCongress MLA loses status of leader of opposition in Assam assemblyLeader of the Congress legislature party in Assam assembly Debabrata Saikia has lost his position as leader of opposition (LoP) after two MLAs of his party quit and joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Read moreFake Covid-19 vaccines are flooding the dark web as slow vaccine rollout frustratesAs millions of people await their turn to get a Covid-19 vaccine that could be months away, scammers online, in emails and on messaging apps are luring victims with claims they can deliver shots within days for as little as $150. Covid-19 vaccine scams are on the rise, according to European and US government officials who are warning the public of fraudsters out for money and personal data. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for 3rd Test: Ajinkya Rahane & co. likely to make two changes in SydneyAfter a memorable win at MCG to get back the series at level pegging, Ajinkya Rahane-led Indian team will look to continue the same form in Sydney in the third Test. The Indian team is expected to make a couple of changes, as fast bowler Umesh Yadav who was in impressive form in the first two games with the new ball, was ruled out of the series due to a strained calf muscle. Read moreShashi Tharoor responds to Kangana Ranaut’s rebuttal: ‘I’d like all Indian women to be as empowered as you’Politician and author, Shashi Tharoor, has responded to actor Kangana Ranaut’s rebuttal to his call for homemaking to be designated a salaried profession. Earlier on Tuesday, Kangana had said, “we don’t need salary for being the Queens of our own little kingdom.” Read moreSamsung teases laptop screen tech that will be showcased in upcoming “First Look 2021” eventIf you have been following Samsung, you might be aware that the company is hosting the “First Look 2021” event tomorrow (January 6). In the teaser, the company talked about introducing new screen technology for the masses through different devices. Read moreIshaan Khatter, Ananya Panday flaunt their Maldives tan, quirky fashion at Mumbai airport, get gossip mills rollingKhaali Peeli actors Ishaan Khatter and Ananya Panday got the rumour mills going when they shared pictures from the same resort during their Maldives vacation, and were even spotted at Mumbai airport arriving together, skins sun tanned, wearing quirky casual outfits. Read moreThe Weeknd changes Instagram profile pic to this fan art, twitter reactsCanadian singer, The Weeknd has captured netizens’ attention. This time around it is not for his trendy tunes or captivating music videos but for a rather unique reason. The mastermind behind songs such as Save Your Tears recently changed his Instagram profile picture to a sketch of himself that a fan drew. Read moreWatch| Covid: What led to DCGI nod of Covishield & Covaxin in India? IMCR DG explains||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-will-take-the-vaccine-which-health-ministry-specifies-for-me-says-niti-aayog-member-and-all-the-latest-news/story-bzv1otSVQs1n56SIo7RsMJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Nearly 25,000 birds die of 2 strains of bird flu, states on alert||Close to 25,000 birds have died due to different variants of bird flu in states like Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh even as the Centre has issued alert to the states to monitor the health of birds in forest areas and near water bodies, officials from multiple states said.Forest department officials said the source of bird flu was migratory birds which probably came from Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries and have spread to native species. In Kerala, about 20,000 ducks have died in past one week whereas in Himachal close to 3,400 migratory birds died in the past fortnight. In Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, there have been reports of crow deaths in several districts.In Rajasthan’s Kota and Baran districts and in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore and Malwa regions, the crow deaths was because of Avian Influenza subtype H5N8, which according to experts is less infectious. Till Tuesday, 625 crow deaths were reported from 16 of 33 districts in Rajasthan. “The virus has not affected chickens or eggs but all precautions are taken, looking at the way it spreads among crows. But the positive news is there that samples from Jodhpur have tested negative. Those from Jhalawar, Kota and Baran have tested positive,” said Rajasthan animal husbandry minister Lal Chand Kataria. The minister said the area where the flu is found will be sanitised as done during Covid-19.Also read: After schools reopen in Karnataka, more than 25 teachers test positive for Covid-19As a precautionary measure, prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) have been invoked within a kilometre of the infected area in Jhalawar and Pali districts. The government is also considering sealing Madhya Pradesh border for poultry transportation,” he said. Rajasthan animal husbandry department secretary Arushi Malik said avian influenza subtype H5N8 is not dangerous for people but precautions need to be taken as the disease can spread among birds. Microbiologist, Dr AK Kataria said the virus strain H5N8 is not fatal for humans, and only H5N1 is known, which leads to pneumonia. The strains, which are considered to be highly pathogenic, are N1, N2, N5, N6 and N9. “The situation can be dealt opting required precautions such as burying dead birds three feet down and away from water sources,” he said.Like Rajasthan, in Madhya Pradesh, the bird flu virus H5N8 has spread to 10 districts and about 500 crows have died since December 23. “There is no sign of other birds including poultry having been infected by any virus,” said director of animal husbandry department Dr RK Rokde.He added that bird flu found in poultry is H1N5. “We collected samples from poultry farms in the affected districts and we didn’t find any traces of bird flu. It is relief for us that the infection is limited to crows only,” said principal secretary, animal Husbandry JN Kansotia.The districts where crows were found dead include Indore, Mandsaur, Agar-Malwa, Khargone, Neemuch, Dewas, Ujjain, Shajapur, all in Malwa region; Sehore in central region and Guna in Gwalior-Chambal region of the state, according to officials. MP Integrated disease surveillance programme additional director Dr Shailesh Sakalle said a household survey is being done in the affected areas. Also read: Why Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin got nod, explains ministryIn Himachal Pradesh, the H5N1 strain has caused death of 3,400 migratory birds at Pong Dam in a week. The officials said that there have been no reports of the virus infecting humans in the vicinity of Pong Dam. Kangra district administration on Tuesday imposed strict restrictions in four sub-divisions adjoining the wetland. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that in the interest of protecting the health and safety of the public at large, sale, purchase and export of poultry, birds, and fish is prohibited in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora subdivisions. “The slaughter of poultry, birds and fish across all slaughterhouses or at home is barred in these four subdivisions,” Prajapati said. The practice of offering feed to birds and fish is also prohibited. “No movement of humans shall be allowed within a kilometre of Pong Dam or the alert zone except those related to managing the outbreak,” he said. He added that all agriculture or horticulture-related activities are prohibited and staff of the two departments would be deployed to check such activities. In Kerala, where 20,000 ducks died in Alapuzha and Kottayam districts in the past week, culling of ducks has started. Animal husbandry department additional secretary Dr Hari Kumar said 38,000 birds will be culled in Alapuzha and 8,000 in Kottayam. Poultry farmers will not be allowed to trade birds till further notice. He said culling and burying of birds will take at least three days.“I have turned pauper. I have lost around 20,000 birds in last one week. I bought 10,000 ducklings only two weeks back. I took banks loans and money from some lenders to fund my duck farming. Compensation from the government is minimal,” said K Kuttappayi, a farmer in Alapuzha. Surrounded by many water bodies in Alapuzha and surrounding area, duck farming is very popular and duck eggs sell for almost double the price of a chicken egg. Duck meat is also a delicacy in many areas of the state.States such as Uttarakhand, Bihar, Haryana, Jharkhand Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra have issued advisories and have asked forest department officials to monitor the health of birds in and around water bodies. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand, said, “Following the guidelines from the Central government, we have issued an alert and advisory for all divisional forest officers to keep an eye on any unusual avian activity. No cases of bird flu or deaths have been reported from the state so far, but as many migratory birds fly to the state, officials are on alert.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-25-000-birds-die-of-2-strains-of-bird-flu-states-on-alert/story-g7iJsWIyjvldyU8rQLrwrO.html
05-01-2021||India||ChatBot, SMS in 12 languages: Health ministry releases new Co-win details||The health ministry on Tuesday released a few new features of the Co-WIN application, which will be a “game-changer” for India’s vaccination drive, as the health ministry has said. Addressing a press conference, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan explained how vaccination drive will take place and said healthcare workers won’t have to register themselves of the application as their data are being pre-populated on the application. Frontline workers, who will be vaccinated in the second phase, also do not need registration, the secretary said. Also Read| Prepared to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency-use approval: Health ministry“Though this is an Indian product, it is for the world. If any country wants to use this product, we will take that up proactively,” Bhushan added. The application has already been tested during dry run and professionals have been trained to run the application. New features of Co-WIN app1. Aadhar cards would be used as a mode of authentication on the Co-WIN app to prevent any sort of malpractices.2. Vaccination sessions would be automatically allocated to the beneficiary and further details will be given on when the beneficiary has to visit the vaccination centre for the next dose.3. Details with regard to reporting and tracking of adverse events following immunisation, if any would be given.4. SMS’s in 12 languages will be sent to guide beneficiaries and vaccinators.Also Read| ‘Will take that vaccine...’: What Niti Aayog member says about his preference between Covishield and Covaxin5. A QR code-based vaccination certificate will be issued after all doses administered to the beneficiaries.6. A Digilocker has been integrated for data retrieval and storing the OR code-based certificate. 7. Willing beneficiaries will be allowed to create a unique health ID and can keep the acknowledgement in the Digilocker.8. A 24X7 helpline will be available including Information Technology (IT) professionals.9. The app will have a chatbot with pattern recognition to help users navigate the portal.10. Natural Language Processing in the vaccinator module for a hands-free implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/chatbot-sms-in-12-languages-health-ministry-releases-new-co-win-details/story-F4Ba45hynnecpooArYG5TJ.html
05-01-2021||India||CISF to review Taj Mahal security after four youths held for waving saffron flags on premises||A day after four people were held for waving saffron flags on the Taj Mahal premises, the CISF, which has the responsibility to guard it, Tuesday said it will review its surveillance and intelligence gathering at the Mughal-era monument to ensure such incidents don’t recur. The four youths have been booked for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion.“Since it’s a security breach, we have sought a report from the CISF in the next two to three days to understand what happened,” Vasant Swarnkar, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI (Agra Circle), told PTI. Police said the four youths who have been arrested are members of a right-wing outfit and they had entered the Taj Mahal Monday afternoon through the Eastern Gate. They waved saffron flags and also uploaded a 10-second video of the act on YouTube.As part of the security protocol, all visitors to the ASI monument are checked using metal-detectors, they cannot carry posters or any writing material. However, the use of selfie-sticks is not banned.Physical checking has been stopped at the gates of Taj Mahal after it reopened for visitors following the coronavirus-induced lockdown.“Tourists carry all kinds of clothes inside the premises. It is difficult to prevent them from carrying pieces of clothing like handkerchiefs or dupattas and they can be of different colours and may have any religious connotation. “However, we are updating our surveillance around the site, increasing and intensifying intelligence gathering and even patrolling. There are some steps internally that we are contemplating to ensure that such incidents do not happen again,” CISF commandant Rahul Yadav told PTI. “We have to be sensitive towards tourists as well and keep their convenience in mind. We have to be tourist-friendly,” he said. On the complaint of the CISF, the four youths have been booked under Section 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act.The video which has gone viral on social media shows three of the youths waving the flags while the fourth is recording the act and even giving instructions to them to pose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-to-review-taj-mahal-security-after-four-youths-held-for-waving-saffron-flags-on-premises/story-1sbcqLPinUysh2W5iFasVK.html
05-01-2021||India||After schools reopen in Karnataka, more than 25 teachers test positive for Covid-19||Just five days after schools and colleges reopened in Karnataka, a number of teachers have tested positive for Covid-19 creating a sense of fear among parents and students. In Belagavi district alone, 18 teachers have tested positive for Covid-19. The government had mandated that all teaching and non-teaching staff must undergo a Covid-19 test before educational institutions reopen.The results of thousands of such tests done have started coming in with several teachers themselves testing Covid-19 positive. The DC of Belagavi, MG Hiremath speaking to the media on Tuesday admitted that four teachers from Chikkodi and 18 from Belagavi have tested positive for the virus. “We restarted educational institutions under the Vidyagama scheme of the government by taking all precautions. For instance, in Kadoli, four teachers in a school have tested positive. We have sealed the school and it will be reopened a week later after it is full sanitised,” he added.In a similar case in Koppal, two teachers have tested positive and now 23 students are all set to undergo tests for Covid-19. While the education department is saying that they do not have a consolidate number of teaching and non-teaching staff who have tested positive for the virus, medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said, “There are nearly 10 lakh students in the 10th standard alone. It is but natural that a few may have tested positive amongst the staff in spite of precautions. We are testing them, isolating them and getting them treated. Since it involves the future of lakhs of students, I appeal that we should not spread panic as normalcy is being slowly restored.” However, several parents have expressed apprehension over the re-opening of schools and colleges. “Nobody would deny that education is important but not at the cost of our children’s lives. I don’t know why the government is adamant on running schools. With the vaccine around the corner, why can’t we just postpone reopening by another few weeks or months?” Vijay Prasad the parent of a college student told HT.However, the minister Dr Sudhakar asserted that there was no need for any panic and the numbers of those who had tested positive were small. “I am getting the exact data of how many have been infected (due to the virus), meanwhile I appeal to the media that let us not unnecessarily spread panic among the students and parents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-schools-reopen-in-karnataka-more-than-25-teachers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-XDQ7rW9CiZp1z2XtucPi9N.html
05-01-2021||India||Former president Pranab Mukherjee lamented Congress’ loss of leadership in final book||The Congress’s failure to recognise the end of its charismatic leadership was among the many reasons for its 2014 Lok Sabha polls defeat, according to former president Pranab Mukherjee who felt lack of extraordinary leaders reduced the establishment to a “government of averages”.Mukherjee made these comments in his memoir “The Presidential Years, 2012-2017” which he wrote before his death last year. The book released on Tuesday.He also wrote that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not discussed the issue of demonetisation with him prior to his announcement on November 8, 2016 but it did not surprise him as suddenness is absolutely necessary for such announcements. In the book, Mukherjee mentioned that on the day of the results of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he directed his aide-de-camp to keep him informed of the trends every half an hour. When the results were announced in the evening, he was “greatly relieved over the decisive mandate but also disappointed at my one-time party’s performance”. “It was difficult to believe that the Congress had managed to win just 44 seats. The Congress is a national institution interlinked with people’s lives. Its future is always a concern of every thinking individual,” he wrote in the book, published by Rupa Publications.The former Congress leader and Union minister attributed this defeat to many reasons. “I feel the party failed to recognise the end of its charismatic leadership. Tall leaders like Pandit Nehru ensured that India, unlike Pakistan, survived and developed into a strong and stable nation. Sadly, such extraordinary leaders are not there anymore, reducing the establishment to a government of averages,” he wrote.According to Mukherjee, when he looked back on his years as president, he derived satisfaction not only from the fact that he followed the rule book in letter and spirit in dealing with governments and issues of the day, but also because he never veered from the constitutional parameters that have been laid down for an Indian head of state. He wrote he had very cordial relations with Prime Minister Modi during his tenure. “However, I did not hesitate to give my advice on matters of policy during our meetings. There were several occasions when he echoed concerns that I had voiced. I also believe that he has managed to grasp the nuances of foreign policy quickly,” the book said.Mukherjee’s approach to maintaining cordial relations with Modi was rooted in the fact that “I believe in the parliamentary form of government and its principle”. “Modi had received a decisive mandate from the people to administer the country. Administrative powers are vested in the Council of Ministers, which the PM heads. Therefore, I did not breach my jurisdiction. Whenever tricky occasions arose, the issues were resolved,” he wrote. “At an event in which PM Modi released a book and I was present, I remarked that it was not that I did not have any differences with him, but that both of us knew how to manage those differences, without bringing them out in public,” he added.However, Mukherjee lamented that the NDA government, during its first term of 2014-19, failed in its primary responsibility to ensure the smooth and proper functioning of Parliament. “I attribute the acrimonious exchanges between the Treasury and Opposition benches to the arrogance and inept handling by the government. But the Opposition is not without blame either. It had also behaved irresponsibly,” he wrote.According to Mukherjee, the mere physical presence of the prime minister in Parliament makes a tremendous difference to the functioning of this institution. “Whether it was Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee or Manmohan Singh, each of these former PMs made their presence felt on the floor of the House. PM Modi, now in his second term, must take inspiration from his predecessors and provide visible leadership, through his enhanced presence in Parliament to avoid situations that had precipitated the parliamentary crisis we witnessed in the first term,” the book said. Modi, Mukherjee said, must listen to the dissenting voices and speak more often in Parliament, adding he must use it as a forum to disseminate his views to convince the Opposition and inform the nation. On foreign relations, Mukherjee felt that Modi’s stopover in Lahore was “unnecessary and uncalled for, given the conditions that prevailed” in India-Pakistan relations.“It was evident that one could expect the unexpected from Modi, because he had come with no ideological foreign policy baggage. He was to continue with these surprises: he made a sudden and unscheduled stop at Lahore in December 2015 to greet his then Pakistani counterpart, Nawaz Sharif, on the latter’s birthday; and he initiated an annual informal summit with the Chinese president - one was held at Wuhan in China in 2018 and the other, more recently, at Mamallapuram in Tamil Nadu in 2019.” On Modi not discussing about demonetisation with him before announcing it, Mukherjee wrote: “I am of the firm opinion that demonetisation could not have been done with prior consultation because the suddenness and surprise, absolutely necessary for such announcements, would have been lost after such a process.”  “Therefore, I was not surprised when he did not discuss the issue with me prior to making the public announcement. It also fitted in with his style of making dramatic announcements,” he said.However, after delivering his address to the nation, Modi visited Mukherjee at Rashtrapati Bhavan and explained to him the rationale behind the decision. “He desired an explicit support from me as a former finance minister of the country. I pointed out to him that while it was a bold step, it may lead to temporary slowdown of the economy. We would have to be extra careful to alleviate the suffering of the poor in the medium to long term,” Mukherjee said.“Since the announcement was made in a sudden and dramatic manner, I asked the PM if he had ensured that adequate currency was there for exchange,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-lamented-congress-loss-of-leadership-in-final-book/story-w2F4eMDUYeXDigbPXSJbBK.html
05-01-2021||India||‘Will take that vaccine...’: Experts explain why Bharat Biotech’s vaccine got approval||Amid the raging debate over the efficacy of indigenous Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and Pune’s National Institute of Virology, the Centre on Tuesday clarified why Covaxin has been given the emergency-use approval though its third phase trial is still going on. As health secretary, Niti Aayog officials, ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava were present at the press meet, it was asked to them which vaccine they would take between Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Oxford-Serum Institute’s Covishield. Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul answered the question and, holding health secretary Rajesh Bhushan’s hand, said, “I will take the vaccine which my ministry of health will specify for me with great affection, love and gratitude.”Also Watch | Covid: What led to DCGI nod of Covishield & Covaxin in India? IMCR DG explains Prepared to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency-use approval: Health ministry“All scientific and statutory requirements have been made while giving this approval to vaccines. There is no doubt. These decisions are being taken by experts. Also remember, there is a context. These are not regular authorisation. No country is giving regular authorisation to any vaccine,” Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said.ChatBot, SMS in 12 languages: Health ministry releases new Co-win detailsDispelling doubts over Covaxin, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said safety, immunogenicity and efficacy reports are required for approval in a non-emergency situation. “Efficacy data is not required for emergency use approval. Immunogenicity data serves as a surrogate for efficacy data in such situation,” Bhargava said.According to rules, phase two results of clinical data guide experts for approval, which Covaxin has. He also said there have been no safety concerns regarding Covaxin’s trial conducted so far.Covaxin has also been asked for restricted use in clinical trial mode. Explaining this, Dr Bhargava said, “There has to be consent from the trial participant and there will be follow up.” On Vaccinating children and reopening schools which many states have partially done, Dr Bhargava said, “Adults need to be vaccinated first. So teachers need to be inoculated. And as far as including children in vaccination trial is concerned, the Bharat Biotech trial included those in the age group of 12 to 18 years as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-take-that-vaccine-what-niti-aayog-member-says-about-his-preference-between-covishield-and-covaxin/story-wTGrgbwDawN589tA9qxKIM.html
05-01-2021||India||NDRF expresses concern over increasing magnitude of Nagaland’s Dzukou valley fire||The forest fire in Nagaland’s Dzukou valley is “continuously increasing its magnitude” and spreading towards the hills of neighbouring Manipur, the NDRF said on Tuesday. The federal contingency force said it has deployed seven teams in the affected areas of Kohima district in Nagaland and Senapati district of Manipur to assist firefighters in extinguishing the forest fire. The fire broke out in the picturesque Dzukou valley, a popular tourist destination, on December 29. “Originally it was confined to Nagaland state but now it has spread towards the hills of Manipur and is continuously increasing its magnitude,” a National Disaster Response Force spokesperson said in a statement issued here. He added that out of the total seven NDRF teams, three are approaching the affected area from the western side near Essi hills in Kohima district, while the rest are approaching from the eastern side at Mao in Senapati. “NDRF teams are employing all possible techniques to check further spread of fire,” the spokesperson said. He said teams of fire brigade, local police, Nagaland and Manipur state disaster response force teams and some NGOs are also working to check this “fast spreading” fire in the hills. Indian Air Force helicopters are also engaged in the operation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-expresses-concern-over-increasing-magnitude-of-nagaland-s-dzukou-valley-fire/story-WHOZMYjG8KvIV3LNfTqFnI.html
05-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand tableau on Kedarnath temple selected for Republic Day parade||Uttarakhand’s tableau featuring the Kedarnath temple has been selected by the defence ministry for the upcoming Republic Day parade in New Delhi, informed state government officials on Tuesday in Dehradun. Uttarakhand’s tableau was among the tableaus of 32 other states and Union Territories which participated in the process out of which the Centre selected only 17. “The Centre had passed an order for the same on December 31 after which 32 states and UTs sent their tableau samples for the selection process. In that the one from Uttarakhand has been selected today in an intense process carried out by the defence ministry,” Meharban Singh Bisht, Director General, state information directorate said.Explaining the state’s tableau Bisht said, “The frontal part of the tableau will feature the state animal- musk deer, state bird- Monal and state flower-Brahmakamal. The rear part will feature the Kedarnath temple.”Uttarakhand’s tableau has been selected for the 12th time for the Republic Day parade since the formation of the state in 2020. Before this, the state’s tableau was selected for the Republic Day parade in 2003, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-tableau-on-kedarnath-temple-selected-for-republic-day-parade/story-rbXBqw1Z8rx2vHiy9mt5fM.html
05-01-2021||India||‘At least someone in Congress understands...’: Hardeep Singh Puri’s jibe to Congress over vaccine, Central Vista||Union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday lashed out at Congress for attacking the government over the emergency use approval given to the two coronavirus vaccines last week. He also attacked Congress over its comments on the Central Vista redevelopment plan.Puri quoted a tweet posted by Congress leader Shama Mohammed to criticise Congress on both the issues simultaneously and said, “Glad at least someone in INC understands the importance of vaccines. Now it will be better if you also educated your party colleagues M/s Jairam & Tharoor on why vaccination is indeed important for the country rather than passing your judgment on a Hon’ble SC judgement.”Glad atleast someone in INC understands the importance of vaccines. Now it will be better if you also educated your party colleagues M/s Jairam & Tharoor on why vaccination is indeed important for the country rather than passing your judgment on a Hon'ble SC judgement. pic.twitter.com/TTqUoqPqFiCongress leader Shama Mohammed on Tuesday had tweeted, “SC gives go ahead for Central Vista Project. It is a travesty that when the govt’s priority should have been to vaccinate every Indian as soon as possible, it prefers to splurge taxpayer money on a Rs 20,000 cr vanity project which won’t benefit the common man in the slightest!”Also Read: Who will opt for a vaccine with question marks on its reliability: Manish TewariSC gives go ahead for #CentralVista Project. It is a travesty that when the govt's priority should have been to vaccinate every Indian as soon as possible, it prefers to splurge taxpayer money on a Rs 20,000 cr vanity project which won't benefit the common man in the slightest!Congress had targeted the government over the approval of vaccines as well as after the Supreme Court okayed the redevelopment plan for Central Vista. Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh attacked the government over the approval of Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine COVAXIN.Also Read: Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech pledge smooth Covid-19 vaccine roll-outOn December 3, Ramesh in a tweet pointed out that protocols related to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine were modified asking the health ministry to give reasons for clarification. He said, “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister @drharshvardhan should clarify.”Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister @drharshvardhan should clarify. pic.twitter.com/5HAWZtmW9sTharoor also said that the government was not transparent regarding the side effects of the vaccine. He shared a news clip from news agency NDTV in a tweet and said, “This certainly requires investigation & explanation by the government. Minor side effects should not put people off needed vaccinations; but transparency is essential to retain public confidence. Sunlight, it is said, is the best disinfectant!” This certainly requires investigation & explanation by the government. Minor side effects should not put people off needed vaccinations; but transparency is essential to retain public confidence. Sunlight, it is said, is the best disinfectant! https://t.co/yKN6yvfgISBharat Biotech CEO Dr Ramesh Ella defended the COVAXIN vaccine on Monday and said, “We do 200 percent honest clinical trials and yet we receive backlash.” Ella also said the results of the Phase III trial will be released soon. Earlier on Tuesday, Dr Ella and Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla issued a joint statement saying that both companies will work together to ensure unhindered supply of vaccines all over India as well as across the world.Important Announcement: Joint statement @BharatBiotech and @SerumInstIndia pic.twitter.com/la5av27MqyAlso Read: Central Vista project case of ‘misplaced priorities’, says Congress after Supreme Court nodOn Tuesday, the Supreme Court cleared the Central Vista project, which Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed as an exercise of implementing “misplaced priorities” by “whimsical autocrats”. “The Rs 13,450 CR Central Vista Project is not a legalistic issue but a case of ‘misplaced priorities’ of a ‘whimsical autocrat’ seeking to etch his name in the annals of history with cement & mortar,” he said. He also accused the government of not taking adequate care of defence personnel braving freezing cold in the Northern regions. 2/3विडंबना देखिए कि कोरोना महामारी और आर्थिक मंदी के समय में सेंट्रल विस्टा के लिए ₹14,000 CR और पीएम के लिए विमान खरीदने के लिए ₹8,000 CR है।लेकिन वही भाजपा सरकार ने 113 लाख फ़ौजियों और केंद्रीय सरकार के कर्मचारियों और पेंशनरों के भत्ते में 37,530 CR की कटौती कर दी है। https://t.co/8FGND9KMFP3/3PM यह न भूलें कि उन्होंने 15 लाख सैनिकों और 26 लाख सैन्य पेंशनर्स के अर्जित लाभों में 11,000 करोड़ की कटौती की है।और भाजपा सरकार के पास लद्दाख में चीनी घुसपैठ से लड़ रहे हमारे सैनिकों को 'गर्म तंबू और उपकरण' उपलब्ध कराने का समय व धन क्यों नहीं है?#CentralVista https://t.co/PQf4JlTcbtPuri highlighted that it was unnecessary of Congress to protest against a project that has been given the go-ahead by the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-someone-in-congress-understands-hardeep-singh-puri-s-jibe-to-congress-over-vaccine-central-vista/story-MYvePh3jUqsoAQQKYrQjcN.html
05-01-2021||India||Yousuf Tarigami calls on J-K LG, demands probe into Hokersar encounter||CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami on Tuesday called on Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha here and raised the issue of the recent encounter in Srinagar’s Hokersar-Lawaypora with him. He demanded an impartial and time-bound probe into the incident in which three youths including a 17-year-old from South Kashmir’s Pulwama and Shopian districts were killed on December 30 inside a house in Hokersar on the outskirts of Srinagar by the security forces in an encounter. While police and army claimed they were militants, the families say they were killed in a staged gunfight. In his meeting with the LG, the CPI (M) leader briefed him about the version of the families of the slain trio and urged him to order an impartial and time-bound probe so that reality is known.On Monday, the families of the two of the three young men slain in the encounter protested in Srinagar demanding their bodies that have been buried in Ganderbal be given to them and an impartial investigation into the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yousuf-tarigami-calls-on-j-k-lg-demands-probe-into-hokersar-encounter/story-YVdtjmgSBXZdVUNQiK9hII.html
05-01-2021||India||Farmers postpone tractor march by a day to January 7||Instead of January 6, when the protesting farmers initially decided to conduct their tractor march, farmers on Tuesday announced that the tractor march would take place on January 7. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said farmers protesting the new farm laws will take out a tractor march on January 7 at four borders of Delhi, in what would be a glimpse of what has been planned for Republic Day if the new laws are not rolled back. “We have decided that on January 7, we will take out a tractor march at four borders of Delhi including Eastern and Western peripheral. This will be a trailer for what lies ahead on January 26,” said Yadav. On Monday, the seventh round of talks between farmer leaders and the government failed to resolve the deadlock as the Centre continued to rule out the possibility of repealing the three new farm laws, adding that it can look into any clause the farmers had issues with. Both sides had agreed to continue with talks on January 8.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters will not be going home.“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapsi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” he said as quoted by news agency ANI.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, had said on Saturday that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital in their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26. Farmers have time and again promised to intensify their protests if their demands are not met. “The government is saying 50% of the demands have been met. For us, 85% of the demands are left.The agitation will become more intense now,” said Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the agitation. Yadav too echoed similar sentiments of intensifying protests as the next round of talks neared. “From tomorrow, for 2 weeks, ‘Desh Jagran Abhiyan’ will be started and protests will be deepened throughout the country,” Yadav was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-postpone-tractor-march-by-a-day-to-january-7/story-pwuVNeI7qzAtQnxZJwf1WN.html
05-01-2021||India||Delhi govt asks schools to implement new school bag policy||The Delhi government has directed schools in the national capital to implement the new “school bag policy” to reduce the weight of school bags and the burden of students.“Heavy school bags are a serious threat to the health and well-being of school students. These have adverse physical effects on the growing children which can cause damage to their vertebral column and knees.“Moreover, in the schools which are functioning in double or multi storey buildings, children have to climb the stairs with heavy school bags which further aggravates the problem,” the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in a letter to school principals.The Ministry of Education had notified the new school bag policy last month which is in line with the new National Education Policy (NEP). From no textbooks for pre-primary classes to single notebook for classes 1 and 2, frequent checks of school bags to ensure students do not carry heavy weight, informing the students and parents regarding appropriate kind of school bags and encouraging students to use both straps of bags, are among the recommendations made by the government.“The load of school bag is increased by bringing textbooks, guides, homework or classwork notebooks, rough work notebooks, water bottles, lunch box, and sometimes the heavy weight of the school bag itself. The number of textbooks in different classes should not exceed the number prescribed by the statutory bodies.“Heads of schools and teachers should frame a well-designed timetable for each class so that children do not have to carry too many books or notebooks to the school each day,” it said.“For other classes, there shall be one notebook for each subject for exercises, projects, unit tests, experiments, among others, which the students need to bring as per the timetable. Students should not be asked to bring additional books or extra materials to the school,” the letter stated.As per the suggestions, which are in line with the new National Education Policy (NEP), the weight of school bags for students between classes 1-10 should not be more than 10 per cent of their body weight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-asks-schools-to-implement-new-school-bag-policy/story-CTr2GwPqS2j6XnRrU4GO0J.html
05-01-2021||India||Andhra ex-intelligence chief accuses Jagan govt of witch hunt, fears arrest||Senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and former intelligence chief of Andhra Pradesh A B Venkateshwara Rao on Tuesday accused the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government with hatching a conspiracy to fabricate a criminal case against him and arrest him. Also Read: Andhra administration likely to operate from Visakhapatnam from April 13, hints ministerIn a letter to the secretary of IPS Officers’ Association, AP chapter, Rao said he had reliable information that the state government had decided to fabricate a criminal case against him and arrest him without giving him an opportunity to even to get anticipatory bail. “The government wants to suspend me again on the basis of being in judicial remand for 48 hours or more,” he said in the letter. Rao, who served as state intelligence chief during the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) regime, was suspended on February 8 last year for his alleged irregularities in procurement of security equipment from an Israeli company during his tenure. The Jagan government, which entrusted the case to Anti-Corruption Bureau, alleged that Rao had wilfully disclosed intelligence protocols and procedures of police to the foreign defence manufacturing firm. Rao challenged his suspension in the Central Administrative Tribunal on February 13, but the CAT dismissed his petition in March. Later, he moved the high court, which revoked his suspension in July. The AP government challenged this order in the Supreme Court, which lifted stay on his suspension in November, pending inquiry. Also Read: Jagan govt extends term of special officers in Andhra local bodiesIn his letter to the IPS Officers’ Association, the ex-intelligence chief alleged that he was being harassed, humiliated and victimised by the state government. “I was shifted from the post of Director General, ACB and kept without posting or salary for seven months. Later, I was suspended following a case registered by the CID,” he said. Rao asked the IPS Officers’ Association to convene a meeting of general body of the association and intervene in the matter in a way deemed fit. “I am not seeking any favours from the association but seeking attention as it is only a case of harassment by the government,” he said. He said he would explain his version at the general body meeting of the association and clarify all the doubts of the members. “I will leave it to the wisdom of the general body to come to any conclusion and take a decision whether to intervene and if so, in what manner,” he said, adding that he only wanted a fair and impartial inquiry into the allegations made against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-ex-intelligence-chief-accuses-jagan-govt-of-witch-hunt-fears-arrest/story-6ClqZb2UHQVMEoz9fg6NgL.html
05-01-2021||India||Prepared to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency-use approval: Health ministry||With the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approving the restricted emergency use of two coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccines on Sunday (January 3) and state governments preparing to inoculate their residents, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday that it was prepared to roll out a vaccine within 10 days of emergency-use authorisation approvals. Addressing a news briefing on Tuesday evening, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “We are prepared to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency use authorisation approvals. The final call will be taken by the government.”Also Watch | Covid-19: Health Secretary explains how vaccination process in India works Bhushan pointed out that there were four primary vaccine stores called GMSD (Medical Stores Organisation) situated in Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata and 37 vaccine stores across India adding that they store vaccines in bulk and further distribute them.Also Read| ‘Misinformation’: Health ministry says no ban on export of Covid-19 vaccine“The facility including the number of vaccines stored and temperature trackers is monitored digitally. We have this facility for over a decade in the country,” he added. We are prepared to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency use authorisation approvals. The final call will be taken by the government: Union Health Secretary Rajesh BhushanDGCI gave approval to two vaccines on January 3 pic.twitter.com/g6sWMsX4cGAs healthcare, frontline workers have been identified as priority groups for inoculation, according to government guidelines, the health secretary said that these people would not be required to register themselves as beneficiaries as their data has been populated on the Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system in a bulk manner.The Co-WIN app, which was introduced by the Centre, allows people to self-register themselves for getting a vaccine shot. The app is in the pre-product stage and data of healthcare workers is being uploaded as of now. Over 7.5 million beneficiaries were registered during the nationwide dry run on January 2. Also Read| Covid-19 worries force UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to call off India visitBhushan at the beginning of the briefing had said that the total active coronavirus cases in India were less than 250,000 and were continuing to decline adding that the positivity stood at 1.97 per cent. On Tuesday, the country added 16,375 fresh cases- which have been the lowest in more than six months- and 201 related deaths in the last 24 hours which pushed the overall tally to over 10.3 million, according to the health ministry’s update at 8am. Nearly 9.98 million people have recovered from the disease so far and the national recovery rate is 96.32 per cent of the total caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/prepared-to-roll-out-vaccine-within-10-days-of-emergency-use-approvals-health-ministry/story-Zkue9oqVroh4m7FsHUe7NP.html
05-01-2021||India||‘Exorbitant? Go for govt facilities’: HC on petition seeking cap on Covid-19 charges in private hospitals||The Bombay High Court at Goa has disposed of a petition challenging the Goa government’s inaction on the high rates charged by the private hospitals for testing and treating Covid-19 patients. The High Court accepted the Goa government’s contention that “if any persons find the rates unaffordable, it is always open to such persons to avail of the government facilities - free of charge.”“Since most of the issues raised in this petition are subject matter of the suo motu writ petition pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, it will not be appropriate for this Court to adjudicate upon the very same issues. The submission/statement made by the Advocate General in relation to the rates for Covid tests, to a substantial extent, redresses the grievance on this issue, as well,” the HC stated. In his petition, Dr Aquaviva Fernandes, a medical practitioner said that the rates are “arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory, thereby violating the fundamental rights enshrined under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India and need to be revisited and modified in favour of the interest of public health and safety at large.”The Goa government had last year, set caps on charges for Covid-19 treatment that were considered ‘astronomical’. According to the notification, a private hospital can charge a room rent no higher than Rs 12,000 per day for a bed in a general ward, Rs 15,000 per day for a twin sharing room, Rs 18,000 per day for a single private room and Rs 25,000 per day for a bed in an ICU with a ventilator.Also read: British PM Boris Johnson calls off India visit, cites need to oversee response to Covid-19Dr Fernandes pointed out that the rates capped in some other states were much lesser than Goa which has by far the highest rates amongst other states in India. He pointed out that rates in other states, such as Tamil Nadu (Rs. 2,500), Uttar Pradesh (at Rs. 1,600), Maharashtra (at Rs. 2,200), Kerala (at R. 2,750) and Delhi (at Rs. 2,400), were much lower than Goa.Dr Fernandes had also argued that “the poor conditions prevailing in government-run hospitals and the over-stretched infrastructure deter the general public from getting admission in government hospitals. “[On account of] the low capacity for admission of Covid-19 patients and exceedingly overcrowded wards at government hospitals, symptomatic Covid-19 positive patients are forced to move from pillar to post seeking admission, ultimately compelled to resort to treatment at private hospitals,” Dr Fernandes said in his petition.At the time the petition was filed in early October last year, Goa was at its peak of the Covid-19 crisis with images surfacing of patients being made to sleep on the floor of the state’s premier medical research facility - the Goa Medical College and Hospital - as well as a shortage of beds at the government-run facilities. Since then, however, the situation has improved with Goa’s active cases now being only around 900, down from the 3,000-odd cases back then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exorbitant-go-for-govt-facilities-hc-on-petition-seeking-cap-on-covid-19-charges-in-private-hospitals/story-2Mju9rImHcmxuzwAHxx8OP.html
05-01-2021||India||Govt recommends citizens to get vaccinated. Check eligibility, required documents here||The union health ministry already urged citizens eligible for the emergency vaccine to get vaccinated irrespective of their history of contracting Covid-19 in last December, though it made it clear that the vaccination drive will be voluntary. The government has highlighted that citizens need to register themselves for vaccination. The health ministry on Tuesday pointed out that healthcare workers and frontline workers would not need to register for the vaccination. “Healthcare workers and frontline workers would not need to register themselves as a beneficiary as their data is in a bulk database which has been populated on the Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system in a bulk manner,” union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The government believes that upon receiving a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine will allow the body to build a strong immune response against the disease. Health ministry has also outlined that after receiving the second dose of the vaccine on a protective level of antibodies generally develops in 14 days while answering several frequently asked questions (FAQs) on its website with connection to the vaccination drive in December.“Vaccination for COVID-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of the vaccine for protecting oneself against this disease and also to limit the spread of this disease to the close contacts,” the health ministry said.The government has already granted approval to two Covid-19 vaccines last week. Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has been granted restricted emergency approval.The blueprint of the vaccination programme says that over 30 crore healthcare personnel and frontline workers will receive the vaccine as soon as it is rolled out. Following the vaccination of the essential workers, elderly people above the age of 50 will get vaccinated.The ministry said that eligible vaccine recipients will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number sharing the details of the due date, place and time of vaccination.The following documents will be required for registering for vaccination: • Driving licence,• Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job card,• PAN Card,• Bank Passbook,• Passbook issued by the Post Office• Pension Document• Service identification card issued to employees of central government, state government or public limited companies,• Voter ID CardA QR code certificate will be issued to the vaccine recipient along with an SMS confirming that the recipient has been administered all the vaccine doses.The health ministry has also urged recipients to contact nearest health authorities, Anganwadi workers and ASHA workers if they experience any difficulties. “We request you to rest at the vaccination centre for at least half an hour after taking the COVID-19 vaccine. Inform the nearest health authorities/ANM/ASHA in case you feel any discomfort or uneasiness subsequently,” the ministry said.The government continues to urge citizens to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour despite preparations for the vaccination drive. The government stresses that people still need to remain vigilant as the nation continues to record daily cases and deaths due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-recommends-citizens-to-get-vaccinated-check-eligibility-required-documents-here/story-mXoWvpJYsTowaYN85SdeUP.html
05-01-2021||India||India to sign $2.5-billion contract for 56 transport planes for IAF||India will sign a $2.5-billion contract his year for the supply of 56 medium transport aircraft to the Indian Air Force to replace its fleet of aging Avro-748 planes, officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with 56 C-295 transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Under the contract, Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL, the officials said. The procurement of 56 C-295 from Airbus with participation of an Indian production agency for the manufacture of 40 aircraft (out of total 56) in India is at financial approval stage and the contract is likely to be signed in the near future, the defence ministry said in its year-end review. “The case is first of its kind which envisages participation of private companies and would prove to be a boost for our defence industry,” the ministry said. While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 transport planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “The replacement C-295 project has been in the works for the past eight years and has spawned a new term --- the Avro model --- in the acquisition field due the unique path adopted. Actually, there is an acquisition fatigue that has crept in, a state that needs to be broken by actually inducting the aircraft that is sorely required by the IAF. The C-295 would also be the natural replacement for AN-32s which too would be getting phased out soon,” Bahadur said. The first 16 planes will be supplied in two years, and the deliveries of the 40 locally-assembled ones will be spread over an additional eight years. The aircraft can operate from short, unprepared airstrips and carry out a variety of missions in all-weather conditions. The contract for buying 83 LCA Mk 1A aircraft for the IAF from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is also likely to be signed soon after approval by the Cabinet Committee on Security, the ministry said its review. Last March, the defence ministry gave a green light to the purchase of 83 advanced Tejas jets from HAL. The deal is expected to be worth Rs 38,000 crore. The deal for the 83 Mk-1A jets will take the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by the IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced final operational clearance (FOC) configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far. The Mk-1A variant is expected to come with digital radar warning receivers, external self-protection jammer pods, active electronically scanned array radar, advanced beyond-visual-range missiles and significantly improved maintainability. India is also likely to sign a deal with Israel for additional Harop (P-IV) loitering weapon systems in the first quarter of 2021, the year-end review said. The Harop is designed to locate and attack high-value targets with precision. The weapon (also known as a suicide drone) tracks the target, dives on to it and detonates the warhead on impact, according to its maker Israel Aerospace Industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-sign-2-5-billion-contract-for-56-transport-planes-for-iaf/story-2wPztr38s2bNoQPhzTj2SJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Budget Session likely from January 29, Union Budget on February 1||The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) has recommended that the Budget session of Parliament commence from January 29 and conclude on April 8. According to the Committee’s recommendation, while Part 1 of the Budget session would be held from January 29 to February 15, Part 2 would be from March 8 to April 8.President Ram Nath Kovind would address the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament on January 29, a Friday, and the Union Budget would be presented on February 1, sources said citing the CCPA recommendations.All Covid-related protocols would be followed during the session, the sources said. The final decision on the commencement of the session will be taken by the Union Cabinet.The Winter Session of Parliament, which generally begins in the last week of November, was cancelled in the view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic amid rising demands from the opposition to hold the Sessions to discuss farm laws. This Budget session will be much awaited as this will the first Budget of the NDA government amid the pandemic. On being asked whether this Budget will have special provision for Covid-19 vaccine, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman at Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 said that the cost per dose and other details are required before allocating any fund for vaccines.Addressing CII Partnership Summit 2020 in December, Nirmala Sitharaman said the Budget will be like never before, a Budget which is being made after a pandemic. The finance minister also held a pre-Budget consultation with representatives of industry, services and trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-likely-from-january-29-budget-on-february-1/story-eCOhMbkZRhIgl2RkGiOl8M.html
05-01-2021||India||‘Misinformation’: Health ministry says no ban on export of Covid-19 vaccine||In the wake of a controversy after it was reported that Serum Institute of India has been barred to export vaccines to other countries, the health ministry on Tuesday clarified that no such decision was taken ever. On Tuesday, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla too clarified that there was no ban on the exports of vaccine.“The Union government has not banned the export of any of the Covid-19 vaccines. This should be absolutely clear. When I say Union government, I mean ministry of health and family welfare, ministry of commerce, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, directorate general of foreign trade. These are the departments which can ban the export of vaccines in any hypothetical situation. They have not taken any action regarding this. So, this is my earnest request to media friends that we should be on guard when such misinformation is spread,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.Exports of Covishield allowed to all countries, clarifies Adar PoonawallaReferring to the joint statement issued by the companies — Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — which have got restricted, emergency-use approval, the secretary said, “Among other things, the statement said vaccines are a global public health good and that the companies are considering it as their duty to the nation and the world at large. So what does it mean? It means that neither the government and nor the vaccine makers are talking about any ban.”The Associated Press has recently quoted Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla as saying that the government has asked the world’s largest vaccine maker to not export vaccines to any other country. Serum Institute has earlier agreed to supply millions of doses of vaccines to Bangladesh, global vaccine alliance Gavi etc. Hence, the report led to confusions as Prime Minister Narendra Modi too reiterated that India’s ‘Make in India’ pledge has to translate to ‘Make for the world’. On vaccine too, specifically the prime minister had earlier said that India will be ready to supply vaccines to other countries. On Tuesday, both Adar Poonawalla and the health ministry clarified that there was no such ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misinformation-health-ministry-says-no-ban-on-export-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-ojAzo9BFLd1ZecdqQM51yN.html
05-01-2021||India||26-yr-old’s body severed below waist after train hit, dies after 14-hr battle for life||A 26-year-old man whose body got severed from waist downwards after a train ran over him died at a hospital here after battling for life for close to 14 hours, police said Tuesday.The man had allegedly attempted suicide by jumping before a train on the tracks behind Hathauda stadium early on Monday.“He was brought to the trauma centre on Monday. A team of doctors was pressed into service, but he died at 11.50 pm on Monday,” Government Medical College spokesperson Pooja Tripathi said Tuesday.She said the man, a taxi driver, was administered blood regularly but he could not survive. “He died of shock,” she said.A resident of Hathorha village under Roza police station, the man had allegedly laid himself down on the tracks with the intention of killing himself, police said.Police have sent the body for post-mortem examination. Emergency medical officer Dr Mohammed Meraj had said Monday, Harshvardhan’s body was severed below the hip joint. The driver of a goods train was apparently the first to come across the macabre site of the severed portion of Harshvardhan’s body lying along the tracks. He had informed the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-yr-old-s-body-severed-below-waist-after-train-hit-dies-after-14-hr-battle-for-life/story-zhs556IevjZDJyNTOvdYsJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav, Chirag Paswan to set off on stock-taking yatras in Bihar||Two months after the assembly election in Bihar, top politicos in the state including leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan are all set to tour different districts to assess the people’s mood and talk about their priorities in outreach exercises in the coming weeks.Tejashwi , who is currently in New Delhi, is expected to start his yatra to be called ‘dhanyawaad yatra’ (thanksgiving tour) soon after Makar Sankranti (January 14) by visiting districts both in north and central Bihar in the first leg.“The yatra will start in mid-January after Makar Sankranti. The opposition leader will be undertaking the tour to extend thanks to people of the state for giving the RJD and Grand alliance (GA) big support during the recently concluded polls,” said the party’s senior leader and former MLA Bhola Yadav.He said the yatra would be stretching for several weeks with the 31-year-old scheduled to address meetings during the tour and also interact with the workers in a bid to strengthen the party for future electoral battles.It would be interesting to watch whether Tejashwi will attack the state government or not on various issues including law and order, unemployment and development given that the RJD in recent weeks has tried to soften its approach towards the ruling JD(U) by offering it to switch over to the Grand Alliance amid the speculations of internal rift in the NDA.Similarly, the LJP chief Chirag Paswan is also expected to launch a yatra after January 15. He has maintained a low profile after the party’s drubbing at the assembly election where it won only one seat out of nearly 150 that it contested. Sources said the LJP chief is keen on undertaking the yatra to highlight the party’s vision of state’s development under the slogan ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ that Paswan first used during the election campaign.Paswan junior is scheduled to start his yatra from either Gopalganj or Rohtas in mid-January and visit most of the districts in the state including the Seemanchal belt. “The LJP chief would be talking about the vision for the state’s development and also assess the party’s organisational strength during the tour as part of the party’s plan to expand its base in the state,” said Asraf Ansari, LJP spokesperson and senior leader.Sources said chief minister Nitish Kumar is also likely to undertake a yatra in the first week of February by visiting various districts to review development works and also attend political events. The tour proposal is still tentative and a final decision would be taken soon, people familiar with the development said.The ruling BJP has already conducted ‘dhanyawaad sabhas’ across the state in December as a part of the party’s plan to thank the voters for NDA’s win in the assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-yadav-chirag-paswan-to-set-off-on-stock-taking-yatras-in-bihar/story-MhUCioVO8468Zn0NdP7aAP.html
05-01-2021||India||Boris Johnson speaks to PM Modi, expresses regret for calling off Republic Day visit||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called PM Modi on Tuesday to express regret that he had to call off his India visit for Republic Day celebrations on January 26 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic situation of the United Kingdom, which is under the grip of a new variant. As per the British prime minister’s office, Johnson expressed his regret for not being able to visit India and asserted that in order to focus on the domestic response of the virus it is crucial that he stays in the country.The press release from the UK’s prime minister’s office said that “He hopes to be able to visit India in the first half of 2021, and ahead of the UK’s G7 Summit that Prime Minister Modi is due to attend as a guest.”During the call, the leaders also talked about their “shared commitment to the bilateral relationship” and will continue to develop the close association between the countries including the response to the coronavirus pandemic.The UK prime minister’s post-Brexit visit to India was scheduled for January 26, as the chief guest at the annual Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-s-visit-to-india-called-off/story-kqGo7d0hAbWmMSe27BXD9I.html
05-01-2021||India||Former cricketer, Bengal minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla quits TMC, says he wants ‘to pursue sports’||In a blow to the Trinamool Congress’s plans to project younger leaders in the assembly polls due in a few months, former Indian cricketer and Bengal minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla on Tuesday resigned from the party where he served as president of the Howrah district unit. Shukla is a legislator from Howrah district and served as minister of state for sports and youth affairs. Amid rumours that Shukla too might join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) like former TMC minister Suvendu Adhikari, chief minister Mamata Banerjee made the first official comment on the sudden development while addressing a media conference in the afternoon. “Laxmi is a good boy. He wrote a letter saying he wants to pursue sports wholeheartedly and wants to be relieved of all responsibilities in the party. He did not talk of resigning from the ministry. But we have accepted his resignation and written to the governor that he may be relieved as minster. Laxmi has said that he will continue to be a member of the legislative assembly till its current term comes to an end,” said Banerjee. “It is good that he wants to pursue sports. He said he wants to give more time to sports. That’s why he wants to leave politics. There is nothing more to this. He has our best wishes. There is no place for misunderstanding here. You (the media) try to make something out of every information,” said Banerjee. Shukla, who was born and brought up in Howrah district, avoided the media and did not make any comment. Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson said, “Laxmi is a nice man. I never heard he had any grievance against the party.” Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the Bengal BJP, did not say whether Shukla would join his party. “It is difficult for any person with strong principles to stay in the TMC. We are not surprised,” he said. Incidentally, Shukla is the second young minster from Howrah district to make news. Since October, forest minister Rajib Banerjee has been raising his voice against a section of leaders and avoiding government and party meetings. Shukla was a middle-order batsman and a medium pacer for the Indian team. He played for the Bengal cricket team as well as for the Kolkata Knight Riders and Delhi in IPL matches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cricketer-bengal-minister-laxmi-ratan-shukla-quits-tmc-says-he-wants-to-pursue-sports/story-pEyQyrp6Yw3kcSxSJIRM7K.html
05-01-2021||India||Rapid expansion of gas-based economy a must to achieve self-reliance: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said rapid expansion of gas-based economy is a must to become an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (Self-reliant India) and policy initiatives are being taken to push for ‘One Nation One Gas Grid’ to raise the share of natural gas in the country’s energy basket to 15% besides diversifying energy resources to meet future energy needs.“Global experts say that in the 21st century, whichever country emphasises the most on connectivity and clean energy, would rapidly reach new heights,” he said, while dedicating the 450-km Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline to the nation through a video conference on Tuesday. India wants to raise the share of natural gas in India’s energy mix from the current level of 6.2% to 15% by 2030.He said connectivity is the key to development. “Take any front – highway connectivity, railway connectivity, Metro connectivity, air connectivity, water connectivity, digital connectivity or gas connectivity – India has embarked upon these projects simultaneously that never happened earlier,” he said.Also read | Centre may bring natural gas within the GST ambitThe Prime Minister said he does not want to find reasons why the country could not do these infrastructural developments at a rapid pace earlier. “It is, however, certain that today’s young India, the impatient India that wants to stand out in the world, cannot afford to progress at a slow pace. That is why, in the last few years, the country has increased the speed, and scale and simultaneously enhanced the scope [of these projects,” he said in Hindi.The country could build only 15,000 kms natural gas pipeline in 27 years before 2014. The first inter-state pipeline was commissioned in 1987. Now, work is underway on more than 16,000 kms of new gas pipeline nationwide that will be complete in the next 5-6 years, he said.Similarly, the first compressed natural gas (CNG) fuel stations was set up in India 1992. By 2014, there were not more than 900 CNG stations. In the past six years, about 1,500 new CNG stations have been operationalised. “Now the government is working to raise the number of CNG stations to 10,000. This pipeline, which is commissioned just now, will help to open 700 CNG stations in various cities of Kerala and Karnataka,” he said.“There is another interesting data of PNG [piped natural gas] connections, which brings fuel to kitchens. Up to 2014, our country had only 25 lakh (2.5 million) PNG connections. Today, more than 72 lakh (7.2 million) households get cooking gas through pipelines. Kochi-Mangaluru pipeline will provide PNG facility to 21 lakh (2.1 million) more people,” he said. These increased connections have reduced usage of polluting kerosene and many states and Union Territories have declared themselves kerosene free, he added.Prime Minister Modi said, “The need of the hour is to prepare the country for its future energy needs. That is why, one the one hand focus is on the natural gas, on the other hand, the country is diversifying its energy needs.” He gave example of the proposed world’s biggest hybrid -- wind and solar -- renewable energy plant in Gujarat and stressed on producing ethanol from rice and sugarcane. The goal of ethanol blending in petrol is raised 20% in the next 10 years, he said, adding that the government is committed to provide every citizen affordable, pollution-free fuel and electricity.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan hailed the completion of state-run GAIL India’s Kochi-Mangaluru pipeline and said that the project, one of the major poll promises of his government, was delayed due to various obstacles, according to a PTI report from Kochi.“GAIL authorities also stood by us in making this project come to life. I am extremely happy that our combined efforts have borne fruit,” he said. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the pipeline would supply PNG to about 400,000 kitchens besides supplying fuel to several commercial establishments.Experts said gas-based economy would not only help in reducing carbon emission but also lead to faster industrialisation. Besides, availability of gas it is also necessary to switch over to gas-based technologies in different sectors, said DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at consultancy firm EY India. “In the automobile sector, major changes would be required to switch over to cars that run on gas or on batteries. For power production, the proportion of gas-based electricity generation should overtake the conventional coal-based technologies,” he said.According to Srivastava, there is a need to bring natural gas under uniform Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime to have a unified natural gas market in the country. At present, levies on natural gas vary from state to state, ranging as high as 24%, a major deterrent to making it a people’s fuel.“Fiscal policies other than taxation may also be used to encourage switching over to production and consumption processes favouring the use of gas particularly by subsidising non-polluting technologies. On the supply side, both domestic production of gas and import of gas on favourable conditions require to be promoted. As gas supply increases, its related infrastructure covering storage and distribution would need to be expanded at an accelerated pace,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-expansion-of-gas-based-economy-a-must-to-achieve-self-reliance-pm-modi/story-symFcI9kmKQcf47IJ0mAxO.html
05-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After SC nod Congress says, Central Vista project case of ‘misplaced priorities’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Central Vista project case of ‘misplaced priorities’, says Congress after Supreme Court nodThe Congress party on Tuesday called the government’s Central Vista project a case of ‘misplaced priorities’ of a ‘whimsical autocrat’ hours after the Supreme cleared the redevelopment plan. Read more Bird flu outbreak: Kerala govt issues high alert in stateThe Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala government said on Tuesday that bird flu has been declared as a state-specific disaster adding that a high alert has been issued after the virus was found in some parts of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts. Read more Covid-19: This Pacific nation could become first to achieve herd immunity through vaccinationAs countries around the world have started rolling out their vaccination program to provide immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Republic of Palau is poised to become one of the first countries to vaccinate the majority of its population. Read more BCCI President Sourav Ganguly to be discharged from hospital on WednesdayFormer India skipper and current BCCI President Sourav Ganguly will be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. Dr Rupali Basu, MD & CEO Woodlands Hospital, Kolkata, confirmed the news. Read more Shahid Kapoor’s Kabir Singh co-star Vanita Kharat sets internet on fire with risque photo championing body positivity. See hereVanita Kharat, the actor who played Kabir Singh’s house help in the film of the same name, has shared a picture of herself from a risque photoshoot, highlighting body positivity. Read more Samsung Galaxy S21 series camera specs leakedThere’s still a little over a week to go for the Galaxy S21 series launch but the leaks won’t stop revealing details about the new phones. A major leak on the Galaxy S21 series reveals the camera specifications of all three smartphones. Read more Sara Ali Khan sets winter fashion goals in thigh high boots and Christian Dior, switches to leather for airport lookSara Ali Khan’s latest onscreen offering, Coolie No 1, may have tanked commercially as well as critically, but the 25-yea-old actor’s fan base is as strong and loyal as ever. Read more Production-spec Renault Kiger to make global debut In India on January 28thRenault on Tuesday announced that it is all set to globally reveal the upcoming Kiger SUV in India on January 28th. The car will be first launched in India followed by its debut in other international markets. Read more NASA shares pic of distant, lonely neutron star spotted outside Milky Way. Seen it yet?This stunning image shared on NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory’s official Instagram page shows a cosmic oddity. If you’re someone who likes learning about the different happenings of outer space, then this post is bound to pique your interest. Read more Watch: Indian flag installed at UNSC stakeout; begins 2-year tenure||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-sc-nod-congress-says-central-vista-project-case-of-misplaced-priorities-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eX4T8K3NrJfVkWbmGEqHNN.html
05-01-2021||India||Heavy snowfall in Kashmir gives tourism sector a boost||The reduction in the number of Covid-19 infections in Jammu and Kashmir and a few spells of snowfall in late December and January have led to tourists arriving in the Valley in large numbers after 16 months.“From Christmas, the arrivals of tourists has increased considerably. Despite the pandemic, people are confident about travelling. And since the vaccine is coming, we expect the numbers to increase further,” said director of tourism, Kashmir, Nisar Wani.He said 20-30 tourists would arrive per day in July, 2020, and there have been over 1,000 visitors every day since December 25, 2020.The inflow of tourists, however, was disrupted after surface and air traffic was suspended from Sunday following heavy snowfall.Also Read: Continuous snowfall disrupts Kashmir’s air, road connectivity for 3rd consecutive day“Although we have zero arrival during these three days, we expect the fresh snowfall will give further impetus to tourism. We are hopeful of a good season this year,” Wani said.Mostly, tourists in winter rush to Gulmarg, located in the Pir Panjal mountain range in the western Himalayas, about 50km from Srinagar in north Kashmir. The place is home to one of Asia’s largest and highest cable cars.Assistant manager, Gondola Project, Fayaz Ahmad said that Gulmarg was packed on Christmas and New Year ’s Eve.“Snowfall was on time this year, and Kashmir is almost Covid-19-free. We follow proper protocol right from the airport. So domestic tourists prefer to come here than go abroad,” Ahmad said.All incoming passengers at Srinagar airport have to go through a mandatory Covid-19 test and anybody testing positive is immediately isolated. The daily number of Covid-19 infections in Kashmir Valley has dropped to below 100.Ahmad said that the hotels in Gulmarg are full and they hope the fresh snowfall will push the number up further. Tourism in Kashmir has taken a hit since August 5, 2019, when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on the movement of people and communication for months. Two days before the revocation of Article 370, around 20,000-25,000 tourists in Kashmir were asked to leave the Valley along with the Amarnath pilgrims. The situation was then further aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown since March 2020.“From August 4, 2019 till December 23,2020, the business has been down and tourism suffered a lot of losses. Now there is hope for some revival as there have been enquiries from outside tour operators,” said Mukhtar Shah, president, Gulmarg Hotels Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-snowfall-in-kashmir-gives-tourism-sector-a-boost/story-uVLVFNtYXQLIfNQrk3Oe8K.html
05-01-2021||India||Bird flu in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh: What we know so far||At least four states are reeling under bird flu scare with Kerala issuing a high alert against bird flu on Tuesday after declaring bird-flu as a state-specific disaster. Bird flu is a disease which can spread to human through generally poultry birds. The virus does not directly infect humans, normally. The Centre has issued alert to the states to monitor the health of birds in forest areas and near water bodies, officials from multiple states said.Here is what we know about the present infection scenario in India.RajasthanThe first case this time was reported om Rajasthan. On December 31, curfew was imposed in around one kilometre area in Jhalawar town in Rajasthan as avian influenza was confirmed in the area. On December 25, 50 crows were found dead at a temple in Jhalawar town. By January 4, over 300 more birds were found dead across Rajasthan.Madhya PradeshOn January 1, bird flu virus was confirmed in around 50 crows which were found dead in the last week of December in Indore. “Bird Flu has been detected in four samples of dead crows sent to the state lab. Around 100 crows died in Mandsaur between December 23 and January 3. Medical team to conduct surveillance within 1-km of the infected area,” Dr Manish Ingole of the animal husbandry department of Mandsaur told ANI.KeralaOn January 4, two districts in Kerala, Alappuzha and Kottayam, were put on a high alert after bird flu cases have been confirmed in ducks. The bird flu was reported from four panchayats--Nedumudi, Thakazhy, Pallippad and Karuvatta--in Kuttanad region of Alappuzha district and from a duck farm in Neendoor panchayat in Kottayam district. Officials said around 40,000 domestic birds, including 34,000 in Kuttanad region alone, will be culled to check the spread of the H5N8 virus.On January 5, the state government issues a statewide alert too.Himachal PradeshOn January 5, Himachal Pradesh became the fourth state to confirm bird flu. Around 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, were found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary. Slaughtering, sale, purchase and export of any poultry, birds, fish of any breed and their related products, including eggs, meat, chicken, etc., has been banned in Kangra district. According to reports, Haryana too has reported a huge number of bird carcasses at Barwala in Panchkula district. A probe is on to find out whether the birds were infected by bird flu. Jammu and Kashmir sounded an alert and started collecting samples to check the health of winged guests flocking to the Union territory during winters.National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, is the nodal body for testing this disease. According to Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, the US, the H5N1 virus was first detected in 1996 in geese in China. It was first detected in humans in 1997 in Hong Kong. India is among the six countries considered to be endemic for H5N1, the other countries being Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Indonesia and Vietnam.The disease is transmitted from birds to human via an infected bird’s feces, or secretions from its nose, mouth or eye. The last major case of bird flu in Kerala was reported in 2016 — in the districts of Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flue-in-rajasthan-madhya-pradesh-kerala-himachal-pradesh-what-we-know-so-far/story-C6B1csGjFjtqNKDc2ptmlO.html
05-01-2021||India||Central Vista project case of ‘misplaced priorities’, says Congress after Supreme Court nod||The Congress party on Tuesday called the government’s Central Vista project a case of ‘misplaced priorities’ of a ‘whimsical autocrat’ hours after the Supreme cleared the redevelopment plan which includes construction of a new Parliament Building and a common Central Secretariat.“The ₹13,450 CR Central Vista Project is not a legalistic issue but a case of ‘misplaced priorities’ of a ‘whimsical autocrat’ seeking to etch his name in the annals of history with cement & mortar,” the grand old party’s national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala wrote on Twitter. He also took a swipe at the Centre over the purchase of “aircraft for the Prime Minister” and deduction of allowances for soldiers and central government employees. “Ironical that In times of Corona pandemic & economic recession, Delhi has ₹14,000 CR for Central Vista & ₹8,000 CR for buying aircrafts for PM. But the same BJP Govt imposes cuts of ₹37,530 CR in allowances of 113 Lakh Armed Forces & Central Govt Employees & Pensioners,” he wrote in another post on the microblogging site. Surjewala went on to accuse the government of having no time to provide ‘heated tents and equipment’ to army men braving the cold in Ladakh. “PM must not forget that he has imposed cuts of ₹11,000 CR on 15 lakh Soldiers & 26 lakh Military Pensioners. And the same BJP Govt at Centre has no time to provide ‘heated tents and equipment’ to our soldiers braving brazen Chinese incursions in Ladakh,” he tweeted. Earlier in the day, the apex court gave a go-ahead to the Central Vista project by a 2:1 majority. The three-judge bench, however, insisted that the clearance of the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) will be mandatory and the same should be obtained by the project consultant before proceeding with the development work. The redevelopment plan includes a new Parliament building, and a common secretariat for Central government offices along with the Prime Minister office and residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President Enclave.Apart from a new Parliament building, the Central Vista project involves constructing a common Central Secretariat along with residences of Prime Minister and vice-president, and a revamp of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.The new triangular complex, often described as the centre-piece of the Central Vista project, will be big enough to house 1,224 MPs lawmakers — 888 in the Lok Sabha and 384 in the Upper House. It is targeted to be built by 2024. The 64,500 sq m new building will replace the 93-year-old existing Parliament house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-case-of-misplaced-priorities-says-congress-after-supreme-court-nod/story-714rxC4gQ41GMh41ZHZxhL.html
05-01-2021||India||Manish Tiwari hits out at the Centre for premature Covid vaccine roll-out||Congress leader Manish Tiwari on Tuesday hit out at the Centre for prematurely rolling out Covaxin, Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine for Covid-19, without the completion of its phase III trials.The Drugs Controller General of India on Sunday announced that it has approved Covaxin along with the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India. The immunisation roll-out will begin with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.“A number of eminent etymologists and other medical practitioners have expressed surprise with regard to the fact that this vaccine has been cleared without phase III trials having been completed,” Tiwari said. “This obviously raises questions with regard to the efficacy of the vaccine.”Also Read: 20 more people in India test positive for new UK Covid-19 strain; total reaches 58Tiwari added it would have been more prudent for the government to have waited for the completion of the entire process in accordance with the established norms, protocols, and rules before authorising the vaccine. “Emergency authorisation or not, all the protocols should have been followed.”There have been widespread concerns expressed by the medical community regarding the manner in which the vaccine has been granted approval. Experts have cautioned against the shorter duration of human trials and lack of data available.The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine has been granted emergency use approval, while Covaxin restricted emergency use authorisation.Tiwari is the third Congress leader after former union ministers Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh to express concerns regarding Covaxin. “In other words, those Indians who would be administered Covaxin would, in effect, be volunteers for the required third stage clinical trial - without the mandatory ‘informed consent’. This is, to put it mildly, highly unusual. It is also ethically dubious,” Tharoor said.In a tweet, Ramesh said, “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister @drharshvardhan should clarify.”Congress leader Anand Sharma-led parliamentary standing committee on home affairs has also advised caution in granting emergency approval to the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-tiwari-hits-out-at-the-centre-for-premature-covid-vaccine-roll-out/story-IU4XPm0H6gb1EntVSsUUnJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly fit enough to fly plane, run marathon, his heart is strong: Dr Devi Shetty||Former cricketer Sourav Ganguly can run a marathon and fly a plane as his heart is as strong as it was when he was 20, said cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty after examining the Board of Control for Cricket in India president at a hospital in Kolkata on Tuesday.Ganguly was rushed to the hospital on Saturday after he complained of chest pain while working out at a gym. He underwent angioplasty after three tiny blockages were detected in his coronary artery.“This event will not affect his lifestyle or lifespan. He is going to lead a normal life like anybody else. Sourav can participate in a marathon, fly a plane, or even get back to cricket if he wants without this event being any setback as his heart has not suffered any damage. He can start working from home as soon as he reaches home,” said Shetty.Also Read: CPI(M) leader says Sourav under pressure to join politics, triggers stormGanguly is expected to be released from the hospital on Wednesday. He would be on oral medications and monitored on a daily basis at home. Doctors have advised him to undergo two more angioplasty for the other blockages after two to three weeks.“He has the option of both medication and angioplasty for the other blockages. It would be a good idea to go for angioplasty. We have left it for him to decide. He can wait for two weeks and then take a call,” said Shetty.He added Ganguly’s event has shaken the world raising a question as to how a 48-year-old athlete like him, who does not drink, smoke, or has any other vices, is a fit man, can have a heart attack.“Irrespective of how strict you are with your lifestyle, irrespective of how athletic you are, you can still have a heart attack if you do not go a preventive heart check-up at regular intervals,” he said. He added this event could have been predicted years ago and been prevented had Ganguly undergone check-ups.Shetty requested Ganguly to influence the country’s sports bodies to ensure sportspersons go for mandatory cardiac and body check-ups at least once in two years.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who met Ganguly at the hospital on Saturday, said she was surprised to know that he never underwent any preventive check-ups.Top cardiologists from India and abroad were consulted for Ganguly’s treatment. “If Ganguly was in any first world country, he would not have got any better care than what he has received in Kolkata,” said Shetty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sourav-ganguly-fit-enough-to-fly-plane-run-marathon-his-heart-is-strong-says-top-doctor/story-UUzkaIMfAgR6vMktJVsFfM.html
05-01-2021||India||Sensitise parents on consequences of underage driving: Delhi govt to schools||The Delhi government has directed all schools in the national capital to sensitise parents against driving of vehicles by underage students and about its legal consequences.Schools have also been asked to ensure that no student who is underage be allowed to commute to and from school driving any vehicle.“Incidents of offences by juveniles while driving vehicles are on the rise. In this context, attention of all parents and heads of schools of Delhi is brought to the Section 199 A (1 and 2) and 199 B of ‘The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019’...,” the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in a letter to school principals.The law states that if an offence has been committed by a juvenile, “the guardian of or the owner of the motor vehicle shall be deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly”, it said.“Students and their parents should be made aware of the above provisions of the law and penalties and consequences of their violations through classroom instructions, school assembly (whenever schools re-open), online instructional mediums used by the teachers, parent teacher meetings, school notice board,” the DoE said.Help of school management committee members can also be taken to spread awareness in this regard, it said.Schools have been directed to sensitise parents to ensure that no student who is underage and does not hold a valid driving license be permitted to drive any vehicle or commute to and from school driving any vehicle, according to the DoE letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensitise-parents-on-consequences-of-underage-driving-delhi-govt-to-schools/story-tOcL8QQkWqDkTpTY1Lwi9H.html
05-01-2021||India||Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech pledge smooth Covid-19 vaccine roll-out||A day after Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella hit out at Serum Institute of India (SII) chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla for calling Covaxin, their anti-Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, safe like water, the companies on Tuesday issued a joint statement saying they had pledged to ensure a smooth roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines to India and the world. Both the vaccine makers on Tuesday communicated their combined intent to develop, manufacture and supply Covid-19 vaccines. They said that the more important task in front of them was saving lives and livelihoods.Also Read: Covid-19: This Pacific nation could become first to achieve herd immunity through vaccination“Vaccines are a global public health good and they have the power to save lives and accelerate the return to economic normalcy at the earliest. Now that two Covid-19 vaccines have been issued EUA (emergency-use authorisation) in India, the focus is on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that populations that need it the most receive high quality, safe and efficacious vaccines. Both our companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth roll-out of vaccines. Each of our companies continue their Covid-19 vaccines development activities as planned,” read the joint statement. “We are fully aware of the importance of vaccines for people and countries alike, we hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines,” the statement read. Earlier in the day, Poonawalla, had tweeted that both the companies were going to issue a joint clarification on the controversy regarding the Covid-19 vaccines. “I would like to clarify two matters: as there is confusion in the public domain, exports of vaccines are permitted to all countries and a joint public statement clearing up any recent miscommunication with regards to Bharat Biotech will be made,” he tweeted. Minutes after the joint statement was made public, Bharat Biotech also tweeted the same statement from its official twitter handle: @BharatBiotech. On Sunday, both the companies were granted restricted emergency-use authorisation for sale of their Covid-19 vaccine in India by the Drugs Controller General of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-bharat-biotech-issue-joint-pledge-to-ensure-smooth-covid-vaccine-roll-out/story-Y4cGZcpDf8nQ3fFDFPfGhL.html
05-01-2021||India||Downpour in Chennai causes waterlogging; rainfall may continue till Wednesday||A downpour in Chennai on Tuesday caused severe water logging in the city’s low-lying neighbourhoods, arterial roads and prompted authorities to open sluice gates of the Chembarambakkam and Red Hills reservoirs to release surplus water. Also read | Extreme weather killed at least 2,000 people in India in 2020: IMDThe regional meteorological centre said moderate to heavy rainfall will continue in the city and adjoining districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Ranipet until Wednesday. Intermittent rain was then forecast until January 10.Independent weather watcher Pradeep John said Tamil Nadu has received 22mm rainfall so far this month which means it has crossed the normal for January--18mm--in just four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/downpour-in-chennai-causes-waterlogging/story-8AlRXyHnETMUGWOBng9ZOI.html
05-01-2021||India||West Bengal minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigns: Report||West Bengal minister of state for youth services and sports Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned from his post on Tuesday, sources in the state secretariat said. Shukla sent his resignation letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a copy of it to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, they said.The former cricketer’s resignation came almost a fortnight after state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari had left the party and joined BJP.Former captain of the Bengal Ranji team, 39-year-old Shukla, MLA of Howrah (Uttar), in his resignation letter to Banerjee expressed his willingness to “retire” from politics, the officials said.Shukla, who was looking after the TMC affairs in Howrah district, however, has not given up his post as an MLA, they added.Repeated calls to Shukla’s mobile number went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-minister-laxmi-ratan-shukla-resigns-report/story-cK6RhsLTCXEjqb4q69IfEN.html
05-01-2021||India||CRPF jawan, 3 contract killers held for murder of former colleague in Bihar||The Bihar police, which is investigating the murder of a retired CRPF jawan, Jitendra Paswan, on Tuesday arrested his colleague, who had allegedly hired contract killers to eliminate Paswan so that he could marry the former jawan’s wife. According to reports, the police arrested four people including CRPF jawan Dayanand Paswan, currently posted in Latehar (Jharkhand), shooters—Santosh Nutt, Dhananjay Nutt—besides Fantush, who was also involved in the crime. One of the shooters, Manoj Sapera of Nawada and the deceased’s cousin Lavkush, who were also part of the plot are still at large. According to the police, both the conspirators—Dayanand and Lavkush—gave a contract of Rs 5 lakh to Nalanda goon Dhananjay, who engaged Santosh, Manoj and Fantush to carry out the crime. Dayanand paid Rs 2 lakh and Lavkush paid Rs 1 lakh as an advance to the contract killers. Later, both the conspirators took the three contract killers and showed them his shop. Police said that Jitendra, who used to run a canteen at the Patna-Gaya national highway was gunned down near Lodipur village barely 500 metres from the Jehanabad SP’s residence on December 23. A case was lodged against unidentified criminals with the Kadauna police out-post on the basis of the statement of Lavkush. Jehanabad SP Meenu Kumari said that the prime accused Dayanand and the victim worked together for many months during their posting at sector headquarters in Patna and during that time the former developed an intimate relationship with the victim’s wife. On the other hand, the deceased’s maternal brother Lavkush wanted to grab his canteen. The SP informed that on the day of the crime, three shooters from Patna, Nalanda and Nawada reached Jehanabad on a bike. Two of them entered the canteen and killed Jitendra while another was waiting outside the canteen on his bike. The fourth (Fantush) was stationed at Kako More and kept an eye on the movement of the police patrol car. During questioning, the CRPF jawan claimed that he fell in love with his colleague’s wife and wanted to marry her. He also claimed that Jitendra’s cousin wanted to grab his canteen so he hatched a conspiracy to eliminate the jawan and offered him monetary support, said the SP adding that the police had recovered the used weapon and empty cartridge from a ditch. The Jehanabad SP said that action in Jitendra’s murder case was taken after scanning CCTV footage. A manhunt has been launched for the third shooter and second conspirator. Jitendra’s wife has accepted having a relationship with Dayanand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-3-contract-killers-held-for-murder-of-former-colleague-in-bihar/story-HVX2s3LSk7L6Qe10Rt0RzO.html
05-01-2021||India||China tried to change status quo by force in Ladakh, says MoD review||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) escalated the situation in the sensitive Ladakh theatre by using unorthodox weapons against Indian soldiers and amassing a large number of troops during the ongoing border standoff along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), the defence ministry said in a year-end review of major developments. While the ministry did not elaborate on the unorthodox weapons used, the PLA troops attacked Indian soldiers with stones, iron rods and nail-studded clubs during skirmishes in Pangong Tso and the Galwan Valley last year. The PLA attempted to alter the status quo in the sector by force but the Indian Army was well-entrenched to counter any misadventure by the adversary, it said. Also Read: Ladakh was the starting point. India-China ties are getting complicatedIn its review, published on January 1, the ministry said the Indian Army—assisted by the Indian Air Force (IAF)—mobilised troops, accretionary forces, artillery guns, tanks and ammunition at a swift pace to deal with the emerging situation. Roads, habitat and bridges were constructed quickly to support the enhanced troop deployment, it said. “Unilateral and provocative actions by the Chinese to change the status quo by force in more than one area on the LAC were responded to in a firm and non-escalatory way, ensuring the sanctity of our claims in Eastern Ladakh,” the ministry said, adding that the Indian Army stuck to the protocols and agreements between the two countries even as the PLA took escalatory actions. The review reiterated that Chinese suffered significant casualties in the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action. The ministry elaborated on the steps taken by the Indian Army to occupy strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso, thwarting China’s expansionist aims. The ministry said that Indian troops, in a precautionary deployment on August 28-19, “pre-empted Chinese expansionist designs” and occupied heights along southern bank of Pangong Tso. “Braving inclement weather, own troops continue to be deployed on these heights. Advance winter stocking (AWS) and winter preparations for the enhanced strength has been completed and troops are well entrenched to counter any misadventure by Chinese forces,” the review said. The review added that IAF’s heavy-lift planes altered the dynamics of “force posturing” in the Ladakh sector “by mobilising huge quantum of war-waging machinery along with battle ready troops in quick time-frames.” The Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other. The review added that while the Indian Army was prepared for any eventuality, talks were in progress to resolve the issue in an amicable manner. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that talks with China on disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector—where the two countries have been locked in a border row for eight months—had not yielded any meaningful solution. Both sides are expected to hold the ninth round of military talks to reduce border but there is no indication of when India and China will hold the dialogue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-tried-to-change-status-quo-by-force-in-ladakh-says-mod-review/story-i3l2INcrilgQb2TnF8WPHL.html
05-01-2021||India||Will provide global access to our Covid-19 vaccines, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech in joint pledge||Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech have pledged to ensure global access to their vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “We are fully aware of the importance of vaccines for people and countries alike. We hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines,” SII and Bharat Biotech said in a joint statement, according to ANI.Important Announcement: Joint statement @BharatBiotech and @SerumInstIndia pic.twitter.com/la5av27MqyThe statement said that SII’s Adar Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech’s Krishna Ella are focusing on manufacturing, supply and distribution of the vaccines. The joint statement said that both companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it as their duty to provide the vaccines to the citizens and people worldwide.Also Read: Exports of Covishield allowed to all countries, clarifies Adar Poonawalla “Mr. Adar Poonawala and Dr. Krishna Ella, jointly on behalf of the two Companies, today communicated their combined intent to develop manufacture and supply the COVID-19 vaccines for India and globally. They said, the more important task in front of them is saving the lives and livelihoods of populations in India and the world. Vaccines are a global public health good and they have the power to save lives and accelerate the return to economic normalcy at the earliest,” the statement said. “Now that two COVID-19 vaccines have been issued EUA (emergency use authorization) in India, the focus is on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that populations that need it the most receive high quality, safe and efficacious vaccines,” the statement further said. The statement comes after some medical industry experts and opposition leaders expressed concern over the lack of Phase III trial data of Covaxin. Congress leader Manish Tewari on Tuesday to lashed out at the Centre said the approval given to the vaccines was ‘premature’ and accused the government of sidestepping important processes. He told news agency ANI that the governments has misused the pandemic for political purposes and raised questions regarding the reliability of the vaccines. Bharat Biotech’s Dr Krishna Ella on Monday lashed out at his detractors and said, “We do 200 percent honest clinical trials and yet we receive backlash.”“If I am wrong, tell me. Some companies have branded me like water,” Ella was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Earlier on Monday, SII CEO Poonawalla had termed vaccines other than that of Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca as ‘just like water.’In their joint statement both Poonawalla and Ella have said that they have pledged to provide global access to the vaccines developed by them. “Both our Companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth rollout of vaccines. Each of our Companies continue their COVID-19 vaccines development activities as planned. We are fully aware of the importance of vaccines for people and countries alike, we hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our COVID-19 vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-provide-global-access-to-our-covid-19-vaccines-serum-institute-and-bharat-biotech-in-joint-pledge/story-gAMboU9U279LqrPxbz9PaK.html
05-01-2021||India||New Parliament building will be ready when India completes 75 years of Independence: Hardeep Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday welcomed a Supreme Court judgement giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista redevelopment project, and asserted that the government has always been sensitive to environmental concerns.The Union housing and urban affairs minister, whose ministry is executing the ambitious project, said the government would continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction.“Delhi is on course to becoming a World Class capital city and in the first step by the time nation completes 75 years of its Independence in 2022 a new Parliament building will be ready reflecting the aspirations of new India,” Puri tweeted.In a majority verdict, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the environmental clearance and notification for change in land use for the Central Vista project.“We welcome the Judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court giving the go ahead for the ambitious Central Vista Project. Central Govt has always been sensitive to environmental concerns & will continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction,” Puri said in a tweet.The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation’s power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.According to the government’s latest proposal for the redevelopment of the Central Vista, the prime minister’s new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres.The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-will-be-ready-when-india-completes-75-years-of-independence-hardeep-puri/story-wwei67diwCgbtRszEutGvJ.html
05-01-2021||India||African swine fever reported in Manipur, illegal import of pigs blamed||The contagious African Swine Fever (ASF) has been reported in Manipur, said officials, assuring that the situation is under control. Director of state veterinary and Animal husbandry Dr Chaoba Singh said that the disease has been detected in the Salungpham area in Thoubal district and Nongmaiching Chingkhong(Wakha) area in Imphal East district. “So the said areas have been sealed and sanitised. One km radius of the area has also been contained to prevent further spread of the disease,” Dr Chaoba said. “The surveillance is going on within 10 km radius of the areas too.”Singh suspected the illegal import of pigs as the reason behind the disease.Last year, the ASF killed many pigs in Assam, subsequently the import of the animal was prohibited in Manipur.Meanwhile the district administration of Thoubal in its order issued on January 2, under the Prevention and Control of Infectious Contagious Diseases in Animals Act 2009, notified “controlled areas” for ASF at Kangyambem, Lokchao, Salungpham Mamang Leikai. At the same time, Imphal East District administration in its order on January 4, declared a piggery farm as “infected premises” at Nongmaiching Chingkhong(Wakha) area in the district.The district administrations also banned sale of pig, pork, feed and related items in these “controlled area” and “infected zones” apart from restricting the movement of pig from the place where it is kept within the above area and zone, the orders said.“Any person/institution/organisation found violating any of those containment measures shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under the Act,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/african-swine-fever-reported-in-manipur-illegal-import-of-pigs-blamed/story-xivMeigUTf5StfEOB8X6QJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Exports of Covishield allowed to all countries, clarifies Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday said exports of its vaccine, Covishield, which became one of the first Covid-19 vaccines in India to get restricted emergency-use approval, are permitted to all countries. Earlier it was reported that Pune’s SII got the approval on the condition that it will not export its shots as of now.  I would like to clarify two matters; as there is confusion in the public domain, exports of vaccines are permitted to all countries and a joint public statement clearing up any recent miscommunication with regards to Bharat Biotech will be made.The Associated Press reported that Poonawalla said his company has been barred from selling vaccines on the private market.Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest vaccine maker by the number of doses produced in a year. As it tied up with Astrazeneca and Oxford University to conduct trials in India and to produce the vaccines in India, several south Asian countries have shown interest in Covaxin. In November, an MoU was signed between the Bangladesh health ministry, Serum Institute and Bangladesh’s Beximco Pharmaceuticals according to which SII would provide three crore doses to Bangladesh.Demand for SII’s vaccine being manufactured in India is not only limited to the neighbouring countries, as the vaccine is likely to be cheaper than its global competitors. Global vaccine alliance Gavi has collaborated with Serum Institute and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to deliver up to an additional 100 million doses of vaccines, once proved effective, to low- and middle-income countries, as part of the Gavi-COVAX Advance Market Commitment.Hence, the approval of the vaccine for restricted emergency use is good news for the international market as well but reports that India has barred SII to export its vaccines led to confusion.SII is also part of another vaccine project — CoV2373 — in collaboration with Novavax.Serum Institute versus Bharat BiotechAfter both the companies got a go-ahead for restricted, emergency use in India, apparent competition between the two vaccine candidates mounted as many questioned the efficacy of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine, Covaxin, which is still undergoing trial. AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria said India will use Covishield/Oxford vaccine as the primary vaccine and Bharat Biotech’s vaccine will be a back-up option. Also, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine may be more potential against new Coronavirus mutant, it was said.In an interview, Adar Poonawalla reportedly said only three vaccines in the world have passed all scientific evaluations — Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Oxford-Astrazeneca. “...others were safe, ‘safe like water’,” he was quoted. Bharat Biotech chairman Krishna Ella did not shrug off the criticism. He pointed out the trial error that Astrazeneca did in September and questioned why Covaxin would be considered as the back-up vaccine.In this backdrop, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech will issue a joint statement clearing up “any recent miscommunication with regards to Bharat Biotech will be made”, Poonawalla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exports-of-covishied-allowed-to-all-countries-clarifies-adar-poonawalla/story-OLaNc0JLCk5KwgzYuSW7fP.html
05-01-2021||India||Covid-19: 10 states with most number of fresh Covid-19 infections||India on Tuesday reported 16,375 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 201 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s caseload to 10,356,844, the Union ministry of health and family welfare data showed. This has been India’s lowest daily count recorded in more than six months. At present, there are 231,036 active cases of Covid-19 or 2.23% of the total cases. The health ministry data shows 9,975,958 people have recovered from the viral contagion, taking the national recovery rate to 96.32%.Even as the case count in India has seen a dip in the last few months, several states continue to fight the disease in order to prevent the state’s health infrastructure from getting overwhelmed.Here are the country’s states with the most number of fresh cases as of Monday:1. Maharashtra: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally on Monday rose to 1,947,011 with the addition of 4,875 fresh cases even as 10,362 people recovered in a day, the state health department said. With 29 more patients succumbing to the viral disease, the cumulative death toll in the state mounted to 49,695, an official said.2. Kerala: India’s second-worst affected state Kerala on Monday reported 3,021 new cases and 19 Covid-19-related fatalities, pushing the infection count in the state to 778,873 and the death toll to 3,160. State health minister KK Shailaja said Covid-19 was detected in two people who recently came from the United Kingdom, taking the number of infected persons from that country to 39. “Of the samples sent earlier to NIV, Pune for confirmation of the mutant Covid strain, 12 results have so far come with no presence of the genetically modified virus,” the minister said in a release.3. Chhattisgarh: With 1,147 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths on Monday, Chhattisgarh’s caseload rose to 283,515 and toll to 3,412, a health official said. The number of people who have recovered reached 2,70,337 after 88 people were discharged from hospitals and 1,082 completed home isolation during the day, leaving the state with 9,766 active cases, he added.4. Tamil Nadu: Even as the southern state continues to reduce the active case tally, Tamil Nadu remains among worst-hit states in the country with a cumulative tally of 821,550. Tamil Nadu’s active cases on Monday dropped below the 8,000-mark and with 838 fresh infections, while 10 more fatalities pushed the toll to 12,166. The active cases dipped to 7,970 with 985 patients getting discharged from various hospitals. It was on May 24 that the state had reported less than 8,000 active cases.5. Uttar Pradesh: Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally reached 588,882 on Monday with the detection of 711 fresh cases, while the death toll linked to the pandemic rose to 8,413 after 10 more people succumbed to the infection, officials said. Additional Chief Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad said the number of active cases in the state now stands at 12,505 -- the lowest in nearly six months.6. Gujarat: Gujarat’s Covid-19 tally rose to 247,926 on Monday with the addition of 698 new cases, while nearly 900 patients recovered from the infection, the state health department said. With three more deaths, the state-wide Covid-19 fatalities went up to 4,321, it said. Even as it continues to report less number of fresh cases, Gujarat still has a higher number of active cases than Tamil Nadu. There are now 9,047 active cases in the state with 60 patients on ventilators.7. Madhya Pradesh: Madhya Pradesh on Monday reported 621 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the count of infections to 2,44,647, health officials said. With seven more people succumbing to the viral infection, including four in Indore, the overall death toll rose to 3,648, they said.A total of 857 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the overall count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,32,390.8. Karnataka: Karnataka added 600 new Covid-19 cases and three related fatalities, taking the infection count to 922,538 and the toll to 12,110, the health department said on Monday. The day also saw 728 patients getting discharged after recovery and the active cases stood at 10,207. The state’s cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 9,22,538, which includes 12,110 deaths and 9,00,202 discharges, the health department said in a bulletin.9. West Bengal: West Bengal reported 25 more Covid-19 deaths on Monday, pushing the toll to 9,817 and 597 fresh cases, pushing the Covid-19 tally to 555,572, the state’s health department said in a bulletin.10. Rajasthan: With 502 fresh cases, Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally went up to 310,278 on Monday. The death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 2,714 in the state with four more fatalities, according to a health department bulletin. Of the 457 fresh cases, 71 were reported in Jaipur, 69 in Jodhpur, 36 in Pali, 32 in Nagaur, 30 in Bhilwara and 21 in Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-10-states-with-most-number-of-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-qvLMAD1RvBR2vhVUJPVi3L.html
05-01-2021||India||Kerala CM hails completion of Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline project||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday hailed the completion of GAIL’s Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline, saying completion of the project halted due to various obstacles was one of the major poll promises of his government. Noting that GAIL had to stop the project in September 2104 due to several obstacles, the Chief Minister said at the 450 km pipeline’s virtual inaugural function that his government, after coming to power in 2016, had to “clear obstacles by proactively addressing the genuine concerns of the people”. “GAIL authorities also stood by us in making this project come to life. I am extremely happy that our combined efforts have borne fruits,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 450-km natural pipeline between Kochi and Mangalore in the virtual event attended by dignitaries including governors and chief ministers of Kerala and Karnataka, Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, and authorities of GAIL. The 450 km-long pipeline will carry natural gas from Kochi in Kerala through Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod districts to Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka. The pipeline is a landmark example of project execution with active support of governments of Kerala and Karnataka. Officials said the pipeline will bring convenient and uninterrupted supply of environment friendlyand affordable fuel in the form of piped natural gas (PNG) to households, commercial units and compressed natural gas (CNG) across different city gas distribution (CGD) areas in different Geographical Areas. The pipeline will offer clean industrial fuel and feedstock for petrochemical and fertilized sectors and provide an opportunity for multiple gas-based industries to emerge, thus bringing about socio-economic benefits to the people of these states and creating direct and indirect job opportunities, they said. PTI TGB ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-hails-completion-of-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline-project/story-dqOHohzGTR59PBwYwRAq2N.html
05-01-2021||India||Kerala to reopen theatres from today: All you need to know||The Kerala government has released a set of guidelines and Covid-19 prohibitive measures that movie theatres have to strictly follow at all times after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said movie theatres in the state can reopen from Tuesday. “For nearly a year now, movie theatres have been fully closed in the state. This has led to a big crisis for thousands of people working in the film industry. Considering this, a decision has been taken to open film theatres with certain restrictions. Strict action will be taken against those theatres which do not abide by these restrictions. Since the theatres have been closed for so long, they should be disinfected before being opened on January 5,” the chief minister said in the press conference.However, not all cinemas will be opening on Tuesday as owners are awaiting a response from the government on the demands they put forward. Cinema owners have asked the government to reduce the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on the tickets, and exemption from entertainment tax for a fixed period of time to allow recovery. They have also asked for a waiver on the monthly fixed electricity charge below Rs 50,000, allowing cinemas to make up for the losses they have incurred in the past nine months. Vijayan’s decision was preceded by the news of a major blockbuster’s (Drishyam 2) OTT release. Kerala currently has 63,135 active cases of Covid-19 and six fresh cases of the mutated coronavirus strain reported in the UK were detected in the state. All six patients had recently returned from the United Kingdom on December 14. Here are the guidelines movie theatres and cinema-goers have to follow:1. Theatres will only be allowed to run on 50% occupancy, meaning only 50% of available seats will be available for bookings. This has created contention amongst theatre owners who have asked the government to increase seating capacity to 80%. 2. Theatre goers will have to wear masks at all times and follow proper social distancing norms.3. Theatres will have to be cleaned and sanitised as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) released by the government.4. Show timings of the screenings will have to be staggered and all movie-goers will have to be thermally screened before entry. 5. Theatre employees will have to be provided with proper protective equipment6. Phone numbers of moviegoers will have to be registered for purposes of contact tracing, should need be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-reopen-theatres-from-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-DhyEWbFtnWIvkkdsKsv2UM.html
05-01-2021||India||Ecologist, architect of river regulation zone, Prof Brij Gopal passes away at 76||Professor Brij Gopal (76), former Jawaharlal Nehru University Professor and noted river ecologist, passed away in Delhi following a heart attack on Monday. He conceptualised the river regulation zone (RRZ) on the lines of the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) which would offer legal protection to river floodplains from various activities which can be detrimental to river health and ecology. Though the concept was discussed as early as 2002 and former environment minister Jairam Ramesh and later present environment minister Prakash Javadekar assured that RRZ will be implemented to secure floodplains from concretisation, the policy is yet to take off. Ramesh made a special mention in Parliament about RRZ on July 16, 2019, when he wrote, “ An RRZ notification for the protection of floodplains of various rivers along the lines of CRZ which exists is urgently needed…the absence of such a notification has led to environmental destruction of the floodplain areas which are the safety valves for rivers.” “Prof Brij Gopal helped me enormously on wetlands, especially when I was a minister. A true self-effacing scholar and mentor to many,” Ramesh tweeted on Tuesday. “Dear @PrakashJavdekar & @gssjodhpur Now that d real propounder & architect of River Zone Regulation (RRZ) draft Notification Prof Brij Gopal has died this morning without seeing it Notified wud u b kind enough to do it as a memorial to him? @moefcc @cleanganganmcg @Jairam_Ramesh” tweeted Manoj Misra, convenor of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan. Many researchers, scientists and environmentalists remembered Gopal as someone who was honest in his criticism of river and wetland policies. In September, after government reports showed that water quality had improved following lockdown, he said, “The reason Yamuna is in better quality is because industries are closed. This will not last more than a few months unless the government has a strategy for industries after Covid-19 pandemic. What we are seeing today is a natural consequence of less effluents and better dilution due to monsoon.” He called for long term conservation of floodplains and rivers through legal interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ecologist-architect-of-river-regulation-zone-prof-brij-gopal-passes-away-at-76/story-EszE8fERvn7iIJGmfjDDmM.html
05-01-2021||India||High court issues notices to Centre, Punjab over damage to Reliance Jio’s infrastructure amid farmers’ protest||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued notices to Punjab and the Centre in response to Reliance Jio’s plea seeking action against those involved in damaging its infrastructure and other properties in the state amid the agitation against the three farm laws enacted in September.The petition said the company’s 1,500 telecom towers have been vandalised, crippling its mobile network in Punjab, where it has 14 million subscribers. It has blamed the company’s business rivals of taking advantage of the ongoing farmers’ protests.Farm unions have launched the agitation to force the Centre to revoke the three laws, which provide for creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces. The laws allow traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.Also read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PILReliance Jio has maintained in its petition that its parent company, Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), retail arms, and affiliates, have “no interest” and do not “intend in future to do corporate or contract farming”. It emphasised that the conglomerate and its retail arms have not purchased any agricultural land directly or indirectly for farming.It underlined the conglomerate has the greatest regard for the farmers hard work and added it has never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain “unfair advantage” over farmers or their produce.The petition was filed on Monday seeking direction to the state and the Centre to protect the firm’s infrastructure and ensure the safety of its employees.The firm’s lawyer, Ashish Chopra, said that the high court has sought response from Punjab and the Centre by February 8.The plea said subscribers were compelled to port to other networks and the vandalism has also endangered lives of the company’s employees. The company has also sought the appointment of competent authority to assess the damages to be recovered from the attackers as per a Supreme Court ruling.“The destruction has been done in a well-orchestrated manner, which is the result of a sustained disinformation campaign being carried out by vested interests,” said the plea.Protesters in Punjab have targeted the company amid allegations that the laws are meant to benefit certain corporate houses at the cost of farmers. Farmers say the laws will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the procurement system, whereby the government buys staples such as wheat and rice at guaranteed rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-issues-notices-to-centre-punjab-over-damage-to-reliance-jio-s-infrastructure-amid-farmer-protests/story-GxTpbRvXdhRNzwmOxz0m8I.html
05-01-2021||India||Andhra cop salutes daughter on duty, viral photo wins hearts||Yendluru Jessy Prashanthi, a deputy superintendent of police from Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district, was talking to her superior officers about the arrangements being made at the Andhra Pradesh Police Duty Meet in Tirupati on Monday, when an inspector of police walked up to her and saluted. Prashanthi, too, returned the salute quickly, only to realise that the inspector was none other than her father Y Shyam Sunder. “What, daddy?” she said, before bursting into a hearty laugh and tearing up. The emotional scene caught the attention of everybody, including top police officials, who attended the event Ignite that will continue till January 7. Also Read: Andhra administration likely to operate from Visakhapatnam from April 13, hints minister“We often see such scenes in films, but not in real life. I am happy to see father and daughter in uniform doing their duty at the police meet. I am proud of Prashanthi,” said Tirupati (Urban) SP A Ramesh Reddy. The picture of Shyam Sunder saluting his daughter went viral on social media after it was tweeted by the Andhra Pradesh Police on its official handle. “#APPolice1stDutyMeet brings a family together! Circle Inspector Shyam Sundar salutes his own daughter Jessi Prasanti who is a Deputy Superintendent of Police with pride and respect at #IGNITE which is being conducted at #Tirupati. A rare & heartwarming sight indeed! #DutyMeet,” the police tweeted. #APPolice1stDutyMeet brings a family together!Circle Inspector Shyam Sundar salutes his own daughter Jessi Prasanti who is a Deputy Superintendent of Police with pride and respect at #IGNITE which is being conducted at #Tirupati. A rare & heartwarming sight indeed!#DutyMeet pic.twitter.com/5r7EUfnbzBShyam Sunder said he was excited to see his daughter, a Group-I police officer, talking to higher officials. “What more does a father want when his children achieve success and bring laurels to the country? I am confident that my daughter discharges her duty with sincerity and integrity,” he told reporters later. Prashanthi, who was in charge of the Disha wing at the event, said, “It was a pleasant surprise, but I felt a little embarrassed when he saluted me. But that is all part of the duty,” she said. She attributed her growth as a police officer to her father. “He was my inspiration and it was because of him that I chose this profession,” Prashanthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/andhra-pradesh/andhra-cop-salutes-daughter-on-duty-viral-photo-wins-hearts/story-CVwKvi8JTT7y2nsQNcWlnM.html
05-01-2021||India||Who will opt for a vaccine with question marks on its reliability: Manish Tewari||Congress leader Manish Tewari on Tuesday alleged the government has “politically misused the Covid-19 pandemic in its entirety” as he also criticised it over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech International Limited’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for restricted use. Tewari, however, did not name the Hyderabad-based company. Several leaders of the Congress have already called the approval to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine “premature” and said that it can prove dangerous.“The BJP government has politically misused the Covid-19 pandemic in its entirety. The controversy over the vaccine is its latest manifestation. Who is going to get himself vaccinated with a vaccine that has question marks on its reliability,” Tewari was quoted as saying by new agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “The BJP government has done a great disservice to that company which must have invested crores of rupees in research and development. In their quest to prove their ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ they have licensed a vaccine whose phase III trials are not complete,” Tewari also said, according to ANI.Drug Control General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use.Before Tewari, his colleagues in the Congress party Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor and Samajwadi Party’s chief Akhilesh Yadav have raised doubts about the efficacy of Covaxin. Yadav who called it a “BJP vaccine”, said he wouldn’t get himself vaccinated for now added that “BJP (people) should get vaccinated first.” Tharoor on Sunday wrote on Twitter, “But it is typical of a govt that prefers slogans over substance. Chest-thumping ‘vaccine nationalism’, combined with the PM’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign, has trumped common sense and a generation of established scientific protocols.”Amid the political slugfest between the opposition and ruling party leaders, Bharat Biotech chairperson and managing director, Krishna Ella, on Monday hit out at comments suggesting that Covaxin, was “safe like water”, and said that their Phase 3 efficacy data, likely to be out by February or March, will silence all critics.The company also asked for a weeks’ time to prove with evidence that its vaccine also worked against the new UK variant of Sars-Cov-2 virus as 90% of the vaccines targeted just the spike protein of the virus but Covaxin was an inactivated whole virion vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-will-opt-for-a-vaccine-with-marks-on-its-reliability-congress-s-manish-tewari/story-OlX39mQGKb1Rt56RAfOtmM.html
05-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Singhu-Tikri border remain closed due to protests, rain adds to traffic woes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain blocked, rain worsens traffic woesThe routes around Delhi’s borders remained restricted on Tuesday as farmers continued to protest against the three new farm laws. Read MoreFarmers continue protests a day after talks with Centre remain inconclusiveThousands of farmers, who are have been protesting at the borders of Delhi, on Tuesday continued their agitation on Tuesday as they remained firm on their demands for the repeal of the three farm laws and legal backing for minimum support price (MSP). Read MoreSupreme Court clears redevelopment plan for Central Vista projectThe Supreme Court on Tuesday cleared the road for the Central Vista project and allowed the government to go ahead with its construction in a near-unanimous decision. Read More20 more people in India test positive for new UK Covid-19 strain; total reaches 58With 20 more people testing positive for the new UK variant of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the total number of UK returnees having tested positive for the mutant virus in the country has reached 58. Read MoreAudi A4 2021 launched in India at ₹42.34 lakhAudi has officially launched A4 2021 in India at a starting price of ₹42.34 lakh (ex-showroom). The updated A4 gets a number of significant changes and updates to help it take on its rivals with a whole lot of new vigour. Read MoreKL Rahul ruled out of ongoing Test series against Australia due to injuryTeam India have been dealt another blow on their tour of Australia as opening batsman KL Rahul has been ruled out of the ongoing Test series due to an injury. Read MoreKangana Ranaut opposes Shashi Tharoor, Kamal Haasan over pay for homemakers: ‘Don’t put a price tag on sex we have with our love’Actor Kangana Ranaut has opposed actor-turned politician Kamal Haasan’s idea of recognising housework done by homemakers as a salaried profession. Read More98-year-old woman’s advice strikes a chord with netizens. Seen it yet?Some say that wisdom is accumulated as one ages, which is why often grandparents make for the best advice-givers. Read More‘Govt digressing from real issues’: Robert Vadra grilled by IT departmentThe Income Tax department questioned Robert Vadra in connection with its probe against him under the benami assets law, official sources said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-singhu-tikri-border-remain-closed-due-to-protests-rain-adds-to-traffic-woes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-da46762ADltNI7CPs2OlxJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Ladakh was the starting point. India-China ties are getting complicated||Eight months to this date, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) launched aggression on Indian Army troopers at the finger four mountainous spur on the north banks of Pangong Tso and tried to unilaterally change the alignment of the 1,597-kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. It was premeditated. The soldiers had exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and attacked Indian soldiers with nail-studded clubs. But the PLA aggressors had been ready, wearing helmets and thickly-padded anti-riot uniforms.Also Read: Restore vandalised temple in two weeks: Pak SC tells KP’s provincial govtThe PLA then expanded the aggression horizontally, creating friction points at Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs near Kongka La. The conflict flared up on June 15 at Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley but the Indian Army led by Col Santosh Babu responded in kind to Chinese aggression. Patrolling point 14 is among the 65 patrolling points identified back in 1976 as the patrolling limits for the Indian troopers on the Ladakh LAC.On August 29-30, the Indian Army pre-empted a PLA military manoeuvre on the south banks of Pangong Tso and occupied the heights on the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline, which dominate the Chinese Moldo garrison in Chushul sector. The PLA tried to retaliate but the Indian Army was able to convey its seriousness by a counter move.Also Read: 10 Chinese spies caught in Kabul get a quiet pardon, fly home in chartered aircraftEight months down the line with both Indian Army and the PLA locked up in a military stand-off and eight rounds of military talks at the senior commander level completed, the negotiations between the two sides are still work in progress.“While the dates for the ninth round of military talks are still to be decided, we are in no hurry as the Chinese side is yet to get back with certain clarifications towards disengagement and de-escalation on ground. We are prepared for a long haul but the ultimate objective is to get the heavy armour of both armies back to bases,” said a senior official.While both armies are working out various permutations and combinations to disengage from the north banks of Pangong Tso, Hindustan Times has learnt that the solution, if and when it comes to fruition, will answer the concerns of both sides and lead to a rollback of the PLA’s May 2020 aggression.The change of XIV Corps Commander and the PLA’s western theatre commander could also work towards the resolution of the stand-off as the previous PLA commander General Zhao Zongqi had been aggressive on both the Indian and the Bhutan border during his tenure. While there is a military status quo along the Indian LAC, there has been no let up in the PLA push towards Bhutan with the Chinese army building infrastructure on both sides of the Amu Chu (river) that could threaten the Indian Siliguri corridor. The Sikkim-Bhutan sector is a matter of top Indian security concern with Bhutan largely having a ceremonial army and hardly any ability to stand a PLA onslaught.Also Read: Chinese economy is recovering. But there are gaps | AnalysisWhile the Ladakh LAC stand-off may get sorted out over time, the Chinese posture towards India will not change as it believes that the Modi government has synergised with the US over Indo-Pacific and QUAD - the informal grouping that brings together India, Australia and Japan with the United State - and thus become an adversary.What Beijing papers over is that the Indian posture towards China is a reaction to Middle-Kingdom’s encirclement of India through its tributary states in South Asia and South-East Asia.”If China has issues with India over its proximity to the US, Japan and Australia, then India also has very serious concerns over Beijing’s role in Gilgit-Baltistan, Balochistan and Sindh. Had India played the puppeteer in Nepal or Sri Lanka like China does, then it would have been called a hegemon. So the two rising powers need to find balance or else there will be friction,” said a government security expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-was-the-starting-point-india-china-ties-are-getting-complicated/story-sOcpYmrzS4FFFNfenYaS6O.html
05-01-2021||India||Coronavirus pandemic has turned the clock back by many years: Harsh Vardhan||Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the coronavirus pandemic has turned the clock back by many years and the lockdowns have raised insurmountable barriers and imposed many roadblocks.The Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the virus spread and was now taking up the vaccination drive in a big way, he said in remarks that came a day after India’s drug regulator approved the restricted use of Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech in the country.In his address at the 32nd Convocation of city-based Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER) held virtually, he said the pandemic showcased the contribution of the government sector towards adequate healthcare - both Intensive Care and otherwise. He also called for a powerful societal commitment to overcome the barriers imposed by the pandemic.Acknowledging that Covid-19 has turned the clock back by many years, if not decades, he said the “deadly virus has derailed painstaking efforts of many decades and diverted scientific attention.” “The lockdowns have raised insurmountable barriers, interrupted supply chains, diversion of manufacturing capacity and imposition of many roadblocks. This period needs strategised thinking, thought leadership and disruptive social entrepreneurship,” Vardhan said.There was a need for mass mobilisation, aggressive campaigns, powerful partners and deep commitments.“And most of all, it needs a powerful societal commitment. Doctors are the backbone of any society. If our doctors are committed, then many things will automatically fall into place,” he said.Stating that the Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the spread of coronavirus, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has interacted with chief ministers of all states and UTs and all stakeholders to regularly understand issues and collaborate with them for effective Covid management. This year, the Centre has already made a substantial increase in the healthcare spend and the Finance Commission has projected a massive increase in the health outlay in the next five years. “The recent pandemic has showcased the contribution of the Government sector towards adequate healthcare.... both intensive care and otherwise. The Central government is taking up the vaccination drive in a big way,” Vardhan said.Listing out the government initiatives,the minister said telemedicine has been promoted in a big way to ensure accessibility of quality treatment for both Covid and non-Covid health issues in far-flung areas.He said eSanjeevani, a web-based comprehensive telemedicine solution, is being utilised in 23 states with over 11 lakh teleconsultations held on this platform till date. To improve the nation’s health, the world’s largest health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat was launched to create 1.50 lakh health and wellness centres by upgrading sub-health centres and rural and urban primary health centres.Around 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families have been identified for a health cover of Rs five lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation, the minister said.The present doctor-patient ratio of 1:1700 needed to be improved to 1:1000 as per WHO norms.Similarly, the number of hospital beds available is 9 per 10,000 population and this needs to be immediately increased to 40 per 10,000.The number of people covered under health insurance has to drastically increase from the present 8-10 per cent, he added.“There is a lot of scope for medical professionals to innovate and improvise to facilitate the PMs dream of Atma Nirbhar India and Make in India concepts through Research and Development Initiatives,” Vardhan said and saluted the frontline health workers and all those who supported patient- care during the pandemic risking their own lives.He complimented SRIHER for providing a separate block for Covid patients and for conducting ICMR vaccine trials and serving as a testing centre since April 2020.Chancellor V R Venkataachalam conferred the degrees and along with Pro Chancellor R V Sengutuvan and Vice Chancellor P V Vijayaraghavan, presented 94 gold medals to meritorious students and distributed certificates to 1,266 students, including in Ph.D., super specialities, post graduate and under graduate disciplines. Earlier in his report, the Vice Chancellor said “our hospital has been undertaking clinical trials for CovidD- 19 vaccines with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech International besides BCG vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-pandemic-has-turned-the-clock-back-by-many-years-harsh-vardhan/story-TT3QYvpxxJTDMpQ9heQzTK.html
05-01-2021||India||Flight operations at Srinagar airport suspended for third consecutive day||Flight operations to and from Srinagar remained suspended for the third consecutive day on Tuesday due to poor visibility as the Valley received heavy snowfall, officials said.Operations will resume only after the weather improves, they added.“The runway has been cleared of snow but continuous heavy snowfall has led to flight operations being suspended due to poor visibility,” an official of the Airport Authority of India told PTI.Flights operations had to be cancelled on Sunday and Monday due to snowfall across the region.The Meteorological office here has said moderate to heavy snowfall, with isolated very heavy snowfall, was most likely to take place till Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-operations-at-srinagar-airport-suspended-for-third-consecutive-day/story-CxOMqjTQbb2g1ISNAd4WaO.html
05-01-2021||India||Farmers continue protests a day after talks with Centre remain inconclusive||Thousands of farmers, who are have been protesting at the borders of Delhi, on Tuesday continued their agitation on Tuesday as they remained firm on their demands for the repeal of the three farm laws and legal backing for minimum support price (MSP). The seventh round of talks held on Monday to resolve the deadlock over the farm laws remained inconclusive. The farmers’ unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the new farm laws, which they say are pro-corporate, even as the government wanted to discuss only “problematic” clauses or other alternatives. Both the sides will meet again on January 8.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that he is “hopeful” that a conclusion will be found in the next round of talks. “We wanted farmer unions to discuss three laws clause-wise. We could not reach any solution as farmer unions remained adamant on the repeal of the laws,” the minister told reporters after the meeting.Also read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PILThe protesting farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been at the border points of the national capital since November 26, braving the bone-chilling cold weather in the region. Sporadic rains have also lashed the national capital in the last couple of days.Delhi Traffic Police have been posting alerts on its official Twitter handle to inform commuters about road closures across the city. On Tuesday, Delhi Traffic Police said in a series of tweets that the Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders are closed for traffic movement. “Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44,” they said.“The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” it added. Traffic AlertAvailable Open Borders to Haryana are following- Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.COVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE.The traffic police said Tikri and Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement. “Jhatikara Border is open only for LMV (Cars/Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” they said in another tweet.Also read | TMC to bring resolution against farm bills in West Bengal assemblyPeople travelling to Haryana can take the routes via Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, they added.Farmers fear the government will stop buying grain at minimum guaranteed prices under the laws and that corporations will then push prices down. The government said it is willing to pledge that guaranteed prices will continue. They also say the three farm laws will lead to the cartelisation and commercialisation of agriculture and make farmers vulnerable to corporate greed. The farmers have also threatened to hold a rally on January 26 on Republic Day if their demands are not met.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-brave-another-cold-day-rains-after-talks-fail/story-FMv8q21viq97ug21emT7BL.html
05-01-2021||India||Central Vista project gets Supreme Court go-ahead||The Supreme Court, by a 2:1 majority on Tuesday, approved the redevelopment plan for Central Vista that included construction of a new Parliament Building and a common Central Secretariat. The three-judge bench, however, insisted that the clearance of the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) will be mandatory and the same should be obtained by the project consultant before proceeding with the development work. The Bench also directed installation of smog guns at the project site as a measure to curb pollution and asked the Ministry of Environment and Forests to consider having smog guns while carrying out any such development work in future. The majority verdict was given by Justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari. The third judge on the bench, Justice Sanjiv Khanna, dissented with regard to change of land use and prior approval of HCC. The dissenting judge even found the environment clearance inadequate.However, his view would be of little avail as the majority bench gave a blanket approval to the Centre’s decision on change of land use and grant of environment clearance. Even the notice inviting bids and selection of project consultant HCP Designs was held to be fair. The majority view noted that HCC clearance would only be needed when the actual work commences and not at the initial stage. On November 5, the court reserved orders on a batch of ten petitions filed by Rajeev Suri, Anuj Srivastava and others which challenged the manner in which the Central Vista project got various clearances.The petitions claimed that the project has been planned by destroying heritage buildings and giving unified building by-laws a go by.The redevelopment plan includes a new Parliament building, and a common secretariat for Central government offices along with the Prime Minister office and residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President Enclave.Apart from a new Parliament building, the Central Vista project involves constructing a common Central Secretariat along with residences of Prime Minister and vice-president, and a revamp of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.The new triangular complex, often described as the centre-piece of the Central Vista project, will be big enough to house 1,224 MPs lawmakers — 888 in the Lok Sabha and 384 in the Upper House. It is targeted to be built by 2024. The 64,500 sq m new building will replace the 93-year-old existing Parliament house.On December 10, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the project after the SC permitted the Centre to go ahead with this function but not undertake any act of construction or demolition at the project site till pronouncement of judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-gets-supreme-court-go-ahead/story-44q1ZHHj9BF69l3wGbIfgO.html
05-01-2021||India||20 more people in India test positive for new UK Covid-19 strain; total reaches 58||With 20 more people testing positive for the new UK variant of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the total number of UK returnees having tested positive for the mutant virus in the country has reached 58.The results are based on the genome sequencing of positive samples released by the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) labs that the Centre has specifically created for the purpose of monitoring any kind of mutations in the virus.The samples have so far been sequenced in six of the 10 designated labs across the country. Also Read: Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases drop below 50,000Among the sequenced samples, 10 samples tested positive in NIMHANS, Bengaluru, three in CCMB, Hyderabad, five in NIV, Pune, 11 in IGIB, Delhi, eight in NCDC, New Delhi, and one in NCBG, Kolkata. NCBS, InSTEM, Bengaluru, CDFD Hyderabad, ILS Bhubaneswar, and NCCS Pune have so far found no traces of the UK variant among the samples that have been sequenced in their labs.From November 25 to December 23, 2020, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from UK. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to detect Covid-19. “All these persons have been kept in single-room isolation in designated health care facilities by respective state governments. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on,” said the Union health ministry in a statement. “The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to Insacog labs,” the statement further read.The Indian government had suspended air travel from the United Kingdom December 23 onwards after a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 was found to be circulating in London and other parts of the country. The new variant – which has 23 mutations, including one on the receptor binding protein on the spike used by the virus to enter the human cells – is thought to be 70% more transmissible, raising concerns of super-spreading events. However, doctors monitoring these patients have not found severe illness because of the new variant. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-more-people-test-positive-for-the-new-uk-variant-of-sars-cov-2-total-reaches-38/story-aZwO2FKK5QMveKHaBdkp4J.html
05-01-2021||India||Air travel to continue to be impacted in 2021, predicts CAPA||Aviation consultant Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) has predicted that demand recovery will remain uncertain even in 2021, especially for international traffic. According to CAPA, international traffic is only expected to recover 35-40% of financial year 2020 levels, while domestic traffic in financial year 2021-22 is expected to reach 70-80% of financial year 2020 levels.It stated that discretionary domestic travel segments (business, institutional, MICE, leisure and foreigners travelling on the domestic network), that accounted for an estimated 55% of the market before the Covid-19 outbreak, is unlikely to return until the pandemic is under greater control or deployment of a vaccine is widespread. CAPA also said that even outbound travel will continue to be impacted by border restrictions and poor consumer confidence until there is effective roll-out of a vaccine.According to CAPA, there has been very limited discretionary travel demand that could be stimulated through lower fares. Though some carriers opposed pricing restrictions, CAPA expects no major push to change the regulations. CAPA also said that aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Bureau of Civil Aviation Security will need to be reinvented as professional, independent institutions, to be able to serve the aviation industry of today,which includes generating funding directly from industry operators and consumers. “The need to modernise these agencies can no longer be ignored as the entire industry will soon be market-driven. Hiving off and corporatising the air navigation services division of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), in line with global best practice, is another overdue reform that should now be pursued. The AAI requires a new long-term business model given that the largest airports will have been privatised,” CAPA said in a report issued on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-travel-to-continue-to-be-impacted-in-2021-predicts-capa/story-WRjNcbkCtv7krjRt7IjKnO.html
05-01-2021||India||Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases drop below 50,000||Maharashtra’s tally of active Covid-19 cases has come down below 50,000 mark. On Monday, it came down to 48,801 from 54,317 reported on Sunday. Active cases are the difference between total cases and the patients who have recovered (or discharged from hospitals) as well as died. It’s basically ‘live’ Covid-19 cases at the given time.The state has seen a decline in active cases in the last four months. It had touched 3,01,752 active cases on September 17. However, a decline in daily cases changed the scenario and consequently active cases also started coming down. On October 17, the figure was 1,85,270, on November 17, it came down to 81,925 and on December 16 it was 61,454.With this, the ratio of active cases compared to the total cases reported also dropped to 2.5% against 26.33% recorded on September 17.Maharashtra is maintaining a trend of low Covid-19 cases for over two months. For the last 19 consecutive days, it is reporting fewer than 4,000 cases. However, there are concerns for a surge in cases this month. On Monday, eight returnees from the United Kingdom were detected with new coronavirus strain, which is believed to be 70% more transmissible than the previous strain. Of the eight, five are in Mumbai, one each in Pune, Thane and Mira-Bhayander. All are kept in isolation and their contacts are being traced, said the state health minister Rajesh Tope.“Between November 25 and December 21, over 4,000 passengers came to Mumbai airport from the UK. They were kept in institutional quarantine facilities and were tested. Of them, 43 tested positive for coronavirus. To ascertain if positive cases are of the mutant strain, samples were sent to NIV, Pune, where genomic sequencing was found. From the reports that came, of the 43 patients, eight cases are of the mutated virus. Their contact tracing and tracking is happening at an expedited speed. However, there is no need to panic. Certainly, the new mutated virus spreads faster. Therefore, we must take all precautions. Covid-appropriate behaviour must be followed,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-active-covid-19-cases-drop-below-50-000/story-3faJDfNkCJuR6xKihP6kXM.html
05-01-2021||India||Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline will boost economic growth in Kerala, Karnataka: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the natural gas pipeline from Kerala’s Kochi to Mangaluru in Karnataka via video conferencing and said the project will have a positive impact on the economic growth in the two southern states. “This is an important day for India, especially for the people of Kerala and Karnataka. These two states are being connected by a natural gas pipeline,” PM Modi said. He added that the pipeline will facilitate the ease of living for lakhs of people in both the states and also give a boost to the tourism sector. In a veiled dig at the previous governments at the Centre, Modi said he didn’t wish to talk about the reasons behind the rate of India’s progress in previous decades, adding, the country cannot develop slowly now. “In recent years, the country has increased its speed, scale, and scope of development,” he said.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement the 450km long pipeline built by GAIL (India) Ltd marks an important milestone towards the creation of “One Nation One Gas Grid”. The Rs 3,000-crore project, which will carry natural gas from the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Regasification Terminal at Kochi to Mangaluru, while passing through Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts, has the transportation capacity of 12 million metric standard cubic metres per day, the statement added. Modi’s office said over 1.2 million man-days of employment was generated during the construction of the pipeline. The pipeline will supply environment-friendly and affordable fuel in the form of piped natural gas (PNG) to households and compressed natural gas (CNG) to the transportation sector. It will also supply natural gas to commercial and industrial units across the districts along the pipeline, PMO said. Consumption of cleaner fuel will help in improving air quality by curbing air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline/story-ijf2F4OH6oggyM5JDuEdDL.html
05-01-2021||India||Supreme Court clears redevelopment plan for Central Vista project||The Supreme Court on Tuesday cleared the road for the Central Vista project and allowed the government to go ahead with its construction in a near-unanimous decision. The top court was hearing a slew of petitions that questioned the lack of transparency and objectivity in awarding clearances to the project by the government and the Central Vista Committee.A three-judge bench, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar and comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari and justice Sanjiv Khanna, pronounced its decision on petitions focussing on various aspects of the project relating to grant of environmental clearance, violation of statutory and municipal laws, conservation of heritage, change of land use under the Delhi Development Act, and manner of inviting public hearing and objections involved with the Central Vista Redevelopment plan.On the Centre’s grand redevelopment, the bench found itself unanimous on the aspect of notice inviting bid, appointment and consultant for the project. The Supreme Court, while giving the verdict said the heritage conservation committee’s approval will be needed when construction work for Central Vista will begin. The court has also directed project proponents to get approval from the heritage committee. The redevelopment project proponents will set up smog towers as an integral part of the central vista project, the top court ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-clears-redevelopment-plan-for-central-vista-project/story-SZgVS5fOQrSQxTRT7bQmmO.html
05-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Uttar Pradesh to conduct vaccination dry run today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cops, Anganwadi workers to help in UP’s vaccination dry run todayUttar Pradesh will conduct a dry run or a mock drill on Tuesday at six sites in every district to assess the preparedness for administering the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The state government has released detailed guidelines for the statewide dry run which will start at 10am. Read moreYogi Adityanath warns action under National Security Act in crematorium caseA day after 25 people were killed in the crematorium roof collapse in Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar area, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said such incidents were the result of poor monitoring of civil projects on the part of supervising officers and warned that the guilty would be punished under the National Security Act (NSA). Read moreCongress announces financial assistance to families of deceased farmersFormer Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday announced that the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) would provide a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of farmers who lost their lives during the farmers’ agitation. Read moreWhy a heavily depleted Indian pace attack can still make it count“I know he has line and lengths to do that, but obviously, back-to-back overs in a Test match? I am not a hundred percent sure.” Not exactly a ringing endorsement from his IPL captain, but Thangarasu Natarajan wouldn’t expect Australia opener David Warner to boost his credentials at a time when a series is on the line. Read moreKriti Sanon fulfills her dream of riding a bike to this song on sets of Bachchan Pandey, reveals it was ‘day 1 of learning’. WatchKriti Sanon recently got to fulfill one of her dreams and the video shared by her on Instagram is proof how happy the actor was to be able to accomplish her goal. She is seen riding a bike in the video and shared it with the Lucky Ali song Hairat playing in the background. Read moreCan you guess what place is shown in these picturesque shots?Are you a nature lover? Do you enjoy travelling? If you answered yes to either or both of the questions asked above, then here is a tweet you must check out. This share, which encompasses two stunning images, shows a travel destination. See if you know where the location is. Read moreWatch - Covid update: India blocks vaccine export; how Delhi will guard vaccinesFrom India controlling the export of vaccines manufactured in the country, to details of Delhi’s security plan for vaccine storage centres - here are the top news updates on the Covid-19 pandemic. CEO of Serum Institute of India, which is producing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in India, said that regulators approved the inoculant for emergency use on the condition that it isn’t exported initially. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uttar-pradesh-to-conduct-vaccination-dry-run-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RI0hoZL7hSntQlP9agE67J.html
05-01-2021||India||BJP mulls panchayat polls plan, names for 12 UP Legislative Council seats||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday discussed names for the upcoming Legislative Council (MLC) polls and the strategy for the panchayat elections likely to be held in March or April in Uttar Pradesh.The discussion took place in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the party’s state unit office in Lucknow on Monday evening. “It was decided that the party would prepare the roadmap for the panchayat polls between January 7 and 17 when all top leaders would visit different places across the state. Through these visits, the BJP leadership would galvanise the cadres for the rural polls,” a party leader said. At the nearly two-hour meeting, senior party leaders, including the chief minister as well as party’s national general secretary and office in-charge Arun Singh, authorised the party’s state chief Swatantra Dev to send a panel of names for clearance to the BJP’s central leadership. “Wait and watch. Soon everything will be before you,” said a senior BJP leader privy to the meeting when asked if the candidate list would also have some surprises. Apart from CM Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, UP BJP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi, minister of state Neelima Katiyar and UP BJP vice-president Kanta Kardam were present at the meeting. The six-year tenure of 12 members of the legislative council would end on January 30. They include six MLCs of the Samajwadi Party and three each of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Since its impressive victory in the 2017 UP assembly polls, the BJP is now in a position to send maximum MLCs to the upper house of the state legislature. It is comfortably placed to send at least nine candidates to the legislative council where, as of now, the opposition Samajwadi Party has a majority with 55 members. The BJP is a distant second with 25 members followed by the Bahujan Samaj Party (8) and the Congress (2). The number of MLCs a party can get elected to the legislative council is dependent on the number of members it has in the state assembly. The BJP has 305 members in the UP assembly, the SP 48 and the BSP 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mulls-panchayat-polls-plan-names-for-12-up-legislative-council-seats/story-9G0VtA1ZiirzgkZGUyTDyN.html
05-01-2021||India||Mass bird deaths in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh prompt remedial measures||Mass bird deaths in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have prompted authorities to take remedial measures, issue alerts, and enhance surveillance, officials in the two states said. Officials said 175 crows and other birds were reported dead across Rajasthan on Monday alone. In neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, over 500 crows have died over the last week.Officials in Madhya Pradesh said they were mixing antibiotics in water bowls for the birds in the affected areas. In Rajasthan, expert teams have been rushed and surveillance enhanced especially around poultry farms. Rajasthan’s animal husbandry department officials said they were collecting 10 samples each from wetlands in Rajasthan like Keoladeo National Park in Bharatpur and Jaipur’s Sambhar Lake. Over 250 bird deaths were reported dead in the state on Sunday. They include 24 pigeons in Kota.Rajasthan’s additional director (animal husbandry) Bhawani Singh said migratory birds seem to be the possible source of the disease even as Bhopal’s National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases has confirmed the death of a bird in Jhalawar was due to bird flu. Officials said they were following the protocol and burying the birds.Microbiologist AK Kataria said the mass deaths are not unusual and happen annually. “The pattern of mortality and environmental conditions suggest these deaths of crows are due to cold shock. There are no clinical signs of bird flu,” he said. He added the poultry birds are more susceptible to bird flu. “But so far no deaths of poultry have been reported.” Kataria said in 2020, too, over 300 crows were reported dead. He added dead crows are usually found under the trees. “Crows migrate to warmer areas in winter, and do not reside in residential areas.”In Madhya Pradesh, an animal husbandry department official said birds there have died of bird flu. The state’s principal secretary (animal husbandry), JN Kansotia, said the situation is under control and they have sounded an alert in all districts. “We have started a sanitisation process in the affected area.”Dr Shailesh Sakallaye, the integrated disease surveillance programme additional director, said a survey is being conducted in the affected four districts to check the impact of bird flu among humans.Humans can be infected with avian influenza, or bird flu, primarily through direct contact and may cause disease ranging from mild fever and cough, early sputum production and rapid progression to severe pneumonia, sepsis with shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome and even death, according to the World Health Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mass-bird-deaths-in-rajasthan-madhya-pradesh-prompt-remedial-measures/story-UeouVTzzl1l1pqZYh9vqZJ.html
05-01-2021||India||India reports 16,375 fresh Covid-19 cases, 201 deaths||India recorded 16,375 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest in more than six months, and 201 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s caseload to 10,356,844, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday morning. There has been a slight dip in the number of infections and fatalities between Monday and Tuesday, data showed. There are 231,036 active cases of Covid-19 and 9,975,958 people have recovered from the viral disease so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.32%.The death of toll India, the second worst-hit country in the world, has risen to 149,850, the health ministry’s data showed on Tuesday morning. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45%. There are 231,036 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 2.23 per cent of the total caseload, according to the health ministry’s data.Also read | States gear up for 1st phase of vaccination, await Centre nodOfficials have said the Centre has initiated the process of procurement of vaccines against the coronavirus disease and that the vaccination drive could begin by late next week in a phased manner. “Now that the approvals have been granted, the next step is to initiate the procurement process. The Centre is now looking at striking the purchase deals with the companies concerned. About 50-60 million doses are likely to be procured in batches considering India is looking at vaccinating about 30 million people in the initial phase,” a government official aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity.Also read | UP Covid-19 vaccination dry run today. Cops, Anganwadi workers among others to helpThe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved both the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is being manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine candidate, Covaxin. Officials said the immunisation roll-out will begin with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.The government, officials said, is in talks with both companies whose vaccines have been approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-reports-16-375-fresh-cases-201-deaths-in-the-last-24-hours/story-EembRNnxZh4YBFqR5lg72O.html
05-01-2021||India||Sensex drops 112.74 points to 48,064.06 in opening session; Nifty slips 38.25 points to 14,094.65.||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid weak trend in global equities.The 30-share BSE index was trading 112.74 points or 0.23 per cent lower at 48,064.06, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 38.25 points or 0.27 per cent to 14,094.65.ONGC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by M&M, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries.On the other hand, Axis Bank, HDFC, TCS and HUL were among the gainers.In the previous session, Sensex ended 307.82 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 48,176.80, and Nifty jumped 114.40 points or 0.82 per cent to its fresh lifetime high of 14,132.90.Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,843.22 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data.According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities are not looking inspiring at the moment with Asian bourses trading lower taking cues from US markets.“US equities fell sharply mainly led by mounting concerns over potential rise in borrowing costs after the 10-Year Treasury break-even rate rose over 2 per cent yesterday and rise in COVID-19 cases along with resultant lockdowns.“Fresh lockdown announced in Britain until at least mid-February weighed on investors’ sentiment. All eyes would be on Georgia’s run-off elections, in which two Senate seats have the potential to create fresh volatility in the markets,” he said.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the positive terrain.Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude, was trading 0.14 per cent lower at USD 51.02 per barrel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-down-112-74-points-in-opening-trade-nifty-at-14-094/story-FqcXyr9lRmNdLnWMwRLq1K.html
05-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh’s December revenue collection up by Rs 2,522 crore||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday said there has been an increase in its total collections of tax and non-tax revenue by about Rs 2,522 crore in December 2020 vis-à-vis its performance on this front in December 2019.Its total collections in the first three quarters of 2020-2021 (April 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021) have also improved considerably. The total receipts for the financial year, however, are still behind the overall targets and authorities are hoping for an improvement in the last quarter (January 1 to March 31 2021) amid the fight against Covid-19.State finance minister Suresh Khanna said, “Yes, our revenue collection is witnessing an upward trend since July 2020 despite the adverse impact that Covid-19 had on the state’s economy. We are recovering from the economic slowdown under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. We hope to bring about a further improvement in the state’s total revenue collections in the fourth quarter of 2021-22.”For the first time since the lifting of restrictions, the state transport department’s collections have also increased. The state transport department’s total collections in December 2020 reached Rs 734.44 crore against the month’s target of Rs 648.75 crore and receipts of Rs 551.39 crore in the same month in 2019. The state government’s excise collections have also exceeded the targets in December 2020. A total excise duty realisation of Rs 3149.04 crore has been made against a target of Rs 3090 crore and receipts of Rs 2,106.14 crore in the same month in 2019. An increase in the transport department’s revenue collections is a reflection of an easier movement following gradual lifting of Covid-19 restrictions.A close scrutiny of the state government’s performance in the first three quarters indicates that its total collections remained at about Rs 80,006.34 crore between April 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020. This is about 65.7% of the target of Rs 1,21,845.42 crore for the same period. The state government’s shortfall in the revenue collections vis-à-vis the targets, however, remains an area of major concern for the authorities ahead of formulation of the state budget for 2021-22.As there was no winter session of the state legislature, the state government is likely to convene the budget session soon to present the budget for 2021-22. The annual budget is likely to pose a great challenge as this would be the Yogi government’s last full-fledged budget before the state goes into poll mode for 2022 assembly elections.Experts suggest that besides reviewing the receipts, the state government should also consistently monitor its expenditure that may help in giving a boost to development and the economy.“This clearly shows that the state’s economy is bouncing back. We hope the revenue collection will improve further in the last quarter of 2021-22. The state government should also review its expenditure and stick to meeting the targets as the government spending acts works like a stimulus to the economy,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor of the department of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-december-revenue-collection-up-by-rs-2-522-crore/story-9y0cmcRy4WQdX3nojI8zkI.html
05-01-2021||India||Extreme weather killed at least 2,000 people in India in 2020: IMD||India experienced some extreme weather events, such as heavy rainfall, floods, landslides, thunderstorm, lightning, and cold waves that killed at least 2,000 people in 2020 according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) statement on climate of India in 2020.Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were the most affected states during the year with over 350 deaths in each state due to thunderstorm, lightning and cold wave. Heavy rainfall and floods claimed over 600 lives from different parts of the country during pre-monsoon, monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. Thunderstorms and lightning also claimed over 815 lives in different parts of the country. Last year, five cyclones formed over the North Indian Ocean. Super cyclonic storm Amphan formed in the pre-monsoon season and crossed the West Bengal coast over Sunderbans on May 20. It claimed 90 lives and about 4,000 livestock, mainly in West Bengal. Last year was the eighth warmest since India started keeping records in 1991, according to the statement.During the year, the annual average temperature in the country was 0.29 degree Celsius (°C) above normal ( 29-year average from 1981-2010), said the report which looks at temperature and rainfall trends annually. Such temperature trends were reported despite the cooling effect of La Nina, a global weather pattern that prevailed in 2020 and is linked to substantially below normal temperatures in winter. In 2016, India recorded the warmest year when the mean land surface temperature was 0.71°C above normal. In 2020, the temperature during the pre-monsoon season was below normal by 0.03°C. But both monsoon and post-monsoon seasons were 0.43°C and 0.53°C above normal, respectively, and that contributed to warming. The mean temperature during winter was 0.14°C above normal. India’s warming was, however, significantly lower than the global average. The global mean temperature rise during 2020 (January to October, as per the World Meteorological Organisation’s State of the Global Climate) was 1.2°C above pre-industrial levels. The annual rainfall over the country was 109% of the Long Period Average (LPA) calculated for the period of 1961-2010.The IMD statement said that 12 out of the 15 warmest years were reported between 2006 and 2020, and that the past decade (2011-2020) was the warmest on record. Last year, the mean monthly temperatures were warmer than the normal during all months except March and June. Average annual mean temperature during 1901-2020 showed an increasing trend of 0.62°C in that century, with an increasing trend in maximum temperature (0.99°C in 100 years) and a relatively lower increasing trend (0.24°C in100 years) in minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-weather-killed-at-least-2-000-people-in-india-in-2020-imd/story-Czjg1OvdSw3szkG54I0AAJ.html
05-01-2021||India||India has 38 cases of ‘highly infectious’ UK Covid-19 strain||A total of 38 people have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.These include the 29 cases which were announced till Friday.All these people have been kept in single room isolation in designated healthcare facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine, the ministry said.Of the 38, the mutated UK strain was detected in eight samples at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, 11 in the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, one in the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani (near Kolkata), five in the National Institute of Virology in Pune, three in Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and 10 were sequenced at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS), Bengaluru. The NCBS, InSTEM in Bengaluru, CDFD in Hyderabad, ILS in Bhubaneswar and NCCS in Pune have so far found no UK mutant virus, the ministry said.“A total of 38 samples have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome,” the ministry said.It said comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others.Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, it added.“The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs,” the ministry stated.The positive Covid-19 samples are being tested at 10 INSACOG labs (NIBMG Kolkata, ILS Bhubaneswar, NIV Pune, NCCS Pune, CCMB Hyderabad, CDFD Hyderabad, InSTEM Bengaluru, NIMHANS Bengaluru, IGIB Delhi and NCDC Delhi) for genome sequencing.The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.The government of India took cognizance of the reports of virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, it said.This strategy includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test. The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs - INSACOG. Further, all the international passengers who have arrived in India between December 9 to 22, if symptomatic and tested positive for Covid-19, will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre’s strategy to detect the mutated UK variant in them.Others will be followed up by the respective state and district surveillance officers and will be tested as per ICMR guidelines (even if asymptomatic) between fifth and tenth day, according to the Union Health Ministry’s guidance document on genomic sequencing.Further, epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23 will be conducted in the community through active follow up. Besides, standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-38-cases-of-highly-infectious-uk-covid-19-strain-check-state-wise-list-here/story-lWgGoZP9WATPA7Iov2OgAN.html
05-01-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath warns action under National Security Act in crematorium case||A day after 25 people were killed in the crematorium roof collapse in Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar area, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said such incidents were the result of poor monitoring of civil projects on the part of supervising officers and warned that the guilty would be punished under the National Security Act (NSA).CM Yogi said during the divisional review meetings held in September last year, he had directed the officers to check the quality of projects above Rs 50 lakh. A task force was constituted in all the districts comprising the officers of all the departments to monitor the quality of the projects in the districts, he said.In a review meeting held at his official residence on Monday, the chief minister asked the officers what the task force was doing in Ghaziabad where such an incident happened. He also pulled up the divisional commissioner, Meerut, and DM of Ghaziabad for their failure to check the quality of the construction work.“Such incidents will not be tolerated in future. Strict action will be taken against the guilty under National Security Act and seizure of property,” he said.The CM directed the divisional commissioner, Meerut and ADG, Meerut, to probe the incident and submit a report. On the basis of the report, the accountability of senior divisional and district officials will be fixed, he said. The district officers have been directed to conduct relief operations and submit a report on the incident. The state government will provide all possible help to the victims, the CM added.A state government spokesperson said those arrested include executive officer of the municipality Niharika Singh, junior engineer Chandrapal and supervisor Ashish. Contractor Ajay Tyagi, who was absconding, was arrested late last evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-warns-action-under-national-security-act-in-crematorium-case/story-zJ20ZI3N1bdW5n4VTzahmL.html
05-01-2021||India||UP Covid-19 vaccination dry run today. Cops, Anganwadi workers among others to help||Uttar Pradesh will conduct a dry run or a mock drill on Tuesday at six sites in every district to assess the preparedness for administering the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The state government has released detailed guidelines for the statewide dry run which will start at 10am. “This drive will be carried out in six sites in every district - three of them urban and three rural,” Amit Mohan Prasad, the additional chief secretary (health) said on Monday.Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally rose to 588,882 on Monday as 714 fresh cases were reported and the death toll stood at 8,413 after 10 more people succumbed to the infection.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine will be available in UP near Makar Sankranti: Yogi AdityanathHere is how and where the dry run will take place:1. The dry run will begin at 10am and end by 4pm. 2. Each session room will be given a list of 25 beneficiaries and the procedures of vaccination will be taken up. 3. Police will ensure smooth and safe transport of the vaccine from cold chain points to vaccination sites during Covid-19 vaccine inoculation drill.4. One vaccination team would vaccinate 100 beneficiaries. There would be up to 180 vaccination sessions run by about 350 vaccination teams, said a press statement.5. Home guards, policemen and Anganwadi workers will be deployed during the dry run.Also read | Covishield and Covaxin: What’s next after Drug Controller’s approval?6. The sites will have a waiting area, vaccination room and an observation room, among others. 7. Police personnel deployed for smooth transport of the vaccine will submit their mobile and vehicles numbers to the nodal officers to avoid any confusion. 8. The police vehicle drivers will also keep their GPS locators on while transportation of vaccine takes place from cold chain points to the vaccination sites. 9. Each vaccination site will have a nodal officer.Also read | Amplifying reach, fake science biggest challenges to vaccination10. Lucknow will have the dry run at 12 places, which includes six places that have already had the dry run on January 2 – King George’s Medical University, PGI, community health centres Mal and Malihabad, Lohia institute and Sahara hospital. 11. The other six places are Medanta hospital, Lok Bandhu hospital, RSM Hospital, Era Medical College and community health centres Indira Nagar and Kakori. Also read | ‘From Andhra Pradesh to Assam’: How states are gearing up for Covid-19 vaccination12. Ghaziabad officials said they have identified IDST College at Modi Nagar, ITS Dental College at Muradnagar and community health centre at Loni as three sites in rural areas while three urban sites were designated for the dry run at Gayatri Hospital in Lohiya Nagar, Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar, and Santosh Hospital near old bus stand.13. The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has identified six medical facilities where the health workers will be apprised by the trained officials about the methods of vaccination. These sites include the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (better known as Child PGI) in Noida, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, Sharda hospital and community health centres of Bisrakh, Dadri and Bhangel blocks.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-today-cops-anganwadi-workers-among-others-to-help/story-z71xcP3im8M3mYA0KJSfnO.html
05-01-2021||India||NHRC recommends special Act against manual scavenging||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has made a series of recommendation to the Centre to eradicate manual scavenging, including bringing a new Act on “hazardous cleaning” and taking strict action against local authorities who employ people as manual scavengers. It has also asked the Centre to provide Rs10 lakh loan to manual scavengers’ family members so that they can start some business activity. Subsequently, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) should monitor the sewer deaths in its reports, it said. The NHRC said the tall claims made by states that they have no manual scavengers and zero sanitary latrines are “far from truth”. “Therefore, the Commission has recommended that accountability must be fixed in case of wrong reporting by the concerned authorities about the number of manual scavengers in any region of the country,” the NHRC said in a statement on Monday. Advocating the broadening of the definition of manual scavenging to cover other types of hazardous cleaning or enactment of a new law for it, the Commission has also recommended that a penal section may be put in law to prevent the discrimination and harassment faced by the children of manual scavengers and women manual scavengers.As part of their rehabilitation process, NHRC has recommended that manual scavengers may be linked to schemes under which they can immediately start earning like MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and revisit to see how their families are doing. It has further asked that amount of compensation paid as one time cash assistance for rehabilitation of manual scavengers may be enhanced from Rs40,000 to Rs1 lakh. For starting some business activity, it has asked ministry of finance to designate particular nationalised bank for each state to take up the responsibility of extending loans to manual scavengers and their dependents up to Rs10 lakh as well as provide them individual or group insurances for which premium must be paid by local authorities. “The government needs to plan adequate investment facilitating the shift to the use of technology, maintenance of technology and training the workers to operate the technology,” NHRC said. “Officer in the Supervisory level or In charge of the area should submit a declaration to the respective civic body to the effect that the required safety gears are being provided before any person enters the sewer/septic tank,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-recommends-special-act-on-manual-scavenging/story-EkbYXNe4vhLw7RzTh01wkI.html
05-01-2021||India||Heavy snowfall warning for parts of Western Himalayas; thunderstorms likely in plains today: IMD||Several parts of northwest India are continuing to receive rain and thunderstorms.There is likely to be widespread and heavy snowfall in some parts of the Western Himalayas, including Jammu and Kashmir; Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand today. Thunderstorm, hail and lightning is likely in several parts of northwestern plains including Delhi today according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).An active Western Disturbance lies as a middle and upper-level cyclonic circulation over Central Pakistan with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan. A north-south zone of wind confluence continues to exist from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with strong interaction between south westerly winds and lower level moist southeasterlies. All these meteorological features favourable for rain are likely to persist and continue to cause a moderate to intense wet spell with widespread rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning over northwest India during the next 3 days, IMD said in its Monday bulletin.Also read | Mumbai wakes up to mild showersHailstorm in isolated places is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on January 4 and 5 and over West Uttar Pradesh on January 5. Heavy rain or snowfall is also likely over J&K, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad on January 4 and 5; over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on January 5 and isolated heavy rainfall over northern parts of Punjab on January 4 and 5.A fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan region from January 7. As a result, no significant change in minimum temperatures is likely during the next 2-3 days over northwest India, the bulletin said.“There is Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan. There is a confluence or interaction of southwesterly and southeasterly winds causing an extreme weather. There is also an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan. Our radar images are showing a lot of rain and thunderstorm over Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, east Rajasthan and Haryana. There may have been hailstorm also. Similar weather will persist on Tuesday but the spatial distribution and intensity may reduce from Wednesday. A comparatively weak Western Disturbance is approaching the Western Himalayan region on January 7,” K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-snowfall-warning-for-parts-of-western-himalayas-thunderstorms-likely-in-plains-today-imd/story-GNjaHFYMG3DnLOQetbazwL.html
05-01-2021||India||US welcomes India to UN Security Council, looks forward to working together||The United States welcomed India to the United Nations Security Council and said it looks forward to working over the shared interests towards a peaceful, secure India-Pacific, said the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, US Department of State on Monday.In a tweet, the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA), wrote, “A new year brings new opportunities to strengthen relationships with old friends and partners.”The tweet added, “We welcome India to the UN Security Council and look forward to working with @IndiaUNNewYork (Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations, New York) to advance our shared interests in a more peaceful, secure Indo-Pacific and world.”Earlier on Monday, the Indian national flag was installed at United National Security Council (UNSC) stakeout as India assumed the membership of the UN body for the eighth time as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN body for the 2021-22 period.“As India assumes the membership of the Security Council for the eighth time, it is an honour for me as the Permanent Representative of India to take part in today’s flag installation ceremony,” said TS Tirumurti, Permanent Representative of India during the ceremony.“We will use our tenure to bring human-centric and inclusive solutions to matters of international peace and security. India will be a voice for the developing world. We will not shy away from raising our voice against the common enemies of humanity like terrorism,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-welcomes-india-to-un-security-council-looks-forward-to-working-together/story-R4OquGXa9V4zBVwI6prUpK.html
05-01-2021||India||Muradnagar roof collapse: Main accused Ajay Tyagi arrested, total 4 held so far||The main accused in the case of the roof collapse at a crematorium in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar town has been arrested, taking the number of people arrested to four, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Ghaziabad Police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for any information on Ajay Tyagi, the contractor of the crematorium, where the roof collapsed on Sunday. Police have arrested four persons including the main accused contractor Ajay Tyagi (in pic), in connection with Muradnagar roof collapse incident which claimed 24 lives. pic.twitter.com/OQutDg4TcPOn Monday, a junior engineer was among three people arrested by the police for the accident, which has resulted in the loss of 24 lives and injuries to at least 17 others. Police also announced a two-member committee had been set up to probe the accident, as family members of the victims took to streets to protest, resulting in the deployment of a heavy contingent of police.Also Read | Muradnagar roof collapse: 3 arrested, 2-member probe committee formedThe roof had collapsed at around 11:30am at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground, when the last rites of Jai Ram, who had died on Saturday night, were being conducted. Around 50-60 people were present at the funeral. Scores got trapped under the debris and could be rescued only after the local police and administration arrived at the spot. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was also dispatched to the collapse site.Also Read | Muradnagar roof collapse: How it happenedGhaziabad Police have registered a first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act rashly or negligently as to endanger human lives), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others) etc. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to submit a report. He had also announced a financial compensation of Rs 200,000 to the family members of each of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muradnagar-roof-collapse-main-accused-ajay-tyagi-arrested-total-4-held-so-far/story-nBNAPzN4pWbhIFjTahKzjM.html
05-01-2021||India||‘Futuristic project’: PM Modi to inaugurate Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday inaugurate a natural gas pipeline from Kerala’s Kochi to Mangaluru in Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada district and dedicate it to the nation virtually. The event will mark an important milestone towards the creation of ‘One Nation One Gas Grid’, an official release from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.“Tomorrow, 5th January is a landmark day in India’s quest for #UrjaAatmanirbharta! At 11 AM, the Kochi - Mangaluru Natural Gas Pipeline would be dedicated to the nation. This is a futuristic project that will positively impact many people,” PM Modi said in a tweet on Monday.The ‘futuristic project’, PM Modi said, will positively impact many people.The 450km pipeline has been built by GAIL (India) Ltd. It has a transportation capacity of 12 million metric standard cubic metres per day and will carry natural gas from the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Regasification Terminal at Kochi to Mangaluru while passing through Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts, the PMO release said.The inaugural event will see governors and chief ministers of Karnataka and Kerala, along with Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan in attendance. The total cost of the project was about Rs 3,000 crore and its construction created over 1.2 million man-days of employment. The PMO underlined that laying of the pipeline was an engineering challenge as the route of the pipeline necessitated it to cross water bodies at more than 100 locations. To overcome this hurdle, a special technique called the Horizontal Directional Drilling method was put to use.The pipeline will supply environment-friendly and affordable fuel in the form of Piped Natural Gas (PNG) to households and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) to the transportation sector. It will also supply Natural Gas to commercial and industrial units across the districts along the pipeline. Consumption of cleaner fuel will help in improving air quality by curbing air pollution.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/futuristic-project-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline/story-VgbncnMNC3M87NqnJU8HnM.html
05-01-2021||India||The year that will be: The political battles of 2021||When the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) swept the Lok Sabha elections in 2014, its victory was primarily based on a staggering success ratio in India‘s north and west. But from the day it won, the party has been clear that this was the ripe moment for it to break out of the old stereotype of being seen as a Hindi heartland party — and it decided to expand, first in the east and then the south.Over the last six years, this strategy has paid dividends, especially in the east — where the party’s win in the Assam state elections of 2016 inaugurated a period of expansion across the North-east. The party also put up a robust performance in two states where it had limited presence historically — West Bengal and Odisha — which helped it cross the 300 mark in the 2019 elections. While Karnataka has been an older stronghold and there have been some recent successes at the local level in Telangana, it has — for the most part — been unable to translate this intent to expand and corresponding political investment into actual seats in other regions of the south. And that is why 2021 is key for the BJP — to retain and expand its hold in the east, and to be able to make a mark in the south.Read more| The Number Theory: A decade of rightward shift in Indian politicsFor the Opposition, this is precisely what makes the year a critical turning point. If it is able to keep the BJP out of power of two eastern states (West Bengal and Assam), and force it to remain a marginal player in the south, it will come as a shot in the arm of those opposed to the central government, limit the BJP’s growth, and retain the political balance in what is otherwise a hegemonic polity dominated by the BJP. Within the Opposition, the outcome of state polls in 2021 will also determine the balance of power between the Congress and regional parties — and all signs are that this tilt further towards the regional parties, for the Congress’s individual strength and prospects in at least two of the bigger states going to the polls (Tamil Nadu and West Bengal) is limited.But beyond the frame of party politics, the electoral battles of 2021 will also give a glimpse into the nature of identity-based politics in these regions, the tension between incumbency — where being in power has afforded an opportunity to expand power — and anti-incumbency — where being in power has generated a backlash and thus eroded power; the vocabulary of development and welfare, especially in the backdrop of a public health and economic crisis; and the key role of individual leaders in determining outcomes.In the eastThe big battle of 2021 is, of course, in West Bengal — where the Trinamool Congress, led by the formidable Mamata Banerjee, who fought for decades against the Left as a challenger, has to now defend its record. No other local leader in Bengal matches Banerjee’s brand value, her tenacity and grasp over the ground realities of the state. But while Brand Mamata is the Trinamool’s calling card — backed by welfare schemes initiated by the state government — it also now suffers from a set of weaknesses, which is being leveraged by the BJP.The Trinamool has been portrayed — due to Mamata Banerjee’s own, arguably excessive, emphasis on the Muslim vote to be able to win it over from the Left and Congress in the initial years — as a party too close to the minorities. This, in the BJP’s campaign on the ground, throws up the allegation of “politics of appeasement” against the rival on the one hand, and on the other, leads to a conscious effort to construct a Hindu vote through a set of cultural, political, and legislative measures. After her setback in the 2019 polls, Mamata Banerjee — advised by political consultant Prashant Kishor, whose trademark signature in recent campaigns has been to ask non-BJP forces to avoid the Hindu-Muslim binary — has made a conscious effort to be seen as sensitive to Hindu aspirations. For her, this is unnatural politics — though she has, in her personal beliefs, always remained a devotee of Kali. But the BJP believes that this messaging is too little and too late, and the ground in Bengal is ripe enough for a “polarised election”. The party believes that its push for the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will help rally Hindu voters in bordering areas with links to the east. Its leaders are banking on constituencies with over 60% Hindus to be able to polarise the landscape and win.But it is not just the politics of identity. The BJP has steadily built its organisation in the state — aided, in no small measure, by the entry of former Trinamool heavyweights, the latest being Suvendu Adhikari. In Bengal’s politics, the key is having control of the local machines on the ground. Local election machines — loose grids populated by influential panchayat leaders and others quite comfortable with using violence to intimidate rivals and coerce voters — shifted from the Left to the Trinamool, and the big question is whether they will now move to the BJP. This history of violence also makes the election particularly sensitive, and has already seen a spate of political killings, with the Opposition being targeted.But beyond identity and organisation, the big battle in Bengal will be between Narendra Modi — who appears to enjoy a high degree of popularity in the state and, who will be the BJP’s key face in the absence of a pan-Bengal leader — and Mamata Banerjee. Modi will speak of double engine growth (of political alignment between the Centre and state), the Centre’s welfare schemes (which the BJP alleges is not being implemented on the ground), and perhaps a big promise of development package, while Banerjee will focus on Bengali sub-nationalism, the Centre’s assault on state rights, and her own achievements of the past decade.If in Bengal, the BJP has to be the challenger to win power, next door, in Assam, it is the incumbent which has to retain power. Under Sarbananda Sonowal and Himanta Biswa Sarma, the party has deepened its organisational networks in the state, and will speak of infrastructure projects and welfare as its achievement. It is also aided, in no small measure, by the disarray in the Congress — with Tarun Gogoi’s death, the party lacks a towering leader, though the former chief minister’s son, Gaurav, is hoping to inherit his legacy.But the BJP’s biggest hope — and challenge — comes from the decades-old, vexed question of identity. Unlike Bengal, where there is a degree of support for CAA and opposition to National Register of Citizens (NRC), in Assam, there is opposition to CAA — which is seen as an effort to provide back-door entry to Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh — and ambivalence towards NRC — it is viewed as the first step to identifying citizens and outsiders, but the flawed NRC process in the state with tremendous humanitarian consequences has led to apprehensions; it has also deepened the divide between the Brahmaputra and Barak valley.How the BJP is able to reconcile these complex strands, portray itself as the party committed to indigenous interests, even as it cultivates the Bengali Hindu vote, while constructing the Muslim as the other, will be key. For the Opposition, the political task ahead will hinge on whether it is able to portray the BJP as opposed to the sentiments of the Assam Movement. The Congress has its own challenge — an understanding with Badruddin Ajmal can lead to a consolidation of the Muslim vote, but alienate the indigenous vote while the absence of an understanding can fragment the Muslim vote.The southern battlesThe stake is higher for the Opposition in the southern states, where the BJP knows its limits. As a top leader of the party said about the southern challenge: “It will take us a decade to establish ourselves firmly. We lacked a pool of leaders and were constrained by our past image of being seen as a North Indian party. The image is breaking now, and more and more leaders and workers are joining us in states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala but to build the organisation and dominate the narrative, it will take a few elections.”This does not mean that the BJP won’t unleash its shock-and-awe campaign strategies. But in Tamil Nadu, where it is still viewed with a degree of suspicion for its attachment to the Hindi language and its perceived opposition to the Dravidian movement, it is primarily relying on its understanding with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), especially with actor Rajinikanth quitting politics even before entering the electoral fray. The challenge for the AIADMK is that it is fighting its first state election without J Jayalalithaa — and it has been in power for two terms, leading to strong anti-incumbency. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), too, is fighting its first election after the death of M Karunanidhi, and undergoing a generational transition with MK Stalin as the face. And while it does face its own factional struggles, and tussle over potential seat sharing, the DMK-led alliance, which includes the Congress, starts out as the favourite.In Kerala, the contest will be fundamentally bipolar between the Left Front and the Congress-led alliance. The state has had a pattern of alternating between governments led by the two formations (much like Rajasthan in the north, which shuffles between the Congress and the BJP). But the success of the Left front in recent local elections has thrown up the possibility of this cycle breaking. This will be a high stakes election because Rahul Gandhi, as the member of Parliament from Wayanad, can be expected to invest substantially in the Congress campaign – but despite his proximity to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leadership in Delhi, he will have to face a tough incumbent in the form of Pinarayi Vijayan, who has developed a reputation for delivery. The BJP has been making efforts to crack open the Kerala political matrix — but has had limited success and can be expected to be a distant third, primarily due to the demography of the state (it has a substantial presence of both Muslims and Christians), entrenched political loyalties, and weak organisation (ironically, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s strength in the state hasn’t translated into political advantage for the BJP.)By the middle of next year, the political complexion of some of India’s most crucial political states will be clear. If the BJP wins Bengal and Assam and manages to retain influence over the Tamil Nadu government, it will be one more step towards its expansion — and, potentially, a more centralised Indian polity. If the Trinamool is able to retain Bengal, the BJP is pushed out of Assam, the DMK-led alliance wins Tamil Nadu, and irrespective of whether the victor in Kerala is the Left or the Congress, the political message will be the continued strength of regional forces in states against the BJP’s dominance — and, potentially, an assertion of states against the Centre. 2021’s message will last till 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-year-that-will-be-the-political-battles-of-2021/story-AihtUmKgmGmlUWoylpjCLK.html
05-01-2021||India||Centre may bring natural gas within the GST ambit||The Union government, which is planning a major policy push to raise the share of natural gas in India’s energy mix from the current level of 6.2% to 15% by 2030, is considering a proposal to bring natural gas within the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) -- a move that will make it cheaper for both industrial and domestic use, two officials aware of the matter said.Levies on natural gas vary from state to state, ranging as high as 24%, a major deterrent to making it a people’s fuel.The ministry of petroleum and natural gas (MoPNG) has proposed to bring natural gas under GST to have a uniform tax rate across the country. The matter is under consideration, the officials said, requesting anonymity.Petroleum secretary Tarun Kapoor confirmed the development. “There is a demand from the industry [to impose GST on natural gas], which is also supported by the MoPNG. But, then it has to go to the GST Council,” he said, referring to the GST body comprising state and central representatives.The two officials mentioned above said gas transportation and state-specific value added tax (VAT) on natural gas are two major components that make natural gas costly. Gas, which is bought at the cost of $1-1.5 million metric British thermal unit (mmBtu) and has a landed cost of around $3 per unit, becomes $8 per unit for customers, they said. Petroleum products such as crude, diesel, petrol, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) are awaiting the GST Council’s approval to be included under the GST net. As these products are major revenue earners for some states, they want their individual freedom to levy VAT as per their financial requirements.DK Srivastava, chief policy adviser at consultancy firm EY India, said all petroleum products should eventually be brought under the GST regime so that input taxation on these products can be neutralised. “While other products may wait, natural gas can be brought within the GST regime without any significant revenue loss for states and the central government since, currently, it is being taxed at relatively low levels, although rates differ across states and between the Centre and states,” he said. The central excise on natural gas is 14%, while VAT rates vary from 3% to 24% from state to state, the officials mentioned above said. One of the officials said, “The matter has come up during recent pre-budget discussions and a proposal to have GST on natural gas could be placed before the GST Council after stakeholders’ consultations.” The council is the apex federal body on GST matters and it is chaired by the Union finance minister. Its members are finance ministers of states and Union territories. The council’s decisions are often unanimous.Speaking at an industry event on December 17, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that India was “ushering a gas-based economy by increasing the share of natural gas” in its primary energy mix in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “one nation, one gas grid”. PM Modi on Tuesday will inaugurate the 450-km Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline that will eventually provide clean gas to industrial and domestic consumers of Kochi, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod and Mangaluru districts, the officials said.“There is immense potential for PNG (piped natural gas) connections as there are 290 million liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) connections as against 7.5 million PNG connections. PNG is cheaper, cleaner and convenient for consumers, hence an element of policy focus that requires a uniform GST rate on natural gas,” the second official said.Sunil Kumar, chartered accountant at Taxmann -- the publisher on taxation matters -- said: “Non-inclusion of natural gas under the GST regime is adversely impacting gas producers, suppliers and industrial consumers as they are facing issue of tax cascading or tax on tax and non-availability of credits on procurements.”Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said taxes on natural gas have a cascading effect and impact both on industrial and domestic consumer rates. “This would discourage usage of gas as an energy source... Extraction of natural gas is highly capital intensive and attracting foreign investments under this sector would be critical. Hence the government should improve ease of operations for this sector to achieve its target of clean energy and development of national gas grid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-bring-natural-gas-within-the-gst-ambit/story-Kxcu7BHjhmMXbmpB5w0vPJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PIL||An open letter written to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) against attempts being made to paint the protesting farmers as separatists has been converted into a public interest litigation and is expected to be heard by the Supreme Court in the coming days.The letter written by 35 students of Panjab University’s Centre for Human Rights and Duties on December 2 termed the course of action initiated by the government to address the farmers’ concerns as “insensitive” and sought intervention of the court to allow them to continue with their peaceful protest. The letter also attacked the media for trying to “polarise” the peaceful protest by associating farmers with separatists.Gurmohan Preet Singh, a postgraduate student of the university, who is among the 35 signatories to the letter, said, “On December 18, we received an intimation from the Supreme Court registry informing that our letter has been registered under the section of public interest litigation (PIL). We are hopeful that our letter will be listed in open court for hearing at the earliest.”Read more| Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8The intimation received from the registry said, “Your communication has been successfully registered as Diary no 67872/SCI/PIL(E) 2020.” Singh said he had not received any intimation yet with regard to the listing of the case.The letter aired a grievance over the manner in which water cannons, teargas shells and lathis were used against the protesting farmers. The 35 signatories, comprising human rights students, research scholars, and former students of the university demanded an enquiry into the illegitimate use of force by Haryana Police and withdrawal of all criminal cases registered against the protesting farmers by both Haryana Police and Delhi Police. In addition, the letter sought basic amenities to be provided to the protesters to ensure their safety.One of the prayers in the letter stated, “Take action to curb fake news and against media channels, engaged in misrepresentation, polarisation and sensationalisation of the whole issue.”The Supreme Court on December 17 considered the issue of farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and proposed a solution be worked out by way of talks between the government and farmer unions by involving independent experts. The court maintained that it did not intend to curb the farmers’ right to protest peacefully but the same should not be at the cost of disruption of public order.The letter said, “When farmers decided to approach to the National Capital Territory of Delhi, the peaceful protesters (farmers) were thrashed and walloped that it seemed raising a voice for their Fundamental Rights as provided by the Supreme Law of the Nation is a dreadful crime (which it is not).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-will-take-up-an-open-letter-on-farmers-as-pil/story-wNJgjkgdnZbS8TiOJCH0JK.html
05-01-2021||India||The number theory: Imagining India, 10 years from now||Because of the massive disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, most of 2020 was spent tracking very short-term statistics; from daily tests and new cases to monthly, even weekly indicators of economic activity. Important as they were and continue to be, the beginning of a New Year is an opportune time to take a long-term view of what India will be like 10 years from now. Here are five charts that can help give us an idea.1. India will be the most populous country in the worldAccording to the World Bank’s projections, India will overtake China to become the most populous country in 2023, when its population will reach 1.42 billion. The United States will continue to be the third most populated country in this decade. There were 1.21 billion people in India according to the 2011 census and there is still uncertainty about whether or not the 2021 census will be completed on time. China’s population will hit a peak of 1.425 billion in 2030 and start declining after that. Most countries experience this phenomenon as fertility rates fall below replacement levels. It will take at least until 2048 for India’s population to start declining after peaking at around 1.6 billion, according to estimates published by The Lancet.  2. This is the last decade to make the best use of demographic dividend in IndiaContrary to what is often believed, a large population need not be an economic liability for nations. Countries with a high share of the working-age population – this is not a permanent phenomenon – also have more earning hands. If one takes 20-59 year olds as working-age population, its share in India’s total population will almost peak by the end of this decade. India’s working-age group population is projected to increase from 55.8% this year to 58.8% by 2031. This equals a growth of nearly 97 million people in the workforce, which means the country needs to create employment opportunities for a large number of people. The population of elderly is also projected to increase by 2 million, creating the need for social security measures to support the rising elderly population. To be sure, the growth in the working-age group population will not be the same across states and Union territories. States like Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh are projected to record the highest rise in working-age group population this decade (it will increase by 23% in these three states combined). On the contrary, the three southern states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are projected to record the lowest growth in this population (2.5% combined). This mismatch will mean that northern states will see a very high share of people looking for jobs, compared to those in the south, which may lead to a an increase in north-to-south migration for work. 3. Structure of political representation could veer away from federalismThe uneven growth in population in the northern and southern states will also have political consequences. The current state-wise distribution of parliamentary seats is based on the 1971 census. With the growing gap in the state-wise population, this distribution puts more voters per seat in some states than others. For example, if the latest (2020) electoral roll data is used, Tamil Nadu has 1.56 million voters per Lok Sabha member. This number is 1.8 million for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. There is a constitutional freeze on the number of Lok Sabha seats from each state up to 2026. The next delimitation may not be conducted until the 2031 Census is completed. This means that the state-wise asymmetry in population will continue to increase. To be sure, there is another view to this story as well, which believes that a simple redistribution of seats by current population levels will penalise the states that have done well to bring down their population growth. Either way, the resolution will put India’s federal structure through a big test. 4. Consequences of climate crisis will make their presence feltIndia’s first climate change assessment by the ministry of earth sciences (MoES), published in 2020. said that the climate change seen in the country since the middle of the 20th century is expected to continue in the future. For example, average temperature has risen by around 0.7 degree Celsius during 1901-2018, according to the assessment. By the end of the 21st century (2070-2099), this is expected to rise by around 4.4 degrees Celsius compared to the recent past (1976-2005). The frequency of summer (April-June) heat waves is also projected to increase 3-4 times. While monsoon precipitation (rainfall) has declined, there are more frequent dry spells and more intense wet spells, according to the report. According to a paper published by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, last year (https://bit.ly/34WQLJ5) while rainfall of higher intensity will increase all over India, the degree of increase will be more in the south Indian region compared to north and central India by the end of the century. According to a 2018 World Bank report, a large part of South Asia would be climate hotspots – where changes in temperature and rainfall affect living standards adversely – by 2030. 5. How well will India’s economy grow?Thanks to the disruption caused by the pandemic, the Indian economy will witness its first contraction in 41 years in 2020-21. If the 2020-21 gross domestic product (GDP) were to contract by 7.5% (the Reserve Bank of India estimate), 2010-11 to 2020-21 will see the lowest decadal growth in India’s GDP since the 1980s. There are divergent views on the prospects of the Indian economy going forward. The government and a section of economists see a rapid revival in economic activity. Others see a long-term loss of momentum. For example, Oxford economists expect potential growth for Indian economy at 4.5% over the next five years (till 2025) which is lower than 6.5% projected before the viral outbreak. Whether or not the Indian economy can rediscover its mojo will determine how the country deals with the challenges and opportunities presented by a high share of the working-age population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-number-theory-imagining-india-10-years-from-now/story-G7aIUgKlehi1yewcG4rOOJ.html
05-01-2021||India||India’s vaccine jabs may start next week: Officials||With regulatory approvals granted to two coronavirus vaccines, the Centre has initiated the process of procurement, top government officials said on Monday, and the vaccination drive could begin by end of next week in a phased manner.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the world’s biggest inoculation drive against coronavirus is set to begin in the country, lauding scientists and technicians for the “Made in India” vaccines.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday announced that it had approved both the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine candidate, Covaxin. Covaxin has been recommended for restricted use in “emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution”, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccination. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria said Bharat Biotech’s vaccine has been given approval only as a backup.“Now that the approvals have been granted, the next step is to initiate the procurement process. The Centre is now looking at striking the purchase deals with the companies concerned. About 50-60 million doses are likely to be procured in batches considering India is looking at vaccinating about 30 million people in the initial phase,” a government official aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity.Read more| After Covishield and Covaxin, these are other Covid-19 vaccine candidates in IndiaAccording to the official, the government is in talks with both companies whose vaccines have been approved. DCGI has accepted recommendations made by a subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to grant restricted emergency approval to the two vaccines.“The paperwork tends to take some time but arrangements are being made to sign the deal as quickly as possible so that the vaccination drive can soon be kick-started. Dry runs have already been successfully conducted across the country without any major glitches. The digital platform, CoWIN, meant to be used for vaccine delivery is good to go as minor modifications that were needed have been already made,” the official added.SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla has said his firm offered a special price of ₹200 in writing to the Indian government for first 100 million doses. According to the official cited above, the first batch is likely to be taken from SII at the offered price.Addressing scientists at the National Metrology Conclave, Modi said: “World’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India. For this, the country is proud of the contributions of its scientists and technicians.” “Quality is as much important as quantity, our standards should rise with our scale in our quest for Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” he said.Read more| 68 UK returnees found Covid positive in Maharashtra but not with new strainAs per a decision taken earlier by experts in the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, the Centre has decided to directly procure the vaccine supplies that it will distribute among states as per their requirement.Once the deals are formally signed with the companies, and vaccine doses are procured, the supplies will be deployed in 31 main hubs by the Centre that it has created in different regions across the country.“From these 31 main hubs, the supplies will eventually move to 29,000 locally created vaccination points in different states from where state governments will pick up the supplies to be given under the public vaccination initiative. These vaccination points can further be increased if there is a need to add more based on the vaccine requirement,” said another official, asking not to be named.“Everything is in the advanced stages of preparedness and the immediate phase of vaccination will begin with health care workers in the country, and the current supplies of the vaccine that are available in the country are enough to meet the country’s demand for Covid-19 vaccines,” the official added.As per government estimates, there are about 10 million health care workers who are in the priority list to be given the jab immediately as part of the first phase of the vaccination exercise, to be followed by about 20 million frontline workers who are involved in managing the pandemic in the country.Read more| ‘Big salute to doctors and frontline workers’: BMC chief after Mumbai records 3 Covid-19 deaths“These two categories are on the immediate list as these are directly involved in managing the Covid-19 crisis. The drive will start with the health care workers though. More categories could be added depending on the availability of the vaccine. For now, the categories that have been broadly defined will get priority,” the official said.Helplines are being set up at the national and state level to address any queries related to the vaccine or software in use. While the national helpline, 1075, is being upgraded, the states are also augmenting their helpline 104 for the purpose of addressing related queries.The states have already been training vaccine administrators and also preparing details of the beneficiaries. Around 150,000 vaccinators have been trained so far, covering over 700 districts.In all, the government has estimated 300 million people who are at high risk of developing severe illness because of their profession, age and co-morbidities, and will be given vaccine shots in the initial phases. The group includes health care workers, frontline workers, and population at high risk of getting severe Covid-19.Of the 300 million vulnerable population, approximately 10 million are health care workers both in government and private setups (including integrated child development services workers), and about 20 million are frontline workers. Health care workers have been divided into nine sub-categories. The first category is of frontline health and ICDS workers such as accredited social health activist (ASHA), auxiliary nurse midwife, multipurpose health worker, ASHA facilitators, anganwadi worker (AWW) and AWW sahayika.The second category is of nurses and supervisors that include staff nurse, public health nurse, lady health visitor, community health officer, child development project officer, chief medical and health officer, district women and child development officer and designated institutional official.Another category is of medical officers that consists of allopathic doctors, Ayush doctors, dentists, including those on administrative posts, and paramedical staff including lab and operation theatre technicians, pharmacists, physiotherapists radiographers, nursing orderlies, ward boys, etc. Medical, dental, nursing and paramedical students are also part of the health care staff to be given priority, apart from scientists and research staff, clerical and administrative staff, and support staff such as drivers, security workers and sanitation workers.Frontline workers comprise personnel from state and central police departments, armed forces, home guards, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and civil defence organisations, municipal workers and revenue officials engaged in Covid-19 containment, and surveillance and associated activities. About 270 million people are in the high-risk population group that includes 260 million people above the age of 50, and around 10 million people below 50 years with comorbidities such as chronic diabetes and hypertension, cancer, lung diseases, etc.The age of a beneficiary for vaccination will be considered as on January 1, 2021. Anyone born on or before January 1, 1971 will fall under this category, and the high-risk population group will be further sub-categorised into various age groups with priority to senior citizens above 60 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-vaccine-jabs-may-start-next-week-officials/story-waj4naluYtTeW0j0ONGYNL.html
05-01-2021||India||Srinagar encounter: Slain youths’ kin stage protest, demand bodies, fair probe||The families of two of three youths who were killed in an encounter with security forces on December 30 protested in Srinagar on Monday demanding their bodies and impartial investigation into the matter.While the army and police have maintained that they were militants, the youths’ families have vouched for their innocence.The police also released purported videos of the cordoned house where the trio – Zubair Ahmad of Turkawangam, Shopian; Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq of Putrigam, Pulwama – was killed in Hokersar-Lawaypora, Srinagar. The security forced had claimed that the youths were repeatedly asked to surrender on the night of December 29 and December 30 morning.Athar and Zubair’s family members converged at Press Colony here carrying banners “Stop innocents killings” and “We want complete investigation”. The protestors, including elderly and women, shouted slogans demanding justice.“He had bullets in his chest. The mothers and sisters of soldiers congratulated them for shooting terrorists, but he was just a 16-year-old child,” wailed Mushtaq Ahmad, Athar’s father.“Are the soldiers happy snatching a piece of my heart? You (security forces) killed my son to feed your children. Shame on you,” he said.While the police and army have said the trio were killed in exchange of fire, their families have rebutted the claim saying they were civilians. Athar was a Class 11 student, Aijaz was pursuing graduation while Zubair was a skilled worker, according to their families.Mushtaq said he wanted justice. “I don’t want money. I just want the body of my son,” he said.“He lies buried there in the snow (in Ganderbal). Whom should I tell? Aren’t people of India listening? I want to tell people of the world that I want justice. I want my son, he is just 16. Either give me my son or bury me there,” he demanded.As part of the protocol, the authorities have been burying the bodies of militants far away from their homes only allowing a few family members to be part of the burial arranged by police. The trio killed on December 30 was taken to Ganderbal, some 110 km from Pulwama, for burial.Police release videos of surrender appeal The police on Monday released two videos of the surrounded house purportedly showing forces asking those inside to surrender. “On 29/12/20 evening after the cordon at Hokersar, troops are repeatedly appealing the trapped terrorists to come out and surrender with assurances that they will not be harmed,” Kashmir police said in a tweet.“At Hokersar on 30/12/2020 in the morning hours, troops are once again appealing the trapped terrorists to come out in the ground and surrender before them,” it said in another tweet with a video.Politicos seek speedy investigation Meanwhile, political parties in Kashmir have asked for probe into the encounter after families’ claims.National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Monday asked L-G Manoj Sinha to hand over the bodies. “The L-G has promised a fair and speedy probe in to this encounter when JKNC Lok Sabha member Hansain Masoodi spoke to him about it recently. In the interim, we hope the L-G will order the handing over of the bodies to the families,” he said in a tweet.However, police have said that as per their checks Aijaz and Athar were overground workers (OGWs) of militants.“Background checks also reveal that Aijaz and Athar, both OGWs variously provided logistic support to terrorists. Antecedents and verifications too show that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of LeT (now so-called TRF) outfit,” police have said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-encounter-slain-youths-kin-stage-protest-demand-bodies-fair-probe/story-vL8YsvKQUSA18sa0uxXUsN.html
05-01-2021||India||SC gives govt a week to delete provision on confiscation of livestock||Finding that a rule that empowered the magistrate to confiscate livestock even before a conviction was received under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act (1960) ran contrary to the very law itself, the Supreme Court Monday gave the Centre a week to delete the provision or be prepared for a stay order on the rules.The Centre introduced two rules in 2017 — the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Care and Maintenance of Case Property Animals) Rules and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Regulation of Livestock Market) Rules — and notified them in May 2018. Delhi-based Buffalo Traders Welfare Association, which espouses the cause of cattle traders, farmers, butchers, and agriculturists, challenged the former rule in the apex court in May 2019.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “Section 29 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA), 1960 is very clear. Only a person who is convicted can lose his animals. Either you amend your laws or else we will stay it. We cannot countenance rules which run contrary to the parent act.”The bench, which also comprised Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “People live on the strength of their animals. You cannot confiscate and keep the animals till they (accused) are convicted.”Both rules were challenged in July 2017 by the All India Jamiatul Quresh Action Committee. At the time, the Centre informed the top court that the rules would be amended and re-notified. Thus the petition was disposed of and the Supreme Court directed the Centre to hear the stakeholders before re-notitying the amended rules. However, the new petitioners said that they were not aware of any fresh notification.In its petition, the association stated that certain groups, emboldened by the rules, took the law into their hands and looted livestock. The petition filed by advocate Rajnish Kumar Jha stated, “Transporters, cattle traders and farmers are facing threats due to anti-social elements taking law in their own hands. This resulted in looting of the animals….These incidents are acting as triggers for communal polarisation of the society, and if not halted effectively and immediately, will have disastrous consequences on the social fabric of the country.”There has been a rash of attacks on cattle traders by cow protection groups with right wing political affiliations for allegedly transporting livestock for the purposes of slaughter. It is illegal to slaughter cows across the country, and a handful of states have passed laws to protect different types of cattle from slaughter. In May 2017, the Centre imposed a ban on the sale and purchase of cattle for slaughter at animal markets across India under PCA statutes but the Supreme Court suspended the ban shortly after giving relief to beef and leather industries.The Court issued a notice on the petition and sought a response from the Centre in July 2019; in August 2020, it enquired whether the rule in question was notified. On Monday, the petition came up for hearing again and Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Jayant Sud appearing for the Centre informed the court that the rules were notified in 2018.The ASG said that he was prepared to share evidence of cruelty that had been meted out to the cattle seized under the rules. Senior advocate Sanjay Hedge appearing for the petitioner pointed out that the newly notified rule empowered a magistrate to direct the confiscated animal to be housed in an infirmary, animal welfare organisation or gaushala (cow shed) during the pendency of the litigation. This was contrary to Section 29 of the 1960 act, he said.Section 29 states, “If the owner of any animal is found guilty of any offence under this Act. the court upon his conviction thereof, may, if it thinks fit, in addition to any other punishment make an order that the animal with respect to which the offence was committed shall be forfeited to Government..”However, Rule 3 of the 2017 rule in question empowered the Magistrate to direct the animal to be confiscated and housed at an infirmary, Animal Welfare Organization or Gaushala during the pendency of the litigation even before the person got convicted.Sud sought a week’s time to file a response based on the Court’s observations. The matter will be taken up again on January 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-govt-a-week-to-delete-provision-on-confiscation-of-livestock/story-u5F5nufsPHtSU78ZhuQUbO.html
05-01-2021||India||Political row erupts over TDP leader’s murder||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader and the former sarpanch of Pedagarlapadu village, 55-year-old Puramsetti Ankulu, was killed in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district late on Sunday night, sparking a political row with the TDP accusing the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) of perpetrating political violence in the state. Ankulu is the second TDP leader to be murdered in a week; a district spokesperson, Nandam Subbaiah, was killed in Proddaturu village in Kadapa soon after posting comments on social media about alleged irregularities in the state government’s house sites distribution programme. The YRSCP has denied a role in both deaths.According to police, Ankulu’s body was found late Sunday night at an under-construction site in Dachepalli town with multiple stab wounds and a slit throat. The superintendent of police for Guntur (rural), Vishal Gunni, said that three special teams have been formed for a probe in the case. “We are inquiring into all angles in the murder, including factional violence and financial disputes between Ankulu and others,” Gunni said. He said the preliminary investigation revealed that four people may be involved in the murder. “It came to our notice that in the past, too, Ankulu escaped a murder attempt. We are yet to trace his mobile phone, which can provide vital clues,” the SP said. A case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been filed.Ankulu’s family members said in their police complaint that he received a phone call at around 7pm on Sunday, and left home to meet someone. The callers may be involved in the murder, the family alleged.On Monday, TDP members assembled at the spot of the murder and raised slogans against the YSRCP. “It is a cold-blooded murder by YSRCP leaders,” former TDP legislator Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao said. The party’s general secretary Nara Lokesh, who attended Ankulu’s funeral on Monday afternoon, said there was a lack of policing in the state. “It looks like there is no police system to protect the lives of the people in Andhra Pradesh. Opposition leaders are under constant threat to their lives under this faction-driven, heartless government,” he said.Condemning the murder, TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu also alleged that the YSRCP was indulging in “murder politics” against the Opposition. Naidu said that over “16 TDP leaders” have been killed in the last 19 months of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s rule. “The murder of Subbaiah in Proddaturu and Ankulu in Dachepalli holds a mirror to the criminal intolerance of the YSRCP leaders, who are not able to digest the reality when Opposition leaders question the government’s failures, corruption and negligence,” Naidu said in a statement. The YSRCP, however, dismissed the allegations. “Our party has nothing to do with the murder of Ankulu. TDP leaders are making baseless allegations only for political gains. We have asked Director General of Police Gautam Sawang to make an impartial inquiry into the murder,” the party’s Gurajala legislator Mahesh Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-row-erupts-over-tdp-leader-s-murder/story-APegT3VM5NcvqvKLEdWmfI.html
05-01-2021||India||SC to take up letter on farm stir as PIL||New Delhi An open letter written to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) against attempts being made to paint the protesting farmers as separatists has been converted into a public interest litigation and is expected to be heard by the Supreme Court in the coming days.The letter written by 35 students of Panjab University’s Centre for Human Rights and Duties on December 2 termed the course of action initiated by the government to address the farmers’ concerns as “insensitive” and sought intervention of the court to allow them to continue with their peaceful protest. The letter also attacked the media for trying to “polarise” the peaceful protest by associating farmers with separatists.Gurmohan Preet Singh, a postgraduate student of the university, who is among the 35 signatories to the letter, said, “On December 18, we received an intimation from the Supreme Court registry informing that our letter has been registered under the section of public interest litigation (PIL). We are hopeful that our letter will be listed in open court for hearing at the earliest.”The intimation received from the registry said, “Your communication has been successfully registered as Diary no 67872/SCI/PIL(E) 2020.” Singh said he had not received any intimation yet with regard to the listing of the case.The letter aired a grievance over the manner in which water cannons, teargas shells and lathis were used against the protesting farmers. The 35 signatories, comprising human rights students, research scholars, and former students of the university demanded an enquiry into the illegitimate use of force by Haryana Police and withdrawal of all criminal cases registered against the protesting farmers by both Haryana Police and Delhi Police. In addition, the letter sought basic amenities to be provided to the protesters to ensure their safety.One of the prayers in the letter stated, “Take action to curb fake news and against media channels, engaged in misrepresentation, polarisation and sensationalisation of the whole issue.”The Supreme Court on December 17 considered the issue of farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and proposed a solution be worked out by way of talks between the government and farmer unions by involving independent experts. The court maintained that it did not intend to curb the farmers’ right to protest peacefully but the same should not be at the cost of disruption of public order.The letter said, “When farmers decided to approach to the National Capital Territory of Delhi, the peaceful protesters (farmers) were thrashed and walloped that it seemed raising a voice for their Fundamental Rights as provided by the Supreme Law of the Nation is a dreadful crime (which it is not).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-take-up-letter-on-farm-stir-as-pil/story-Y82wmXvbKpHakgliXOLjTM.html
05-01-2021||India||Reliance moves HC against vandalism of telecom towers||The Punjab and Haryana high court will on Tuesday hear a petition by Reliance Jio for taking action against miscreants damaging its network infrastructure and other commercial properties in Punjab.Reliance Jio, in its petition, has maintained that its parent company, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), or any retail arm or affiliates have “no interest and does not intend in future to do corporate or contract farming” while alleging that business rivals with vested interests are taking advantage of the ongoing farmers’ protests.In its petition, the Mukesh Ambani-led RIL has also emphasised that the conglomerate and its retail arms have not purchased any agricultural land directly or indirectly for the purpose of farming.Underscoring that Jio and RIL have greatest regard for the hard work of the farmers, the petition added that RIL affiliates have never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain “unfair advantage over” farmers or their produce.Read more| Farm talks fail again, Centre says no repealReliance Jio Infocomm filed this petition on Monday, and requested for an urgent direction to the government authorities in the state and at the Centre to protect its communication infrastructure as well as ensure safety of its employees.The firm’s counsel, Ashish Chopra said that the high court agreed to list their petition for a hearing on Tuesday.The petition has stated that 1,500 telecom towers operated by Reliance Jio were vandalised and rendered inoperative, crippling the mobile network in Punjab, where the telecom company has 14 million subscribers. While the subscribers are compelled to port to other networks, the plea said, the acts of vandalism have also endangered lives of thousands of its employees. The plea claims it has been has been targeted in Punjab, as those with “vested interests” are taking advantage of the farmers’ agitation against the recently enacted contentious agricultural laws.The petition demands that state be directed to take steps to prevent further damage to its infrastructure and take action against the miscreants and vested interests, who caused destruction.Read more| ‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealedJio also seeks appointment of a competent authority to assess the damages to be recovered from the miscreants in terms of a judgment by the Supreme Court, which laid down that rioters must be made to pay for destruction of public or private properties. “The destruction has been done in a well orchestrated manner, which is result of a sustained disinformation campaign being carried out by vested interests,” stated the plea, demanding that adequate security arrangements be made to stop vandalism of its infrastructure. Telecom infra owned by the company has been targeted in parts of Punjab by protesters who have alleged that the contentious new farm laws are meant to benefit certain corporate houses at the cost of ordinary farmers. The laws change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the procurement system, whereby the government buys staples such as wheat and rice at guaranteed rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reliance-moves-hc-against-vandalism-of-telecom-towers/story-MW8XQFBr6FUhhMzvhMkD2I.html
05-01-2021||India||Media reporting on charge sheet, my lawyer is yet to get it: Umar Khalid tells court||Former JNU student Umar Khalid, arrested in connection to his alleged role in the conspiracy leading to communal riots in north-east Delhi, told a Delhi court on Monday that a “vicious media campaign” against him is affecting his right to free and fair trial, while stating that even though a supplementary charge sheet filed against him was all over the media, the police are yet to supply a copy of the same to his lawyer. Khalid, who was produced from the Tihar jail complex through video conferencing, told chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar that the supplementary charge sheet in the riots filed by the police on December 26 is all over the news reports and sought directions to the investigating officer to find out as to how the media got the charge sheet even before an accused named in it. “An obvious pattern of selected disclosures statements being leaked” is affecting his right to free trial, he said. Contradicting news reports that quoted the supplementary charge sheet, Khalid also told the court that he had not signed any statements admitting his role in the riots.Read more| One year since violence in JNU, no arrests yetKhalid’s counsel also said that the media is not sticking to its code of ethics and has been missing an important word “alleged” in the news reports. The court after hearing brief arguments posted the matter for further hearing on Tuesday.According to the charge sheet, Khalid has been arrested for fuelling riots at the Khajuri Khas area in February last year. Suspended AAP councilor Tahir Hussain and United Against Hate (UAH), an NGO, leader Khalid Saifi are also co-accused in this case.Hearing pleas by several others accused in riots cases, CMM Dinesh Kumar on December 24, had directed the police to supply the copy of the charge sheet to the accused before the next date of hearing. The magistrate is slated to hear the case on January 7. “It has been noticed that the IOs of various cases are not supplying the copies to the accused persons despite directions of the court within time which is resulting in delay in committal of various cases to the sessions court for further proceedings in the matter. Therefore, copy of this order be sent to DCP, north-east, to issue a direction to IOs in all the police stations to supply the copy of charge sheet to the accused persons well within time before next date of hearing,” Kumar said in the order on December 24.He had also sought a report as to why the charge sheet was not supplied on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/media-reporting-on-charge-sheet-my-lawyer-is-yet-to-get-it-umar-khalid-tells-court/story-0NKr4kwrxFh2DkAYqL4ORO.html
05-01-2021||India||One year since violence in JNU, no arrests yet||On January 5, 2020, at around 6:30 pm, Aishe Ghosh was walking towards her hostel after attending a march organised against the hike in hostel fees at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus when a mob attacked her. Her head was smashed with a rod, and her left arm was fractured. Soon, a photo of her blood-smeared face and a video of the attack went viral on the social media, sparking horror, condemnation and outrage. While the mob was running amok on campus, beating up students, teachers, targeting hostellers and breaking furniture, a contingent of police was waiting outside the main campus gate, called the North Gate. Later, senior police officers had said that they did not go in because they did not have the permission from the vice-chancellor -- a stand which attracted widespread criticism.A case was registered under sections of rioting, unlawful assembly, rioting with deadly weapons, and a section of the prevention of damage to property act against unknown persons at the Vasant Kunj North police station. The case was transferred to the crime branch later.Five days after the attack, at a press conference, the police released photographs of nine students, including Ghosh, saying they were involved in violence. However, an unidentified woman who was seen with the attackers in the video was not there in the police list. She was later identified as Komal Sharma -- apparently a student of Daulat Ram College in Delhi University. She was allegedly linked to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) but could not be traced for several months.She was eventually called to record her statement, according to police.Siddhardh Yadav, state secretary ABVP (Delhi), said, “We have an active member named Komal Sharma but she is not the one who was seen in those pictures shared on social media. ABVP has been very clear about this from the beginning. We also want the person who was there among the mob to be identified and questioned.” Read more| Media reporting on charge sheet, my lawyer is yet to get it: Umar Khalid tells courtThe police refused to share Sharma’s details. Authorities and students in Daulat Ram College also provided no details about her. The police claim to have met over 35-40 witnesses, recorded their statement and questioned more than 70 persons, including Sharma. Till date, however, not a single person has been arrested in connection with the violence on the campus.Special commissioner of police (crime) Praveer Ranjan said, “Three cases pertaining to last year’s violence in JNU are being probed by the crime branch. The investigation in all the three cases is in progress.”TENSION WAS BUILDING UPTension was mounting on campus with the Left and Right leaning student outfits sparring over the boycott of semester registration as a part of the protest against a hike in the hostel fees. While the Left outfits were demanding a boycott, the Right wing groups were demanding that the registration process must be continued. According to teachers and students, skirmishes were going on between the two groups. On January 5, a group of students and teachers had organised a march at the T-point near Sabarmati hostel when a mob, armed with hammers, sticks, and rods and wearing face masks, allegedly attacked them. The mob broke into several hostels, including Periyar and Sabarmati, and beat up the students. It also damaged several motorcycles parked outside Sabarmati Hostel. The attackers smashed the main glass door before proceeding towards different rooms and throwing stones inside. Several students said they had to put beds against their hostel-room doors to protect themselves; some jumped from the balconies to escape. In August, three JNU professors who were injured in the January 5 attack had moved the Delhi high court, claiming that the attacks were “premeditated” and “coordinated”, planning for which had been done on various WhatsApp groups.Two such groups - Friends of RSS and Unity against Left - were used to mobilise the protesters, the professors had said in their petition.The police had claimed that Aishe Ghosh was herself part of the mob that attacked “specific rooms” in Periyar hostel and released a blurred video grab of a woman whom they claimed was Ghosh, standing with some masked men and women.Ghosh, a member of Students Federation of India (SFI), refuted the allegation. “I had gone to check what was happening after I heard that there was something going on in Periyar hostel. The allegations that I led the mob are baseless. I was looking for the security guard at Periyar Hostel and no one was present, and the guard also was missing,”she said.Read more| Delhi riots: Govt sanctions sedition charges against Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, othersThe incident, which took place 21 days after the police action against anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest on Jamia Millia Islamia campus, made headlines nationwide. Bollywood A-lister Deepika Padukone made a brief appearance at a press conference organised by the Left-leaning students on the campus, on January 8, where Ghosh, JNU students union president, blamed the university administration of a witch-hunt. SHODDY POLICE PROBESurya Prakash, a resident of Sabarmati Hostel and now a PhD scholar, who is visually challenged, was among those who were attacked by the mob that day. He said he had given an application to get an FIR registered but even a year later, is yet to hear from the police. Though no senior officer authorised to speak to the media on the case developments responded to HT’s queries despite repeated calls and text messages, some investigators in the crime branch said on condition of anonymity that there was little or no headway in the case. “We sent the photographs and videos to the forensic science laboratory. The result is awaited. Because of the lockdown, many such videos are pending forensic examination. The case involved students so we do not act until we have strong evidence,” said a mid-level officer.According to doctors at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, 35 injured were brought for treatment. Nearly half of them were from Sabarmati hostel. “I received no calls from the police for any investigation into the case. It has been a year and yet there has been no conclusion in the matter so far. I don’t even hope for any kind of justice,” said Surya Prakash, who alleged that the mob broke into his room and thrashed him.Another postgraduate student and a resident of Sabarmati hostel, who recorded a video of the time when the mob went on the rampage at her hostel premises, said, “We came out of the room on hearing the commotion and saw the mob charging towards the girls’ wing. We soon gathered and made a human chain. I started making a video and was attacked with stones. I have written multiple times to the police and the administration but there has been no response.”She alleged that the administration did not even repair the damage caused during the violence. “Some teachers pooled in money and got the window panes changed. Otherwise, the administration has not fixed anything as of now,” she alleged.Read more| Delhi riots: Kalita trying to create narrative to implicate Kapil Mishra, say policeJNU PANEL MADE LITTLE PROGRESSJNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar constituted a five-member committee to probe the violence. HT spoke to several students from both Left- and the Right-leaning groups, and to several teachers -- they all said they have never been contacted by the committee to record their statement.Satish Chandra Yadav, general secretary of the students’ union and a member of All India Students Association (AISA), said he was also injured in the attack. “We do not know about the existence of the internal inquiry committee,” he said. Several other students had the same response. Shivam Chaurasiya, a PhD scholar and president of ABVP’s JNU unit, said that he was attacked by the mob near Periyar hostel. “At least 20-25 ABVP members got injured in the violence. We did record our statements with the police but we do not know about any other inquiry committee. We have on Monday written to the administration asking it to tell us what it’s done so far to probe the matter,” he said. Aishe Ghosh  said, “The administration has never ever contacted me to ask if I was alright even as my images and videos were all over the news and social media. Justice has been denied to us at every stage and if this gets normalised students won’t feel comfortable coming to the JNU campus. We do not want this to get erased from the public memory before justice is delivered.”TEACHERS RECALL HORRORShukla Sawant, a professor at the School of Arts and Aesthetics, was among those who first saw the mob moving towards the gathering at Sabarmati T-point. She alleged that she was attacked with lathis and stones, suffering injuries on her back and head. “It was mayhem. I could not believe my eyes. The masked mob was smashing and breaking the vehicles, and beating students and teachers with sticks, rods and stones... It’s been very traumatic. It’s taken away everybody’s mental space. There were several WhatsApp groups clearly mentioning the names of several people but nothing has been done as of now,” she said. Sucharita Sen, a professor at the School of Social Sciences, who was attacked at the same spot, and received injuries on her head, said she felt hesitant to go to her workplace for some time after the incident. “I was hit by a stone. I was bleeding when a colleague and a student tried to take me to the hospital on a two-wheeler. But we were not allowed to pass through the main gate. We had to go back to the campus. They shifted me to the university ambulance and was taken to the hospital through another gate. The police were right there and they looked away,” she said. Sen, 58, said that the only time police had met her was when they recorded her statement, two months after the incident. “There has been no follow up after that. The administration did not even acknowledge my representations sent via emails during this period. I had even moved a Delhi court, seeking registration of an FIR but nothing happened. I have no hope for justice now,” she said. Former JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) member Bikramaditya Choudhary, whose wife was chased by the mob armed with sticks and rods, near faculty housing complex, said, “She had submitted a video to the police and had written five times to them but nobody approached us. She is still traumatised by the incident and feels wary while stepping out. The behaviour of the administration shows that it colluded with the perpetrators.” PROVIDED SUPPORT, SAYS ADMIN Despite several attempts, vice-chancellor Jagadesh Kumar did not respond to calls and messages for a response. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said all possible support was provided to the students and teachers. “The university had provided ambulances and medical aid to students and teachers injured in that unfortunate incident. The representatives of the administration had also visited the injured in the hospital. We could not meet everyone personally but we have full-time counsellors at the campus for any psychological support for the students,” he said.On being asked why the internal inquiry committee constituted by the administration did not approach any victim or the eyewitnesses of the violence, he said, “We did not push the internal inquiry committee since a special team of police is investigating the matter. We regularly take the updates about the investigation from the police.”Kumar dismissed the allegations of the administration being “hand-in-glove” with the attackers. “It’s equally shocking for us all...We do not want to comment on who was responsible for the violence. Let police do their work.”INACTION INDEFENSIBLE: EXPERTS A crime branch officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have taken the statement of all students who were caught on tape. Even the woman whose photo went viral (allegedly Komal Sharma), was summoned and her statement recorded. The investigation could not proceed thereafter because within a month riots broke out in Delhi. Also, within weeks, the lockdown was announced and the university was closed. All students from JNU and Delhi University were on leave and returned their homes.” Retired IPS officer, Prakash Singh, who served as director general of police in Uttar Pradesh and Assam, said that the lockdown did not mean police stopped doing their job. “I do not know the progress of the case. But if it is true that police have not arrested any person, it reflects poorly on the police’s conduct. Things keep on happening. This does not mean work should stop. The world has not stopped. We have not abandoned our daily chores. If there is not a single arrest, and the progress is slow, it means Delhi police is acting under some constraints. Apart from the earth’s rotation, other things are moving, maybe slow. But if police have not acted on identifying and nabbing the attackers, then it is indefensible.” Retired IPS officer, NC Asthana, who was a director general in the Kerala police, said Delhi police’s conduct in the case has been far from being professional. “Police have not been able to find who that woman (Komal Sharma) is even after a year. It is very unfortunate, also not professional. It does not inspire confidence. You have to be impartial. Let me put it this way. The conduct of the police has been far from professional.”(With inputs from Prawesh Lama and Karn Pratap Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-year-since-violence-in-jnu-no-arrests-yet/story-qgaduVi78hlp47cr6L30PK.html
05-01-2021||India||Rainfall pushes up temperature, Delhi’s air quality improves||Two back-to-back days of rainfall in Delhi pushed the temperature up on Monday, giving relief from the biting cold in the city over the past few weeks, and sent pollution levels down, giving residents the cleanest air in 38 days.The minimum temperature lodged on Monday at Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered representative for Delhi, was 11.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal and the highest in the last 22 days, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The maximum temperature was 22.6 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Weather scientists said the cloud cover in city helped bring the temperature up as clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The inclement weather in the city is likely to persist till Wednesday, with moderate rains and thunderstorm likely on Tuesday as well, IMD scientists said.“There was a hailstorm in neighbouring areas of Delhi as per our radar images. Similar weather will continue on Tuesday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting system.On Monday, Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 151, placing it in “moderate” category — a substantial improvement compared to the past three days. On January 1, Delhi’s AQI was in 441, placing it in the “severe” zone; while it was 443 on January 2, also in “severe” category; and it was 354 on January 3 in “very poor” category.Read more| 40mm rain in 36 hrs throws Delhi out of gear, more likely today: IMD This was the first time since December 14, 2020, that the air in the city was in the “moderate” category (AQI of 160) and the cleanest air that Delhi has breathed since November 27, when the AQI touched 137.Dense fog enveloped the city in the morning, with the visibility dropping to around 50 metres at Safdarjung. Officials at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, however, said that the morning fog had no impact on flight operations on Monday. As many as 14 flights scheduled to depart from Delhi for Srinagar were cancelled due of poor weather conditions in Srinagar, while four flights scheduled to arrive at Delhi from Srinagar had to be cancelled as the flights could not take off from Srinagar, the official added.Experts said that the rain and strong winds through Monday played a crucial role in bringing the pollution down.“The pollution has been washed away after intense rain on Sunday. Strong winds today blowing at 15 to 20 kmph hasn’t allowed accumulation of pollutants. We are expecting air quality to remain in ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category till January 9. This is because wind speed is likely to remain moderate, which will help disperse pollutants continuously,” said VK Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division. Several parts of north India witnessed light to moderate rains due to a western disturbance and above-normal temperatures on Monday, the IMD said. Several parts of northwest India are continuing to receive widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorms and lightning. There is likely to be hailstorms at many places on Tuesday, IMD said.“There is western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan. There is a lot of moisture incursion due to southesterlies and a confluence or interaction of southwesterly and southeasterly winds is causing extreme weather. There is also an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan. Our radar images are showing a lot of rain and thunderstorm over Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, east Rajasthan and Haryana. There may have been hailstorm also. Similar weather will persist tomorrow (Tuesday) but the spatial distribution and intensity may reduce from Wednesday,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.“The next western disturbance, which is likely to approach the region around January 7, will not bring much rain to the plains because it’s a feeble system. Its impact will be limited to the hills,” Shrivastava said.An active western disturbance lies as a middle and upper-level cyclonic circulation over Central Pakistan with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood. A north-south zone of wind confluence continues to exist from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with strong interaction between south westerly winds and and lower level moist southeasterlies. All these meteorological features favourable for rain are likely to persist over the next three days, according to the IMD bulletin on Monday.Hailstorm in isolated places is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on January 4 and 5 and over west Uttar Pradesh on January 5. Heavy rain or snowfall is also likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad on January 4 and 5; over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on January 5 and isolated heavy rainfall over northern parts of Punjab on January 4 and 5.A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect western Himalayan Region from January 7. As a result, no significant change in minimum temperatures is likely during the next 2-3 days over northwest India, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-pushes-up-temperature-delhi-s-air-quality-improves/story-D73WrUhzC0WTFqF6qiKHDO.html
05-01-2021||India||States gear up for 1st phase of vaccination, await Centre nod||A day after the national drug controller cleared two coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines, state governments on Monday were awaiting the Centre’s go-ahead for a massive immunisation campaign, which could begin in the second week of January. To begin with, about 300 million people (health care staff, frontline workers, people above 50, and those with co-morbidities) will be vaccinated in a phased manner. States are already sending the data on the beneficiaries to the Centre. MaharashtraMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state administration was awaiting a communication from the Centre on the availability of the Covid vaccine and had conducted drills for administering it. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee, said the state had prepared a list of 758,000 Covid warriors, who will receive vaccination in the first phase. “A detailed district-wise list of health care providers have been provided to the Centre on its Co-WIN app,” he said, referring to the app that the Centre has introduced to facilitate the vaccine drive and to monitor the progress realtime. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state vaccination task force, said the Centre was expected to procure the vaccine and distribute among states. “By when this process will start, we don’t know,” he said.RajasthanHealth minister Raghu Sharma said the state was fully prepared to execute vaccination by developing centres even as ambulance service will be available at all those facilities in case of adverse reaction, if there is any. “We have had a dry run at 19 places, including Jaipur and even private hospitals,” he said. AssamHealth officials in Assam said around 150,000 health care workers and frontline staff registered with the government would be administered the vaccine in the first phase. “We have not received any confirmation from the Centre on how many doses of the vaccine Assam would get,” said S Lakshmanan, director of the National Health Mission, Assam. He said states cannot directly purchase the shots.KarnatakaDr K Sudhakar, the state’s medical education minister, said all Corona warriors will be administered the vaccine in the first phase free of cost. “We will also use the existing infrastructure and the Centre will augment the additional infrastructure as required,” he said. The minister said the vaccine expected to be available in January itself. “We are awaiting directions from the Centre on next steps,” he said.PunjabAccording to Punjab’s Covid nodal officer, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, there is no exact information on when inoculation will begin. “The state has also not received any tentative plan either,” he said, adding the state has already submitted data of 160,000 frontline workers to the Centre. ChhattisgarhHealth minister TS Singhdeo said the state will receive vaccines from central government and the exact date has not been decided. “In the first phase, vaccines would be given to 254,000 registered health functionaries in the state,” he said.UttarakhandKuldeep Singh Martoliya, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination, said the hill state was expecting to receive vaccines from the Centre soon. “We have been assured that vaccines will be provided to us by early 2021. The Uttarakhand government has shared the data of over 94,000 health care workers with the Centre,” he said.Madhya PradeshAbout 450,000 health workers will be administered vaccines at primary health centres, community health centres and district hospitals, said Dr Santosh Shukla, the nodal officer for vaccination. “Whenever we receive the vaccines, we will start the inoculation process within the next two days,” he said, adding that all dry runs have been successful and vaccination will be done by maintaining social distancing norms. HaryanaThe Haryana health department will conduct a dry run across the state on January 7 to test preparedness for the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out. The department has already identified 19,000 vaccination sites, and about 5,145 vaccinators have been mapped for the process.“The number of vaccines available and priority groups would depend on the central government. We will expeditiously roll out vaccination, once the vaccine becomes available,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (ACS), health.Data of 190,000 health care workers have been uploaded on CoWIN portal, he said.BiharAround 439,000 health care workers will be vaccinated in Bihar and 14,724 vaccinators have been identified so far, said health minister Mangal Pandey. He said the state was in the process of giving last-minute training to its vaccinators and immunisation officers. “The picture will be clear later this week,” said a Bihar government official, requesting anonymity. JharkhandClose to 250,000 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. State health official said every district would have a vaccine distribution centre, from where vaccines would be sent in refrigerated vans to block community health centres.Tamil NaduHealth secretary J Radhakrishnan said 600,000 health workers will get vaccine once the Centre informs the state about when the drive would start. “The Centre has instructed to hold dry runs in the states, which is being done in five districts,” he said. Over 2,000 personnel and 100 others are participating in the dry run, he said. The secretary also said over 5,000 refrigerated facilities have been created for storing the vaccine.Andhra PradeshAn official of the health department, who refused to be quoted, said the state could get 170,000 vaccine vials in the first phase and focus was shifted to cold-chain management, a crucial part of storage and distribution. TelanganaHealth minister Eatala Rajender said the Centre might supply 500,000 doses initially. An official familiar with the development said the registration process for vaccination was expected to start in the second week of January. The government is setting up 10,000 vaccination centres across the state. Uttar PradeshAmit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary of health and family welfare, said 900,000 health care workers have been enrolled in the first phase of the Covid vaccination drive. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the vaccine was likely to be available in the state around Makar Sankranti (January 14). Officials said district magistrates have been asked to constitute district task forces, tehsil task forces and block task forces to review the drive. KeralaHealth minister KK Shailaja said the state was fully geared up to carry out the massive drive. “Our strategy was to delay the peak (of infections) and restrict casualties…we succeeded in both. Since the state’s density of population is quite high and (because of) prevalence of high incidences of lifestyle disease, we need to get more vaccines in the first stage itself. We have informed the Union health ministry about this,” said Shailaja.(with inputs from HT bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-gear-up-for-1st-phase-of-vaccination-await-centre-nod/story-wUUA0VPaNk5oIE2VP4jTvM.html
05-01-2021||India||Sparks fly over ‘water’: Covaxin hits out at critics, says trials 200% honest||Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director, Krishna Ella, on Monday hit out at comments suggesting that its anti-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, was “safe like water”, and said that their Phase 3 efficacy data, likely to be out by February or March, will silence all critics.Though he did not take any names, Ella’s remarks appear to have sparked a rare war of words between vaccine-makers a day after Serum Institute of India’s (SII) CEO, Adar Poonawalla, told NDTV that only three vaccines had passed all the scientific evaluations -- Pfizer-BioNTech, Modera and Oxford-AstraZeneca -- and that while the others were safe, “safe like water”, their effectiveness had not yet been evaluated.“It is easy to target Indian scientists. I had to tell this because some other company has branded my product as ‘safe like water’. Some local company in press yesterday said that safety is like water of other companies. Only three companies have done efficacy, and other vaccine is like water. I want to deny that. It hurts us as scientists; we work 24 hours and don’t deserve this type of bashing from people,” Ella told a media briefing.Read more| ‘Give me one week’s time’: Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covaxin efficacyHe then appeared to question the results of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is being manufactured by SII.“You ask a question on the UK Astra-Zeneca clinical trial; whether 60%, 70% or 90% which one is the clinical efficacy? Nobody knows. One says high dose, high dose, low dose or high dose. If I had done that type of clinical trial in India, the drugs controller of India would have shut down the company on quality issues,” he said.SII declined to comment on the matter.It also asked for a weeks’ time to prove with evidence that his vaccine also worked against the new UK variant of Sars-Cov-2 virus as 90% of the vaccines targeted just the spike protein of the virus but Covaxin was an inactivated whole virion vaccine.The company is in the eye of a storm after Covaxin was granted “restricted use in emergency situation” approval, leading to many experts questioning the decision because of the shorter duration of human trials and relatively lower data published for the candidate, which is still in the process of its Phase 3 checks.The Oxford vaccine, called Covishield, got the Drug Control General of India nod based on the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants from overseas studies, as well as interim data from Phase 2/3 trials on 1,600 people in India. What boosted its case was that it was granted approval last week by the Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority in the UK.Experts pointed out that the government may have acted in haste, and the sentiment was echoed by some Opposition politicians who suggested that the Union government ignored scientific protocols to give the nod to a fully indigenous vaccine because it tied in with the Atmanirbhar Bharat slogan.Read more| Bharat Biotech vaccine more likely to work against newer strains like UK variant: VardhanElla contended that the criticism his company has faced since Sunday was unwarranted.“We are not a company without a vaccine experience; we have produced 16 vaccines, and are catering to 123 countries. We are conducting clinical trials not just in India but in more than 12 countries, including UK where we have conducted two clinical trials. WHO has said for typhoid vaccine that it’s a breakthrough vaccine for typhoid control,” he said.He also said that there was a 2019 Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) notification that allowed grant of emergency use authorisation without efficacy data.Covaxin is a 2 dose Covid-19 vaccine to be given 28 days apart, and only vaccine allowed to be tested on children of 12 years and above. Ella said company currently has 20 million doses pre-produced at risk, of which five million doses are undergoing quality testing in a government lab. There are four dedicated facilities that can produce about 700 million doses in Hyderabad and Bengaluru, he added.The DCGI clearance to Covaxin also triggered a political slugfest between the Opposition and ruling party leaders. “But it is typical of a govt that prefers slogans over substance. Chest-thumping ‘vaccine nationalism’, combined with the PM’s “atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign, has trumped common sense and a generation of established scientific protocols,” Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said in a tweet on Sunday. BJP president JP Nadda and aviation minister Hardeep Puri led a counter-attack, saying the Opposition was questioning the competence of Indian scientists just as it had doubted Indian soldiers during the Balakot operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-covaxin-data-in-feb-or-march-bharat-biotech/story-QetWiqSy1ATBaKooOjWHsN.html
05-01-2021||India||Govt body drops ‘halal’ from meat manual||A government body on Monday removed the word “halal” from a red meat manual that it issues to lay down the contours of meat export -- a move that came in the backdrop of allegations by some Hindu groups that the use of the term gives an unfair business advantage to Muslim exporters.“Halal” is a term used for consumables permitted under Islam. Meat that is slaughtered in a certain way is also labelled as “halal-certified”. Several Islamic countries import only “halal-certified” meat.A section of the older manual by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) -- it functions under the commerce ministry -- read: “…The animals are slaughtered strictly according to ‘Halal’ method to meet the requirement of Islamic countries”. In the revised version, that section reads: “The animals are slaughtered to the requirement of importing country/importer.” Exporters pointed out that certification of meat was done in view of the requirements of the exporting country, as mentioned in the revised manual as well, and that the removal of the term “halal” had little or no implications on the ground, but admitted that it carried symbolic significance.A debate has been raging with a section of Hindu groups complaining that use of the word in the manual implied that APEDA was making it mandatory for exporters to buy and acquire only “halal-certified” meat . They argue that apart from Islamic countries in West Asia, India also exports meat to countries such as China and Sri Lanka, where “halal” certification is not needed. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) is among those vocal on the issue.Read more| SDMC makes it mandatory for meat shops, restaurants to mention halal or jhatkaThe manual is a compendium of information on issues such as quality and food safety standards to be followed, freezing, packaging and labelling requirements, edible offal and other by-products of meat. It also contains elaborate information on various government regulations for export of meat. Another reference in the previous manual to animals slaughtered by “halal” method in the presence of representatives of recognised Islamic bodies for certification to meet the requirement of Muslim countries has also been replaced with: “The animals are slaughtered to the requirement of importing country/importer.” APEDA officials did not respond to calls till the filing of this report. But on December 27, it clarified in a tweet that, as claimed by some Hindu groups, the government did not impose any condition that only “halal” meat was to be exported. “...It [halal meat] is requirement of majority of importing countries/Importers. Halal Certification agencies are accredited directly by respective importing countries. No Govt agency has any role in this,” it said.A group called Halal Niyantran Manch (Halal Regulation Forum) took credit after the APEDA move. It had been petitioning the government to do away with the word from the manual.“The Congress government had forced APEDA to come out with an order that all manufacturers or exporters of meat will have to compulsorily register with APEDA, and buy and acquire only halal-certified meat,” HNM spokesperson Harinder S Sikka said.“As a result, Hindus, Sikhs, SC and STs (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) all went out of business, which is roughly 40 million-plus people. The government‘s reasoning then was that meat is primarily exported to the Middle East, where the requirement is halal meat. However, this is not the truth. The biggest market for Indian meat is China, which not does not require or give a halal certification. There are many countries such as Sri Lanka that have banned halal certification,” he added. BJP national spokesperson RP Singh welcomed APEDA’s move. A meat exporter in Delhi, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, however, stressed that the government had no role in the certification of meat for exports. “Certification is done as per the requirements of the importing country. The removal of the term from the manual is of no significance on the ground,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-body-drops-halal-from-meat-manual/story-wqfcilHrF6OsBs7aoJBLZN.html
05-01-2021||India||BJP’s Kolkata zone observer skips road show, leaves party red-faced||In what is being seen as embarrassment for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit, former mayor of Kolkata Sovan Chatterjee, who was recently appointed the party’s observer for Kolkata zone, skipped a massive road show in the city on Monday. There was also a flare up as BJP supporters came face to face with Trinamool Congress workers during the road show. Police, however, managed to prevent any clash between the two rival parties. The BJP’s Bengal unit had organized a massive road show, which Chatterjee was supposed to lead along with Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP’s national general secretary and the party’s observer for the state. Chatterjee had joined the BJP in August 2019 but had stayed away from active politics. Monday’s road show was being seen as a comeback for the former TMC heavyweight leader. He was recently appointed as the Bengal BJP’s Kolkata zone observer. His friend Baisakhi Banerjee was made the co-convener of the Kolkata zone. According to BJP leaders, aware of the development, all was set for the rally and late-night meetings were also held with Chatterjee in the latter’s residence last night. Banerjee, however, told a section of the media on Monday morning that she was not invited and hence would not be attending the rally. Later, Chatterjee also refused to attend the rally. HT could not get in touch with Chatterjee as his phone was switched off. In a damage control exercise, top BJP leaders said that it was a party rally and an individual is not important. “The party is more important than an individual. The rally was held despite the police and TMC trying to create obstacles,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s spokesperson for West Bengal. The TMC took the opportunity to hit back with some sarcasm. “The BJP made a mistake when they made a deal – buy one get one free,” said Kunal Ghosh, a TMC spokesperson. The rally’s route also had to be cut short and the number of vehicles in the rally had to be curtailed as Kolkata Police did not give permission.The roadshow was finally led by senior BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, party’s National vice president Mukul Roy and MP Arjun Singh. Senior TMC leader and state minister Firhad Hakim said, “We are not bothered if the BJP takes out a rally as we have other important work to do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-kolkata-zone-observer-skips-road-show-leaves-party-red-faced/story-sLrxrK1qOqxnWK3s22U1JP.html
05-01-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee unveils extensive plans for Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary||From setting up a national university and a monument to forming a state planning commission and publishing books, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced her extensive plans to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose right from January 23 till the end of 2021. Banerjee announced that January 23 will be celebrated with a grand parade in Kolkata and the Independence Day parade in the city will be dedicated to Netaji. The monument, to be named after Azah Hind Fauj, the army Bose led against the British, will come up at Rajarhat in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata and the university, to be funded entirely by the state, will have tie-ups with foreign universities, said the chief minister. Coming months before the crucial assembly polls, Banerjee’s announcements on outreach programmes and her plans to translate Netaji’s writings into all Indian languages and languages spoken by Dalit and tribal communities appeared significant in view of the competition over nationalism that the state’s Trinamool Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party leaders often engaged in. Addressing a virtual meeting attended by members of the celebration committee who include US-based Nobel Laureate economist Abhijit Binayak Banerjee, vice-chancellors of several universities and acclaimed writers, poets and educationists, Banerjee said, “A vast majority of Indians have forgotten the great message Netaji’s life had been to his people. The young generation needs to learn from his life.” “Netaji was the first to set up a national planning commission. We don’t have a planning commission anymore. It has been replaced by Niti Ayog. Let us set up a state planning commission named after Netaji. It will have a vision for the nation and the world. Let us not bother about whether others follow it,” said Banerjee. “I request people from all sections of the society and Indian who live abroad to blow a conch shell or do something similar at 12.15 pm, the time of Netaji’s birth, on January 23. I request Indian missions across the globe to do it as well,” said Banerjee “The real evaluation of Netaji has not been done in India after Independence. This is unfortunate. Also, although we know on which day he was born, the nation does not know what happened to him at the end. I demand that his birthday be declared a national holiday and all records relating to his disappearance be made public,” said Banerjee “We assumed that the Government of India would form a committee to celebrate Netaji’s 125th birthday. We have done it. I hope the Centre will do it too,” said Banerjee. The chief minister announced that every school and college will have an Azad Hind Bahini which will be similar to the National Cadet Corps but will be run by the state government. Award-winning Dalit writer Manoranjan Byapari, who is president of the newly-formed Dalit Academy, has been entrusted with the task of translating Netaji’s writings. Banerjee also announced that January 23 will be celebrated as Desh Nayak Diwas. She demanded that the Centre should do the same.Most of the senior state BJP leaders were attending rallies and did not react till Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-unveils-extensive-plans-for-netaji-s-125th-birth-anniversary/story-iWnlYcn0rO6VKtJc2xKcxJ.html
05-01-2021||India||Farm talks fail again, Centre says no repeal||The seventh round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders demanding scrapping of three contentious farm laws ended in a stalemate on Monday, as three Union ministers part of the negotiations said it was not possible to commit to a rollback of the legislation without wider consultations with higher authorities.Both sides, however, agreed to continue the talks on January 8. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, has hardened its stand, saying on Saturday that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital in their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26.“We requested the unions to review the laws clause by clause but the unions were steadfast in their demand for a repeal. As such, we could not arrive at any decision but both sides agreed to meet again on January 8,” farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after the meet.Follow latest updates on farmers protest hereFarm union leaders said they were prepared to intensify their agitation and added that the government was not prepared to budge from its stand. “The government is saying 50% of the demands have been met. For us, 85% of the demands are left.The agitation will become more intense now,” said Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the agitation.The government ruled out a decision to repeal the three agricultural laws, asking farm union leaders to point out what they considered objectionable in the legislation, a farm leader said, resulting in a standoff. It also wanted to discuss the demand of a law guaranteeing assured prices for 23 farm commodities, known as minimum support prices, or MSP. “The government in multiple ways wanted us to discuss the laws. We said we want a repeal. The ministers said they need to consult within the government for any possible repeal of the laws. There was no discussion on MSP,” said farm leader Kavitha Kuruganti. The government, represented by Union ministers Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash, told participating farm leaders that it will review any clause farmers have a problem with. “The government said it wanted to go clause by clause of the three farm laws. It said laws can’t be repealed. We told them that there is only one way, which is to repeal the laws and bring a law guaranteeing minimum support prices,” farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said.Unlike in the last round, the Union ministers did not share lunch brought by the farmers. The ministers, government officials and representatives of farmers observed two-minute silence for farmers who died during the ongoing protest.Since there was no headway in the first session of talks on Monday, the two sides took a lunch break. At the start of the post-lunch session, Tomar said he wanted to discuss the proposal on a law to ensure MSP. The farmers rejected the call for discussions on this demand.The sixth round of talks on December 30 made some headway in the standoff between the Union government and protesting farm unions, with the Centre agreeing to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.The two principal demands of the repeal of the three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of MSP were deferred till January 8. Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws.They essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Tomar said he remains hopeful of a solution in the next meeting on January 8, but asserted that efforts need to be made from both sides for a solution to be reached. Farmer leaders, however, alleged that it was the government’s “ego problem” that was coming in the way of resolving the issues and they insisted they would not relent on their key demands for the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have hunkered down at various Delhi border points for over a month against the three laws.They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital.Yogendra Yadav, one of the leaders coordinating the protests, said the only way forward was to scale up the agitation. “After seven months of protests and seven rounds of talks, the government is still asking if farmers really wanted a repeal of the laws? Do you think the government is any serious?” he asked. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) criticised the Haryana government for “severe repression” of protesting farmers and warned of escalation of the anger among the people and intensification of the movement if it does not stop. “Yesterday farmers who had advanced towards Delhi from Shahjahanpur in a peaceful manner were physically obstructed and later tear-gassed in Rewari along with spray of chilly,” Avik Saha, secretary of AIKSCC, said.Farm leaders said they will implement their new protest agenda, which includes picketing of Raj Bhawans, toll plazas and boycott of goods and services of the Reliance and Adani groups. “It seemed the government today was trying to assess if farmers would agree to anything other than repeal,” Kuruganti added. The AIKSCC, in a statement, said it criticised senior minister Nitin Gadkari for “speaking against the demands of farmers on the eve of talks, leaving little chance of success. Gadkari said yesterday that the core problem is surplus food and MSP higher than open markets”.RS Mani, retired economist of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said: “It appears that the government has prepared a proposal on assured prices since it was keen to discuss it. There are options like deficiency price payments, etc. However, the solution to a repeal of the laws requires a political decision.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-won-t-be-repealed-govt-tells-farmer-leaders-in-seventh-round-of-talks/story-xCnGxcjYq6BgTNxfSgIZHM.html
05-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights: ‘Hoping we will come to conlusion in next round of talks,’ says agri minister after meeting with farmers||In their seventh attempt to end the logjam over the three farm laws, ministers representing the central government and 40 farm union leaders held talks in Delhi on Monday. Two key demands of the farmers are expected to be on the table for consideration by the government.Upping the ante, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of farm unions, has said that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital on their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26. The Republic Day – an event of global importance – is scheduled to be attended by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Meanwhile, a 70-year-old farmer, who was part of the agitation against the farm laws at UP Gate in Ghaziabad, allegedly died by suicide in a portable toilet near the protest site on Saturday. Forty-seven people have died so far at various protest sites since the farmers began their agitation against three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait has said.Despite rains and the ongoing cold wave across North India, farmers agitating against the Centre’s farm laws stood strong at the borders of the national capital and continued their protest for the last 39 days.Why are the farmers protesting?In one of the largest strikes in decades witnessed by India, the farmers are demanding that the Centre revokes the three contentious laws. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Here are the latest updates:8:30pm: Assembly session to be convened to pass resolution against farm laws: Bengal CM West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said arrangements would soon be made to convene an assembly session to pass a resolution against the contentious legislations.7:01pm: We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn: Farmers’ union“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kannon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union said after the meeting.6:29 pm: Hope we will reach conclusion in next round of talks: Tomar“Looking at today’s discussion, I hope that we will have a meaningful discussion during our next meeting and we will come to a conclusion,” said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.6:00 pm: Talks with farmers end; no breakthroughThe seventh round of talks ended without any conclusion. Next meeting is scheduled for January 8.4: 44 pm: Govt rules out rollback of farm laws, no breakthrough in 7th round of talks with farmersThe government remained firm on their stand on farm laws as it refused to take back contentious farm laws. Instead, the union minister asked the union leaders to point out what they considered objectionable in the legislation.3:58: SC accepts petition against Haryana police for using water cannons on farmersThe Supreme Court accepted a letter petition sent to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde by a group of students from Punjab seeking an inquiry against Haryana Police for using water cannons, tear gases shells on farmers to stop them from proceeding to Delhi. The students wrote an open letter to the CJI and urged that Haryana and Delhi police withdraw all the cases against farmers which were registered under alleged political vendetta.3:01 pm: Meeting begins with two minute silence for protesters who died during agitationUnion ministers and farmers observed a two minute silence to mark their tributes to the 50 farmers who died during the demonstration against the contentious farm laws.2:39 pm:Seventh round of talks between the Centre and farmers’ representatives beginsThree union ministers including Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash arrived at Vigyan Bhawan for the talks. Farmers are being represented by a team of 41 union leaders. Delhi: Seventh round of meeting between Central Government & farmers' representatives begins at Vigyan Bhawan.#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/5eO8bGjwzQ2:15 pm: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweets in favour of farmers ठंड और बारिश के बीच सड़कों पर डटे हमारे किसानों के हौंसले को सलाम। मेरी केंद्र सरकार से अपील है कि आज की बैठक में किसानों की सारी मांगें मानते हुए तीनों काले कानून वापस लिए जाएं।12:49 pm: Farm leaders reach Vigyan Bhawan to meet ministers, talks begin shortlyDelhi: A delegation of farmer leaders arrive at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with Union Government on the three Farm Laws"We hope there is a breakthrough in this meeting in the new year," says a farmer leader pic.twitter.com/oFG4ERdzFO11:58 am: Hope govt takes human approach, says farm union leaderHannan Mollah,general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha ahead of today’s talks with govt said, “It is up to the government whether it wants to solve the farmers’ problems or conspire against the farmers to fizzle out their struggle. We hope government will take a human approach towards the farmers.”11.26 am: Farmers unions reiterate demand for repeal of farm lawsLeaders of farmers unions on Monday reiterated that nothing less than the repeal of Central farm laws will be acceptable to them. Ahead of the eighth-round of talks with the Central government over the issue, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson, Rakesh Tikait said, “Many issues are to be discussed today. The government must understand, the farmer has taken this movement to his heart and won’t consider less than the repeal of these laws. The government should implement Swaminathan’s report and make law on MSP.”Punjab Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee’s Joint Secretary Sukhwinder S Sabra also threatened to hold a tractor march if the demands of the unions weren’t met.10:55 am: Reliance Jio to move Punjab and Haryana HCReliance Industries Limited (RIL), through its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, in a petition mentioned to be filed in Punjab and Haryana High Court today, has sought urgent intervention of Government authorities to bring a complete stop to illegal acts of vandalism by miscreants, said RIL.These acts of violence have endangered the lives of thousands of its employees and caused damage and disruption to the vital communications infrastructure, sales and service outlets run by its subsidiaries in the two states, RIL said in a media statement. 10:45 am: Govt likely to discuss farm laws ‘clause by clause’ with farmers’ yet againWith the eighth-round of meeting between farmers’ unions and the Central government scheduled to take place today, the ‘clause by clause’ discussion on three farm laws is expected to take place between the two if farmers remain adamant on their demand to repeal the laws.Sources in the government said that with two demands of farmers’ unions -- Repeal of the three farm laws and legalisation of Minimum Support Price (MSP) -- left unresolved, the Centre is likely to discuss farm laws clause by clause as it did initially before the MSP issue. The exercise was done by the government earlier to understand the objections of farmers against the laws. 10:11am: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closedThe Ghazipur and Chilla borders connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida continue to remain partially blocked on Monday with only one carriageway open for those leaving Delhi. At both the borders, traffic going towards Delhi was diverted, with farmers blocking one carriageway as their agitation against three new farm bills continue||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-govt-farm-union-leaders-to-meet-today-borders-remain-affected/story-yIWEJqmxpyYg4o0olUreOO.html
