06-01-2021||India||BJP national chief JP Nadda to visit poll-bound Bengal a month after convoy attack||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will be visiting West Bengal for a day on January 9, a month after his convoy was stoned at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district on December 10. Nadda will attend political programmes in the Katwa area of East Burdwan district, located about 145 km to the south-west of Kolkata. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha MP from East Burdwan, Sunil Mandal, joined the BJP on December 19. Security arrangements for Nadda have been tightened manifold in view of the attack, BJP leaders said. Instead of driving down to Burdwan from Kolkata he will fly in a chopper. “Nadda will attend a rally and have lunch at the home of a party supporter in the Dainhat area. He is also scheduled to visit the famous Sarbamangala temple in Burdwan town,” said a state BJP leader. “Rest of the schedule has not been finalized yet,” he added. Union home minister Amit Shah is also scheduled to visit Bengal on January 30. Shah visited West Midnapore and Birbhum districts on December 19 and 20 respectively during a two-day trip. His visit was marked by the biggest defection from the TMC. Led by heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari, six sitting TMC legislators, three other MLAs from the Left and Congress and the Burdwan East Lok Sabha member joined the BJP in Shah’s presence at a massive rally in Midnapore town. On the afternoon of December 10, the cavalcade of the BJP national president was stoned in South 24 Parganas, leaving several national and state leaders bleeding and bruised in the state for the first time. The incident took place at Shirakol in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew who has emerged as the BJP’s main political target in recent weeks. Several BJP workers were allegedly assaulted as well in the attack. The incident was telecast live by several news channels. Vehicles of some media houses were also damaged. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national vice-president Mukul Roy and national secretary Anupam Hazra were hurt by pieces of stones and shards of glass from the shattered windshields of their cars. The Centre transferred three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to other states after the incident. They were in charge of the police arrangements made for Nadda’s trip. The state government, however, refused to comply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-national-chief-jp-nadda-to-visit-poll-bound-bengal-a-month-after-convoy-attack/story-ce2UE3L21NQ8yumIfTc8aI.html
06-01-2021||India||With 65,057 active Covid-19 cases, Kerala’s positivity rate touches 10% after brief lull||Once hailed for keeping the coronavirus spread in check, now Kerala has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the country and it also has one-fourth of the country’s total caseload, latest health ministry statistics show. Worried, the Union Health Ministry has decided to rush a team of experts headed by Director of the National Centre for Disease Control Dr S K Singh to the state on Friday. After a brief lull, Covid-19 cases have gone up in the state and the test positivity rate also rose to 10.01% on Wednesday. According to state health ministry data, out of 63,891 tested 6394 people have emerged positive. With 25 new deaths, the Covid-19 death toll went up to 3209 and total active cases are 65,057 in the state currently. What is worrying is that six cases of the mutant strain were also reported from the state two days ago. Among the infected 51 are health workers. Kerala has been consistently reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases for more than a week surpassing Maharashtra. In the last one week, 35,038 new cases were logged. Despite the rise in active cases, the state government put up a brave face saying its mortality rate is the lowest in the country, 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. “We expected a big hike in Covid-19 cases after the local body elections. But still numbers are under control,” said state health minister K K Shailaja. With a high density of population (860 people per square km) and the recent surge in virus cases the government has asked the Centre to give top priority to the state while distributing vaccine vials. “Our strategy was to delay the peak and restrict casualties and we succeeded in both. Since the state’s density of population is quite high and prevalence of high incidences of lifestyle disease, we need to get more vaccines in the first round itself,” said the minister. Kerala was the first state to report a coronavirus case in the country-- a China-returned medical student in January. Though cases have surged in the last couple of weeks its death rate is still the lowest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-65-057-active-covid-19-cases-kerala-s-positivity-rate-touches-10-after-brief-lull/story-kaWArO2ZxpdsDJuyX72ktI.html
06-01-2021||India||Two men shot dead in gang war in Bihar’s Purnia||Two men were killed in a gang war at Moujampatti village in Dhamdaha sub division of Bihar’s Purnia district on Wednesday, police said.Rukesh Kumar Yadav was shot dead when he was returning home along with his wife, infant son and sister on his bike.“I told my husband to stop as I had to feed my 9-month-old baby between Moujampatti and Koriyapatti village when the criminals shot him dead. I begged for mercy but they didn’t listen to me and shot my husband,” the police quoted Rukesh’s wife as saying.Half an hour before Rukesh was killed, Arun Kumar Yadav who was returning home in his tempo was stopped near Moujampatti village and shot dead.Dhamdaha sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Ramesh Kumar said the killings were due to old personal rivalry. “Both the bodies have been sent for postmortem,” he said.Police have recovered 9 used cartridges from the sites of the shootings.Locals said Rukesh was killed in retaliation for Arun’s murder.Police have started raids along the Purnia-Madhepura border areas to arrest the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-shot-dead-in-gang-war-in-bihar-s-purnia/story-groUgLgFhOty0BvYsgoh4O.html
06-01-2021||India||IAF chief Bhadauria visits Eastern Air Command, assures all support to Arunachal Pradesh||Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria on Wednesday assured Arunachal Pradesh of all support, including providing defence pilots to meet the shortage for operating fixed-wing civilian aircraft in the state, as he undertook a two-day visit to the Eastern Air Command. Before coming to Arunachal Pradesh, he visited forward areas in Sikkim and interacted with senior officers and personnel deployed there, the IAF said on Twitter. Bhadauria is on a visit to “air bases and advance landing grounds” in the Eastern Air Command, it noted.The IAF chief, in his maiden visit to Arunachal Pradesh, called on Governor Brig (Retd) B D Mishra and Chief Minister Pema Khandu and discussed issues pertaining to the national security, recruitment of the state’s youth into the force and the IAF’s humanitarian missions in the state.Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh have borders with China. India and China are locked in an eight-month-long bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh that has significantly strained their ties.Both sides have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the standoff. However, no breakthrough has been achieved.The IAF chief assured Khandu of providing defence pilots to meet the shortage of pilots for fixed-wing civilian aircraft to be operated in the state, an official statement said.Discussions were held on Advanced Landing Grounds (ALGs) for Dirang and Anini, to which the IAF responded favourably, it said.Khandu assured the IAF of government cooperation for defence preparedness.The chief minister expressed gratitude to the IAF for being at the forefront of extending humanitarian assistance in the state, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic.The governor thanked the IAF for airlifting the people of the state during emergencies and suggested Bhadauria to conduct recruitment rallies to encourage youths from the state to join the force.He recalled an incident when he had requested the air officer commanding of the Air Force Station in Assam’s Tezpur for a helicopter to air-lift a woman with complicated pregnancy from Tawang and it was carried out instantly and effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-bhadauria-visits-eastern-air-command-assures-all-support-to-arunachal-pradesh/story-RObpZ895NHpAH7P42866mJ.html
06-01-2021||India||India says UN peacekeeping ops should be backed with proper mandate and resources||India on Wednesday said the UN’s peacekeeping and special political missions should be backed with a proper mandate and resources even as it called for a permanent slot for Africa in a reformed UN Security Council. New Delhi’s position on these issues was outlined in foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s intervention in a debate in the UN Security Council on the theme of “Challenges of maintaining peace and security in fragile contexts”. This was the first key meeting of the council since India became a non-permanent member of the body for two years in January. Shringla underlined the need to ensure the UN’s presence on the ground, particularly its peacekeeping operations and special political missions, are “sufficiently mandated and resourced to implement a comprehensive understanding of peace and security”. “Having contributed significantly to UN peacekeeping in Africa for six decades, we have seen how peacekeeping missions are struggling to implement ambitious mandates. Peacekeeping missions should have a clear and well thought out exit strategy,” he said.Shringla also said the time has come for the Security Council to introspect about the fact that the African continent doesn’t “have a single voice amongst the permanent membership to defend its own interests” at a time when “more than half of the country issues on the council’s agenda pertain to Africa”. “We need to correct this historical anomaly, and collectively support the Ezulwini consensus,” he said, referring to the African Union’s position on the need to make the Security Council more representative and democratic. The debate was held under Tunisia’s presidency of the Security Council for January, and focused on the African continent. Shringla said India and African countries have worked together for a fairer global governance system. Under its development partnership with Africa, India has executed 189 developmental projects in 37 African states, while another 77 projects are being completed with a total outlay of $12.86 billion. India supplied medicines to several African countries to help them fight Covid-19 and it responded to the UN secretary general’s call to upgrade its peacekeeping hospitals in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Sudan, he said. At the India-Africa Forum Summit held in 2015, India also announced lines of credit worth $10 billion and grant assistance of $600 million to African countries. India is Africa’s third-largest export destination, and Indian firms have invested over $54 billion in Africa, he said. Pointing to the serious challenges posed by the growth of terrorism, particularly in the Sahel and Horn of Africa, Shringla said initiatives such as African Union Mission to Somalia (AMISOM), G-5 Sahel Joint Force and Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) need more robust support from the Security Council. India is also engaged in capacity-building of security forces in several African countries and counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism training forms a significant part of defence training programmes, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-un-peacekeeping-ops-should-be-backed-with-proper-mandate-and-resources/story-GGc6XFZxBS4ikfjwkAp35K.html
06-01-2021||India||Bihar Police rescue 7 minors in Motihari, arrest alleged trafficker||The Bihar police rescued seven minor children and arrested an alleged trafficker at Motihari bus stand in East Champaran on Wednesday evening.The children were being taken to be engaged as child labourers, police said.Acting on a tip-off, a police team raided the bus stand at Motihari, said Mukesh Chand Kuwar, station house officer (SHO) of Chhatauni police station.“The children are being sent to Bal Grih (children’s home) in Motihari,” said the SHO. “All the children are between 13 to 16 years of age. They were being taken to Telangana to work in a factory.” The alleged trafficker Mohan Rai is a resident of Lakhaura in East Champaran. “We were being taken to Telangana, with the promise of payment of ₹8000, apart from food and lodging,” said a minor. Those rescued belong to East and West Champaran.Police are yet to register a case in this connection.On December 30, police raided Mohadipur village in West Champaran district and rescued 13 people, including eight females, four of them minors, who were reportedly engaged in orchestra troupes. Two persons were arrested in the raid. Those rescued belonged to West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-rescue-7-minors-in-motihari-arrest-alleged-trafficker/story-iSb67vPAgrbRoIrGMoKF2L.html
06-01-2021||India||PM Modi dials Chancellor Merkel, promises to use vaccine capabilities to help other nations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday assured German Chancellor Angela Merkel of India’s commitment to deploy its vaccine development and manufacturing capacities for the benefit of the world. The matter figured in a video-teleconference between the two leaders, who discussed key issues such as the response to the Covid-19 pandemic, bilateral relations, and regional and global issues, particularly India-European Union (EU) ties. Modi appreciated Merkel’s long-standing role in providing stable and strong leadership on the European and global stages, and thanked her for guiding the growth of the India-Germany strategic partnership, according to readout from the external affairs ministry. “The Prime Minister briefed Chancellor Merkel on the developments in India with regard to vaccine development and assured Chancellor Merkel of India’s commitment to deploy its capacities for the benefit of the world,” the readout said. Modi also conveyed his best wishes for the early containment of a new wave of infections in Germany and other European countries. He also welcomed Germany’s decision to join the International Solar Alliance (ISA), and expressed his desire to strengthen cooperation on the platform of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). Noting that this year marks the 70th anniversary of relations between India and Germany and 20th anniversary of the strategic partnership, the two leaders agreed to hold the sixth inter-governmental consultations at an early date and to set an ambitious agenda for the discussions. Without giving details, German government spokesman Steffen Seibert tweeted that the two leaders discussed the pandemic, advances in vaccine development and production and the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dials-chancellor-merkel-promises-to-use-vaccine-capabilities-to-help-other-nations/story-yFa9BywisaF1RRRnjt90dN.html
06-01-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee’s evening meeting with Governor Dhankhar sparks speculation||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the Raj Bhawan on Wednesday evening and held talks with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for around an hour. The government maintained silence on Banerjee’s visit which made news in view of the increasing acrimony in the relationship between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Dhankhar over issues ranging from law and order in Bengal to ruling party leaders branding the Prime Minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) central leaders and ministers visiting the state for poll campaign as “outsiders.” The governor, who targeted the TMC on these issues even during a visit to a temple in Midnapore district a few hours before Banerjee called on him, wrote a short tweet around 7 pm, saying he and his wife greeted the chief minister. He also posted a photograph. “I don’t know anything about the conversation that took place but it is possible that the chief minister may have plans to induct new faces in the state cabinet where two positions are lying vacant. Former transport minister Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP in December and deputy sports minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned from the TMC on Tuesday,” a senior TMC Lok Sabha member said on condition of anonymity. “If the chief minister inducts new ministers, they have to be sworn in by the governor. That won’t be necessary if the portfolios are distributed among others ministers,” said the TMC MP. A second TMC leader said the chief minister could have met the governor to invite him to the special session of the state assembly that the government wants to hold to pass resolutions against the Centre’s new farm laws. On Monday, while addressing a media conference, Banerjee had said, “We will hold an assembly session for one or two days and we will introduce a resolution demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. We will try to ensure that the resolution is passed unanimously. I know the BJP will oppose it but expect other parties to support it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-evening-meeting-with-governor-dhankhar-sparks-speculation/story-mCgXmZEyF4flWxNswuecDK.html
06-01-2021||India||Talks with farmers an opportunity to explain benefits of farm laws: Union minister Piyush Goyal||Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday he sees the ongoing talks with the farmers protesting against the three farm laws as an opportunity to explain the benefits of the reforms to them. Goyal’s comments came ahead of the eighth round of discussion between the Centre and the farmers’ groups on Friday after the previous round of meeting held on January 4 did not yield any solution.Goyal said there were different viewpoints to look at things and cited the example of discussions with farmer groups, which he said could be viewed as either as a problem or as an opportunity. “When I go along with agriculture minister Tomar for discussions with farmer unions, should I see that as a problem for myself or as an opportunity that I am getting,” Goyal said while addressing the 74th foundation day of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS).Goyal, along with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash, has been representing the government over the negotiations regarding the new farm reforms.Also Read| Sure farmers’ leaders will ‘actively arrive’ at a solution: Union minister TomarThe minister reiterated the Centre’s point that the reforms were in the interest of the farmers and the entire country and that India would benefit if their income increased. “I tell them that the entire country will benefit if farmers’ income increases and their lives, as well as the lives of their children, will get better,” he said.Ahead of Friday’s meeting, agriculture minister Tomar said that the farmers’ unions and the government would be able to settle differences regarding the reforms adding that the government has met the supporters and opposers of the reforms. “We are committed to the welfare of farmers. We meet those who are supporting the laws and those opposing it. I am sure that farmers’ unions, who are agitating, will think about the welfare of farmers and actively arrive at a solution,” the minister told news agency ANI.Also Read| Centre politicising farmers’ protests, alleges Shiv SenaOn the other hand, several farmer groups, who have been camping at border points near Delhi, asserted that they will intensify their agitation. Representatives of the farmer groups added that the protesters would take out a tractor march from the following protest sites- Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, Shahjahanpur (Haryana-Rajasthan border) and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway (KMP) on Thursday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-farmers-an-opportunity-to-explain-benefits-of-farm-laws-union-minister-piyush-goyal/story-0M7CO39LdhPCsp12fTrA7J.html
06-01-2021||India||Karnataka’s border districts adjoining Kerala on high alert due to bird flu fears||The Karnataka government has ordered all the districts bordering Kerala including Mysuru, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada and Chamrajnagar to be on high alert following the outbreak of bird flu (H5N8) there. Border checkpoints have been set up in all these districts to prevent infected birds along with poultry from being brought in from the neighbouring state. Sanitisation measures have also been put in place.Karnataka Animal Husbandry minister Prabhu Chavan has asked officials of his department to ensure that the Centre’s protocols regarding the matter are strictly adhered to. Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri said that till now no reports of bird flu have come from anywhere in the district. Last year thousands of birds had to be culled due to bird flu in the district. There has been no decision taken on closing the Mysuru Zoo temporarily which also attracts a large migratory avian population, the DC added.Officials of the Karnataka Animal Husbandry ministry said that they have been instructed to collect samples from places where birds migrate to and send them for testing. “We are taking all precautionary measures though there have been no reports of wild birds having been infected till now. All the guidelines and protocols outlined by the Centre in its advisory are being strictly implemented,” an official of the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-s-border-districts-adjoining-kerala-on-high-alert-due-to-bird-flu-fears/story-gGFG0o8QuQnNAYmuvLuahN.html
06-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Protests against killings of Hazara miners by IS spreads all over Pak and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesHazara refuse to bury slain miners, protest spreads in PakistanPrime Minister Imran Khan expressed his inability to visit members of the Hazara community who have refused to bury 11 miners killed by Islamic State. Read MoreHealth ministry sends experts to bird flu-hit states, no human case found yetThe Union ministry of health and family welfare has deployed multi-disciplinary teams to bird flu affected Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in Kerala, and Panchkula district, Haryana, as a precautionary measure even though no human case of the disease has been reported from anywhere in the country. Read MoreAhead of launch, Centre issues warning against fake ‘Co-WIN’ appsAs the government is working to launch the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) app, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday warned people against sharing any personal details. Read MoreTrump bars US transactions with 8 Chinese apps. Here are other such bansUS President Donald Trump on Tuesday passed an executive order banning transactions with eight Chinese applications, including Ant Group’s Alipay payment app, heightening the conflict between the United States and China. Read MoreCoWIN app on the Play Store is fake, here’s how you can spot itThe government last month announced a new platform called Co-WIN (short for COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network) that would help in delivering Covid-19 vaccine to the masses. Read MoreKhushi Kapoor or Janhvi Kapoor: Which Kapoor sister wore the scarf top better?Late actor and Bollywood icon Sridevi and producer Boney Kapoor’s daughter may be far from her Bollywood debut, but like most starkids, Khushi Kapoor has also managed to garner quite a following for herself on her Instagram. Read MoreAdipurush director Om Raut on Saif Ali Khan’s ‘foot-in-mouth problem’: ‘Saif sir has his own way of thinking’Director Om Raut, who has had to deal with controversies fuelled by Saif Ali Khan on two films now, has said that the actor’s words are often misunderstood. Read MoreCan bird flu spread to humans? Minister answers as 5 states battle outbreakWith multiple states in India battling a bird flu outbreak amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Union minister Sanjeev Balyan answered questions on whether humans are at risk. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-protests-against-killings-of-hazara-miners-by-is-spreads-all-over-pak-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RKv4D0HlFHyGm5GoTMotHM.html
06-01-2021||India||India welcomes restoration of ties between Qatar and four other Arab states||India on Wednesday welcomed the restoration of diplomatic ties between Qatar and four other Arab countries that had imposed an embargo on it in 2017, saying such a move would give a boost to peace and stability in the region. Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhad said on Tuesday that Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) had agreed to “fully set our differences aside” with Qatar at a Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Summit at Al-Ula. The four countries had cut ties with Qatar in 2017 and imposed a partial blockade, accusing the gas and oil-rich state of backing acts of terrorism. Qatar, which had angered the other states because of its close ties with Iran and the broadcasts of the Al-Jazeera news channel, had dismissed these allegations. Following the restoration of full ties between the five countries, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We were pleased to note the positive developments at the recently concluded GCC Summit in Al-Ula, Saudi Arabia. We welcome the reconciliation and rapprochement between countries in the region. “India shares [an] excellent relationship with all the countries in the GCC, which is in our extended neighbourhood and we hope that such encouraging developments will further promote peace, progress and stability in the region.” Srivastava added: “We will continue to work with GCC countries for the strengthening of our bilateral cooperation. We also look forward to enhance our institutional dialogue and partnership with the GCC.” The GCC states are home to some nine million Indian expatriates, with a majority based in Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The Indian government has worked hard to boost its relations with the Arab states, particularly in defence cooperation and energy security, and it has also welcomed the recent normalisation of ties between Israel and key Arab states such as the UAE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-restoration-of-ties-between-qatar-and-four-other-arab-states/story-ujEIqtt89j5cOMpJOdrj4J.html
06-01-2021||India||Jitan Ram Manjhi pushes for cabinet, legislative council seat in Bihar||Jitan Ram Manji-led Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) on Wednesday said it would seek one Legislative Council seat and a ministerial berth from chief minister Nitish Kumar when he expands his Cabinet.“I will talk to the chief minister to demand one seat in the Legislative Council and one ministerial berth in the proposed Cabinet expansion. I feel he would fulfil my request,” said former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, while talking to reporters after the conclusion of the party’s national executive meeting in Patna on Wednesday.Manjhi’s statement came hours after the announcement of polls for two vacant Council seats on January 28 by the Election Commission (EC), which could make distribution of seats among the allies in the NDA a tricky affair.The by-election has been necessitated due to resignation of former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and former MLC Binod Narayan Jha.Jha was elected as MLA from Benipatti in recent Assembly polls while Sushil Modi has been elected to the Rajya Sabha.Incidentally, Manjhi clarified that one Council seat to be sought would not be filled by any of his family members but would go to a party leader. “There will be no one from my family who would be MLC now,” he said.Manjhi’s elder son Santosh Kumar Suman is a sitting MLC and also a minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet.Besides, the HAM(S) chief said his party would be contesting the West Bengal Assembly polls and decide on tickets after consulting NDA allies.The ruling JD(U) has already announced its plans to contest the assembly polls in the neighbouring state.The former CM said his party was in favour of reservations in the private sector, judiciary and also a common education system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jitan-ram-manjhi-pushes-for-cabinet-legislative-council-seat-in-bihar/story-LRo8gYA99rbrmXgv7z2kcJ.html
06-01-2021||India||Hathras case: Allahabad HC seeks Centre, UP govt’s replies on arrest of alleged PFI members||The Allahabad high court has directed the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government to file counter affidavit in a petition filed by three alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) members, arrested by the UP police last October while they were going to Hathras to meet the family of a deceased gang-rape victim.The three men were arrested in Mathura on October 5, last year. An FIR was registered under Section 17 & 18 of UAPA, Section 153-A, 295-A and 124A of Indian Penal code and section 65, 72 and 75 of IT Act.It was alleged in the FIR that petitioners were going to Hathras with intentions to take undue benefit of the rape and murder case, disturb law and order situation and fuel caste based riots in the state. The FIR also stated that the petitioners had received huge foreign funding to orchestrate riots.The bench comprising justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani and justice Shamim Ahmed passed the order on Tuesday on a petition filed by Atiq-ur- Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur.Seeking release from jail, the petition has challenged the order of the magistrate by which the three were sent to judicial remand calling it unlawful.The petitioners said that the Mathura chief judicial magistrate (CJM) did not have the jurisdiction to try the matter or remand the petitioners to custody. It added that Rehman and Masood were going to meet the bereaved family while Alam was ferrying them to the destination.The court has fixed January 27 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-allahabad-hc-seeks-centre-up-govt-s-replies-on-arrest-of-alleged-pfi-members/story-2amoDxtfKbp1eEH0e0gbJJ.html
06-01-2021||India||Macron’s top advisor Emmanuel Bonne to meet NSA Ajit Doval as France turns the screws on Pak||French President Emmanuel Macron’s top advisor Emmanuel Bonne and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval will tomorrow hold the annual strategic dialogue between the two countries that is expected to review the progress made in the 10,000 megawatt nuclear power plant to be set up in Maharashtra and building the six diesel-electric submarines under project P-75I for the Indian navy. Besides, the two top advisors will also share notes on improving maritime security and developments in the Indo Pacific region, particularly in context of China’s aggressive moves.Bonne, President Macron’s diplomatic advisor, is expected to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and meet foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on Friday.“The two sides will hold discussions on wide-ranging bilateral and global issues,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement ahead of the strategic dialogue that will seek to reinforce deep ties between the two countries. France has been one of India’s most reliable partners in Europe for years but the two countries had inched closer over the last few years that led to a deal to buy 36 Rafale aircraft.When French defence minister Florence Parly was in India last year in context of the induction of the omni-role fighter jets in the Indian Air Force, she and defence minister Rajnath Singh had agreed to stick to the Rafale template of government-to-government deals for future defence purchases.India is expected to sign a $2.5-billion contract this year for 56 medium transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative. India is also looking at acquisition of six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tanker aircraft for expanding the Indian Air Force (IAF) strike capability through latest mid-air refuelers as well as the Safran aircraft engines under the ‘Make in India’ programme. The jet engines, which are used by Dassault Aviation for the Rafale jets, could be used to power the twin-engine advanced multi-role combat aircraft developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) till it develops its own version.Officials said France had responded positively to New Delhi’s concerns about access of military technology to countries which have adversarial relations with India, a reference to Pakistan. France has decided against helping Pakistan upgrade its fleet of Mirage fighter jets, air defence system and Agosta 90B class submarines, a decision that was timed after Prime Minister Imran Khan’s loud criticism of French President Macron. Around the same time, France also conveyed to Qatar, which had earlier bought Rafale jets for its air force, not to allow any Pakistan-origin technicians near the aircraft for maintenance.Pakistan watchers said that it was on account of the French government’s restrictive approach that the Mirage 3 and Mirage 5 fighter jets in Pakistan air force’s inventory did not participate in last month’s joint aerial exercises, Eagle-IX, involving the Chinese and Pakistan air force.Doval and Bonne are also expected to discuss India’s other neighbour, China, in some detail, particularly given French concerns around Beijing attempting to flex muscles in the Indo-Pacific region. China has, for instance, been trying to get people in the French island group of New Caledonia to vote for independence in the three referendums being held to decide its future. This island group with an area of 18,575 sq km, located in the South Pacific east of Australia, is one of the 16 overseas territories of France that are home to 1.5 million French citizens.In October last year, France had formalised its interest in the Indo-Pacific when President Macron appointed Christophe Penot, one of his country’s most senior diplomats as the first French envoy for the Indo-Pacific. As part of this focus, France has forged new initiatives such as the trilateral dialogue launched with India and Australia in September last to enhance cooperation and strengthen multilateralism in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nuke-power-jet-engines-and-submarine-review-on-ajit-doval-table-at-meet-with-french-advisor/story-IHWpq2EC6bbEaxFVpZNIzH.html
06-01-2021||India||As snow blankets Kashmir, administration draws flak for slow response||The administration in Kashmir on Wednesday came under fire from Srinagar residents who accused them of incompetence in clearing roads and restoring normal power supply amid heavy snowfall since Sunday.People in summer capital Srinagar were aghast as the main roads were not cleared properly even after three days. Main roads and link roads in many areas of Srinagar were still under snow causing problems in commute even for emergency purposes.The roads leading to tertiary care hospitals like Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital in Old City and Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) at Soura on the city’s outskirts were still dangerous for driving.“The roads at Karan Nagar are still covered with snow. There is a lot of water. The vehicles were still slipping there causing traffic jams. This is the state of our emergency road which leads to SMHS hospital. The officials are saying many things on Twitter but on the ground, the situation is pathetic,” said Faisal Ahmad, a resident of Karan Nagar.“Roads leading to SMHS hospital like Chattabal, Zampa Kadal etc are not cleared of snow. I am a doctor and can’t even think of taking my vehicle out in case of any emergency. I wonder what they are doing on ground although they seem quite busy on Twitter,” said Mohammad Shahid. Patients going to SKIMS pointed out that snow-covered roads were causing huge problems in reaching the hospital.“We have cleared the snow inside the institute and on its foot paths and the road approaching to the institute from 90-feet side is cleared of snow. However, there is snow in the Soura chowk. The road from Old City side is being cleared,” said medical superintendent SKIMS, Dr Farooq Jan.The main roads of the old city are full of slush and water. “For the past three days this Nowpora-Khanyar road has not been cleared. Today afternoon they came with a machine but it was a half-hearted effort. The snow is still on the road there. It is the first time I am seeing the administration very lackadaisical in its approach,” said Mohammad Ashiq, an autorickshaw driver in Khanyar.“I have not been able to move out my auto these days because of the blocked road,” he said.The Srinagar administration on Tuesday had asked residents to avoid unnecessary travel. But despite very little transport on roads, the people said that the snow clearance efforts of the Mechanical Engineering Department(MED) and Srinagar Municipal Corporation(SMC) were not up to the mark.The city center Lal Chowk, which is the business hub of Srinagar, was covered with snow on Wednesday morning.“Normally the city centre would be cleared within hours but this is the first time I have seen Lal Chowk blocked for three days. Yesterday main Residency Road was completely closed. Today they came with a machine like a tractor but it was not effective. It only cleared the paths, not the huge road of Lal Chowk,” said Sakib Altaf, a resident of Lal Chowk. “Even the power situation is not what should be in an important area like Lal Chowk. It is erratic,” he said.Srinagar district administration in a tweet assured that they were on their toes. “This is to assure our residents that our entire administration is on its toes in efforts to clear the snow and restore the affected services. With unrelenting snowfall this has been an unprecedented situation. Please continue to cooperate with us — we so appreciate it. Thanks,” it said.SMC mayor Junaid Matto also took to Twitter to say that they have to only clear interior lanes. “SMC doesn’t clear main roads. SMC does interior lanes and by-lanes. Main roads are done by MED and R&B,” he said.“I have asked for four zonal control rooms to be set up immediately for snow-clearance of lanes and by-lanes by SMC. Roads not in our jurisdiction. All four control rooms to be led by senior officers. We won’t stop till we clear all lanes,” he said.Calls to MED landline number which the Srinagar administration has issued on social media to contact in case of assistance during snowfall yielded no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-snow-blankets-kashmir-administration-draws-flak-for-slow-response/story-0F2zgmhpDVdCPEsrvy6lkN.html
06-01-2021||India||‘If music is happening, I am all happy’||The well-known Bollywood singer-composer Shaan is all geared up for 2021, “Yes it feels I am back on the scene. With last year being all dull for everyone, it’s time to restart our lives,” he said.“I was away from playback singing for some time and was concentrating on my online channel. Also, I was busy composing for OTT series. As I have a studio at home, I was constantly working on music for commercials, albums and series,” said ‘Tanha Dil’ and ‘Chand Sifarish’ singer.Shaan is currently working on a few projects, including some big banners. Speaking more about them, he said, “For me, music matters the most, and if it’s happening, I am all happy. This year I will be doing a lot of singing for films that too under banners like Yash Raj, with whom I worked a long time back.”“So, it is kind of back to a business stint for me as a singer,“ he said laughingly.“Also, I am working on an album based on my late father’s compositions and writings of poet Nida Fazli. It has been a long-waited dream that will be fulfilled this year, hopefully.”The ‘Suno Na’ singer believes that recreating history is not easy for creative people, “Every time I am asked when we will get to hear a song like ‘Tanha Dil’. But the fact is that it’s unfair to limit creativity and compare it to past projects. When we did ‘Tanha…’ or ‘Loveology’ we never thought it would be such a huge hit. So, you never know what’s in the store.”At the moment, Shaan is a proud father, as both his sons have started their musical journey. “Yes, I am not only proud, but I’m thrilled that both my sons are so passionate about music. The kind of passion and love I always wanted them to have for music,” he shares.The New Year will also see the passionate singer on TV as a part of a musical show - Indian pro music league, a musical reality show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/if-music-is-happening-i-am-all-happy/story-7dO0NiCPD1COTCkfY1cBoM.html
06-01-2021||India||Kashmir highway remains closed for 4th day, 8 rescued from mudslides in Ramban||Vehicular traffic on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained suspended for the fourth straight day on Wednesday following more snowfall around Jawahar Tunnel and landslides at many places between Banihal in Ramban district to Udhampur. Eight people were also rescued after their vehicles got trapped in a mudslide near Panthial in Ramban district late Tuesday, officials said on Wednesday. The highway has been closed since Sunday following heavy snowfall and incessant rains which triggered multiple landslides. Additional director general of police, T Namgyal said there has been fresh snowfall on both ends of Jawahar Tunnel and landslides at several places along the highway. Landslides and mudslides at Panthial, Marog, Mom Passi, Digdol, Mehad and Dhalwas were yet to be cleared. Although the road stretch between south portal of Jawahar Tunnel and Banihal was cleared of snow, the stretch between north portal of the tunnel and Quazigund was still to be cleared. Officials said stranded vehicles along the highway have been taken to safer places amid continuous rain and snowfall. “The road clearance operation is going on at a war footing to ensure early restoration of traffic on the highway which is blocked at over a dozen places including Samroli, Nashri, Dalwas, Peera, Chanderkote, Cafeteria Morh, Marog, Monkey Morh, Mom Passi, Seeri, Kela Morh, Panthiyal, Sherbibi, Rattanbass and Ramsu,” a traffic department official said. A group of tourists from Rajasthan had a narrow escape along the highway near Panthial when a landslide hit their vehicle. Police said the tourists were rescued and were safe. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the weather was expected to improve from Thursday. “Weather is improving gradually and significant improvement is expected from Wednesday afternoon but light rain and snow will occur at scattered places of Jammu and Kashmir for the next 24 hours,” said IMD director Dr Sonam Lotus. “Now onwards, there is no forecast of any major snowfall. From Thursday weather is likely to remain mainly dry till January 14,” he added. The Traffic police have said that no fresh traffic movement will be allowed on the highway on Thursday as well. “On January 7, no vehicular movement shall be allowed on Jammu-Srinagar highway from Jammu towards Srinagar and vice-versa in view of snow accumulation around the Jawahar Tunnel, landslides/shooting stones/mudslides at Samroli, Dalwas, Cafeteria Morh, Sitaram Passi, Bai Nallah, Digdol Army Camp, Magerkot, Gangroo, Salad,” said a traffic official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-highway-remains-closed-for-4th-day-8-rescued-from-mudslides-in-ramban/story-Km5Tu8tHHJgraP1OGb0tMI.html
06-01-2021||India||Revoke order for 100% capacity in cinema halls, Centre tells Tamil Nadu||The Centre has asked the Tamil Nadu government to revoke its order allowing 100 per cent seating in cinemas from the current 50 per cent capacity, saying it diluted of the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.“Government of Tamil Nadu order of permitting increase the seating capacity of Cinema/theatres/ multiplexes from existing 50% to 100% is a dilution of MHA order. States and UT shall not dilute guidelines issued under DM act in any manner,” ANI quoted MHA as saying. “In view of the above, Govt of Tamil Nadu is requested to immediately issue necessary order to bring their Guidelines in line with the MHA guidelines dated 28 December 2020 and inform compliance to this Ministry,” it said.Also Read: India records 18,088 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, death toll over 1.5 lakhCinemas were running with 50 per cent capacity to ensure social distancing since November 10 following the Centre’s directives but theatres saw only a few patrons. Tamil Nadu’s revenue and disaster management department passed an order on January 4 to increase the seating capacity in cinemas, theatres and multiplexes to 100 per cent by following standard operating procedures and Covid-19 precautionary measures during showtime. It came after a representation from the Theatre Owners Association. The industry has been severely hit during the coronavirus pandemic as several films opened on the OTT platforms.Also Read: US could soon give 1 million Covid-19 vaccinations a day, says Anthony Fauci“Based on the decrease in the COVID-19 cases day by day, the theatre owners association have represented to the government to increase the seating capacity of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes,” the state government’s order outlined. Tamil Nadu’s cinema halls despite the state government’s announcement evoked a mixed response as four citizens from the state were detected with the new mutated strain of Covid-19, which was first detected in the UK. Experts believe that sitting in close proximity with other people in public places like cinema halls increases the chances of getting infected by a contagious disease and poses as risk as Covid-19 cases continue to recorded across the nation. Also Read: Over 1 million people in Russia vaccinated with Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccineSeveral moviegoers have applauded the state government over the move but the response in the state remains tepid. The industry is still reeling from the effects of Covid-19 as 60% of the 1,104 theatres in the state remain closed due to the pandemic. “Since quality films did not get released and as spectators did not turn up, sixty per cent of theatres are closed down in Tamil Nadu,”Joint Secretary of Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners Association S Srither was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Movie theatre owners were hoping that the recent order by the Tamil Nadu government would help the industry to shed some losses as films were scheduled to release during the Pongal festival and it would generate a higher footfall. The MHA order is likely to affect the revenue of Tamil Nadu theatre owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/centre-asks-tamil-nadu-to-revoke-order-for-100-capacity-in-cinema-halls/story-JuBROpWZTPEwMOChEoYL0K.html
06-01-2021||India||India’s new science policy proposes lateral entry of scientists in related ministries||A new draft policy on science and technology has proposed up to 25 percent lateral recruitment of scientists in related ministries.The purpose is to attract domain experts who are needed in science-related ministries to handle issues linked to emerging technologies and advancements, according to officials.According to the draft Science Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP) 2020, these could be scientists with domain expertise in different fields either from autonomous institutions or the private field.“Lateral recruitment (minimum 25 percent) of professionals and subject matter experts will be mandated in all scientific ministries for a finite duration with comparable roles, responsibilities and empowerment to a regular official,” the draft policy states.Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, said experts are needed in ministries as science progresses and new technologies emerge.“In scientific ministries and departments when scientists are recruited, over a period of time, they are not able to practise science. Many a time, there are expert groups from outside the ministry or department that are formed for a specific field depending on the need,” Sharma said.The purpose behind the proposed lateral recruitment is to attract domain experts. “So, they can spend more time in the ministries/ departments and deal with subjects of their expertise,” Sharma said.In science-related ministries and departments, the position for the top post is mostly advertised. However, if the draft policy is accepted, this can lead to the lateral entry of experts at the mid-level.Currently, domain experts can apply for posts in autonomous institutions of the scientific ministries.The DST, along with the Office of Principal Scientific Adviser, started the process of formulating the STIP 2020 last year. The policy was to be out by the year-end but has been slightly delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic.The draft STIP has been uploaded by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) on its website. The DST has also invited suggestions, inputs and comments for making changes by January 25.Addressing reporters, Akhilesh Gupta, Head of the STIP Secretariat, said over 300 rounds of consultation took place while drafting the policy. More than one lakh emails were received during the drafting of the policy, he said.“There was a wide range of consultation that has taken place. The youngest person was a 10-year-old and the oldest was an 85-year-old.  We also took great care to have at least one-third women scientists in every consultation we organised,” Gupta added.For the first time, the states as well the diaspora were consulted in making the science policy, he noted.The entire process of drafting a policy was completed in a year, Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-new-science-policy-proposes-lateral-entry-of-scientists-in-related-ministries/story-wWxysQPLlcYaFcvzyiZzIJ.html
06-01-2021||India||Ahead of launch, Centre issues warning against fake ‘Co-WIN’ apps||As the government is working to launch the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) app, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday warned people against sharing any personal details on some applications on app stores with the same name as that of the official one. The health ministry said the official platform will be adequately publicised on its launch.“Some apps named ‘CoWIN’ apparently created by unscrupulous elements to sound similar to upcoming official platform of Govt, are on App stores. Don’t download or share personal information on these. Dept official platform will be adequately publicised on its launch,” the ministry said, according to news agency ANI.Co-WIN has been created by the Centre as a digitised platform for rolling out vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The app is in the pre-product stage and is not available for public use. Data of healthcare and frontline workers is being registered on the app at present and more than 7.5 million beneficiaries were registered during the nationwide dry run which took place on January 2.Also Read| India records 18,088 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, death toll over 1.5 lakhExplaining new features about Co-WIN, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday that priority groups such as healthcare and frontline workers won’t have to register themselves as beneficiaries since their data has been already populated on the app’s vaccine delivery management system in a bulk manner.Some of the new features that Bhushan spoke about during Tuesday’s briefing were the usage of Aadhaar cards as a mode of authentication to avoid any malpractice, SMS in 12 languages to guide beneficiaries and vaccinators, availability of a 24X7 helpline including information technology (IT) professional and a chatbot pattern to help users navigate the portal.Bhushan also pointed out that the health ministry was prepared to roll out a Covid-19 vaccine within 10 days of emergency use authorisation approvals, adding that a final call on this will be taken by the central government.The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on Sunday had approved the use of two Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Both the manufacturers, who had earlier engaged in a dispute, buried the hatchet and issued a joint statement on Tuesday saying they will work together for the developing, manufacturing and supplying of vaccines in India and around the globe.Also Read| ChatBot, SMS in 12 languages: Health ministry releases new Co-win detailsMeanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Balram Bhargava said that Bharat Biotech’s vaccine had been cleared in the clinical trial mode and that consent of participants has to be taken and there has to be a regular follow up of participants.India has logged more than 10.3 million Covid-19 cases after 18,088 new cases and 264 related deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry on Wednesday. The active cases dropped to 227,546 and nearly 10 million people have recovered with the national recovery rate climbing to 96.36 per cent, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/ahead-of-launch-centre-issues-warning-against-fake-co-win-apps/story-QKzonEpljf6Ybzs39IzVwO.html
06-01-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine laws against unlawful conversion in UP, Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine the two contentious state laws passed by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, prohibiting conversion from one religion to another by marriage. Issuing notice on two separate petitions challenging the laws, a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, refused to order stay. Soon after the Court order, the Muslim organization Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind filed an application for intervention raising serious concerns over the two laws being aimed to target Muslim youth. This application will come up along with the two petitions after four weeks. At first, the top court hesitated to issue notice as it was aware about the pendency of separate petitions before the Allahabad High Court and the Uttarakhand High Court challenging the Uttar Pradesh ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020” and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act. “Only the society in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will be affected by this law. Why should the petitioners not approach the respective High Courts,” observed CJI Bobde. Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), a NGO run by social activist Teesta Setalvad, which filed one of the petitions challenging the two laws, informed the top court through senior advocate CU Singh that the issue is arising in other states as well. “The state of Himachal Pradesh has re-enacted a similar law (HP Freedom of Religion Act) in 2019 after its earlier law prohibiting conversion from one faith to another was struck down by the Himachal Pradesh High Court in 2012. Now the new law has roped in marriage by conversion as a ground to prosecute persons. We have multiple states,” it said. The other petition, filed by two lawyers Vishal Thakre and Abhay Singh Yadav and a law researcher Pranvesh, also asserted that the problem needs to be addressed by the top court as the “UP Ordinance and Uttarakhand Act are against the public policy and society at large and violates basic structure of the Constitution”. Similar laws were being contemplated by state governments of Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Assam, the petition added. The bench agreed to issue notice on the two petitions seeking responses from the Centre on whether the laws in question violated fundamental right to practise one’s religion, guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution among other rights protected under Article 14 (right to equality), 15 (right against discrimination) and 21 (right to dignity). The CJP petition said, “The Ordinance and the Act impinge upon this right (under Article 25) by imposing unreasonable and discriminatory restrictions on it by mandating that the administration be informed of such intention and a probe be launched in such a personal and intimate exercise of one’s right.”The CJP lawyer urged for a stay as Singh said, “Rampaging mobs are moving around lifting people from marriage ceremonies. Before marrying, individuals have to register their names and the burden is on them to prove that the conversion is not for marriage. If someone does convert for marriage, he faces punishment up to 10 years.”He was referring to the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 that outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement. The law in force since November 24 last year prescribes a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fines of up to Rs 15,000 for those convicted under the law. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to Rs 25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or who are minors. The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. The Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind cited this statement given by the UP chief minister to raise the issue of fundamental rights of the Muslim youth, who are being “targeted and demonised by using the Impugned Ordinance” in its application. “The practice of converting religion just for the sake of marriage might at worst be termed as ‘ethically objectionable’ or ‘immoral’, however, the same cannot be criminalised,” Jamiat stated through its lawyer Ejaz Maqbool. Both petitions too voiced concerns that the ordinance can become a potent tool in the hands of bad elements of the society to falsely implicate anyone. “Daily there are reports of people being picked up by force. These provisions are obnoxious particularly when the SC in 2018 held that the state cannot interfere with an individual’s right to marry as held in Shafin Jahan case,” Singh argued. Asking individuals to validate their conversion for the purpose of marriage or otherwise violates their right to privacy, he added.The bench, also comprising Justice’s AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was not convinced to order stay. It said, “Can a law be stayed if prosecution is oppressive or false.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-examine-laws-against-unlawful-conversion-in-up-uttarakhand/story-RkUumVwe02FcTSrztRSluK.html
06-01-2021||India||Haryana women training to drive tractor as farmers prepare for R-Day protest march||Several rural women in Haryana’s Jind district are receiving training to drive tractors for taking part in a ‘tractor parade’ in the national capital on January 26 against the three new farm laws. The farmers protesting against the legislations had announced on January 2 that if their demands remained unmet they would take out a ‘tractor parade’ towards Delhi On January 26, when the country would be celebrating its Republic Day.Women hailing from three villages -- Safa Kheri, Khatkar, Pallwan -- in Jind are learning to steer the tractor wheel.“Around 200 women are being imparted training to drive tractors,” Sikim Nain Sheokant, the president of Jind-based Kisan Ekta Mahila Manch said over the phone.She said though some of the women can drive tractors in the fields for farm operations, they do not have experience of road driving.“We want women to drive tractors on highway on January 26 without any help,” she said.Sheokant said several villagers were also helping them out by offering their tractors and providing them required training.Women are undergoing training at a toll plaza on Jind-Patiala National Highway for handling tractor-trolleys on road. The protesting farmers have declared toll plazas “free”.“We are getting the training for driving a tractor for participating in the tractor parade,” said a woman who has been receiving the lesson.They are also trying to provide training in villages, said Sheokant. She feels the new farm laws are not in the interest of the farming community.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur for more than a month, mainly demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-women-training-to-drive-tractor-as-farmers-prepare-for-r-day-protest-march/story-SbhRATKuCbR9BacAhzgaiP.html
06-01-2021||India||Health ministry sends experts to bird flu-hit states, no human case found yet||The Union ministry of health and family welfare has deployed multi-disciplinary teams to bird flu affected Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in Kerala, and Panchkula district, Haryana, as a precautionary measure even though no human case of the disease has been reported from anywhere in the country. A high level team comprising Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Joint Secretary and Covid-19 nodal officer, ministry of food processing industries, has been deployed to Kerala on Wednesday, to oversee the implementation of bird flu containment operations and guide state health departments in mounting appropriate public health interventions to control the situation. In addition, this high level team will also review the Covid-19 situation in the states. The department of animal husbandry on January 4, 2021, had notified detection of Avian Influenza (H5N8) in samples of dead ducks from Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in Kerala. A similar report of bird flu has also been received from poultry samples from Panchkula district of Haryana, following which the health ministry called a meeting of experts to monitor the situation. The first set of high level team was sent to the affected states on January 4. “The two multi-disciplinary teams comprising experts from the National Center for Disease Control, National Institute of Virology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, Dr RML Hospital, New Delhi, and Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi, have been deployed to the affected districts by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on January 4, 2021 to assist the state health departments in implementing the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare’s Avian Influenza containment plan,” the health ministry statement said. Similar reports of the disease have also been reported from Jhalawar, Rajasthan and Bhind, Madhya Pradesh involving crows and migratory birds. The Department of Animal Husbandry as per laid down protocol has issued alerts to further intensify surveillance to detect any case in poultry birds. “So far, no human case of Avian Influenza has been reported. The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare continues to keep a strict watch over the evolving scenario,” the statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-sends-experts-to-bird-flu-hit-states-no-human-case-found-yet/story-l4XpkX3fUCOjMbZsJrXJyK.html
06-01-2021||India||Avian flu virus cannot spread through cooked food: Giriraj Singh||The Centre has issued an advisory to the state on the spread of bird flu in the country, said Union minister of fisheries, animal husbandry, and dairy Giriraj Singh on Wednesday adding that the virus has returned due to India with migratory birds.“Bird flu cases can be found all over the world. India was declared free of bird flu in September. Then in October, we issued an advisory that the cold is coming and that there is a need to take precautions. Today, most of the cases are being reported from the places where migratory birds come, and they are the reason for bringing the virus to the country,” Singh told ANI.He informed that most cases of the disease are found in Kerala where “25,000 ducks have died”.“The government is on alert. Samples from all states are being sent to Bhopal. There is nothing to worry about. The government will also provide compensation to the farmers for the poultry bird that died,” the minister said.He said virus cannot be spread through cooked food and till today, no case of transmission of Avian Influenza virus to humans has been reported in India.“Bird flu spreads in two ways, one by migratory birds and the other when it is culled. The first case in India was 2006, and since 2015 every year some cases are reported,” he added.Earlier today, considering the possibility of the spread of Avian Influenza (AI) Virus to humans and other domesticated animals and birds, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change directed all states and Union Territories to take all possible steps for containing the spread of the disease.As per the government’s notification, the ministry asked the states/UTs to take up surveillance and monitoring of birds, for any signs of disease and take appropriate measures for controlling it, on priority.This ministry vide letter dated January 3, 2021, had also forwarded generic guideline relating to Avian Influenza to the Chief Wildlife Wardens of all states/UTs and had requested for taking immediate steps for containing the spread of the disease.Earlier today, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying confirmed Avian Influenza, cases have been reported from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala.The ministry informed this after the samples from these states were tested positive by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research -National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (ICAR-NIHSAD).Notably, bird flu viruses have been circulating worldwide for centuries with four known major outbreaks recorded in the last century. India notified the first outbreak of avian influenza in 2006. Infection in humans is not yet reported in India though the disease is zoonotic.“There is no direct evidence that AI viruses can be transmitted to humans via the consumption of contaminated poultry products. In India, the disease spreads mainly by migratory birds coming into India during winter months i.e. from September - October to February - March. The secondary spread by human handling (through fomites) cannot be ruled out,” Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said.In view of a threat of a global outbreak of AI, the DAHD had prepared an action plan in 2005, which was revised in 2006, 2012, 2015 and 2021 for the guidance of state government for prevention, control and containment of Avian Influenza in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avian-flu-virus-cannot-spread-through-cooked-food-virus-brought-by-migratory-birds-giriraj-singh/story-fp9z8eGRu1ssbR4EIeYogO.html
06-01-2021||India||Badaun gangrape: BSP hits out at Yogi govt for failing to provide security to women||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the Badaun gangrape and murder case stating that it has failed to provide security to women.Speaking to ANI, BSP national spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria said that the Badaun case reminds people of the 2012 Delhi gang-rape case.“We have been again reminded of the kind of heinous crime which was committed in 2012. The Yogi government has not able to give protection to the women of the Uttar Pradesh,” he said.Slamming the BJP government, Bhadoria said: “It has happened time and again in Hathras to Balrampur. Rape cases are being reported from different parts of the state but the government has failed to provide security to the women, Dalits, and poor.”“I think Yogi ji must tell the nation and the people of the Uttar Pradesh about his failure and pull up the police for failing to provide security to women,” he added.A 50-year-old Anganwadi worker was allegedly raped and murdered in the Ughaiti area of Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district.Rekha Sharma, Chairperson, National Commission for Women (NCW) said that cognizance of the matter has been taken and an NCW member will go to Badaun to investigate the case.“We have taken cognizance of the matter. One NCW member is going to the spot to investigate the matter to meet the family and the police and take an exact stock of the situation,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badaun-gangrape-bsp-hits-out-at-yogi-govt-for-failing-to-provide-security-to-women/story-TvdGZBhivXfLPDnnLGTLLI.html
06-01-2021||India||Congress appoints senior observers for poll-bound states||Congress has appointed senior observers to oversee election campaign management in states where assembly polls are due this year, the party said in a statement issued by its general secretary and Rajya Sabha member KC Venugopal on Wednesday. “Hon’ble Congress President has appointed following leaders as senior observers for overseeing Election Campaign Management & Coordination in states where assembly election is going to be held in 2021, with immediate effect. They will discharge their duties in close coordination with AICC General Secretaries and in-charges in the respective states,” Venugopal said in the statement said. INC COMMUNIQUE Important Notification regarding the appointment of Senior Observers for overseeing Election Campaign Management & Coordination in assembly elections of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and West Bengal pic.twitter.com/UK9Jk1dpcdElections are scheduled in four states and one Union territory namely Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Pondicherry. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Bhagel, Congress general secretary Mukul Wasnik and MLA of Kadwa constituency in Bihar Shakeel Ahmad Khan were appointed to the state of Assam. CM Bhagel responded to the appointment in a tweet saying, “I gratefully accept this responsibility given by the Honorable Congress President Smt Sonia Gandhi.”Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former chief minister of Goa Luizinho Faleiro and former Karnataka deputy CM G Parameswara have been appointed to the state of Kerala, where the party is part of the United Democratic Front (UDF) coalition.In Tamil Nadu, where the party recently made several new appointments to key positions, and Pondicherry, where the party is in power, former Union minister of petroleum Veerappa Moily, former HRD minister MM Pallam Raju and Maharashtra cabinet minister Nitin Raut were appointed to oversee the campaign management for the upcoming elections. Former lawmaker BK Hariprasad, Jharkhand’s Pakaur constituency MLA Alamgir Alam and Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla have been appointed to manage campaign preparations in West Bengal.Also read: Congress rejigs Tamil Nadu state unitCongress has also been making many new appointments to the West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee for the upcoming elections. A four-member committee to begin seat-sharing talks with all the left parties in the eastern state was also announced on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-appoints-senior-observers-for-poll-bound-states/story-kCcNZyTO9w5KSE0m4jEoKM.html
06-01-2021||India||Robert Vadra alleges investigative agencies of harassing him||Amid the Income Tax Department’s probe, Robert Vadra, the son-in-law of Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday said that the investigative agencies are harassing him as no tax evasion has been done by him.“23,000 documents were taken away from my office. They’ve more information about me than I have in my office today. Every question they asked was answered clearly. There is no tax evasion. They send us notices in every two to three days. I would say it is harassment because if we are to answer the same question 10 times then there is a problem,” Vadra said while speaking to ANI.While saying that he has been cooperating with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax department during questioning.“Every question posed by Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax department have been answered with evidence. I am willing to go to any agency for questioning as I haven’t done any kind of tax evasions, “ he added.“The agencies questioned about my business history which was answered both verbally and with documentary evidence,” he said referring to the 23,000 documents taken away form the investigative agency from his office. Pointing to the COVID-19 situation, he expressed reservations for being called by the ED in the ofice for questioning.“It is better that a few officers come to my office with COVID report and we would sanitize the room, than me going to an Income Tax office with 50-70 people,” he said. On the contrary, he accused the “central government of using him as a political pawn.”“The government is cornered with its own issues such as farmers and people want answers. They want to divert the issue by bringing my name up because the media will get attentive and flash my name up. It has been happening for 10 years. Especially, when my family fights for farmer issues and all of this is to digress the topic and show me in a bad light,” Vadra claimed. The ED and Income Tax Department is probing Robert Vadra, husband of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act pertaining to allegations of money laundering in the purchase of London-based property at 12, Bryanston Square.Earlier, the ED had also recorded Vadra’s statement in connection with assets and properties outside India. In his recorded statement, he denied the ownership of properties in London in question. He also denied having assets outside India. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/robert-vadra-alleges-investigative-agencies-of-harassing-him/story-3FDcZiCCGFk8nAqMPA1zlO.html
06-01-2021||India||Andhra ex-minister arrested in kidnapping case of Telangana CM’s relatives||Hyderabad police on Wednesday arrested former Andhra Pradesh tourism minister and Telugu Desam Party leader Bhuma Akhila Priya from Kurnool district for her alleged involvement in the kidnap of three distant relatives of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao late on Tuesday night in connection with a land dispute. “We have taken Akhila Priya into custody from her residence in the morning and after preliminary interrogation and arrested her formally in the afternoon. She would be produced before a local court in Secunderabad for judicial remand later in the evening, after medical examination,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar told reporters. Apart from Akhila Priya, her husband Bhargav Ram and another senior TDP leader from Kurnool A V Subba Reddy were among several people who were allegedly involved in hatching and executing the kidnap plan. “We have formed special teams of the police for tracking and apprehending the other accused,” the commissioner said. The three kidnapped – K Praveen Rao, K Sunil Rao and K Naveen Rao, are said to be distantly related to the chief minister and cousins of KCR’s aide P Venugopal Rao. Praveen Rao is a former national badminton player. “The brothers were said to be involved in a land dispute with the accused at Hafeezpet on the city’s outskirts. The details of the land issue are being probed,” Anjani Kumar said. According to the commissioner, about 10 people barged into the residence of Praveen Rao, who has been living with his two brothers Sunil Rao and Naveen Rao at Krishna Residency apartment at Manovikas Nagar in Bowenpally at around 7.20 pm. They introduced themselves as Income Tax officers and one of them even flaunted his identity card. “They separated the brothers from the rest of the family and asked them to sit in the hall, while forcing the others to go into a bedroom. Later, they whisked the three brothers away in a vehicle. The kidnappers also took away laptops and mobile phones from them,” the commissioner said. After waiting for more than an hour in the bedroom, the other family members came out and realised that three men were kidnapped. They immediately alerted the police, who swung into action to track the kidnappers. “We alerted our counterparts in the Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates and kept a tab on the movement of all vehicles on closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras, besides mobile phone towers,” he said. At around 3.30 am, the kidnappers released the three brothers at Kokapet-Narasingi area on the outskirts of Hyderabad, not before forcing them to sign some documents at a farmhouse where they were confined for a few hours. “Based on the complaint given by the family members, we have arrested Akhila Priya. We are on the lookout for others,” the commissioner said. Pratap Rao, another brother of Praveen Rao told reporters earlier in the day that there was a dispute between the accused and his family over 50 acres of land at Hafeezpet in which they were partners. “Instead of settling the issue through legal means, they tried to intimidate our brothers. The issue has nothing to do with the chief minister’s family. So, please don’t drag the family into this,” Pratap Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-ex-minister-arrested-in-kidnapping-case-of-telangana-cm-s-relatives/story-qPjWNYHPlNKcNyVjZyNLtL.html
06-01-2021||India||Indian-origin hacker, blackmailer jailed for 11 years in UK||An Indian-origin man who hacked into the computer accounts of over 574 girls and young women to exploit them has been sentenced to 11 years in prison for blackmail, voyeurism and cybercrimes by a UK court.Akash Sondhi gained unauthorised access to hundreds of social media accounts, in particular Snapchat, and went on to commit blackmailing crimes between December 26, 2016 and March 17, 2020, the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said.The 27-year-old from Chafford Hundred in Essex, south-east England, threatened his victims that if they didn’t send him nude images of themselves, he would post intimate images of them to their friends and family. Some of the women complied and in at least six cases he went on to carry out his threats, it said.“Akash Sondhi is an extremely manipulative man who inflicted emotional and psychological damage on young women, while also getting gratification from their images and videos,” said Joseph Stickings, a Senior Crown Prosecutor in the Complex Casework Unit for the CPS.“Following a diligent and thorough investigation conducted by the Essex Police Cyber Crime Unit the CPS was able to build a comprehensive case of 65 counts reflecting the high level of his offending,” he said.“I would like to thank all of the women who bravely came forward to tell of their traumatic experiences at the hands of Akash Sondhi. Their accounts provided strong evidence and the CPS were able to create such a compelling prosecution case that Akash Sondhi pleaded guilty to all counts,” he added.The CPS said a number of Sondhi’s victims experienced serious emotional and psychological harm in the aftermath of his despicable actions, with one victim even attempting suicide.Sondhi admitted a total of 65 offences – including hacking, blackmail, and voyeurism – and was sentenced at Basildon Crown Court 11 years in prison, a five year Serious Crime Prevention Order, and placed on the Sex Offenders’ Register for 10 years.Essex Police said Sondhi targeted 574 victims across the UK, Australia, Hong Kong, Romania and other countries by hacking into their social media accounts, while some of his victims have still not been traced. Sondhi’s address at Hedingham Road in Chafford Hundred, Essex, was raided by officers from the force’s Cyber Crime Unit on 19 March last year after several victims, aged between 16 and 25, made reports.“He targeted with no remorse purporting to be a friend on social media after hacking accounts, then once he got access to their intimate pictures he would attempt to blackmail them around disclosure of the images to friends and family demanding more images and videos of his own choice putting the victims through an ordeal causing extreme distress and embarrassment,” said Detective Sergeant Ian Collins, from the Essex Police Cyber Crime Unit.“Since his remand and now this sentence we have managed to stop this vile offender from targeting more victims. This is a wakeup call for anyone committing this type of crime: we will catch you and bring you to justice, and you can go to prison for the distress caused to the victims,” he said.The detective also urged social media users not to store intimate images of themselves and to secure and protect their data.“Don’t share passwords even if you think it’s a trusted friend that asks you for them, it might not be,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-origin-hacker-blackmailer-jailed-for-11-years-in-uk/story-kgluBz0O8FbJiHwQvej5FJ.html
06-01-2021||India||Gold in desi cow milk, earthquakes due to slaughter in syllabus for national cow exam||Desi cow milk has traces of gold and earthquakes occur due to cow slaughter, according to the syllabus devised by the national body for cow welfare for the country’s first online exam on cows on February 25.“Acoustic anisotropy leads to a very strong anisotropic stress on a rock. The daily butchering of thousands of animals continually for several years generates acoustic anisotropy due to Einsteinian Pain Waves (EPW) emitted by dying animals. And the accumulated acoustic anisotropy is found to be related with the stress history of rocks,” says the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog’s syllabus.“In 1984, more than 20,000 people died due to gas leaks in Bhopal. People living in houses with cow dung coated walls were not affected.”According to the syllabus, the native cows are “hardy and clever enough not to sit at dirty places”, while the Jersey cow is “lazy” and “prone to diseases”. “It has also been seen that they [Jersey cows] attract infection by not being hygienic enough.” The syllabus says whenever any unknown person comes near a desi cow, “she will immediately stand. The irreverent exotic cow displays no emotions.”The examinees will be asked to answer objective multiple-choice questions for the Kamdhenu Gau-Vigyan Prachar-Prasar Examination as per the syllabus. There will be separate categories of examinees involving primary and middle school; secondary; and college students. Students who clear the exam will get cow expert certificates, officials said.A Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog statement about the exam said: “Union education ministers, chief ministers, state education ministers, chairmen of Gau Seva Aayogs of all states, district education officers of all states, principals of all schools, print and electronic media, NGOs and cow donors will be involved in this mammoth exercise [examination].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-in-desi-cow-milk-earthquakes-due-to-slaughter-in-syllabus-for-national-exam-on-cows/story-zd4M5fqxrj9HWzLACaS3xL.html
06-01-2021||India||5 states have reported bird flu outbreak: Here’s all you need to know||After at least five states in India reported bird deaths due to bird flu in the past one week, the Centre has issued an advisory to all states asking them to test the droppings of migratory and poultry birds to prevent the spread. Close to 24,500 birds have died and thousands others are infected. Here’s an explainer on how serious is the 2021 bird flu threat.What is avian influenza or bird flu?Bird flu is a highly contagious viral disease caused by Influenza type A viruses which generally affects poultry birds such as chickens and turkeys. Birds are normally the carriers of the virus, which take it to long distances, thereby affecting large avian population across continents. There are many strains of the virus and most of them are mild and may merely cause a low egg production or other mild symptoms among chickens. However, some are severe and lethal that cause deaths of large number of birds.How does the bird flu spread?Wild aquatic birds such as ducks and geese are the natural reservoir of Influenza A viruses and the central players in the ecology of these viruses. Many birds carry the flu without developing sickness, and shed it in their droppings. Since birds excrete even while flying, they provide a nice aerosol of influenza virus, probable reason for crows getting the virus in India. Some other birds feed on the dropping catch the illness and also become carriers. Sometimes, which is rare, the virus jumps over to mammals such as pigs, horses, cats and dogs. What strains have been found in India?Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), the lab accredited to confirm bird flu, has detected two strains of influenza viruses so far. They are H5N8, a sub-type of avian influenza found in poultry and wild animals, has been found in crows in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The strain poses a low risk to people and is highly lethal to wild birds and poultry. The second strain found is H5N1 in ducks in Kerala and migratory birds in Himachal. It is highly infectious and causes severe respiratory disease in birds. Human cases of H5N1 are rare but if infected, the mortality rate is about 60% according to the World Health Organization. Which Indian states have been affected? The NIHSAD has so far identified 12 epicentres in Rajasthan (Baran, Kota, Jhalawar), Madhya Pradesh (Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa), Himachal Pradesh (Kangra) and Kerala (Kottayam, Alappuzha). In addition, bird flu deaths have also been reported from Haryana and Uttarakhand. Himachal’s Kangra district magistrate banned sale or culling of poultry in the alert zone and closed all poultry or fish selling shops. In Rajasthan, Section 144 was imposed in a 1km radius of infected areas in Jhalawar and Baran districts. In Kerala, Kottayam and Alappuzha districts close to 38,000 ducks have been culled.Why does bird flu impact India?According to Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), India is the epicentre as flight paths of distant birds criss-cross the country’s skies and India is also a terminal destination for many such streams, making it a biological hot spot for bird disease. Nearly 370 species of birds, from the northern wheatear to yellow-rumped flycatcher – crisscross India from Europe, Russia and Mongolia each year, according to BNHS. This time, the disease has come from Siberia, Mangolia, China and some other Central Asian countries. Which countries other than India are affected? In the last few weeks, avian influenza has hit at least 10 European countries -- Netherlands, Germany, France, Belgium, United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Poland, Croatia, and Ukraine, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Cases have also been reported in South Korea and Japan, where this has been the worst bird flu outbreak on record, having reached over 20 % of its 47 prefectures. To control avian influenza, France would cull around 600,000 poultry birds. In Germany, about 62,000 turkeys and ducks will be slaughtered after being hit by H5N8 bird flu. South Korea’s agriculture ministry in October had ordered temporary closure for poultry farms and related transport to contain a wider spread of bird flu. Japan’s government has also called for disinfections of poultry farms across the country after infections have been detected in six regional prefectures since November. How does bird flu infect humans?No human infection has been reported in India so far. As of December 17, 2020, a total of 239 cases of human infection with avian influenza A (H5N1) virus were reported from four countries -- Cambodia, China, Vietnam and Lao PDR -- since 2003. Of these cases, 134 were fatal. The last case was reported from Lao PDR on October 13, 2020 (one case, no death), according to WHO. The first case of humans having contracted bird flu came after an outbreak in a live bird market of Hong Kong in 1997. It was the H5N1 strain of the virus, and 6 out of 18 infected humans died of the disease. A few years later, the virus returned, killing many people in various other parts of the globe and caused hundreds of human deaths, particularly in south-east Asia. Generally, people coming in close contact with infected alive or dead birds have contracted the H5N1 bird flu, and it does not usually spread from person to person, according to WHO, which also said that there is no evidence that the disease can be spread to people through properly prepared and cooked poultry food.What are the economic implications of bird flu?The Central government records show nearly Rs400 crore have been paid to poultry farmers till 2016 as compensation for mass killing of birds. Across the globe, the loss estimated globally was US$200 billion in 2016. In its recent report, WHO said that bird flu hampers the poultry industry in a big way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-states-report-bird-deaths-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-bird-flu/story-NqyfeAoNajPeaY58OCFd5L.html
06-01-2021||India||Central team to visit bird flu-hit areas of Kerala tomorrow, culling of ducks continue||With the culling of ducks continuing in bird flu-hit areas of Alappuzha and Kottayam in Kerala for the second consecutive day, the Union government has decided to rush a team of experts to the state on Thursday, the state animal husbandry department said.The state government has also announced relief for affected farmers-- they will be given Rs 100 for each culled duck. Officials have started collecting details of culled birds, said a senior official of the department. In three days at least 46,000 birds will be culled in Alappuzha 38,000 and 8000 in Kottayam. There is a ban on trading of ducks till further notice in the two districts, he said. Surrounded by many water bodies, in Alappuzha and surrounding areas duck farming is popular-- eggs of ducks are almost double the price of chicken eggs and duck meat is a delicacy in many areas of the state. In Kuttanad and other areas people encourage duck farming because pecking birds are good for paddy cultivation as they clear farms of pests and their foray gives a tilling effect to muddy soil. Kuttanad is known as the rice bowl of Kerala.“I suffered major losses. I lost around 20,000 birds in the last one week. I bought 10,000 ducklings only two weeks back. I took bank loans and money from lenders to fund my farming. Compensation from the government is meagre,” said K Kuttappayi, a farmer in Alappuzha. Farming for the last four decades, he said the recurring epidemic was posing a big challenge for poultry farmers.On Tuesday, the government had declared bird flu as a state disaster and rapid response teams were deployed for culling and surveillance of the affected areas. And strict controls have been imposed to contain the H5N8 strain of flu. State animal husbandry minister K Raju convened a meeting in Alappuzha on Wednesday and he will be camping in the district for two days, said his office. As an after-effect, prices of chicken plummeted in the state and chicken traders said there is a 40 per cent dip in sales. Many neighbouring states have also put restrictions on chickens from Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-to-visit-bird-flu-hit-areas-of-kerala-tomorrow-culling-of-ducks-continue/story-J42ROZfs6xNG1J2OxiP7NN.html
06-01-2021||India||Temperature drop, dense fog expected in Delhi-NCR from tomorrow||Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) will experience a drop in temperature from tomorrow morning after western disturbance affecting northwest India move eastward, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.Dense to very dense fog will prevail in most parts of Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, northern Rajasthan and Delhi-NCR. The western disturbance that was effecting northwest India has currently moved eastward, for which the effect will be mostly over western Uttar Pradesh.Under the influence of western disturbance from January 2 till January 6 (today), significant rainfall occurred in plains of northwest India, due to which, there is a significant amount of moisture across the region.Kuldeep Srivastava, Head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, New Delhi told ANI, “Tomorrow morning, 8 degrees Celsius is expected followed by a further decrease in temperature. On 8th morning, 7 degrees Celsius is expected over Delhi-NCR and most part of the plains of northwest India.”Low temperature is conducive for the formation of fog. From tomorrow morning onwards, we are expecting dense to very dense fog in most parts of Punjab, Haryana West UP, north Rajasthan and Delhi NCR. This condition will prevail for the next three to four days, after which there will be a slight decrease in the fog condition.“Under its influence, the wind direction will change to northwesterly. Wind will come to Delhi-NCR and Haryana from Jammu Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. A significant amount of rainfall and snowfall has occurred there so cold air will come to Delhi,” Srivastava added.After the western disturbance moves, cloudiness will decrease significantly and clear sky will prevail on January 7 night and January 8 morning making it colder.According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) today’s AQI (PM 10 level) is 124 and PM 2.5 level is 82, both under the moderate category.As per SAFAR’s AQI forecast, although PM10 level will remain moderate, PM 2.5 level is likely to shift to the poor category, which may further dip into to very poor category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-drop-dense-fog-expected-in-delhi-ncr-from-tomorrow/story-iNksUwAQUeGqlOrfEwsvAI.html
06-01-2021||India||Petition filed in SC seeks regulation of social media platforms||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking regulation of Twitter and other social media platforms through guidelines making them culpable under criminal and civil laws until a specific law is passed by Parliament.The petition, likely to come up for hearing in the coming days, claimed that due to the lack of government control and intervention Twitter acts as it deems fit.Advocate Mahek Maheshwari, who filed the plea in personal capacity, has sought a direction to the Centre to formulate a framework or guidelines to appeal against any kind of grievances against Twitter and all such social media platforms within designated time frame till a proper law comes into force.The plea has also sought directions to frame guidelines to entrust responsibility on the officers of ministries of electronics and IT and Information & Broadcasting to deal with grievance/complaint against social media platforms.“Due to lack of the government control and intervention on the social media platform Twitter, act the way they fit their way, ideology and desires.”  “Twitter is not having government control so it freely act unethically and shadow ban many accounts which does not suit its ideological inclination,” the petition said.He added that “there should be no parallel ecosystem act to undermine the highest judiciary of the nation and creation of unrest, dissatisfaction among the masses.” The petition alleged that Twitter crossed all limits of lawlessness when it “supported the mocking of the highest judiciary of nation that is also institutionally of Supreme Court of Nation and individually of the judges as well”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-filed-in-sc-seeks-regulation-of-social-media-platforms/story-gEo8YLvEQeoiYp5sHe2LTO.html
06-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Chengalpattu records heaviest single-day rainfall in January in over a century||Heavy rainfall battered Tamil Nadu on Tuesday with Chengalpattu district recording 21cm of rainfall, the heaviest single-day rainfall for the month in over a century. Earlier, the adjoining district of Chennai had recorded its highest single-day rainfall in this month on January 15, 1915 at 21.5cm.“This was recorded in Kelambakkam station that comes under Chengalpattu district,” said N Puviarasan, scientist, Chennai’s regional meteorological centre (RMC). “Chennai is yet to break that record.” There was a downpour in Chennai and adjoining districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Ranipet from early hours of Tuesday due to an easterly trough. Several arterial roads and low lying neighbourhood in the city remained inundated. Chennai recorded maximum rainfall of 12.6cm in Meenambakkam station and 11cm in Nungambakkam station from 8.30am January 5 for the next 24 hours, according to the RMC. The Tamil Nadu state disaster management authority released rainfall data and pegged the average rainfall of Chennai at 12.05mm.Independent weather watcher Pradeep John in his blog, Tamil Nadu Weatherman, said it is rare for monsoon winds to continue in January. He noted that the state received above 30mm rainfall in January in the years 2017 (37.3mm), 2000 (30.3 mm) and in 1984 (34.5mm). RMC has forecast that in the next 24-hours there will be thunderstorms accompanied by heavy to very heavy rains in parts of Cuddalore, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Nagapattinam and Theni. Following that intermittent rains have been forecast until January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/downpour-batters-tamil-nadu-chengalpattu-dist-records-highest-january-single-day-rainfall-in-over-a-century/story-Xngm3DmEhgWrhYOVcGunJM.html
06-01-2021||India||Snowed in: Tourists make the most of their stay in Kashmir as locals band together to help||Rahul and his friends from Chennai had come to Kashmir to holiday in the ski resort of Gulmarg on New Year’s Eve. Their return flight was scheduled on Sunday when snowfall disrupted surface and air traffic. They have had to stay back as the snowfall continued till Wednesday morning.On Wednesday afternoon, they were on way to Dal Lake. “We are going to explore Srinagar. It is too good to describe. Except for the fact our flights were cancelled, everything else is amazing,” Rahul, a corporate employee, said while his friends busied themselves clicking pictures of a gigantic Chinar tree covered with snow near Chinar Park. “The people here are so hospitable,” he said.As the number of Covid-19 infections in Jammu and Kashmir dipped to a large extent and snowfall began in late December and January, tourists started arriving in the valley in large numbers after 16 months.Also Read: Stranded on Jammu-Srinagar NH, truckers face tough timeTourism in Kashmir took a hit since August 5, 2019, when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on the movement of people and communication for months. Two days before the revocation of Article 370, around 20,000-25,000 tourists in Kashmir were asked to leave the Valley along with the Amarnath pilgrims. The situation was then further aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown since March 2020. About 20-30 tourists would arrive per day in July, 2020, and there have been over 1,000 visitors every day since December 25, 2020, according to the tourism department.However the inflow of tourists was disrupted after surface and air traffic was suspended since Sunday following heavy snowfall.Unmindful of the fact that his parents were worried about their flight back home, Yashwant, a teenager from Delhi appeared ecstatic while playing in the snow. “I just love it,” he said as his mother asked him to go inside the hotel.Meanwhile, Charan, his wife and infant daughter were trying to negotiate the slush-covered road to find a good food outlet for lunch.“It is too cold. We are trying to acclimatise to this atmosphere. I have worn a lot of layers. Though I have been to Ladakh, this is for the first time I have experienced snow,” said Charan, who had come with a group from Hyderabad on January 2.The heavy snowfall seems to have boosted tourism in Kashmir Valley.Sajid Ahmad, a visitor from Lucknow, said that they mostly spent their days inside owing to the snowfall. “We travelled small distances in Srinagar and could not go anywhere farther due to the snowfall. Our return flight is on January 8 and we are trying to see as much as we can,” he said.Free accommodation for stranded touristsMany travel, trade and tourism bodies in Kashmir have come together to assist stranded tourists who are short of funds to help them and provide them accommodation without charge. They formed a forum and put up phone numbers in social media for those in need.“With this heavy snowfall, many tourists are stuck in Srinagar and the Tourism Forum shares the difficulties they are facing in this difficult time. We are sincerely with them and will try to do whatever best can be done,” the forum said in a statement.“Whosoever is stranded or needs a room or does not have cost of boarding or lodging or who has to overstay due to the closure of roads and airport, this forum will provide help,” said Abdul Hameed, chairman of the Houseboat Owners’ Association.“Many of our friends and associates have opened their houseboats, hotels and even vehicles for stranded tourists,” he said.In Gulmarg, the deputy commissioner Baramulla has asked hoteliers and others to extend the stay of tourists and guests till the weather improves.“CEO Gulmarg Development Authority and Assistant Director Tourism have been directed to ensure the necessary compliance and establish help desk for the purpose,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowed-in-tourists-make-the-most-of-their-stay-in-kashmir-as-locals-band-together-to-help/story-xyfAgJF9xcdnPTp3ikMUTL.html
06-01-2021||India||India, France to hold annual strategic dialogue tomorrow; Doval to lead Indian side||India and France will hold their annual strategic dialogue on Thursday in Delhi, the ministry of external affairs said on Wednesday. National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval will lead the Indian delegation while the French side would be led by Emmanuel Bonne, who is the diplomatic advisor to President Emmanuel Macron.“The two sides will hold discussions on wide-ranging bilateral and global issues. Emmanuel Bonne will also call on other Indian dignitaries. The last edition of the Strategic Dialogue was held in February 2020 in Paris,” the ministry stated in its release.Also Read| India calls on Sri Lanka to fulfil expectations of Tamil minorityThe announcement of the meet comes after France had welcomed India’s fresh stint at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for a period of two years. French ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain said on January 1 that France was eager to work side by side to uphold international law, fight terror and defend multilateralism. “France welcomes India as it joins UNSC for next 2 yrs. We are eager to work side by side to uphold international law, fight terrorism & defend multilateralism,” Lenain had tweeted. The two sides will hold discussions on wide-ranging bilateral and global issues. Emmanuel Bonne will also call on other Indian dignitaries. The last edition of the Strategic Dialogue was held in February 2020 in Paris: MEA https://t.co/14xwB7Doh5Bilateral relations between India and France remarkably deepened strategically in recent years with both countries sharing the same vision for a new balanced multipolar world, which must be based on the rule of law, according to news agency ANI.Also Read| Not Chinese, prefer Indian vaccine first, Nepal to India ahead of minister’s visitOn December 7, French President Macron had called Prime Minister Narendra Modi and both leaders discussed several issues including digital and strategic autonomy, deepening of defence cooperation, Indo-Pacific, and the security environment in Asia and West Asia. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said PM Modi had conveyed condolences for the recent terror attacks in France and reiterated India’s support to the latter in the fight against terror, radicalism and extremism.“Spoke with my friend @EmmanuelMacron on the challenges and opportunities presented by the post-Covid world. India stands by France in its fight against terrorism & extremism. The India-France partnership is a force for good in the world, including in the Indo-Pacific,” PM Modi had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-to-hold-annual-strategic-dialogue-tomorrow-doval-to-lead-indian-side/story-2j6AsLZvUpmsLmPbA7YB4O.html
06-01-2021||India||Sure farmers’ leaders will ‘actively arrive’ at a solution: Union minister Tomar||Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday remained confident farmers unions’ leaders and the Centre will be able to settle differences regarding the new farm laws, ahead of the next round of discussions to be held on Friday. Both sides had held the seventh round of talks on Monday, which ended in a stalemate after three Union ministers part of the negotiations said it was not possible to commit to a rollback of the legislation without wider consultations with higher authorities.“We are committed to the welfare of farmers. We meet those who are supporting the laws and those opposing it. I am sure that farmers’ unions, who are agitating, will think about the welfare of farmers and actively arrive at a solution,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier on Wednesday, Attorney General KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court that there are chances that the government and the agitating farmers’ leaders will come to an agreement. A Supreme Court bench comprising Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and two other judges were hearing petitions against the passage of these bills during the monsoon session last year. The top court urged both the parties to hold discussions and hoped that they could reach an amicable solution. “We want to encourage talks. We will keep the matters on Monday and if AG tells us that talks are on, we will adjourn the matter,” the bench said.The Supreme Court also pointed out to the government that there has been no breakthrough so far and said that currently, the situation has not improved.Farmers’ leader Yogendra Yadav had on Tuesday warned that the protests against the three farm laws will intensify if the government continues to disagree with the farmers over their demands. Yadav while speaking to the media said that farmers will take out a tractor march from all protest sites to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) highway on January 7.Farmer leader Joginder Nain said they have also proposed to take out another tractor march on Republic Day on January 26. “We will send 10 tractor-trolleys from every village in Haryana. We request people to come - at least one from a house. And a total of 11 women from a village,” Nain was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Farmers are agitating since November last year against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers’ groups believe that these three laws will affect the procurement under the Minimum Support Price system and allow private and multinational companies to make profits off farmers as it will encourage corporate farming.The government continues to stress that these laws will help farmers to sell their produce at any market, across the country and will introduce a level-playing field which will help farmers double their income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sure-farmers-leaders-will-actively-arrive-at-a-solution-union-minister-tomar/story-PHu6ut4rUimHNuqrewC2BK.html
06-01-2021||India||Trinamool shifts attention to infighting in party units after minister quits||Hours after former India cricketer and Bengal’s deputy sports minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned from the Trinamool Congress (TMC), infighting in several district units of the party once again came under focus on Tuesday. Calling Shukla a “good boy”, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said he had quit to pursue sports. “He said in his letter that he wants to leave politics and give more time to sports. There is nothing more to this. There is no place for misunderstanding here,” said Banerjee. The TMC chief’s assertions however did not stop the dissent in Howrah district where forest minister Rajib Banerjee, the two-time MLA from Domjur, has been raising his voice against a section of leaders and avoiding government and party events since September. He did not attend Tuesday’s cabinet meeting as well and reportedly informed the leadership that he was unwell. Shukla is the Howrah North MLA.Another high-profile lawmaker, Vaishali Dalmiya, who represents Howrah’s Bally assembly seat and, like Shukla, joined politics in 2016, said during a live television show on Tuesday evening that there are “termites in the TMC who are breaking the party from within”. “There are some former civic body councillors and block presidents who did not perform and now their only job is to humiliate sincere MLAs and MPs. I have prepared a file on them. The party must deal with these people strictly,” she said. Vaishali is the daughter of Jagmohan Dalmiya, the Kolkata-based businessman who served as president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the International Cricket Council (ICC) and Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB). He was the BCCI president till his death in 2015. Another TMC leader and former mayor of Howrah, Rathin Chakraborty, too, spoke out. “The TMC is going through a turmoil and many sincere leaders and party workers are not being given the opportunity to work,” he quipped. Shukla, Dalmiya or Chakraborty made no mention of joining the Bharatiya Janata Party like former minister Suvendu Adhikari and six other lawmakers and a Lok Sabha member who were welcomed into the saffron camp by Union home minister Amit Shah on December 9. Yet, Bengal BJP leaders said Howrah is just one of the districts where they were waiting for an exodus from the ruling party. “Several TMC leaders and MLAs from Howrah, Nadia and South 24 Parganas are waiting to switch sides. It is only a matter of time,” a senior state BJP leader told HT on condition of anonymity. Differences in the TMC’s Howrah district came to the fore in mid-July last year when the tussle between two ministers, Rajib Banerjee and Arup Roy, over corruption by some local functionaries became an embarrassment for the party. Rajib Banerjee told the media at that time that some corrupt mid-level leaders were being shielded by the district leadership. Shukla, who has a clean image, was subsequently made the district president. Reacting to Shukla’s resignation and Dalmiya’s comments on Tuesday, Roy said, “Leaving the party before the polls was not the right thing to do. Also, if any leader has a problem with people in the organisation it should be discussed within the party, not in public.” TMC spokesperson and deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy maintained caution with his comment on the infighting in Howrah. “One must bear in mind that Roy was a student front leader who worked his way up to become a minister. He is a senior leader,” Roy told HT. Not willing to be quoted, at least three TMC leaders admitted that infighting is an issue that plagues the organisation in several districts and addressing it before the assembly polls is as urgent as preparing for the elections. Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee on Monday started a five-day tour of the north Bengal districts where the BJP won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. This is the first time he is visiting the region alone and for so many days. In November, Jagadish Barma Basunia, the legislator from Sitai constituency in Cooch Behar, had spoken in support of Mihir Goswami, the Cooch Behar South MLA who joined the BJP. Basunia also questioned internal changes being made at the recommendation of election strategist Prashant Kishor.In Murshidabad district, TMC legislator from Hariharpara, Niamot Sheikh openly challenged Kishor’s authority at a rally in November. “Prashant Kishor is the cause of all trouble. Suvendu Adhikari revived the party in Murshidabad. And now leaders who talk to him are facing action,” Sheikh said at the rally held days before Adhikari joined the BJP. Interestingly, BJP leaders said they are in touch with Dipak Haldar, the legislator from Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district which is a segment in Abhishek Banerjee’s Lok Sabha constituency. Haldar could not be contacted despite several attempts. “TMC will eventually collapse because it was formed with the sole purpose of ousting the CPI(M)-led government. Once that purpose was served in 2011 the party was left with no agenda. Without comprehensive idealism no party can sustain for long,” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar told HT on Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-shifts-attention-to-infighting-in-party-units-after-minister-quits/story-LXzWXiwVlrMhCIPJCN6DiK.html
06-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times| Punishing someone for falling in love is serious crime: SC tells khap members and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesSC tells khap members: Punishing someone for falling in love is serious crimePunishing someone for falling in love is a serious crime, observed the Supreme Court on Tuesday while hearing arguments over grant of bail to 11 persons, who formed part of a khap panchayat that ordered hanging of three youths, including a girl and a boy who fell in love and wanted to make a life together. Read more Violence erupts as police, villagers clash over proposed IIT-Goa campusProtests against a proposed IIT-Goa campus took a violent turn on Wednesday with police lobbing tear gas shells at villagers who had set up a human chain at the entrance to the site about 50 kms from the state capital of Panaji. Read more Schools set to reopen in Punjab from January 7Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday announced that following the persistent demand of parents, the state government has decided to reopen all government, semi-government and private schools in the state from January 7. Read more Trump claims voter fraud in Georgia Senate runoffs, Republican candidate calls for ‘transparency’After multiple failed attempts to overturn the US presidential election results, President Donald Trump has now started suggesting voter fraud in Georgia Senate runoffs, which will decide the fate of president-elect Joe Biden’s agenda. Read more India vs Australia: A fan who attended 2nd Test at MCG, tests positive for Covid-19The Melbourne Cricket Club (MCC) has confirmed that one fan who attended the India vs Australia Boxing Day Test at the MCG has now tested positive for Covid-19. Read more Google fixes volume issues on the Pixel 5 with latest updateAfter two months of users posting complaints on Google’s support forums and social media, it seems to have finally paid off as issues with volume control on the company’s latest flagship Pixel 5 phone appear to have been resolved with the January update. Read more Tata Motors brings back iconic ‘Safari’ nameplate, bookings to open soonTata Motors announced on Wednesday that it is bringing back its iconic ‘Safari’ nameplate soon. Its forthcoming flagship SUV (previously codenamed Gravitas) is set to break cover in the last week of January. Read more I am not a gay man: Bollywood designer Swapnil Shinde comes out as Saisha, a trans womanBollywood designer (formerly) Swapnil Shinde, best known for dressing A-list Bollywood actors recently took to his Instagram to come out as a transwoman with a long post, sharing pictures of his new appearance and name - Saisha Shinde. Read more ‘Budhiya’: BJP leader’s jibe at Congress rival goes viral, sparks row | Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-punishing-someone-for-falling-in-love-is-serious-crime-sc-tells-khap-members-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MgZfSVg2bw6jo66MsHnm4N.html
06-01-2021||India||SC tells khap members: Punishing someone for falling in love is serious crime||Punishing someone for falling in love is a serious crime, observed the Supreme Court on Tuesday while hearing arguments over grant of bail to 11 persons, who formed part of a khap panchayat that ordered hanging of three youths, including a girl and a boy who fell in love and wanted to make a life together.The incident occurred in Mathura district of Uttar Pradesh in March 1991 and in all, 33 persons were sentenced to serve life term for the gruesome crime by the Allahabad high court in May 2016.Both the girl and the boy belonged to the Jatav community, a scheduled caste, while the khap panchayat consisted mainly of members of the Jat community.The girl eloped with the boy she loved and with another youth who helped them. When summoned by the khap panchayat, the young girl said she would like to continue living with the boy, enraging the elders, who then forced the parents of the three children to hang them. Both the boys were beaten and tortured and their private parts were burnt before hanging them.Commenting on the facts of the case, the apex bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “The offences are serious that can disrupt society. You cannot punish someone for falling in love. This is a worse form of crime.”Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain who appeared for the state informed the Court that out of 11 applicants, only two persons had not completed 10 years of sentence. In their application for bail, some accused claimed they were of advanced age and there was a possibility of them contracting Covid-19 while inside jail.Also Read: SC refuses to stay laws against interfaith marriage, issues notices to UP, UttarakhandThe bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “We want to know their mental and physical state of health and whether their release will rake-up the old incident or create trouble for others or themselves. Even if they are to be released, they have to be sent to another district.”Considering all these aspects, the bench ordered the state to arrange for a probation officer to visit the jails of Agra and Mathura and interview the accused. The officer would submit a report to the top court in two weeks.The incident occurred on March 27, 1991 in a village under Barsana police station at Mathura in Uttar Pradesh. Based on the investigation by the police, 54 persons were charge-sheeted. Following the trial, 38 persons were convicted, of which eight were sentenced to death while 30 others were awarded life term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-khap-members-punishing-someone-for-falling-in-love-is-serious-crime/story-EyQdSZTX4uziCRvMz8gAUL.html
06-01-2021||India||MK Stalin’s gram sabha meet camouflage to blame TN Govt says CM Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday accused DMK president M K Stalin of holding the people’s Gram Sabha meeting as a camouflage to blame the AIADMK government and to deceive the people.Launching a broadside at the DMK chief, Palaniswami questioned the futility of conducting it and said such an effort would have legal sanctity only if they were convened by the government and asked the people not to be misled by the DMK leader’s meetings.He said nothing beneficial would emerge from them.Palaniswami, on a two-day election campaign in this district, sought to know if Stalin’s meetings were really worth it.“He (Stalin) is conducting Makkal Gram Sabha (people’s gram sabha) only to blame the government and to mislead the people,” the chief minister said addressing a meeting at Bhavani in Erode.“He had held similar meetings during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and received petitions from the people. What is the current status of those petitions. To whom did he submit those petitions or did he take any steps to resolve their grievances?” Palaniswami asked.Only the duly elected government could redress the grievances of the people and not the opposition party, he said.On Stalin’s recent announcement that he would submit the second list of corruption charges against ministers to the state Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Palaniswami said the DMK president had earlier submitted a petition to Purohit, levelling baseless corruption charges with regard to projects for which tenders are yet to be floated.“How can he say corruption took place when the work is yet to start,” the chief minister wondered.Palaniswami said the e-tendering system is followed by all departments offering the opportunity to everyone to apply from anywhere in the world.But this was not the case during the previous DMK regime where applications were given only to persons whom they wanted, the chief minister alleged.The DMK submitted a complaint last month to the Governor, alleging corruption charges against ministers including the chief minister.With a number of cases pending against senior DMK leaders, Palaniswami sarcastically remarked many of them would not be able to contest the elections if the court expedited the cases.Assembly elections in the state are likely to be held in April-May this year.At Anthiyur later, Palaniswami said he was ready to face any inquiry over the corruption charges levelled by Stalin.He said he was ready for a one-to-one meeting with the DMK leader in a public place where he would respond to Stalin’s charges.He said the DMK chief was attacking him and his cabinet colleagues with such charges ‘unable’ to bear the good work of the AIADMK government.The chief minister also provided a detailed list of welfare schemes being implemented by his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/mk-stalin-s-gram-sabha-meet-camouflage-to-blame-tn-govt-says-cm-palaniswami/story-YQUI3IrxRW70bYjSDxNw5L.html
06-01-2021||India||About 75 million elderly in India suffer from some chronic disease: Health ministry survey||About 75 million elderly persons in India, or one in two people above 60 years of age, suffer from some chronic disease, shows the first part of the world’s largest study on the elderly -- The Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI)-- released on Wednesday.About 40% have some form of disability, and as high as 20% are suffering from mental health issues. Also, 27% of this population group has multi-morbidities, which translates to roughly 35 million people.“About 45 million have cardiovascular disease and hypertension and about 20 million suffer from diabetes, and 24% of the elderly has difficulty in performing daily functions such as walking, eating, toilet etc; according to this survey,” said KS James, director, The International Institute of Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, which is the nodal institution for implementing the survey.Also Read| ‘Bharat Biotech vaccine approved in clinical trial mode, consent of participants has to be taken’: ICMR“Even if we assume 90% of these people are taken care of at home, there is still 10% that would require professional help. Imagine the employment opportunities that will be generated in future and the number of people who would require training to take care of the elderly in our country,” said James.The study was commission by the Union ministry of health and family welfare in 2016, to track ageing patterns and diseases affecting India’s 103 million people over 60 years of age. The other institutes that collaborated for the survey include the Harvard T.H Chan School of Public Health, and the University of Southern California. With people living longer, the global share of older people aged 60 years and above increased from 9.2% in 1990 to 11.7% in 2013 and is expected to reach 21.1% by 2050. Also Read| Covid-19: Firms may face problems in finding volunteers for vaccine trials in IndiaWith 65% of India’s population under 35 years of age when the study was commissioned, there are expected to be 350 million people above 60 years by 2050, which is why the government focused on documenting the problems faced by the elderly in our country and how their problems could be addressed. “From 9% in 2011, the 60 plus population in the country is likely to go up to 20% in 2050. A common plan will be created for the care of elderly in the country using the findings of the LASI study for implementation in future,” said Vandana Gurnani, mission director, National Health Mission. The first wave of LASI covered a panel sample of 72,250 individuals age 45 years and above, including 31, 464 people above 60 and 6,749 oldest-old persons aged 75 and above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-two-above-60-years-of-age-suffer-from-some-chronic-disease-in-india-health-ministry-survey/story-LTfJ3bUdDee678Dptb5viL.html
06-01-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Rewari-Madar freight corridor section tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) virtually on Thursday, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The statement said PM Modi will also flag off the world’s first Double Stack Long Haul 1.5km container train hauled by electric traction from Haryana’s Ateli to Kishangarh in Rajasthan.Governors and chief ministers of Rajasthan and Haryana along with Union minister Piyush Goyal will also be present at the occasion.Also read | Goods trains clock top speed of 90 kmph on new freight corridor: RailwaysHere’s what you need to know:Rewari-Madar section of WDFC1. The Rewari-Madar section is situated in Haryana, approximately 79km in Mahendragarh and Rewari districts and Rajasthan approximately 227km, in Jaipur, Ajmer, Sikar, Nagaur and Alwar districts. 2. It consists of nine newly-built DFC stations in which six are crossing stations of New Dabla, New Bhagega, New Sri Madhopur, New Pachar Malikpur, New Sakun and New Kishangarh while the other three are in Rewari, New Ateli and New Phulera are junction stations.Also read | PM inaugurates 351-km dedicated freight corridor in UP, hits out at previous govts3. The opening of this stretch will benefit various industries in Rewari, Manesar, Narnaul, Phulera and Kishangarh areas of Rajasthan and Haryana and will also enable better usage of the container depot of CONCOR at Kathuwas. 4. This section will also ensure seamless connectivity with the western ports of Kandla, Pipavav, Mundhra, and Dahej in Gujarat.5. The inauguration of this section will bring about seamless connectivity between the WDFC and EDFC. The Prime Minister dedicated the 351km New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of EDFC on December 29, 2020.Double Stack Long Haul Container Train Operation1. This operation will have an enhanced axle load of 25 tonnes.2. It has been designed for the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India (DFCCIL) by Research Design and Standards Organisation’s (RDSO) wagon department. Trial runs of BLCS-A and BLCS-B wagon prototypes have been completed. 3. The design will maximise capacity utilisation and uniform distributed and point loading. These wagons on a long-haul double-stack container train on the WDFC can carry four times in terms of container units compared to the current traffic on Indian Railways.Also read | PM Modi inaugurates New Bhaupur-New Khurja stretch of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor4. DFCCIL will run freight trains at the maximum speed of 100km/per hour as against the current maximum speed of 75kmph on the Indian Railways’ tracks.5. The average speed of freight trains will also be increased from the existing speed of 26kmph on Indian Railways lines to 70kmph on DFC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-rewari-madar-freight-corridor-section-tomorrow/story-s4xhYaogicroMzx5W3qaaJ.html
06-01-2021||India||Budaun gang-rape case: NCW takes cognizance, to meet victim’s kin||The National Commission for Women’s (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma said on Wednesday they have taken the cognisance of the gang-rape and murder of a 50-year-old woman reported in the Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh, adding that a member will meet the victim’s relatives and police. “We have taken cognisance of the matter. One NCW member is going to the spot to investigate the matter to meet the family and the police and take an exact stock of the situation,” Sharma told news agency ANI.The 50-year-old Anganwadi worker was gang-raped and brutally murdered allegedly by a priest and his two aides in the Budaun district, according to police. They said two of the accused were arrested on Tuesday, while the priest was on the run and four teams had been formed to nab him. “The post-mortem report confirms rape and there are injuries in her private parts and a fracture in the leg,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said. We've taken cognisance of the matter. One NCW member is going to the spot to investigate the matter to meet the family and the police and take an exact stock of the situation: Rekha Sharma, Chairperson, National Commission for Women, on alleged gangrape in Badaun, UP pic.twitter.com/JfaOHkpiWmSSP Sharma also said that the station house officer of the Ughaiti police station was suspended for laxity in the case. The woman, who had gone to a temple on Sunday, was found dead under mysterious circumstances, Sharma said adding that the victim’s family accused the temple priest and his aides of raping and murdering her and that a case was registered against them. “The victim’s son said his mother had gone to offer prayers at the temple on Sunday but she did not return. However, around 11pm, the temple priest and two of his aides came to his house and handed over his mother’s body,” he said.Also Read: Hathras horror: CBI files charge sheet against fourThe rape, which comes months after the Hathras gang-rape case, has led to strong criticism of the BJP-led government in UP by opposition parties. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged there was something wrong in Uttar Pradesh’s administration when it comes to women security. Tagging a media report, she tweeted, “In Budaun, the police station officer did not listen to the one pleading and did not even examine the place of the incident. There is something wrong in the UP government’s intentions on women’s security.”Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed the crime as ‘gruesome’ and also questioned as to when will the Yogi Adityanath government in the state wake up. The Samajwadi Party said that the guilty should be punished at the earliest and justice should prevail.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budaun-gang-rape-case-ncw-takes-cognizance-to-meet-victim-s-kin/story-KBAIV5IZqII1RERk5k9MAN.html
06-01-2021||India||Armed with drone, 19-year-old rescues 4 drowning fishermen off Kerala coast||A 19-year-old engineering student became a hero in Kerala after he was able to save four drowning fishermen in the Arabian sea with the help of a drone. When rescue workers and fishermen were worried about a missing boat on Nattika beach in Thrissur on Tuesday, young Devang Subil approached them. Initially no one was willing to hear him and some of them even shooed him away, saying it was not a child’s play.After Nattika legislator Geetha Gopi heard his plea she approached police and rescue officials and Subil managed to board a rescue boat with his drone.“It was my first deep sea voyage. When our boat reached 11 nautical miles away from the coast I released my drone. Initially the wind created problems but after 20 minutes or so my drone captured first visuals of a man clinging on to a log of capsized boat and beamed faint visuals in my mobile phone,” said Subil detailing the rescue operation. He said soon fishermen and coastal police immediately diverted their vessels to the spot where the first man was found and rescued him. Later 300 metres away from the spot, they found two others and rescued; the fourth one took almost another an hour to spot, he said. “The fourth man was on the verge of drowning after exhaustion. Minutes after his rescue, the man lost his consciousness,” he said. Now four of them are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Thrissur. They spent almost six hours in the sea and one of them managed to send an SOS to the shore which alerted others.“We salute the youngster whose timely intervention saved four lives. He showed us how new innovations can help save lives. I have already approached the government with a suggestion to honour him,” said MLA Geetha Gopi. Subil, a second year B.Tech student of Bnegaluru’s Christ University, had returned to his native place after his college shut due to pandemic. The Kerala Fishing Boat Operator’s Association said it was the first time a drone camera was used to save fishermen from seas in south India. It is planning to submit a proposal to the state fisheries department to deploy more drones and train rescuers to use them.“It is a cheap medium of rescue. Usually we press helicopters and speed boats into service for such search operations. But this is very cost effective,” said Subil, adding he will add more modifications and be ready to train rescuers involved in such operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-with-drone-19-year-old-rescues-4-drowning-fishermen-off-kerala-coast/story-nvCNgclVlaxfuuG4Q4HuPP.html
06-01-2021||India||Amit Shah to attend Thuglak magazine’s 51st anniversary event in Chennai on Jan 14||Union home minister Amit Shah would visit Chennai on January 14 to take part in the 51st anniversary celebrations of Thuglak magazine edited by Reserve Bank of India’s board director S Gurumurthy, confirmed the Tamil political magazine. Shah’s participation assumes political significance as several senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including LK Advani and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have addressed Thuglak’s anniversary celebrations in the past.After his visit in November, this is Shah’s second trip to the city in the recent past, ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu due in April or May. A senior BJP leader in the state said that though Shah’s itinerary is yet to be finalised, his visit will bring clarity especially in relation to their ally, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). “He will clear all the uncertainty over the alliance and also the issue of the chief ministerial candidate,” the leader said on condition of anonymity. Shah’s visit may also coincide with that of two other significant leaders on the same day. BJP president J P Nadda, who was scheduled to visit Chennai on December 31 for poll preparation and to make important party announcements postponed his visit likely to mid-January after he was diagnosed with Covid-19. Meanwhile Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat is also likely to be on a two-day visit to attend other events and his programme was scheduled a couple of months ago, said a source. During his two-day visit on November 21, Shah had inaugurated infrastructure projects worth Rs67,378 crore at a government function in Chennai. Taking everyone by surprise, chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and his deputy O Paneerselvam announced on stage that their alliance with the BJP will continue. Later, Shah held marathon meetings, first with Palaniswami and Paneerselvam, followed by an event with state party members after which he chaired a high-level meeting with state leaders urging them to work towards coming to power on their own in the next five years in Tamil Nadu. The BJP leader quoted above had attended this meeting. “He instructed us not to comment on anything as we are a national party and announcements would come from Delhi,” the leader said. BJP being non-committal on the alliance with AIADMK and Palaniswami as the CM candidate irked the AIADMK camp until BJP clarified that it is a procedural issue. Through midnight into the early hours of November 22, Gurumurthy and Shah held a one-on-one meeting at the latter’s hotel. Gurumurthy became the editor of Thuglak after its founder-editor and political commentator Cho Ramaswamy’s demise in December 2016. Last year, vice-president Venkaiah Naidu was the chief guest with the participation of actor Rajinikanth. Last year, PM Modi recorded a video message for the event as he did in 2017. Modi had participated in 2008 when he was the chief minister of Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-attend-thuglak-magazine-s-51st-anniversary-event-in-chennai-on-january-14/story-3zoL7vrSLhuiuZ1bXkW1kL.html
06-01-2021||India||Violence erupts as police, villagers clash over proposed IIT-Goa campus||Protests against a proposed IIT-Goa campus took a violent turn on Wednesday with police lobbing tear gas shells at villagers who had set up a human chain at the entrance to the site about 50 kms from the state capital of Panaji. Police also resorted to lathicharge to clear the way for government surveyors to demarcate the site.Retaliating against the lathicharge, the villagers pelted stones at the police, leading to injuries on both sides. Villagers had been blocking the way on Tuesday as well, vowing not to allow the demarcation work to go ahead. On Tuesday, the police had backed off but today, they attempted to clear the blockade by force and physically drive away the squatting villagers. “The police tried to forcefully enter by stomping over the women who were lying down to block the path. They then began firing tear gas shells and a lathicharge before retreating,” Shubham Shivolkar, a leader who was present at the site, said. While no one was seriously injured, several villagers complained of having been struck by police lathis and tear gas shells. Earlier in the day, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that while the government was open to discuss and address the villagers’ concerns, the IIT-Goa campus will be built at the present site. “The demarcation is going on. It will continue. The people will (eventually) calm down. We have told them we are willing to discuss,” Sawant said, indicating that the Goa government was unwilling to back down from the present site which is the latest site identified after two previous locations also in ‘forested areas’ were opposed by locals. Located in the state’s eastern corner at the foothills of the Western Ghats along the border with Karnataka and more than 50 kms from the state capital Panaji, the land chosen is thickly forested interspersed with cashew trees that villagers claim have sustained them for generations and have been demanding that the new proposed IIT be shifted to a different location, one which will come at less cost to the environment and their livelihoods.IIT Goa has currently been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College. Two sites previously identified by the state government, in Canacona and Sanguem sub districts, for setting up of a permanent campus for IIT were also scrapped on account of protests from local residents and after pressure from the Opposition, which had alleged a land scam in shortlisting of sites for the top technology institute.The present site was identified and the land, which belongs to the Goa government, was handed over to IIT-Goa in May last year during the Covid-19 lockdown. Protests have been on since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-erupts-as-police-villagers-clash-over-proposed-iit-goa-campus/story-t8vfJvFKr6tf32BkMnB6IM.html
06-01-2021||India||India calls on Sri Lanka to fulfil expectations of Tamil minority||India on Wednesday called on Sri Lanka to meet the Tamil minority’s expectations for greater devolution of powers as part of the reconciliation process even as it committed itself to greater cooperation aimed at boosting the island nation’s post-Covid-19 recovery efforts. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who is in Sri Lanka for his first overseas visit of the year, raised the expectations of the country’s Tamils during a joint media interaction with his counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena. He reiterated India’s backing for Sri Lanka’s reconciliation process and an “inclusive political outlook” that encourages ethnic harmony. Acknowledging the immediate challenge of post-Covid-19 recovery, Jaishankar said India will “always be a dependable partner and a reliable friend” that is open to strengthening ties on the basis of “mutual trust, mutual interests, mutual respect and mutual sensitivity”. Also Read: Sri Lanka to sign agreement to secure Covid-19 vaccine through COVAX“As we promote peace and well-being in the region, India has been strongly committed to the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. Our support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is long-standing, as indeed for an inclusive political outlook that encourages ethnic harmony,” he said. Jaishankar pointed out it was in Colombo’s own interest to fulfil the Tamil minority’s expectations for “equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka”. He added: “That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lankan government on meaningful devolution, including the 13th amendment of the Constitution. The progress and prosperity of Sri Lanka will surely be advanced as a consequence.” The aspirations of Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority, a key political issue in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, had also been raised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual summit with his counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa last September. At the time, the Indian side had called for the full implementation of the 13th amendment, which is an outcome of the 1987 India-Sri Lanka peace accord aimed at devolving more powers to the Tamils. Rajapaksa and his brother, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, have shied away from committing to full implementation of the amendment. They have also indicated they won’t go against the wishes of the Sinhala majority while working on any resolution in Tamil-inhabited areas. In his remarks at the media interaction, Gunawardena noted that President Rajapaksa had firmly stated his commitment to the well-being, progress and opportunities of all Sri Lankan citizens, including Sinhala, Tamils and Muslims. Jaishankar said he and Gunawardena had discussed several proposals for cooperation in energy, infrastructure and connectivity, and the early implementation of such projects would help accelerate Sri Lanka’s recovery from the impact of the pandemic. He also promised a speedy follow-up to talks on possible Indian investments in special zones for manufacturing pharmaceuticals and tourism. While expressing India’s commitment to help enhance Sri Lanka’s capability to deal with growing maritime challenges, Jaishankar said New Delhi also looked forward to the early return of Indian fishermen detained by the island nation’s authorities for crossing the maritime boundary. Gunawardena thanked India for its support to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic. “The Indian government’s ‘neighbourhood first policy made a very positive impact on our health sector and the economy during the critical period [of] unprecedented crisis...,” he said. Jaishankar is visiting Sri Lanka during January 5-7 at the invitation of Gunawardena. The external affairs ministry said the visit reflects the priority attached by both countries to strengthening relations in all spheres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-on-sri-lanka-to-fulfil-expectations-of-tamil-minority/story-V49Alanoa5X2O5Bq0DNa3H.html
06-01-2021||India||India, Sri Lanka looking at post-Covid cooperation, says Jaishankar||Asserting that the coronavirus pandemic has not dented the bilateral relationship between India and Sri Lanka, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday that the two countries are now looking at post-Covid cooperation.Speaking at a joint media briefing with his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena, Jaishankar said the Covid pandemic has given the two sides an opportunity to work even more closely together.“It hasn’t dented our bilateral cooperation but the virtual summit between our prime ministers was the watermark of our relationship last year,” he said, referring to the virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa in September.“We are now looking at post-Covid cooperation and I carry back with me Sri Lanka’s interest in accessing vaccines from India,” he said.Sri Lankan leadership formally requested Indian assistance to obtain the Covid vaccine during meetings with Jaishankar in Colombo.Jaishankar is visiting Colombo over three months after the two prime ministers held the virtual summit during which the two sides agreed to further expand ties in a range of areas such as anti-terror cooperation, maritime security and trade and investment.He also spoke on the need to ensure aspirations of the minority Tamils are addressed within a united Sri Lanka.“India has been strongly committed to the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. Our support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is long standing as indeed for an inclusive political outlook that encourages ethnic harmony,” he said.He also emphasised on the importance of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution.Jaishankar, who had met President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and his counterpart Gunawardena before the press conference and was expected to meet with the minister of fisheries Douglas Devananda, said he was looking forward to the early return of Indian fishermen detained in Lanka. “We look forward to the early return of our fishermen from Sri Lanka,” Jaishankar said. Indian fishermen, apprehended in Sri Lanka for allegedly poaching in its territorial waters, were provided consular assistance by the Consulate General of India in Jaffna last week.The high commission said it was in touch with the Sri Lankan Government to facilitate the early release of the detained fishermen.India and Sri Lanka last week held through video conferencing a meeting of the joint working group on fisheries and discussed the issues related to fishermen and the ways to overcome challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.Fishermen from both countries are arrested frequently for inadvertently trespassing into each other’s waters. On his part, Sri Lankan Foreign Minister conveyed profound gratitude to Prime Minister Modi and the Indian government for the tremendous support India extended in the past several months to mitigate the adverse impact of the Covid pandemic.“India’s Neighbourhood First Policy has made a positive impact on the health sector and economy during this period of unprecedented crisis,” Gunawardena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sri-lanka-looking-at-post-covid-cooperation-says-jaishankar/story-6TpKPbStOfBXqAeOUDR56N.html
06-01-2021||India||Covid-19: 1 new death and 96 cases per million population in India in last 7 days, says govt||As India continues recording less than 20,000 new cases per day of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Wednesday released data comparing new deaths and cases per million population in the last seven days, with those in other worst-hit countries. On both counts, the data showed, India had the lowest cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia recorded just one new death per million population in the last seven days, the ministry’s data showed. The figure was lower than that in the United Kingdom, Italy, the United States, France, Russia and Brazil. The corresponding numbers in these countries were 64 (UK), 55 (Italy and US), 35 (France), 25 (Russia) and 23 (Brazil).“India’s daily fatalities below 300 continuously since the last 12 days,” the ministry further said. #Unite2FightCoronaOnly one new death per million population is reported in India in the last 7 days. pic.twitter.com/flimEGImRXOn Wednesday, India became only the third country, after the United States and Brazil, to cross 150,000 Covid-19 deaths. The Union health ministry’s dashboard showed India registered 264 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking its death toll to 150,114. The US and Brazil have registered 357,377 and 197,732 deaths thus far, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker.Also Read | India crosses 150,000 Covid-19 deaths: Here’s where other worst-hit countries standOn the new daily cases front, the ministry’s data showed India had registered 96 infections per million population in the last seven days. Here too, the UK, where prime minister Boris Johnson announced a nationwide lockdown on Monday, has the highest number of cases, at 5,654. The US is next with 4,524, followed by Italy (1,819), France (1,472), Russia (1,229) and Brazil (1,174). #Unite2FightCorona96 new cases per million population have been recorded in the last 7 days in India. pic.twitter.com/6txTAu0vojIndia recorded 18,088 new Covid-19 cases in its latest daily count, the health ministry’s dashboard showed on Wednesday. The total number of cases are currently at 10,374,932, which also includes more than 9.9 million recoveries and 227,546 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-1-new-death-and-96-cases-per-million-population-in-india-in-last-7-days-says-govt/story-7jvzjDvcR8lZcUN53x31dN.html
06-01-2021||India||Kerala High Court sets aside aquittal in Walayar minors’ rape-murder case||A division bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday set aside the verdict of the Palakkad Special Court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act acquitting all the accused in the case relating to the death of two minor Dalit siblings in Walayar in Palakkad district in 2017.The bench comprising Justices A Hariprasad and MA Anitha ordered a retrial in the case and directed the special court to hear it. The court also observed that the prosecution could move an application seeking further investigation in the case before the special court. It has also directed the accused to surrender before the trial court by January 20.The court passed the judgment while hearing the appeals of the state government and mother questioning the special court verdict.There are four accused in the case and one of them Pradeep Kumar had died by suicide last year. The court has also pulled up the investigating team, prosecutor and judge of the POCSO court.The prosecution’s case is that the two minor girls had died by suicide due to repeated sexual harassment by the accused. The girls, aged 13 and nine, were found dead inside their home 52 days apart. The 13-year-old was found dead on January 13, 2017, and the younger child, aged nine, died 52 days later on March 4.The case had seen many twists and turns since then. Last year the government had admitted in the high court that the case was not investigated properly and it was ready for a re-probe. The mother had also approached the high court for a court-monitored central agency probe. In 2019 the POCSO court had set free four accused and passed strictures against the investigating team. But the police officer who headed the investigation was promoted later. There was enough indignation after the verdict and later the high court took up the case suo motu but proceedings were stalled again after the government announced a judicial commission. Many lapses in the trial also came to the fore. A lawyer N Rajesh, who represented one of the accused in the case, was later appointed as the district child welfare committee president, a body aimed at protecting rights of children. During the trial, many witnesses turned hostile.The ruling CPI(M) also faced criticism as some of the accused are reported to be party workers. The state women commission also failed to come to the rescue of parents due to political pressure, said activists who were helping parents, both labourers. The mother of the siblings had staged several rounds of protests seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-sets-aside-aquittal-in-wayalar-minors-rape-murder-case/story-3T6Owtnga2JtPv9XiGl8wK.html
06-01-2021||India||Wisconsin’s assembly speaker supports farmers’ protests, writes to Indian envoy||Voicing his support for the farmers’ protest in India, the Speaker of Wisconsin State Assembly has urged the Indian government to reconsider its decision on the three farm laws and listen to the concerns of the affected farmers.Robin J Vos expressed his support through a letter to India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu. He also wrote a similar letter to US Ambassador to India Ken Juster.“One thing Wisconsin and India may have in common is our large agricultural economies. The farmers of our state are a very large part of our overall economy. It would be unfathomable to me that we would make law changes that affect them without taking their input into account, or by shutting them down as they exercised their right to peaceably assemble,” he wrote in his letters dated January 4.“Hopefully, the Modi government will reconsider its decision and sit down with the affected farmers to listen to their concerns,” Vos said. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and politicians on protests by farmers as “ill-informed” and “unwarranted”, asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country.“We have seen some ill-informed comments…relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said last month.“Recently, I was made aware of three new laws that may have a great impact on the farmers of Punjab. It is my understanding that these three laws were implemented with little to no consultation with this large community of farmers, and have sparked massive protests in Delhi,” Vos said in his letter to Sandhu.“While my job does not usually call me to opine on relations between the United States and other countries, I write as a US citizen who represents Indians in Wisconsin. I ask that in your consultations with Prime Minister Modi you convey my concern for violations of human civil rights and the right to peaceably protest,” he said in his letter to the Indian ambassador.Wisconsin has a sizeable Sikh population. In his letter to Juster, Vos said he was writing as a US citizen who represents Indians in Wisconsin.“I ask that in your consultations with Prime Minister Modi and his government, that you convey a concern for violations of human civil rights and the right to peaceably protest. I trust you agree that these are fundamental bedrocks in American society and we should do all we can in our diplomatic relations to ensure that they are bedrocks in the countries with which we have diplomatic ties,” Vos wrote.Eminent Sikh American Darshan Singh Dhaliwal welcomed the letters written by Vos and said that farmers of the entire India, not only Punjab, were suffering.“Repeal of the three farmers’ laws is the right thing to do. Farmers do not want these laws,” said Dhaliwal who left for India on Tuesday to show solidarity with the protesting farmers.He said he was in talks with several US Congressmen for a visit to India to meet the protesting farmers and get a firsthand assessment of the situation on the ground.Meanwhile, the Indian embassy has increased its outreach to members of the US Congress briefing them about the various aspects of the farm bill, and the right of the farmers to protest and the several rounds of talks that the government has had with the leaders of the protesting farmers.During these briefings by senior officials of the Indian embassy, the lawmakers and their staffers are being given the historical perspective of the agricultural sector in India and the problems that this sector is facing, including the falling income of farmers.Ambassador Sindhu has spoken to a few eminent Congressmen. The Indian embassy is also reaching out to members of the Indian community.Members of US Congress and their staffers are told about the various misconceptions about the farm bills. They are told that farmers have the absolute right to protest and their ongoing protest is democracy in action.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September.Dubbing these laws as “anti-farmer”, these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislation would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protestors and the Indian government but the logjam continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wisconsin-s-assembly-speaker-supports-farmers-protests-writes-to-indian-envoy/story-BmFyLitQyq54DguEZlMFzI.html
06-01-2021||India||AIADMK functionary among 3 more arrested in Pollachi sexual assault case||Three more men including a student wing secretary of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) have been arrested in connection with the sensational 2019 Pollachi sexual assault case, being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The accused were identified as K Arulanantham, 34, the AIADMK’s Pollachi town students’ wing secretary, Haron Paul, 29 and ‘Bike’ Balu, 27, a second-hand bike dealer, police said. “They are friends of those previously arrested in the case,” a senior official said. The trio were produced at the Mahila Court in Coimbatore district on Wednesday and were remanded to 14-day judicial custody, police added.AIADMK, in a joint statement by chief minister and party coordinator Edapaddi Palaniswami and coordinator O Paneerselvam, were quick to expel Arulanandam. The party removed him from membership and asked the cadre not to be in contact with him. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M K Stalin said in a statement that bail should not be granted to the accused. “While there are still many ruling party figures to be trapped….I urge the CBI to expedite the investigation, arrest all those involved in the heinous sexual offense up to the top level of the AIADMK, and ensure safety of Tamil Nadu women,” Stalin added.Also Read: DMK cadre manhandle AIADMK woman functionary at Stalin’s gram sabhaThe case came to light in February 2019, when a 19-year-old woman filed a complaint alleging a group of men sexually assaulted her inside a car, filmed the act and threatened to leak the video. The local police began investigations which revealed that a network of men had similarly harassed scores of women in Pollachi and blackmailed them. Several videos had leaked during this time. Police arrested five men-- K Thirunavukarasu, Riswanth, M Satish, T Vasanthakumar and R Mani in 2019. After allegations linking the names of the accused with ruling party functionaries emerged, Tamil Nadu government first transferred the case to the CB-CID and then to the CBI which filed a charge sheet in May 2019. There was a huge public outrage across the state over the case and wide-ranging debates on the safety of women as reports suggested that the accused befriended the women on social media to meet them in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/aiadmk-functionary-among-3-more-arrested-in-pollachi-sexual-assault-case/story-YqLnqLb9vPnmfdME3lW2fJ.html
06-01-2021||India||4 workers die after gas leak at Rourkela steel plant. Here’s what we know so far||Four contract workers died on Wednesday morning following the leakage of toxic gas at a plant of the Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) in Odisha’s Rourkela, officials said. Rourkela’s superintendent of police Mukesh Kumar Bhamoo said the four workers of a private firm, who were engaged in maintenance work of the coal chemical department, became unconscious after the leakage of carbon monoxide at around 7.30am on Wednesday. Here’s what we know so far about the Rourkela steel plant gas leak:1. Rourkela’s superintendent of police Bhamoo said it is not yet known how the gas leak occurred.2. The four workers were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela, but later succumbed to the poisonous gas. 3. The dead workers have been identified as Ganesh Chandra Paila, 59, Abhimanyu Sahu, 33, Rabindra Sahu, 59, and Brahmananda Panda, 51.4. The steel plant’s spokesperson Archana Satpathy said all the four men worked for a maintenance contractor firm Star Construction. 5. Though there were reports of several other workers being affected by the gas leak, Satpathy said only four workers were present at the accident site.6. All emergency protocols have been immediately activated in the plant, officials have said.7. Authorities have ordered a high-level probe into the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-workers-die-after-gas-leak-at-rourkela-steel-plant-here-s-what-we-know-so-far/story-aD3FJBdL2e96rWaaTkEKVL.html
06-01-2021||India||Avian influenza can be transmitted to humans, no case in India yet: Minister||Avian influenza, the bird flu that has killed nearly 25,000 birds across the country, can also be transmitted to humans but no such case has been reported so far in India, Union minister of state, animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries Sanjeev Balyan, told news agency ANI on Wednesday. Balyan said there is no treatment for the infection and that all the states have been advised to exercise preventive measures that include restriction of movement of birds and proper disposal of birds.“Infection in humans is not yet reported in India though the disease is zoonotic. There is no direct evidence that AI viruses can be transmitted to humans via the consumption of contaminated poultry products,” the Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying said in a statement. Implementing management practices that incorporate bio security principles, personal hygiene, and cleaning and disinfection protocols, as well as cooking and processing standards, are effective means of controlling the spread of the AI viruses, the ministry statement added. The AI influenza has so far been reported from five states —Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Kerala—Balyan said. “In Haryana, it has been transmitted to poultry as well, otherwise the virus is found in wild and migratory birds,” he added. The animal husbandry ministry has asked states for timely collection and submission of samples for confirmation and further surveillance and intensification of surveillance plan. Meanwhile, the department of animal husbandry and dairying has also set up a control room in New Delhi to keep watch on the situation and to take stock on a daily basis of preventive and control measures undertaken by state authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avian-influenza-can-be-transmitted-to-humans-no-case-in-india-yet-minister/story-fDQK8hWl9EmRZ7npqH7bPO.html
06-01-2021||India||4 dead after gas leak at Rourkela steel plant||Four contract workers engaged in maintenance work at a Coal Chemical department of Rourkela’s SAIL steel plant died on Wednesday morning following leakage of toxic carbon monoxide gas, said police officials.The incident took place around 7:30 am, said Rourkela SP Mukesh Kumar Bhamoo. The officer added it was not yet known how the gas leak occurred.Dipak Chattaraj, CEO of the RSP, has assured all help to the families of the deceased workers. A high-level probe has been ordered into the incident.The four who turned unconscious were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela, but later succumbed to the poisonous gas. The deceased have been identified as Ganesh Chandra Paila (59), Abhimanyu Sahu (33), Rabindra Sahu (59) and Brahmananda Panda (51).Archana Satpathy, public relations officer of the Rourkela Steel Plant, said all the four worked for a maintenance contractor firm Star Construction. Though there were reports of several other workers being affected by the gas leak, the steel plant spokesperson said only four workers were present at the accident site.Officials said the coal chemical department in the plant produces coke oven gas that is generated from the Coke Oven Battery. Local officials said a probe would be started as to how the leak happened and the lack of safety protocols at the worksite.The first integrated steel plant in the public sector in India, RSP produces 4.5 MTPA (Million Tonne per Annum) of hot metal. SAIL proposes to ramp up the hot metal production to 8.8 MTPA by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-dead-after-gas-leak-at-rourkela-steel-plant/story-B0W5gwREqZj9r2s0JkAxsM.html
06-01-2021||India||Not Chinese, prefer Indian vaccine first, Nepal to India ahead of minister’s visit||Foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali will land in New Delhi on 14 January to attend the sixth Nepal-India Joint Commission meeting with external affairs minister S Jaishankar that will begin the next day, people familiar with the matter said.Officials in Kathmandu and New Delhi are giving final touches to agreements including one on the health sector that can be firmed up during the trip that is high on symbolism because of its timing.Gyawali’s visit is taking place against the backdrop of a flux in Nepal’s politics exacerbated by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli when he dissolved parliament last month. Fresh national elections have been scheduled on 30 April and 10 May.PM Oli later told people in a televised address that his rivals within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) had paralysed decision-making, leaving him with no other option.It was a reference to the continuing power tussle with Pushpa Kamal Dahal aka Prachanda, the former prime minister who was also the co-chair of the party and had played a lead role along with another prime minister, Madhav Nepal, to force PM Oli’s exit.India’s decision to go ahead with Gyawali’s visit - it was initially scheduled to take place last month - is seen to demonstrate India’s explicit support for the Nepali people and the ruling Oli government, a Nepal watcher said about the visit that is seen to be high on the political quotient.Also Watch: India donates ICU ventilators to Nepal to battle Covid-19 During his visit, Gyawali is expected to get a clear commitment from New Delhi for supply of over 12 million doses of the coronavirus vaccines produced in India. Nepal has offers from China to supply its version of the Sinovac vaccine. During discussions with Indian officials, Nepalese officials have, however, said that the Oli government preferred to get its vaccine supplies from New Delhi.Nepal’s ambassador to India Nilamber Acharya has already held several rounds of meetings with Indian vaccine manufacturers and government officials. His last meeting was on Tuesday with Dr V Krishna Mohan, executive director of Bharat Biotech that is producing the indigenously-developed Covid 19 vaccine.China, which has poured millions of dollars into Nepal in recent years in the form of aid and infrastructure investment, appears to have exhausted its influence with PM Oli in recent months after it tried to pressure him to avoid splitting the ruling communist party at all costs. Beijing is lately seen to be leaning in support of the rival communist party faction led by Prachanda and Madhav Nepal.India, in contrast, has already underlined that it has adopted a hands-off approach to the political developments in Nepal, calling PM Oli’s decision to dissolve the 275-member House of Representatives an internal matter.Pradeep Gyawali’s discussions with Jaishankar are expected to take up the boundary dispute that had soured relations between the two neighbours when Kathmandu issued a new political map.This visit will reboot ties, an Indian official said, stressing that the two countries shared a unique relationship of centuries-old civilizational ties based on shared geography, history, culture, language and religion. India is also looking to revive the religious and cultural heritage of Nepal given the civilizational ties between the two countries and could propose help to promote infrastructure development around sites that hold a potential from this perspective.It was a point that was underscored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he last visited Nepal in 2018, starting the visit from Janakpur and launching the Ramayana Circuit by flagging off a bus route between Janakpur and Ayodhya. PM Modi had then announced a Rs 100-crore package to develop the holy city of Janakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-chinese-prefer-indian-vaccine-first-nepal-to-india-ahead-of-minister-s-visit/story-qd6E8cs3Cn8NoxT0KIFSZO.html
06-01-2021||India||Fighting challenges in life resolutely is real win: PM Narendra Modi to speech impaired woman||“Challenges keep coming up in life, but even in adverse circumstances if we don’t give up and fight resolutely then that is our real victory,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said in a letter to a hearing and speech impaired woman who sent a picture of a ‘rangoli’ portrait of the PM made by her on Diwali.Vandana, a 23-year-old from Surat, Gujarat, sent the picture of the rangoli to the Prime Minister and was elated to get a reply. She got a lot of inspiration from it, her brother Kishanbhai Patel said.He said his sister is suffering from hearing and speech impairment since birth and is learning art at a coaching institute.Vandana’s life-like rangoli of the Prime Minister was appreciated by several people. Rangoli is an art form in which patterns and portraits are created using coloured rice powder, sand or flowers.In a letter to Vandana, the Prime Minister, while encouraging her, said that obstacles and challenges keep coming up in life, but even in adverse circumstances if we don’t give up and fight resolutely then that is our real victory.He also wished a bright future for Vandana and hoped that she scales new heights in the field of art and education.In her letter to the Prime Minister, Vandana described him as an inspiration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighting-challenges-in-life-resolutely-is-real-win-pm-narendra-modi-to-speech-impaired-woman/story-FM1DeXfKZyMEsA9GtMnYVL.html
06-01-2021||India||Bird flu reported in 4 states, Centre takes precautionary measures: All you need to know||Thousands of birds have died due to different variants of bird flu in Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, prompting the Centre to issue an alert to the states to monitor their health in forest areas and near water bodies.The Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying on Wednesday pointed to migratory birds as a cause for the spread of flu which has triggered an alarm in the north, central and southern India. “In India, the disease spreads mainly by migratory birds coming into India during winter months i.e. from September-October to February-March. The secondary spread by human handling (through fomites) cannot be ruled out,” the ministry said.Also Watch: Mass bird deaths in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, flu alert sounded So far, avian influenza has been reported from 12 epicentres of four states - Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala - after confirmation of positive samples from ICAR-NIHSAD. “So far, no human case of Avian Influenza has been reported. Ministry of Health & Family Welfare continues to keep a strict watch over the evolving scenario,” the Centre has said. The ongoing outbreak has been reported from these parts of India:1. Rajasthan (crow) – Baran, Kota, Jhalawar2. Madhya Pradesh (crow) – Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa3. Himachal Pradesh (migratory birds) - Kangra4. Kerala (poultry-duck) - Kottayam, Allapuzha (4 epicentres)The government has asked states to strengthen the biosecurity of poultry farms, disinfect the affected areas, and properly dispose of dead birds and carcasses.The animal husbandry ministry has also asked states for timely collection and submission of samples for confirmation and further surveillance and intensification of surveillance plan.To prevent disease transmission from affected birds to poultry and humans, the ministry has asked states to follow the general prevention guidelines.“Coordination with the forest department for reporting any unusual mortality of birds was also suggested to the States. The other states were also requested to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds and to report immediately to take necessary measures,” the ministry said in a statement.A control room has also been set up in New Delhi to keep watch on the situation and take stock on a daily basis of preventive and control measures undertaken by state authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-severe-is-the-latest-bird-flu-outbreak-and-govt-strategy-to-combat-it-all-you-need-to-know/story-aA4o7K4N6X1QzM8PkLscFL.html
06-01-2021||India||SC refuses to stay laws against interfaith marriage, issues notices to UP, Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on a petition questioning respective state legislations that outlaw and punish religious conversion by marriage, deceit, coercion or enticement. The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde issued the notices, but refused to stay the two laws despite arguments by petitioners that the law was being misused to harass individuals who married outside their faith. The court was hearing two petitions, one by a group of lawyers, and another by social activist Teesta Setalvad’s NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace. Also Read: SC to hear pleas against farm laws, issues related to farmers protest on January 11The persons who filed the first PIL are advocates Vishal Thakre and Abhay Singh Yadav and law researcher Pranvesh, based in Prayagraj. The petition said, “The Ordinance passed by the State of Uttar Pradesh and law passed by Uttarakhand are against the public policy and society at large and violates basic structure of the Constitution.” It pointed out that a similar law is being contemplated Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Assam.The Uttar Pradesh ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020” outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement. It was promulgated on November 24. The law prescribes a jail term varying between one and five years, in addition to fines of up to Rs15,000 for those convicted under the law. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to Rs25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or who are minors.The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.“This ordinance can become a potent tool in the hands of bad elements of the society to... falsely implicate anyone...there are probabilities to falsely implicate persons who are not involved in any such acts and it will be a grave injustice if this ordinance is passed,” said the petition.Senior advocate CU Singh who appeared for Setalvad’s NGO sought a stay on the UP ordinance. “Rampaging mobs are moving around lifting people from marriage ceremonies. This law requires prior reporting of marriages and burden of proof is on individual to show that he has not converted for marriage. These provisions are obnoxious particularly when the Supreme Court in 2018 held that state cannot interfere with individual’s right to marry as held in Shafin Jahan case.”The Uttarakhand law, called Freedom of Religion Act, was passed in 2018.The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “Can a law be stayed if prosecution is oppressive or false. This is the problem when you come directly to Supreme Court.”While initially taking up the case, the bench was of view that the matter should go to the high court. A similar challenge is pending before the Allahabad and Uttarakhand high courts. But Singh told the Supreme Court that it was not just a matter concerning these states as a similar law had also been passed by Himachal Pradesh in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-stay-laws-against-interfaith-marriage-issues-notices-to-up-uttarakhand/story-t4pr8lr9CMFd29CeumLh8K.html
06-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At hearing on plea against farm laws, SC says ‘we encourage consultation’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court hears petition against farm laws, says encourages consultationThe Supreme Court on Wednesday heard a petition challenging the three farm laws passed by Parliament, which have triggered protests near Delhi and in other parts of the country. Read moreJustice Goswami takes over as new chief justice of Andhra PradeshJustice Arup Kumar Goswami was sworn in as the new chief justice of Andhra Pradesh high court at a brief ceremony in Vijayawada on Wednesday. Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan administered the oath of office to justice Goswami at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram in the city. Read morePM Modi to launch New Rewari-New Madar section, world’s first double-stack container train tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) spanning 306 kilometers on Thursday via video conferencing. The prime minister will also flag off double stack long haul 1.5 kilometers long container train from New Ateli to New Kishangarh in the same event. Read moreUS, India have never been closer, says Mike PompeoDescribing external affairs minister S Jaishankar as “my friend” and “great diplomat”, US secretary of state Michael Pompeo said on Tuesday the United States and India have “never been closer” . Read more‘Lot of unnamed sources coming out from India’s camp’: ‘Uncertain’ Tim Paine talks about ‘power’ of India in world cricketThe recent reports of India contemplating not to travel to Brisbane for the fourth Test if strict quarantine rules are forced on them have not ‘frustrated’ him but have given birth to a degree of ‘uncertainty’ regarding the Test series, believes Australia captain Tim Paine. Read moreNew Fortuner and Fortuner Legender launched in India. Price and all details hereToyota Kirloskar Motor on Wednesday introduced the much-anticipated Fortuner facelift in the Indian market at a starting price of ₹29.98 lakh (ex-showroom). While the Fortuner SUV already commands a respectable position in the segment, the yearly update has raised the game a notch higher with all the updates the Ford Endeavour rival has received. Read moreAli Abbas Zafar reveals how he pursued wife Alicia for two years before she said yes, got married at his Dehradun homeFilmmaker Ali Abbas Zafar surprised all when he got married to Alicia earlier this week. He shared the news via social media posts. In a new interview, he has now revealed how he pursued Alicia, who is from France, for two years before she agreed. He added how his marriage was always intended to be a low-key affair, a far cry from his larger-than-life films. Read moreAnanya Panday’s vacay fashion is worth emulatingActor Ananya Panday might be back from her Maldives vacation but her super trendy outfits created quite a buzz on social media. The 22-year-old made sure to give a glimpse of all her looks she sported during the beach trip. Nailing all the current trend, she looked every inch the stunner in all her looks. We round off her five holiday picks and tell you what we liked the most about each. Read moreWatch: Covid vaccine: In Gujarat, European firm unveils tech to store, transport dosesAs India approves vaccines, storage & transportation tech unveiled. Luxembourg-based B. Medical Systems launched an equipment in Ahmedabad. India was in talks with the foreign firm to set up vaccine cold chain. PM Modi had spoken to Luxembourg Prime Minister about vaccine logistics challenges. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-hearing-on-plea-against-farm-laws-sc-says-we-encourage-consultation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-emiEhvVb01bBA6gEPi1WKM.html
06-01-2021||India||ISRO scientist claims to be poisoned 3 years ago, seeks punishment for culprit||Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist, Tapan Mishra has claimed he was poisoned more than three years ago with deadly arsenic trioxide on May 23, 2017, during a promotion interview at ISRO headquarters in Bengaluru.In a Facebook post titled ‘‘Long Kept Secret’‘, Senior Advisor ISRO, Mishra on Tuesday claimed that in July 2017, Home Affairs security personnel met him and alerted him of arsenic poisoning and helped doctors to focus on the exact remedy.Mishra said he later suffered from health issues including severe breathing difficulty, unusual skin eruptions, skin shedding and fungal infections.Speaking to ANI on Wednesday, Mishra said, “Someone definitely wanted to do some harm to ISRO. The only solution is to catch the culprit and punish them. It’s not possible to provide security to 2,000 scientists.” “I have posted everything on Facebook regarding the incident. I do not know the reason behind this but I can only guess that it might be a consequence of working on a critical technology. There might be other reasons as well,” he added.Mishra further said, it was important to bring this in public domain in order to save other scientists in future.“People take advantage of the silence. Agencies are looking into it. Surely it was no work of a street thug but some sophisticated espionage agency inside our organisation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-scientist-claims-to-be-poisoned-3-years-ago-seeks-punishment-for-culprit/story-WGA0I8Fv95M49z13ntN08H.html
06-01-2021||India||SC to hear pleas against farm laws, issues related to farmers protest on January 11||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a notice on a petition challenging the introduction of Entry 33 in Concurrent List through which the Centre introduced three contentious farm laws in September.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told Attorney General KK Venugopa,l appearing for the Centre, that the petition filed by advocate ML Sharma has challenged the introduction of Entry 33 under Seventh Schedule by way of Constitution (Third Amendment) Act, 1954.The court fixed the matter for hearing next on Monday. The court directed all other petitions challenging the validity of the three farm laws introduced by Centre to be also listed on Monday.Also Read: Supreme Court refuses to stay ‘love jihad’ laws in UP, Uttarakhand; issues noticeThe AG informed the court that talks with farmers are on and there are chances of reaching an agreement.“There are chances of the parties coming to an agreement .That chance will be closed if we file an affidavit,” AG Venugopal said. The bench said, “We want to encourage talks. We will keep the matters on Monday and if AG tells us that talks are on, we will adjourn the matter.” The bench observed that as of now there was no improvement in the situation at all. SG Tushar Mehta informed the court, “Our response is ready but since we are in a healthy discussion (with farmer unions) we have not filed it yet.” Sharma, who appeared in person to argue for the PIL, said that during the passing of the 1954 Constitutional amendment introducing Entry 33, only 8-9 states out of 19 existing states had ratified. The farmer unions have been holding protests over the three farm laws introduced by Centre last year. The laws in question, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, have also been opposed by some states, which have passed laws to blunt the implementation of the above enacted laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-against-farm-laws-issues-related-to-farmers-protest-on-january-11/story-bRmxuIXP4fMe6knMUKOgjL.html
06-01-2021||India||‘We encourage consultation’: Supreme Court while hearing petition against farm laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday heard a petition challenging the three farm laws passed by Parliament, which have triggered protests near Delhi and in other parts of the country.The petition has been filed by a lawyer.The bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said that it understands the situation of the farmers who are protesting at Delhi border braving harsh weather conditions. The Centre told the court that “healthy discussions” are going on with farmers after which the court adjourned the matter for further hearing on January 11.Attorney General K K Venugopal said there is good chance that parties may come to a conclusion in the near future and filing of response by the Centre on the pleas challenging the new farm laws might foreclose the negotiations between the farmers and government.“We encourage consultation. We can adjourn the matters on Monday (January 11) if you submit the same due to the ongoing consultation process,” the bench said.The farmers have been protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghaziabad border points near the national capital demanding the repeal of the laws passed in September last year. Several rounds of talks have taken place between the government and the farmers but no resolution has been found.In the last round on January 4, the talks were inconclusive as the farmers remained adamant with their demand that the laws be scrapped. The government has ruled this out, and has asked the farmer leaders to suggest changes to the laws which it said can be discussed.The three laws against which farmers have been protesting are: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-encourage-consultation-supreme-court-while-hearing-petition-against-farm-laws/story-7TDZV8UzLnZIO9L6OMwbnI.html
06-01-2021||India||Justice Goswami takes over as new chief justice of Andhra Pradesh||Justice Arup Kumar Goswami was sworn in as the new chief justice of Andhra Pradesh high court at a brief ceremony in Vijayawada on Wednesday. Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan administered the oath of office to justice Goswami at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram in the city. Andhra chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, chief secretary Adityanath Das, director general of police (DGP) Gautam Sawang, high court judges and their family members, besides several state ministers, MPs, MLAs and officials took part in the ceremony. Later, the government hosted high tea for the dignitaries. Later, justice Goswami left for high court and took up the cases in the first bench comprising justice Praveen Kumar. Justice Goswami, who was transferred from Sikkim, replaces justice J K Maheshwari, who has been moved to Sikkim. The abrupt transfer of justice Maheshwari within 14 months of his appointment as Andhra Pradesh chief justice comes in the wake of the chief minister’s complaint on October 6 against Supreme Court judge justice N V Ramana to the Chief Justice of India. Also Read: Andhra CM likens attacks on temple as ‘political guerrilla warfare’, directs police to tackle situationJagan alleged that justice Ramana, in collusion with justice Maheshwari and a few other judges, apart from Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu, conspired to topple his democratically-elected government in the state. He explained how Justice Maheshwari had passed orders against his government as part of the conspiracy. Born on March 11, 1961 at Jorhat in Assam, justice Goswami obtained his degree in law from the Government Law College, Guwahati in 1985 and enrolled himself as an advocate in the Guwahati high court. In 2011, he took over as an additional judge in Guwahati high court. He served as the executive chairman of Nagaland state legal services authority from 2011 to 2013. Later, he was appointed as a permanent judge in the high court. He was an acting chief justice of Guwahati high court twice in 2018 and was later elevated as full-time chief justice of Sikkim on October 15, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/andhra-pradesh/justice-goswami-takes-over-as-new-chief-justice-of-andhra-pradesh/story-cie7eB8wb03Yy8Q7sRolsL.html
06-01-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay ‘love jihad’ laws in UP, Uttarakhand; issues notice||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to stay laws enacted by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to punish marriages based on religious conversion. It, however, issued notices to the two state governments on petitions challenging the love jihad ordinance in Uttar Pradesh and Freedom of Religion Act, 2018 in Uttarakhand. The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde also issued a notice to the Centre on the petitions filed by advocate Vishal Thakre and Teesta Setalvad’s NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace. The petitioners have argued that the laws were being misused to harass individuals indulging in interfaith marriages.The first PIL filed by advocates Vishal Thakre and Abhay Singh Yadav and law researcher Pranvesh, based in Allahabad, said, “The Ordinance passed by the State of Uttar Pradesh and law passed by Uttarakhand are against the public policy and society at large and violates basic structure of the Constitution,” It pointed out that a similar legislation is being contemplated Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Assam.The Uttar Pradesh ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020”, which was promulgated on November 24, outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement. The law prescribes a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fines of up to Rs 15,000 for those convicted under it. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to Rs 25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or who are minors.The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.“This ordinance can become a potent tool in the hands of bad elements of the society to... falsely implicate anyone...there are probabilities to falsely implicate persons who are not involved in any such acts and it will be a grave injustice if this ordinance is passed,” said the petition.Senior advocate CU Singh who appeared for Setalvad’s NGO sought a stay on the UP ordinance, saying “Rampaging mobs are moving around lifting people from marriage ceremonies. This law requires prior reporting of marriages and the burden of proof is on the individual to show that he has not converted for marriage. These provisions are obnoxious particularly when the Supreme Court in 2018 held that the state cannot interfere with an individual’s right to marry as held in Shafin Jahan case.”The bench, also comprising Justice’s AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “Can a law be stayed if prosecution is oppressive or false. This is the problem when you come directly to the Supreme Court.”While initially taking up the case, the bench was of view that the matter should go to the high court. Similar challenge is pending before Allahabad and Uttarakhand high courts. Howverm Singh told the apex court that it’s not just a matter concerning these states as a similar law had also been passed by Himachal Pradesh in 2019. The matter has been posted for four weeks later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-laws-which-punish-marriages-based-on-religious-conversion-issues-notices-to-uttar-pradesh-uttarakhand/story-92IFE16wQVhxl02NbZuxcP.html
06-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Firms may face problems in finding volunteers for vaccine trials in India||With two vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) already getting emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India, recruiting trial subjects is likely to become difficult for the companies next in line. India’s apex drug regulator approved Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at the beginning of the year. The companies have said just the news that a vaccine will be available soon has had an adverse impact on recruitment . “Even without the emergency use authorisation, there were many press releases that the vaccine is soon going to be available. And, that has hurt us badly in terms of recruitment because a lot of people asked us whether they should still be participating in the clinical trial if a vaccine was going to be out soon,” said Dr V Krishna Mohan, executive director at Bharat Biotech, in a webinar held just before the approvals. He said, unlike in the United States and United Kingdom, the clinical trials in India are happening at the same time as vaccines are transitioning to EUA. Also read | India crosses 150,000 Covid-19 deaths: Here’s where other worst-hit countries standHe said that the challenge was bigger for Bharat Biotech as they were focussing on people in the older age groups. The oldest person to enrol for the Covaxin trial was 97, he said. “Hospitals have also asked us whether it is ethical to continue a clinical trial when you have an EUA. These questions need to be answered,” said Dr Mohan. There are at least six other vaccines under human clinical trial in India. These are: the indigenously developed ZydCov-D by Zydus Cadila that is to start the phase III trial, the Russian Sputnik V vaccine whose phase II and III trial is being conducted by Dr Reddy’s, Serum Institute of India’s second vaccine NovaVax that is being considered for a phase III trial, vaccine candidates by Biological E and Gennova that are to begin phase I trials, and Bharat Biotech’s second nasal vaccine candidate. For Dr Pankaj Patel, chairperson of Cadila healthcare, the challenge would be the time taken for recruitment. He said, “The number of vaccines that are being developed or have been developed in the past in India – there are already vaccines available still companies were able to conduct clinical studies and get volunteers and approval. The challenge would be in terms of the speed of recruitment and not in getting the volunteers to come in.” The major concern, however, is regarding subgroup analyses as those who are the most vulnerable will likely start getting the vaccine soon. “If we think about Covid-19 vaccines, the first goal is to protect the vulnerable and we are working towards the vaccine being efficacious. We have seen results from Pfizer, Moderna, and Oxford/AstraZeneca, these are based on overall efficacy. But is overall efficacy what we really measure in the most vulnerable?” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, leading vaccine expert and professor at the Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory at Christian Medical College-Vellore. “We have some indicators that the elderly are protected, but we do not know with sufficient confidence that the vaccines are working in these vulnerable groups. Similarly for children, the trials have only just started. Now, if you have an efficacious product developed in the middle of a pandemic, there is an ethical imperative to start to use it for vulnerable populations which only increases the challenge for our ability to assess efficacy in those sub groups,” she said. The real challenge would be three to four months down the line, said Drug Controller General of India VG Somani at the webinar. “There is definitely a little bit of challenge once something is available. But they will have to wait till their turn comes and it is not very clear to the common public at present when that turn will come. So probably it will not be that big challenge for the coming three to four months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-firms-may-face-problems-in-finding-volunteers-for-vaccine-trials-in-india/story-bZutnAyiWOnmB5F9NKROlI.html
06-01-2021||India||World Bank commits USD 105 million to improve West Bengal waterways||The Government of India, the Government of West Bengal and the World Bank on Tuesday signed a $105 million project to improve the inland water transport infrastructure in Kolkata, West Bengal, according to the Ministry of Finance.The West Bengal Inland Water Transport, Logistics and Spatial Development Project will facilitate passenger and freight movement across the Hooghly river; undertake spatial planning to improve accessibility in the Kolkata Metropolitan Area; enhance the quality of life of its residents, and contribute to the growth of the state’s logistics sector.Dr C S Mohapatra Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance stated that “the Inland waterways are now emerging as a cost-effective and an environmentally friendly option for passenger and freight movement. This project will help improve the river transport infrastructure in West Bengal and help in the economic development of the state by connecting the hinterland with markets and job centres in Kolkata’s Metropolitan Area”.The agreement was signed by Dr C S Mohapatra, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Government of India; Shri Rajdeep Dutta, Deputy Resident Commissioner, on behalf of the Government of West Bengal; and Mr Junaid Ahmad, Country Director, India on behalf of the World Bank.The project will cover the five most populous districts of southern West Bengal, including its urban agglomeration -- the Kolkata Metropolitan Area (KMA) where around 30 million people or one-third of West Bengal’s population live.“This operation will allow the state to invest in Kolkata’s economic productivity by making its waterways and ferry services part of an efficient and safe urban mobility strategy,” said Mr Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director in India.“Importantly, given Kolkata’s strategic location, the project is also ensuring that the metropolitan area emerges as a transport and logistics hub for the sub-region, leveraging the EDFC and connecting to the north-east and the land-locked countries of Nepal and Bhutan,” he added. The Hooghly river, a distributary of the river Ganga, in Kolkata separates the Kolkata port from its large consumption centres, which are, its wholesale market and its vast hinterland comprising among others the entire North East of India and two landlocked neighbouring countries namely, Nepal and Bhutan.West Bengal’s ferries can provide an efficient, flexible mode of public transport for both passengers and freight, saving on operating costs and travel time when compared with road journeys. In the first phase, the project will enhance the capacity and improve the safety of the Inland Water Transport system; including rehabilitating existing jetties, buying new ferries with enhanced design; and installing electronic gates in 40 locations.In the second phase, it will support long-term investments for passenger movements, including in terminals and jetties; improve the design of the inland water transport vessels; ensure night navigation on the most hazardous and trafficked routes and crossing points, and encourage the private sector to invest in Ro-Ro vessels that will allow easier movement of trucks across the Hooghly river.The $105 million loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), has a maturity of 17 years, including a grace period of seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-commits-usd-105-million-to-improve-west-bengal-waterways/story-d2slX0VHa4zGxQf1TUBEbM.html
06-01-2021||India||‘Someone definitely wanted to harm ISRO’: Scientist on claim of being poisoned||A senior Indian Space Research Organisation(ISRO) scientist Tapan Misra, who has claimed that he was poisoned over three years ago, on Wednesday told news agency ANI “someone definitely wanted to do some harm to the space agency.”Misra, who alleges he was given arsenic trioxide on May 23, 2017, during a promotion interview at ISRO headquarters in Bengaluru, said the solution is to get hold of the culprits and punish them instead of stepping up security of scientists. “Surely it was no work of a street thug but some sophisticated espionage agency inside our organisation... The only solution is to catch the culprit & punish them and not provide security to 2,000 scientists,” he told ANI.“Fatal dose was probably mixed” with chutney along with Dosa, in snacks after lunch, Misra claimed in a Facebook post titled ‘Long Kept Secret’ on Tuesday. He added that in July 2017, home affairs security personnel met him and alerted him of arsenic poisoning and helped doctors to focus on exact remedy.  He alleged that he later suffered from breathing difficulty, unusual skin eruptions, skin shedding and fungal infections. He also posted the medical report on the social media platform to claim he has been diagnosed with Arsenic toxication by the AIIMS, New Delhi. “The motive appears to be espionage attack...to remove a scientist with critical contribution of very large military and commercial significance, like expertise in building Synthetic Aperture Radar,” he wrote.Misra told news agency PTI he wants the central government to investigate the matter. There was, however, no immediate response from ISRO on the scientist’s claims.Misra currently works as senior advisor at ISRO and is superannuating at the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/someone-definitely-wanted-to-harm-isro-scientist-on-claim-of-being-poisoned/story-lcT2c9N3q7beGgWgeDQqKP.html
06-01-2021||India||PM Modi to launch New Rewari-New Madar section, world’s first double-stack container train tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) spanning 306 kilometers on Thursday via video conferencing. The prime minister will also flag off double stack long haul 1.5 kilometers long container train from New Ateli to New Kishangarh in the same event. “Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will dedicate to the nation the 306 Km New Rewari - New Madar Section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) on 7th January 2021 at 11 AM via video conferencing. Prime Minister will also flag off the world’s first Double Stack Long Haul 1.5 Km long Container Train hauled by electric traction from New Ateli -New Kishangarh during the event,” a release from Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.The governors and chief ministers of Rajasthan and Haryana will be seen in attendance. Union minister Piyush Goyal will also be present at the event.The corridor to be inaugurated tomorrow is situated in Haryana and Rajasthan and connects districts like Mahendragarh, Rewari, Jaipur, Ajmer, Sikar, Nagaur and Alwar, the official release said. “It consists of nine newly built DFC stations in which six are crossing stations viz. New Dabla, New Bhagega, New Sri Madhopur, New Pachar Malikpur, New Sakun and New Kishangarh while the other three in New Rewari, New Ateli and New Phulera are junction stations,” the PMO release stated.The opening of the corridor will benefit various industries in Rewari – Manesar, Narnaul, Phulera and Kishangarh areas of Rajasthan and Haryana, it added. “This section will also ensure seamless connectivity with the western ports of Kandla, Pipavav, Mundhra, and Dahej situated in Gujarat.”The PMO also highlighted that the double stack long haul container train operation – first such in the world – will have an enhanced axle load of 25 tons and can carry four times in terms of container units compared to the current traffic on Indian Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-new-rewari-new-madar-section-world-s-first-double-stack-container-train-tomorrow/story-ue2aXScwoqmMPnovol6rPP.html
06-01-2021||India||Snow disrupts life in Kashmir, lifeline highway shut for fourth day||The lifeline Srinagar-Jammu national highway remained closed for the fourth day on Wednesday as fresh landslides were reported along the only road that connects the Valley with the rest of the country. Officials said the stranded vehicles along the highway have been taken to safer places amid continuous rain and snowfall.“Jammu Srinagar NHW [national highway] blocked due to snow accumulation at Jawahar Tunnel and Landslides/mudslides/shooting stones at Samroli, Magarkot, Panthyal, Marog, Cafeteria mor, Dhalwas, Nashri @JmuKmrPolice,” tweeted Jammu & Kashmir traffic police.A group of tourists from Rajasthan had a narrow escape along the highway near Panthal when a landslide hit the vehicle they were travelling in. Police said the tourists were rescued and were safe.Heavy snowfall since the weekend has disrupted life across Kashmir, especially in South Kashmir and the upper reaches of North and Central Kashmir. Places like Kulgam district in South Kashmir have received up to six feet of snow. The heavy snowfall has prompted authorities to order rationing of petrol, diesel, and LPG cylinders as well as establish helplines at district headquarters.Residents have complained that snow has not been cleared at many places and hampered the public movement.The Jammu & Kashmir Disaster Management Authority separately issued an avalanche alert. “Medium level avalanche warning has been issued for upper reaches of Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban, Jawahar Tunnel, Doda, Kishtwar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Kupwara and Tanghdar. Similarly, low-level avalanche warning has been issued for upper reaches of Gulmarg, Gurez, Kanzalwan, and Sonmarg,” said an official of the authority.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the weather was expected to improve from Thursday. “Present weather conditions are likely to continue till late tonight [Wednesday] or early tomorrow [Thursday]. We expect a significant improvement in weather from tomorrow...[Thursday] in Jammu and Kashmir. With that cold wave will return from January 7th [Thursday] onwards with warmer days and colder nights,” IMD said in a bulletin. It added Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 0.9 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snow-disrupts-life-in-kashmir-lifeline-highway-shut-for-fourth-day/story-jbPmDs4YlgqcO8r0a0J5iP.html
06-01-2021||India||Srinagar airport battles to clear runway as heavy snowfall pounds city. See pics||Srinagar airport authorities on Wednesday continued the uphill task of clearing the runway for resuming operations amid heavy snowfall and avalanche warnings. Despite the overnight operations of clearing the runway which was thickly covered in snow, the authorities woke up to roads fully taken over by the snow once again.“@Aaisnrairport Snow clearance job was going full night but again due heavy snow fall roads are covered with snow, however again all team escalating their work to make possible ambience for aircraft operation today .@AAI_Official @aaiRedNR,” the Srinagar international airport said in a tweet on Wednesday morning. @Aaisnrairport Snow clearance job was going full night but again due heavy snow fall roads are covered with snow, however again all team escalating their work to make possible ambience for aircraft operation today .@AAI_Official @aaiRedNR pic.twitter.com/MdKF4R8KPr“The snow clearance is going on amid snowfall. We are taking every step to provide feasible condition to operate flight in extreme weather,” the authorities said in a tweet. @Aaisnrairport Runway apron snow clearance going on amid snowfall .we are taking every step to provide feasible condition to operate flight in extreme weather.@AAI_Official @aaiRedNR pic.twitter.com/k29ijvMFuRAs a result of extreme weather conditions, Kashmir remains cut-off from the rest of the country with the arterial Jammu-Srinagar national highway and Mughal road closed due to accumulation of snow.Thousands of vehicles, mostly trucks carrying essentials to the Valley, are stranded along the highway at various places.Srinagar city has witnessed moderate snowfall for the past three days but snow clearance operations have ensured that traffic movement was going on. The flight operations to and from Srinagar is also suspended due to poor visibility, officials said.Mughal Road, which connects the Valley to Jammu division through Shopian-Rajouri axis, has been closed for several days due to heavy snowfall in the region. Avalanche warning was issued on Tuesday for higher reaches of Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban, Doda, Kishtwar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Kupwara and Bandipora districts, according to the Disaster Management Authority of Jammu and Kashmir.The authority tweeted, “Medium Level (Yellow Alert) Avalanche Warning has been issued for higher reaches of Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban, Doda, Kishtwar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Kupwara and Bandipora districts, besides Waltengu Nad, South and North portals of Jawahar Tunnel, Verinag, Kapran, Chowkibal-NC Pass, Gurez, Dawar and Neeru.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-airport-battles-to-clear-runway-as-heavy-snowfall-pounds-city-see-pics/story-U6sP6iGznufCdUAoJG9djI.html
06-01-2021||India||Amid mass bird deaths, Centre asks states to form monitoring panels||The Union environment ministry has written to state chief secretaries and chief wildlife wardens asking them to constitute monitoring committees for avian influenza as an action plan was being prepared for monitoring migratory birds across the country.A large number of deaths, including that of migratory birds, have been reported from states like Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh. “Samples have been tested at the ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, and have been found to be positive for H5Nl Avian Influenza Virus,” the letter said.It added considering the serious situation and the possibility of spread of the disease to humans and other domesticated animals, the states and Union territories are requested to take all steps for containing its spread. “...take up surveillance and monitoring of birds, for any signs of disease, and take appropriate measures for controlling it, on priority.”Humans can be infected with avian influenza, or bird flu, primarily through direct contact and may cause disease ranging from mild fever and cough, early sputum production and rapid progression to severe pneumonia, sepsis with shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and even death, according to the World Health Organisation.The Centre has advised the states to collect samples of migratory, dead birds with utmost caution and under scientific supervision. The surveillance should not be restricted to the protected areas alone and should be extended to all wetlands and habitats that host migratory birds and areas with any possibility of interaction of migratory and poultry birds, the advisory said.“All deaths of migratory birds—their number and cause are to be reported to the environment ministry immediately,” the letter said.“Intensive surveillance should be undertaken to look for any unreasonable bird behaviour, or death among wild birds as well as migratory birds. Vigilance should be stepped up in the zoos also.”The states have been asked to send weekly reports to the ministry with details from important bird sites, number and species of birds that arrived, approximate period of arrival and stay, any changes in migratory pattern vis a vis number, arrival sites, etc as compared to previous years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-mass-bird-deaths-centre-asks-states-to-constitute-monitoring-panels/story-DfxSdv3IoOYPDYdIHhKP2L.html
06-01-2021||India||Odisha Lokayukta orders probe against senior IAS officer in medical bill reimbursements case||Odisha Lokayukta has asked its director of inquiry to find whether revenue secretary Bishnupada Sethi misutilised his power to reimburse the medical bills of his father and wife from Odisha State Cooperative Bank, where he was management-in-charge between 2013 and 2015.Lokayukta Ajit Singh ordered that the director of inquiry, Lokayukta, probes in 60 days if Sethi, an IAS officer of 1995 batch, was legally entitled to reimburse the medical bills of his father and wife’s treatments from the state cooperative bank, while holding its additional charge.The Lokayukta also ordered that it be inquired if Sethi was entitled for receiving an honorarium out of the Bank’s net profit as its management-in-charge, in addition to his substantive post as the commissioner-cum-secretary, department of cooperation. The Lokayukta’s directives came while responding to a petition by RTI activist Srikant Pakal.“We are of the view that there is a serious dispute regarding entitlement of reimbursement of the medical bills and the drawing of the honorarium by the officer,” the Lokayukta said in its order.Also Read: Odisha’s Chilika Lake logs its highest ever count with 11.42 lakh migratory birds Petitioner Pakal had alleged that the IAS officer had drawn lakhs of rupees from Orissa State Co-operative Bank (OSCB), Bhubaneswar during his tenure as the management-in-charge of OSCB in shape of incentives / honorarium / reimbursement of medical bill/orderly allowances and book grant etc. from the period February 2013 and till July 2015. He alleged that Sethi spent Rs 9.46 lakh towards the hospitalisation of his wife and father from the funds of Odisha State Cooperative Bank, in violation of the existing norms during his stint as secretary of the cooperation department.As Sethi did not work as a regular employee of the bank, he was not entitled to receive the honorarium from the profit of the bank as the same is only meant for the employees of the bank, the petitioner had contended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lokayukta-orders-probe-against-senior-ias-officer-in-medical-bill-reimbursements-case/story-63pRjJo2W2oN7pvcusDjrM.html
06-01-2021||India||Covid-19: India third country to record more than 1.5 lakh deaths||India on Wednesday became the third country to record 1.5 lakh fatalities from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In the latest update shared by the Union home ministry, the country recorded 264 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours which took the death toll to 1,50,114.According to Worldometers, United States has the highest number of fatalities - 3,65,620 - followed by Brazil with 1,97,777 deaths due to the disease.The number of fatalities, along with daily caseload, has been steadily falling over the last few weeks in India. The country recorded 16,375 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the lowest in over six months.The active caseload remained below three lakh for the 16th consecutive day on Wednesday. According to health ministry update, India’s active caseload stands at 2,27,546.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,03,74,932 with 18,088 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries are nearing one crore, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,97,272 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.36 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent.The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 16th consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-third-country-to-record-more-than-1-5-lakh-deaths/story-xyfOHp7YfBrydYbc9An5YJ.html
06-01-2021||India||‘100 MCQs, no fee required’: Online exam on cow science to be held in India||Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA), the government body set up for cow welfare has announced that it will hold a countrywide online examination on ‘gau vigyan’ (cow science) on February 25. There will be no fee for the examination.Announcing the first-ever exam of this kind--’Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar Prasar Examination’-RKA Chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria said this exam will be held annually.“We are starting ‘Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar Prasar Examination’ at the national level from February 25, 2021. Cow is full of science that needs to be explored. It plays an important role in 5 trillion economies of the country,” he said during a press conference.The exam will be held in 12 regional languages apart from Hindi and English.“Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar Prasar Exam will be an online exam with 100 multi-choice questions in Hindi, English and 12 regional languages. The duration will be one hour and there will be 4 categories,” he said.According to an official release of the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, under which RKA functions, the exam will be conducted in four categories --Primary level up to 8th standard, Secondary level from class 9th to class 12th, College level after 12th+ and fourth category will be for the general public.The Ministry has said that there will be no fee for the examination and the syllabus as well as other literature and reference books on cows, which will be recommended on the website of the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog, will help the examinees prepare for the exam.“Blogs, videos and other selected reading material will be uploaded on official website. Scientists, entrepreneurs, Gau Sevaks, farmers, youth and women as well as senior citizens will actively work to make this mega event a grand success,” the Ministry said.According to the Ministry, the examination will be conducted in a transparent and impartial manner.“Questions will be set in such a way that during the online exam there will be no scope for any maneuvering. Results will be immediately declared on the website of RKA. Certificates will be given to all. Successful meritorious candidates will be given prizes and certificates afterwards. Appreciation letters will be issued to all those who help in organizing this exam,” it said.RKA comes under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. It was set up by the Centre in February 2019, and is aimed at “conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-mcqs-no-fee-required-online-exam-on-cow-science-to-be-held-in-india/story-kMLwS5AaMdJ9Xil8s1MtSI.html
06-01-2021||India||India records 18,088 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, death toll over 1.5 lakh||India recorded 18,088 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the overall caseload to 10,374,932, according to Union health ministry update on Wednesday.The number of active cases stayed below three lakh, at 2,27,546, according to health ministry update at 8 am.Two hundred sixty four fresh fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, which took the death toll to 1,50,114.On Tuesday, India recorded 16,375 new cases of Covid-19, 29,091 recoveries, and 201 deaths. India’s active Covid-19 cases are steadily falling which has led to a decline in the overall burden on the health delivery structure, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday.He also said that 44 per cent of active cases are in hospital with moderate or severe symptoms while 56 per cent of cases are very mild or asymptomatic and are in home isolation.Days after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave approval to two Covid-19 vaccines, Bhushan said that India is prepared to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency use authorisation (EUA), subject to government’s nod.“We are prepared to roll out vaccine within 10 days of emergency use authorisation approvals. The final call will be taken by the government,” the Union health secretary told reporters at a press briefing.However, responding to a question on the rollout of vaccines, Bhushan said that final decision will be taken by the government.NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul said an optimistic scenario is emerging with the pandemic situation in India consistently improving in terms of active cases and new deaths declining.“Let’s hope this trend will continue. In terms of the new UK mutant issue, this variant has entered this country and 71 people have been isolated. This shows our capacity to mount that kind of a scientific investigation.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-18-088-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-death-toll-over-1-5-lakh/story-xqlJA0F8vNSa8UeYgXfa5L.html
06-01-2021||India||UK Covid variant: 13 more test positive in India, total now at 71||With 13 more people testing positive for the new UK variant of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the total number of UK returnees having tested positive for the mutant virus in the country has reached 71, the Centre has announced.The results are based on the genome sequencing of positive samples released by the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) labs that the Centre has specifically created for the purpose of monitoring any kind of mutations in the virus. “As of now, there have been 71 positive cases detected of the new UK variant from different designated labs across the country,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology, in the media briefing on Tuesday.The government has asked states to fast-track contact tracing of these positive cases, and isolate and test the symptomatic contacts so as to curb the spread of infection that is known to be at least 70% more infectious than the original virus.The samples have so far been sequenced in six of the 10 designated labs across the country. Among the INSACOG network of labs that has returned positive samples for new variant after genome sequencing are NIMHANS, Bengaluru, CCMB, Hyderabad, NIV, Pune, IGIB, Delhi, NCDC, New Delhi, and NCBG, Kolkata. NCBS, InSTEM, Bengaluru, CDFD Hyderabad, ILS Bhubaneswar, and NCCS Pune have so far found no UK mutant virus among the samples that have been sequenced in their labs.From November 25 to December 23, 2020, midnight, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from UK. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to detect Covid-19. All these persons have been kept in single room isolation in designated health care facilities by respective state governments. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, according to the ministry of health. “The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs,” said the health ministry in a statement.The Indian government had suspended air travel from the United Kingdom December 23 onwards after a new variant of Sar-CoV-2 was found to be circulating in London and other parts of the country. The new variant – which has 23 mutations, including one on the receptor binding protein on the spike used by the virus to enter the human cells – is thought to be 70% more transmissible, raising concerns of super-spreading events. However, doctors monitoring these patients have not found severe illness among these patients because of the new variant. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-71-cases-of-uk-variant-of-covid-19/story-NgltdZ9JGtoqLZmjFxPKIK.html
06-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s AQI deteriorates slightly and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi AQI deteriorates slightly; rainfall likely to continue in parts of cityAir quality in Delhi showed minor deterioration on Wednesday morning but remained in the moderate zone with the hourly average air quality index at 7am reaching 171. Read more‘In line with public trust standards’: How SC judges arrived at Central Vista decisionArriving at a decision granting approval to the Central Vista redevelopment plan was not straight forward. The majority decision of the Supreme Court, authored by two on a three-judge bench, laboured to arrive at a conclusion. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Who will make Sydney grade?Rohit Sharma testing negative for Covid-19 before arriving in Sydney may have cleared the air over a possible bio-security crisis, but another question remains: will he be named in India’s XI for the third Test starting Thursday? Read moreWhatsApp updates Terms of Service: Accept it or your account will be deletedWhatsApp on late Tuesday evening started sending in-app notifications to its users informing them about a change in its Terms of Service and its privacy policy. Read moreNASA posts stunning pic of sunrise with inspirational caption. Seen it yet?If you’re looking for an uplifting and motivational post to start your morning, then look no further. This picture by NASA, which shows the horizon and coastline of the Canadian provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador during sunrise, may just do the trick. Read moreAR Rahman on why he embraced Islam but wouldn’t want to impose it on anyone elseAR Rahman was born Dileep Kumar, but embraced Islam, along with his family, some time after the death of his father, music composer RK Shekhar, and some time before the release of his first major project, Roja. Read moreKhushi Kapoor adds a touch of street style to Rs 2k chic dress, we are taking notesEven though Khushi Kapoor has not yet made her Bollywood debut, she is quite the celebrity in the fashion space. Janhvi Kapoor’s younger sister is known for her impeccable style and her sartorial picks which vibe with everyone. Read moreWar of words between Indian vaccine-makers SII & Bharat Biotech, then truceJust days after Indian regulators cleared the Covaxin and Covishield vaccines for emergency use in the country, the chiefs of two top vaccine-makers engaged in a spat. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-aqi-deteriorates-slightly-and-all-the-latest-news/story-66dyM8h0IM3Ocgluavd3IP.html
06-01-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely to continue in NW India today||It will continue to rain in parts of Northwest India including Delhi on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said fairly widespread to widespread rain accompanied with thunderstorms, lightning was likely to continue in the region for the next 24 hours. The intensity of rain and thunderstorms was likely to reduce gradually from Wednesday.IMD said minimum temperatures were likely to fall by 5-7 degrees C in Northwest India during the next three to four days. It added dense to very dense fog was very likely to hit the region from January 7 to 10.Hailstorms were likely in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, and Delhi.IMD said scattered to fairly widespread rain accompanied with thunderstorms, lightning was very likely in Southern Peninsular India during the next four to five days. Heavy rainfall is also very likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal on January 6 and 9; Kerala and Mahe on Jan 6 and 9; and south Interior Karnataka on January 6.Chennai received heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-to-continue-in-nw-india-today/story-njyapWgeFQwHE8WZPL6o2N.html
06-01-2021||India||‘Bharat Biotech vaccine approved in clinical trial mode, consent of participants has to be taken’: ICMR||Balram Bhargava, chief of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said on Tuesday that Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine has been cleared in the clinical trial mode, which means consent of participants has to be taken. He was responding to the questions being raised on the clearance given to Covaxin.“Permission for restricted use in clinical trial mode has been allowed which means consent of participants has to be taken and there has to be a regular follow up of participants,” Bhargava said at a press conference on Tuesday.Explaining the process followed in granting nod to AstraZeneca-Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine and indigenously developed Covaxin, Bhargava said, “The existing pandemic situation, high mortality, available science and lack of definitive treatments were considered by the subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of CDSCO for granting accelerated approval to these vaccines, and that is in our legal provision.”The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on Sunday approved AstraZenca’s vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.Industry experts and some opposition leaders have expressed concern over the absence of Phase 3 trial data on Covaxin. The critics have cautioned that “sidestepping” processes and giving “premature” clearance could risk lives and fuel vaccine hesitancy in India.“In a pandemic situation, restricted use is considered based on safety and immunogenicity data while phase three clinical trail is still ongoing. The immunogenicity data generated through phase two clinical trial serves as a surrogate for efficacy. The Clinical Trial Rule, 2019, provides for considering phase two results to guide approval. Now the SEC guides the DCGI in the process of decision making for restricted use under emergency situation. Now we have two vaccines,” Bhargava said.The Union health ministry, meanwhile, said on Tuesday that it is prepared to roll out Covid-19 vaccine within 10 days, but a final decision on the launch date is yet to be taken.“Based on the feedback from the dry-run of vaccination drive, the health ministry is ready to introduce Covid-19 vaccine within 10 days from the date of emergency use authorisation,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.He also said that healthcare and frontline workers need not register themselves for the vaccination drive as their database has been uploaded on the CoWIN vaccine delivery management system in a bulk.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-vaccine-approved-in-clinical-trial-mode-consent-of-participants-has-to-be-taken-icmr/story-NSWVTh7douMtYDl1ZVnP6K.html
06-01-2021||India||Top ISRO scientist claims he was poisoned three years ago||A top ISRO scientist on Tuesday claimed he was poisoned more than three years ago.Tapan Misra alleged he was poisoned with deadly arsenic trioxide on May 23, 2017, during a promotion interview at ISRO headquarters here.“Fatal dose was probably mixed” with chutney along with Dosa, in snacks after lunch, he said. Misra is presently working as Senior Advisor at ISRO and is superannuating at the end of this month.He had earlier served as Director of Ahmedabad-based Space Application Centre of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).Watch: ISRO scientist claims poison attack in 2017, ‘bid to harm space agency’ In a Facebook post titled ‘Long Kept Secret’, Misra further claimed that in July 2017, home affairs security personnel met him and alerted him of arsenic poisoning and helped doctors to focus on exact remedy.Misra claimed he later suffered from health issues including severe breathing difficulty, unusual skin eruptions, skin shedding and fungal infections.He also posted the medical report on the social media platform to claim he has been diagnosed with Arsenic toxication by the AIIMS, New Delhi. “The motive appears to be espionage attack...to remove a scientist with critical contribution of very large military and commercial significance, like expertise in building Synthetic Aperture Radar,” he alleged. Talking to PTI, Misra said, “I want the Government of India to investigate it (the incidents).” There was no immediate response from ISRO on Misra’s claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-isro-scientist-claims-he-was-poisoned-three-years-ago/story-hkihtiuC6rVkPnfytszj6K.html
06-01-2021||India||Andhra CM likens attacks on temple as ‘political guerrilla warfare’, directs police to tackle situation||Liking the attacks on temples and idols as “political guerrilla warfare”, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday directed the police to tackle the situation. He also alleged that the opposition is indulged in vandalizing acts to divert public attention from welfare schemes launched by his government.“A new model of political guerilla warfare is taking place in the state. Temples and idols are being attacked with political motives. Attacks are being held on temples at places with less population, at midnight hours at isolated places. The idols are being desecrated,” Reddy said while addressing Spandana’ video conference with district collectors and SPs. “The next day those incidents are being publicized in social media. After that, a section of mainstream media is publicizing that news. Opposition parties are using those opportunities,” he added.Reddy said that the Andhra Pradesh government is delivering many welfare schemes for the public.“Unable to digest the public welfare, such incidents are being orchestrated by the opposition. Without any devotion or fear for God; idols are being demolished. The opposition wants to defame the government through these incidents. We have to carefully monitor these strategies,” he said.Reddy said that this type of incident never happened in past and there is a need to tackle political guerilla warfare.“Such a situation never arose in past. This kind of political guerilla warfare should be tackled. As of now, 36,000 CCTV Cameras are installed in temples. Now communal harmony should be publicized. Stern action should be taken on those who spread hatred among castes and religions. Such situations should not be spared,” he directed police officials.“If anybody tries for political mileage, they should be taught a lesson. Every incident of idols’ desecration or attack on temples should be carefully and meticulously investigated. The culprits should be displayed publicly. In this matter, collectors and SPs should not spare anybody. They should be taught a lesson,” he added.Earlier on Tuesday, the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) general secretary and advisor to Andhra Pradesh government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy raised suspicions towards Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the matter of attacks on temples and alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to gain a political foothold in the state by holding agitation on such incidents.“Opposition parties are playing a dangerous game. They are playing with religion and Gods. Attacks are being held on small temples in small places, where security measures are nominal. Will the government, or YSRCP, or YS Jaganmohan Reddy get any benefit from such incidents? Even a small boy can say that such attacks will hamper the prestige,” he said while addressing a press conference.“When we were in opposition, we have never spoke on such incidents. We believe that religion and devotion are personal feelings. Our party works beyond such religious or caste politics. We never acted such irresponsible deeds. We appeal to the public to think. Who will do such things? Definitely, it is the handiwork of opposition TDP. They want to get political gain,” he said.Attacking BJP which tried to hold Ramateertham Dham Yatra on Tuesday against the alleged attacks on Hindu temples in Andhra Pradesh, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said, “BJP wants to make inroads into the state. That’s why holding agitation. But it is not correct on their part to try to get political mileage of such unfortunate incidents. BJP speaking of religion is a well-known fact. That party is trying to get a foothold in the state.”The idol of Lord Ram was allegedly desecrated at Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district here on December 29 following which a group of BJP workers staged a protest on the temple premises.On December 31, Andhra Pradesh Police DGP Gautam Sawang had said that an investigation is going on in the incident of desecration of Lord Ram idol at Ramateertham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-likens-attacks-on-temple-as-political-guerrilla-warfare-directs-police-to-tackle-situation/story-cuo1oSBunKsObQ8z77h8vN.html
06-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Arrangements being made to vaccinate Haj pilgrims, says Union Minister Naqvi||Arrangements are being made to provide coronavirus vaccine to Indian Haj pilgrims, the Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Tuesday. He was speaking at a meeting of the Haj Committee of India officials and Haj Group organisers at Haj House here.“Today discussed various issues concerned to Haj 2021 with Haj Committee of India officials and Haj Group Organisers at Haj House in Mumbai. Arrangements are being made to give Corona vaccine to all the people who will go to perform Haj from India,” the Union Minister informed via Twitter.The last date for submission of forms for Haj 2021 has been extended till January 10, 2021.Last month, during a meeting with the Haj Committee here to discuss the preparations and registrations for Haj 2021, Naqvi lauded the committee for making the registration process “100 per cent” digital, in turn making India the “first country” to do so.In another tweet, the Union Minister on Tuesday slammed the Opposition for raising questions on the measure taken by the Centre to combat the coronavirus pandemic. “Those people who earlier raised questions on welfare measures taken by Narendra Modi government during the corona crisis, are now trying to create confusion on the Corona vaccines which have been developed by hard-working scientists of our country,” he said in a subsequent tweet.“...Some failed and frustrated political players’, who are unable to convince the people, are trying to confuse by using Corona vaccine as confusion rexine.” Last week, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) announced “restricted emergency use” for two Covid-19 vaccine candidates -- Bharat Biotech’s COVAXIN and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-arrangements-being-made-to-vaccinate-haj-pilgrims-says-union-minister-naqvi/story-Cb5nIE8PCbSTduN2kuSv0J.html
06-01-2021||India||Delhiwale: Memories of train journeys||Some trains are moving. Some trains are still. A few passengers here and there, walking with their suitcases and kids. And suddenly, a rail engine whistles.The sounds of trains have always evoked the mysteries of travelling, and of escape—this is particularly true when one is living in such a seemingly endless city as Delhi. Yet, these sounds have become rarer in the times of the coronavirus pandemic. No passenger trains were running during the weeks of lockdown (except for the ones carrying migrants from their adopted cities to their home districts). And only a few are back in operation. Gone are the days when the ‘Delhiwales’ could, on impulse, book a ‘Tatkal’ in a Shatabdi to Agra or Kalka as the weekend approached. One is bound to grapple with all the tiresome questions—how crowded will the coaches be? How high are the chances of catching the infection in them?Until we can again have the semblance of a normal time, there is a place from which you can experience the thrill of rail travel without even stepping inside the rail station. This is the overbridge that runs over the New Delhi railway station. The unique destination was briefly mentioned on these pages some years ago but now in these extraordinary times it has acquired a more profound significance. Usually busy with traffic, the bridge has a broad sidewalk that makes it possible for the pedestrian to spend a long time looking down at the station. The platforms are as close from here as if you were standing on the footbridges of the station itself—you can even spot the resident rats. The vantage point also gives a bird’s eye view of almost the entire railway station. This late afternoon, you can clearly see the destination plates on the red AC coaches of a train—that’s Mumbai-bound Rajdhani Express. And see, over there, a group of porters are dragging a trolley. In another train, a woman is sitting by the window, her head resting against the grills, her face masked.And now the air fills up with the echo of a railway station announcement—the arrival of so-and-so Express on platform number so-and-so. This computerised female voice is so familiar, and one has heard it so many times in so many railway stations, that it instantly evokes those carefree days when we lived without the sword of coronavirus hanging over our head. The moment painfully brings back the memories of a life we have lost due to the ongoing pandemic. Some minutes later, the Rajdhani starts to leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-memories-of-train-journeys/story-ONfDInSoChYkVscROWLWrL.html
06-01-2021||India||‘We will not discontinue Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna in Chhattisgarh’: CM Bhupesh Baghel||After the Central government decided to procure 24 lakh (MT) paddy from the Chhattisgarh government on Sunday, the state government is claiming that the Centre has not followed its commitment to procure 60 lakh (MT) of the food grain. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, in an interview, said the state unit of BJP is misleading the Centre by informing them that the state is procuring paddy at Rs 2500 per quintal not on MSP. Baghel said that the Congress government is giving more money under a different scheme and there is an attempt to hamper the state government’s Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, under which the state government is giving Rs 10,000 per acre to sugarcane, paddy and maize farmers of the state. The Centre’s decision on Sunday has given the Congress-led government a political weapon to target the BJP saying this shows that the Centre is not keen about the welfare of farmers and the minimum support price assurance. Q. What is this whole procurement issue? The Central Government is saying that they will procure only 24 lakh (MT) but Chhattisgarh government has claimed that the Central government agreed for 60 lakh (MT) earlier? What is your stand? A. See, initially, the Centre agreed for 60 lakh (MT) procurement of paddy from the Chhattisgarh government but on Sunday they said that they will procure 24 lakh (MT). I believe, the Centre has been misinformed...…The issue is the feedback given by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state unit to the Centre , especially Raman Singh ji, who is saying that the government is procuring paddy at Rs 2500 per quintal, which is not correct …. We procured paddy in the state on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) last year and even this year also. Although, in the first year of the Congress government we procured at Rs 2500 per quintal but the Centre had then said the state government cannot give a bonus hence we stopped. Our point is that the Central government is giving Kisan Samman Nidhi and in the same way we started the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna… What is the problem in that? Q. Now since the Centre has restricted the procurement to only 24 lakh (MT) will it affect the state’s Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna? A. See, these people (Centre) say that under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, if anything is given to the farmers it will be considered as bonus. My question is how will you define anything as bonus? If paddy was purchased for Rs 2500, it will come under bonus but when Raman Singh had given a bonus of Rs 300 per quintal what was that? We were told to procure only on MSP and you can check the record of last two years that we are procuring paddy on MSP only. Q. So are you saying that this is an attempt to hamper the continuation of the state’s Kisan Nyay Yojna? A. Yes, that’s exactly what it is. In the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, the state government is giving Rs 10,000 per acre to sugarcane, paddy and maize farmers. The money is given in installments. So how did this money became ‘bonus’? On one hand, the Central government is giving Kisan Samman Nidhi, which does not comes under bonus but when we give money to farmers it will be treated as bonus? Secondly, the central government agreed to procure 24 lakh (MT) of paddy, which means they have accepted that we are not giving any bonus. Otherwise we would not have been allowed to deposit a single grain in FCI. Q. So basically you are alleging that the Centre is trying to stop the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Scheme? Then how will you resolve this issue with the Centre? A. They are trying to stop the scheme but we are firm about it…See, the state government has its own scheme, we have started a scheme under the directives and rules of the Union Government only. Many states have also started similar schemes …We believe that everything can be resolved through communication and are continuously talking over this issue with the Central government. Q. With whom is the state government negotiating? A. We talked to the Prime Minister and Food Minister yesterday. I thanked the Prime Minister and said that the Centre has procured 24 lakh MT but the commitment was of 60 lakh (MT) and demanded the rest of the procurement. The PM said that he will look into the matter. Similarly, I also spoke to the Food Minister, who claimed that the Chhattisgarh government is giving incentives, I told him the state government is not giving any incentives but is giving money to farmers as you are giving under the Kisan Samman Nidhi. Q. It means that you will continue the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna under any circumstance? A. Yes, there is no question of scrapping it. The Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna is a separate scheme started by the state government and paddy procurement under MSP is a different scheme. All we are saying is that we will explain to the Central government about our scheme and clear a misunderstanding if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-not-discontinue-rajiv-gandhi-kisan-nyay-yojna-in-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel/story-Rq9Nw9d4xfwdxehrtlCPhJ.html
06-01-2021||India||Char Dham shrines, hilly areas of Uttarakhand receive fresh snowfall||With a fresh spell of snowfall, the Char Dham shrines and hilly areas of Uttarakhand were covered in a white blanket of snow on Tuesday. The Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district witnessed snowfall for almost the entire day on Tuesday with over one feet of snow being accumulated by evening. The India Meteorological Department had issued an orange alert predicting heavy snowfall in districts like Chamoli, Uttarkashi and Pithoragarh. In Uttarkashi district, snowfall started late on Monday night and continued till Tuesday in the high altitude areas, affecting normal life in areas like Harsil Valley, Gith Patti, Mori block, among other areas. In the district, eight villages of Harsil Valley including Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines were completely covered with snow by Tuesday evening. Devendra Patwal, disaster management officer, Uttarkashi district, said that all departments, especially the road and transport department are on alert in view of the snowfall and information about problems due to snowfall is being sought. The MeT department on Tuesday predicted that moderate to dense fog is likely to occur in some parts of the plains especially in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar from January 6-9. It further predicted that light to moderate rainfall or snowfall is likely to occur at many places in the state on Wednesday. Snowfall is likely to occur at places with a height of 1600 metres and above in Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Pithoragarh districts, and at places with a height of 2000 metres and above in remaining districts of Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-shrines-hilly-areas-of-uttarakhand-receive-fresh-snowfall/story-poQmwksGrp0gzq63fIbsyK.html
06-01-2021||India||‘Conception that housewives don’t add to economic value of household must be overcome’: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that the conception that housewives do not work or do not add economic value to the household is “problematic” and needs to be overcome. The Court was dealing with grant of compensation in a motor accident case, where the Delhi High Court had reduced the earning of the deceased wife as she was a homemaker.A three-judge bench headed by Justice NV Ramana felt that fixing an economic value to the hard work and labour by homemakers is difficult but nevertheless significant. Citing the 2011 Census, Justice Ramana, in a concurring but separate order found that nearly 159.85 million women in India are engaged in “household work” as compared to 5.79 million men.A recent report released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation showed that on an average, women spend 299 minutes a day on unpaid domestic services for household members versus 97 minutes spent by men on an average. She prepares food, manages procurement of groceries and shopping needs, cleans and manages the house and surroundings, undertakes decoration, repairs and maintenance work and tends to children and aged members of the household.Also read: Dry run blooper in Varanasi leads to vaccine boxes transported on bicycle“Despite all of the above, the conception that housemakers do not work or that they do not add economic value to the household is a problematic idea that has persisted for many years and must be overcome,” Justice Ramana added.The bench, also comprising Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Surya Kant unanimously agreed to raise the compensation awarded to the motor accident victims – Poonam, a housewife and her husband Vinod - to Rs 33.2 lakh instead of Rs 22 lakh awarded by the High Court.The Court said that a homemaker’s notional income must be determined by Courts keeping in mind the number of women engaged in this activity, and the value of their labour, service and sacrifices. Their activities contribute in a real way to the economic condition of the family and the economy of the nation and ought to be recognized in reflection of our changing attitudes and mindsets as well as towards achieving the constitutional vision of social equality and dignity of all individuals.The motor accidents claim in the present case was instituted by the two daughters of the couple who died in April 2014. The Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal awarded the daughters Rs 40.7 lakh compensation but on an appeal by the insurance company, the same was reduced to Rs 22 lakh by High Court||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conception-that-housewives-don-t-add-to-economic-value-of-household-must-be-overcome-sc/story-YNfIxljYAnjJHpMYoMa5sN.html
06-01-2021||India||NIA probes union of Chennai-Dhaka couple who studied in London, finds no ‘love jihad’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) recently questioned on WhatsApp an Indian woman from a Chennai business family who converted to Islam to marry the son of a Bangladeshi politician after meeting him in London, where they studied together, to find out if their marital union was a case of what some Hindu groups describe as “love jihad”.The agency did not find any evidence that the interfaith marriage was “love jihad”, a term groups use to describe some relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, but one that the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise. The woman said she was happy with her husband and had willingly converted to Islam, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. ‘States can’t interfere…’: Owaisi slams BJP over religious conversion lawsHer father, a Chennai-based businessman, complained in May last year that she was abducted in London by the son of a leader of the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) and a former member of Parliament. He alleged that she had been forcibly taken to Bangladesh after she was radicalised and converted to Islam. The woman studied in London with the Bangladesh politician’s son. Also Read: Eliminate State and social interference in matters of conscienceTamil Nadu Police asked the NIA to investigate the matter because it had international ramifications. After recording her parents’ statement, the central anti-terror agency contacted her on WhatsApp. “During the questioning (over WhatsApp), she told us that she married him willingly after converting to Islam and has not been forced at all in the marriage. She said she is happy,” said an NIA officer who didn’t want to be named. Officials cited above said their probe in the case was “more or less over” and a closure report will be filed in court after other verifications are completed. This is not the first time that an NIA probe of a “love jihad” angle has not yielded any evidence of a conspiracy. An NIA spokesperson said the case is under investigation. Also Read:  3 men framed in false ‘love jihad’ case: Cops“A complaint of kidnapping was filed last year and we had registered a case,” said Chennai commissioner of police, Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, unable to recall the sections under which the case was registered. “Since we transferred the case to the NIA, we aren’t aware of further details or the present status of the investigation.”Another senior official of Tamil Nadu police who did not wish to be named said, “When we get a complaint of such a nature which has international and religious ramifications, we don’t investigate.” “Our stand is to transfer it to the appropriate agency and in a case like this it is the NIA.” The official, however, could not recall the complaint made last year.Also Read: The Number Theory| A decade of rightward shift in Indian politicsNIA’s probe of interfaith marriages in Kerala, including that of Hadiya’s marriage to Shafin Jehan that became a cause célèbre, revealed that there had been no coercion to marry the brides and convert them to Islam. It examined several cases in Kerala where it was alleged that the woman had been forced to convert to Islam. The Supreme Court too, in 2018, overruled a Kerala high court order that annulled the marriage of Hadiya to Jehan, saying the right to marry a person of one’s choice was integral to Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. The Central government has said in Parliament that there was no term such as “love jihad” in the law. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said in the Lok Sabha in February 2020: “Article 25 of the Constitution provides for the freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion subject to public order, morality and health. Various courts have upheld this view including the Kerala high court. The term ‘love jihad’ is not defined under the extant laws”. However, two stringent recent laws in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh appear to want to crack down on interfaith relationships that allegedly use marriage as a lure to force Hindu women to convert to Islam. The stringent laws do not use the words “love jihad”, and the UP law has already been challenged in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-probes-union-of-chennai-dhaka-couple-who-studied-in-london-finds-no-love-jihad/story-hkQmEUbQyxBACkC0DXADSL.html
06-01-2021||India||Central Vista plan gets SC nod in 2-1 majority verdict||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the thumbs-up to the Central government’s over ₹15,000 crore redevelopment plan for the historically significant Central Vista area of New Delhi where a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and union ministries’ offices are to be built. The court declared that the project is “in line with the standards of public trust” and constitutes a “just use of resources” for a public purpose, without breaching any tenet of environmental protection. By a 2-1 majority -- the majority judgment was given by justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, while justice Sanjiv Khanna disagreed and wrote a separate order -- the bench dismissed a clutch of petitions against the redevelopment project while holding that the government and its agencies fulfilled all legal requirements in altering the land use of the seven plots in the area, and in obtaining the environmental clearances for constructing the new Parliament building. The majority judgment upheld the land use plan for the seven plots in the Central Vista area where a new Parliament, with a built-up area of around 60,000 square metres, and expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, along with 10 other buildings to house all 51 Union ministries, are to be built within an integrated complex marked by underground transit connectivity and structural identity. The minority view, however, held that the land use plan and the environmental clearance must be reviewed. In split verdicts, the view of the majority holds.The government hailed the majority verdict, which was criticised by green activists and political parties who have been concerned about its environmental impact, the potential loss of heritage buildings and the vast public funds to be devoted to the project at a time when the nation is battling the Covid-19 pandemic and the economy is in recession.Rejecting the petitioners’ argument on whether the government should spend so much money on the redevelopment plan, the court said that it “cannot be called upon to govern” by dictating that the government desist from spending money on a particular project or ask it to run its offices only from areas decided by the court. Apart from affirming the land use, defended by the government through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, the court also dismissed objections to the Central Vista Committee’s recommendations and the environmental clearances, paving the way for a new Parliament building, which the government intends to construct first and has thus separated it from the plan to build the Central Secretariat. The court said the government will, however, have to take approvals from the Heritage Conservation Committee and municipal authorities before the construction begins on the new Parliament. At the same time, it urged the government to install smog towers atop the new Parliament building while making smog towers and smog guns mandatory for all construction projects in the future. Justice Khanna, in his verdict, questioned the process by which the land use was changed, besides inadequate consultation and public participation.The judge found favour with the arguments made by the petitioners, through senior counsel Shyam Divan, Sanjay Hegde and advocates Shikhil Suri and Shadan Farasat, that the entire process had been short-circuited, and required a review.But the majority verdict held that the Delhi Development Act did authorise the government to “modify” the master plan for the Capital without the necessity of specific amendments or a new master plan because the proposed changes were essentially in the nature of “swapping of the uses of the concerned Government plots” and do not pertain to any private ownership at all. It rejected the challenges to the October 17, 2017, and March 20, 2020, notifications with respect to what it called a “minor” change in land use in the Central Vista area, noting the land was to be ultimately used for the similar purposes of having government offices, public and semi-public use and for recreation, and no change of a substantial or radical character was envisaged. “The project does not involve any conversion into private ownership and has no element whatsoever of permitting commercial use of vital public resources.The proposed project is in line with the standards of public trust and the petitioners have failed to point out any circumstance which would suggest otherwise,” stated the verdict. It also underscored that there was a “substantial compliance of the prescribed procedure” by the government and that the final decision was the outcome of involvement of all the planning authorities referred to under the Delhi Development Act.About the need to have a more extensive public hearing for a project of national importance such as this, the majority judgment said that the government records substantiated that the process of inviting objections and chance to raise grievances were accorded to the objectors. It turned down the petitioners’ contention that Parliament was too kept out of the purview of consultative exercise.The verdict noted that the proposal regarding the new Parliament building was placed before the General Purposes Committee (GPC) which was headed by the Lok Sabha speaker and included MPs from all major national political parties having a presence in Parliament. The judgment also shot down the petitioners’ contention that the entire Central Vista area was a heritage zone, after relying upon the listed heritage chart submitted before the bench by government authorities. It did not find any infirmity in having separate plans for Parliament on the one hand and the Central Secretariat and other buildings on the other, noting that it was for the government to formulate such policy decisions regarding the redevelopment. It further upheld the appointment of the consultant, stating the documents corroborated that there had been no favouritism or malice behind the decision.“The political issues including regarding development policies of the Government of the day must be debated in the Parliament, to which it is accountable. The role of Court is limited to examining the constitutionality including legality of the policy and Government actions. The right to development, as discussed above, is a basic human right and no organ of the State is expected to become an impediment in the process of development as long as the government proceeds in accordance with law,” concluded the majority.Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri welcomed the verdict and pledged to maintain the highest standards in executing the project.“Delhi is on course to becoming a World Class capital city and in the first step by the time nation completes 75 years of its Independence in 2022 a new Parliament building will be ready reflecting the aspirations of new India,” Puri tweeted.The Congress said the project was not a legal issue, but a case of misplaced priorities of “an autocrat seeking to etch his name in the annals of history”. Senior party spokesperson and deputy leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma said: “We are living in strange times. No relief for the migrant labour, no justice for India’s farmers fighting for their rights in bitter cold, pouring rain, tear gas and braving lathis. As we approach Ganatantra Diwas, need to reflect on state of Republic.”Environmentalist Bhavreen Kandhari said the project was harmful for the environment and an encroachment of public space by the government. “This project is an encroachment of open places, which are meant for the public, by government,” Kandhari said.Lt Col Anuj Srivastava (retd), an architect and activist of LokPATH, which describes itself as a public collaborative for holistic and appropriate development, said more public consultation was required for the project to go ahead. “It’s a 611-page judgment.The court heard us patiently. The judgment is a split one but we are quite disheartened and disappointed. Are we leaving something for our children that we will be proud of? We are exploring our legal options.”(With inputs from HTCs and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-plan-gets-sc-nod-in-2-1-majority-verdict/story-dOu6irheyMhXsCk9SrJXDL.html
06-01-2021||India||Mallya’s properties in South Africa, Europe identified; to be attached soon||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which investigates money laundering cases, has identified several properties of businessman Vijay Mallya in South Africa and Europe, acquired through a web of offshore companies and trusts, which will soon be attached, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. So far, ED has attached Mallya assets worth Rs 11,231 crore (more than the alleged proceeds of crime), which are mostly located in India, except a property worth Rs 14 crore attached in France in November last year. The agency didn’t touch his assets in the UK as 13 Indian banks led by State Bank of India are already pursuing the courts there to recover the money from him. The former liquor baron flew to the UK from India in March 2016 as banks closed in on him to recover Rs.9,000 crore owed to them by his defunct Kingfisher Airlines. One of the officials cited above said the had located Mallya’s properties in South Africa, including a mansion bought by him in Cape Town, and a couple of properties in Europe. The official refused to share the details and value of these properties until the exact ownership is verified and they are attached. Mallya is currently on bail in the UK and his extradition, although cleared by the courts,has been delayed because of a “confidential legal hearing”, according to the British high commission in Delhi. Indian agencies have not been informed officially or unofficially on what grounds Mallya’s extradition has been held up. Officials in ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) suspect that Mallya had applied for asylum in the UK on “certain unknown specific grounds” because his claim of a “political witch-hunt” against him has been debunked by British courts. It has been alleged by both the agencies that Mallya diverted most of the money taken from Indian banks into foreign assets, the Indian Premier League (IPL) team and F1 motorsport firm Formula One. Senior district judge Emma Arbuthnot had issued a ruling for Mallya’s extradition to India in December 2018 in response to a request from the Indian government, which has accused him of “knowingly misrepresenting” the profitability of his companies when he sought bank loans in 2009. The UK high court, in its ruling in April, upheld the senior district judge’s verdict. When the UK high court refused Mallya permission to appeal to the Supreme Court last month on the ground that his case didn’t involve a “point of law of general public importance”, the long-drawn extradition process was believed to have entered the last stage. Mallya is currently on bail on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. An email sent to Mallya remained unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mallya-s-properties-in-south-africa-europe-identified-to-be-attached-soon/story-MZksYdotJxI5bO3eY5QMOM.html
06-01-2021||India||Nirav’s sister, brother-in-law turn approvers in PNB case||Diamantaire Nirav Modi’s younger sister Purvi Mehta, who is a Belgian citizen, and her husband Maiank Mehta, a British citizen, will testify against the fugitive businessman in court after being declared approvers in the case on Monday. Modi is the prime accused in a ₹13,500-crore fraud at Punjab National Bank (PNB).The Mehtas had approached the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court through their lawyers in November, seeking a pardon and requesting that they be enlisted as approvers in the cases against Modi.Special judge VC Barde allowed the plea and directed the investigating agency, the Enforcement Directorate (ED), to facilitate their arrival in India so they can appear before court and make a statement.The ED has claimed that 49-year-old Modi, who is lodged in London’s Wandsworth jail and is the subject of two extradition requests (by the Central Bureau of Investigation and ED), had diverted around ₹1,201.18 crore ($175.1 million) through his sister Purvi. The agency ,in its charge sheet, claimed that Purvi was an active participant in the generation of proceeds of crime and in money laundering. It claimed that Purvi was a director in Dubai- and Hong Kong-based companies that received funds obtained by Modi through fraudulent means. Purvi has maintained that she had no knowledge of these transactions. In a reply to the designated court hearing a plea filed by ED for confiscation of Modi’s properties, she claimed that she had nothing to do with the alleged proceeds of crime.Maiank and Purvi, in separate applications seeking a pardon, said they were not prime accused and had only a limited role to play in the cases against Modi. They submitted that as close relatives of Modi, they are in “a unique position to be able to provide substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings. Such information will significantly aid the further investigation of ED and will prove critical to conclusively establish the facts against Nirav Modi and other key accused persons”.Their lawyer, Amit Desai, contended that because of Modi’s alleged criminal activities, their personal and professional lives had been brought to a standstill and they had distanced themselves from the diamond trader. “The applicant undertakes to be examined as a witness in this court and submits that he/she will make true and full disclosure of the whole of the circumstances and events as known to him/her, without concealing any evidence and will provide complete information regarding the same, which is true according to him/her and within his/her knowledge,’ they claimed in their applications.They pleaded that they were ready to give statements as witnesses over a video conference or any other electronic means convenient at such time and in such manner as directed by the court.ED, in its reply, submitted: “The applicant as an approver can help ED to prosecute the mastermind, to identify and attach more proceeds of crime in India and abroad, to repatriate the proceeds of crime to India, to obtain more evidence against the mastermind, etc”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-s-sister-brother-in-law-turn-approvers-in-pnb-case/story-YDagZN8jYRnRE4iS0EdZZO.html
06-01-2021||India||India’s self-reliance initiatives may lead to trade barriers with other nations, says outgoing US envoy||New Delhi’s self-reliance and “Make in India” initiatives have the potential to lead to higher tariffs and other trade barriers that could hit the country’s capacity to integrate into global value chains, outgoing US ambassador Kenneth Juster cautioned on Tuesday. Juster pointed to “frictions and frustrations” on trade and investment between India and the US, and said the two sides were unable to finalise even a “small trade package” despite persistent efforts. There are also growing restrictions on market access for some US goods and services, increasing tariffs, new limitations on free flow of data and a “less-than-predictable regulatory environment for investors”, he said. In a farewell address, he also spoke of the need for both countries to preserve their commitment to diversity and tolerance in order to maintain their status in the world and the strength of bilateral ties. On the strategic front, Juster said the time has come for India and the US to develop guidelines and “even redlines” for a stronger Indo-Pacific architecture to tackle future challenges. Without naming China, he said this framework should enable all countries to prosper from a region that respects sovereignty and peaceful resolution of disputes. Juster, a political appointee of the Trump administration who has overseen key aspects of India-US strategic relations over the years, is set to step down this month. His address, at an event organised by the Observer Research Foundation that was attended by senior diplomats and the media, largely focused on taking forward ties in key areas such as trade, defence and security, energy and healthcare. Noting that the US is India’s largest trading partner, and India the 12th largest partner of the US, he said bilateral trade was worth $146.1 billion in 2019, up from $18.6 billion in 2001. It is “frustrating” that bilateral trade isn’t near its potential and greater openness on the part of India would boost trade and investment, he added. “This is a lot of good news for the economic and commercial relationship. But I would be less than candid if I did not note that there are also frictions and frustrations on the trade and investment front. Despite persistent efforts, we were unable to conclude even a small trade package,” Juster said. “Moreover, there are growing restrictions in India on market access for certain US goods and services, increasing tariffs, new limitations on the free flow of data, and a less-than-predictable regulatory environment for investors,” he said. Juster added: “As with the US, India would naturally like to enhance its economic security by increasing domestic production and reducing critical dependencies... The current view in India is that the best way to meet these various objectives is through a policy of ‘Self-Reliance’, emphasising ‘Make in India’, while still seeking to be engaged globally, participate in global value chains, and be an exporter to the world. “It remains to be seen whether all of these policies are compatible and mutually reinforcing, or whether they will lead to higher tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. The latter would limit India’s capacity to truly integrate into global value chains and, in the process, raise prices for Indian consumers.” Juster said India has a “strategic opportunity to become an alternative destination for manufacturing investments” as American and other companies find it “increasingly difficult to operate in China or seek to diversify away from Chinese-led supply chains”, but the Indian government may need to take further action to benefit fully. Both the US and India have benefited from their diverse populations and India’s “embrace of diversity will always be what makes it exceptional”, he said. “It is a source of strength for this great country and an inspiration for all of us,” he added. “While neither of us is – nor has been – perfect, we understand that preserving our commitment to diversity and tolerance is important to maintaining our status in the world and the strength of our bilateral relationship,” Juster said. Without directly referring to China’s aggressive actions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) or in other parts of the Indo-Pacific, Juster said the US and India are committed to a rules-based order, peace and diplomacy, while there are others who “choose suicide vests or military incursions”. In response to a question, Juster said the US has been “very supportive” amid the India-China border standoff. “We both share a vision of the Indo-Pacific region...and that is an inclusive vision that provides opportunities for all countries to grow and prosper but also wants to avoid incursions of any type, intimidations and predatory financing, and when there’s a situation that is along those lines, we cooperate to try to resist it,” he said.The two sides have deepened cooperation on defence and security issues, including efforts to provide security beyond their borders, and convergence on the Indo-Pacific, which has the world’s fastest-growing economies and most populous nations, reflects this cooperation, he said. “The region needs stability, leadership and a democratic model for development that does not threaten the sovereignty of other countries. This is why a strong and democratic India is an important partner to promote peace and prosperity,” he said. “We are now building out the foundation of a stronger Indo-Pacific architecture that will enable us to tackle challenges that lie ahead. Our mission over the next five years and beyond should be to give this endeavour further form and substance – to develop guidelines and, if necessary, even redlines,” Juster said, adding this would enable all countries to prosper from a region that respects sovereignty, a rules-based order and peaceful resolution of disputes in line with international law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-self-reliance-initiatives-may-lead-to-trade-barriers-with-other-nations-says-outgoing-us-envoy/story-ZWzg1ZM8FZN4opVja12hrK.html
06-01-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling case:NIA files charge sheet, names 20||Thiruvananthapuram: The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing a gold smuggling racket uncovered in Kerala in July, on Tuesday filed the first charge-sheet, in a surprise naming one of the suspects as an approver to substantiate the prosecution’s case.NIA filed the charge-sheet in a special court in Kochi. The charge-sheet named Sandip Nair, who was arrested along with main accused Swapna Suresh from a Bengaluru hideout in July, as approver.The agency filed the first charge-sheet at a time when some suspects had been planning to move the courts for bail after spending six months in judicial custody. Twenty persons have been named in the charge-sheet and they have been booked under sections 16,17, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, NIA said in a statement.Senior Indian Administrative Service officer M Sivasankar, who was chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s secretary, did not figure in the initial charge-sheet. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested him in connection with money laundering charges related to the gold smuggling racket. Thirty five suspects have been arrested so far.A senior official familiar with the probe said a supplementary charge-sheet will be filed later as the investigation progresses. He also said on condition of anonymity that efforts were under way to secure the extradition of some suspects from West Asian countries.The gold smuggling racket was uncovered with the discovery of a consignment in July addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Customs officers seized 30 kg gold from the diplomatic consignment:Tuesday’s charge-sheet was filed by investigating officer Radhakrishna Pillai before the NIA court.While hearing the bail pleas of some of the suspects in the case, the court had repeatedly asked the agency to submit evidence of a terror angle to the case. This is the first time the agency slapped the UAPA on suspects in a smuggling case. “Investigation revealed that the accused had knowingly conspired since June 2019, raised funds and smuggled from the UAE, between Nov 19 and June 20 around 167 kgs of gold, through the import cargo addressed to diplomats at the consular general office of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram,” said the NIA. The main accused in the case also planned to smuggle more gold from countries like Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia, it said adding eight accused are still at large. The case was registered by the central agency on July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-nia-files-charge-sheet-names-20/story-kEHYw4HPOG7iQEYjAf4JIN.html
06-01-2021||India||Bengal minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla quits TMC||Kolkata: Bengal minister of state for youth services and sports and former Indian cricketer Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Tuesday. He is a legislator from Howrah.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee confirmed the development at a media conference.Shukla did not comment on the development. Shukla’s exit comes ahead of the state elections to be held in April this year. “Laxmi is a good boy. He wrote a letter saying he wants to pursue sports wholeheartedly and wants to be relieved of all responsibilities in the party,” Banerjee said.” He did not talk of resigning from the ministry. But we have accepted his resignation and written to the governor that he may be relieved as minster. Laxmi has said that he will continue to be a member of the legislative assembly till its current term comes to an end.”Shukla’s decision sparked speculation that may join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) like former minister Suvendu Adhikari.Last month, at a rally addressed by Union home minister Amit Shah in Midnapore, six TMC legislators joined the BJP, led by Adhikari, considered a political heavyweight. Banerjee dismissed the speculation. “It is good that he wants to pursue sports. He said he wants to give more time to sports. That’s why he wants to leave politics. There is nothing more to this. He has our best wishes. There is no place for misunderstanding here. You (the media) try to make something out of every information,” Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the Bengal BJP, did not say whether Shukla would join the party. “It is difficult for any person with strong principles to stay in the TMC. We are not surprised,” he said. Shukla was a middle-order batsman and a medium-pacer in the Indian team in 1999. He played for the Bengal cricket team as well as the Kolkata Knight Riders and Delhi in Indian Premier League (IPL) matches. He joined the TMC before the 2016 assembly polls. He declared his retirement from cricket in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-minister-laxmi-ratan-shukla-quits-tmc/story-4h9enAAwI5t9pFxIMtMW6L.html
06-01-2021||India||Farmers’ tractor rally deferred to Thursday||Tens of thousands of protesting farmers will take out a tractor march on January 7, deferring it by a day because of wintry and wet weather conditions, to converge on the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal Expressway, leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, said on Tuesday. At a press conference, leaders of farm unions said they would be coordinating the month-long protests spelt out in a fresh agitation agenda spanning 15 days from January 7, which includes picketing Raj Bhavans, onward marches from six blockade sites on Delhi’s borders and a tractor march “rehearsal” for Republic Day. “The change in the schedule, deferred by a day, is only because of weather conditions. After January 9, farmers will campaign in every village to ready themselves to drive their tractors into Delhi on January 26,” Yogendra Yadav, a senior leader of the agitation, said. Joginder Singh Nain, who leads the Nain faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the contingent from Haryana would be led by women farmers.Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. “Tractors from all neighbouring states will begin rolling into Delhi. We will continue with our blockade of goods and services of {Mukesh} Ambani (Reliance Industries Limited ) and {Gautam} Adani (Adani Enterprises Limited), including their products, malls and petrol pumps owned by them,” Darshan Pal, a senior farm union leader said. The leaders slammed what they called the government’s propaganda. “The government doesn’t want to withdraw the laws because it has become an ego issue for them. They have tried tarnish our agitation in countless ways, sometimes calling us Maoists and Khalistani {a reference to Sikh separatists},” Balbir Singh Rajewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said In a widely anticipated sixth round of talks between the Union government and protesting farm unions on December 30, the Modi administration agreed to spare farmers from heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use, as demanded by farmers. The seventh round of talks on January 4, however, ended in a stalemate as the government did not accede to the farmers’ demand to repeal the three agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-tractor-rally-deferred-to-thursday/story-AKRR9QjuiAHJ8wpaDoZFxH.html
06-01-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, Punjab replies on Reliance petition against vandalism||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued notice to the Punjab government and the Centre on a plea by Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited seeking action against vandals damaging its network infrastructure and commercial properties in Punjab.The company’s counsel, Ashish Chopra, said the high court had sought responses from the Punjab administration and the Centre by February 8. Reliance Jio, in its petition, alleged that business rivals with vested interests were taking advantage of the ongoing farmers’ protests and damaging its infrastructure in Punjab. The petition said 1,500 telecom towers operated by Jio in Punjab had been vandalised, crippling the mobile network in Punjab, where the company has 14 million subscribers.Subscribers are compelled to port to other networks, the plea said, adding that the acts of vandalism had also endangered the lives of thousands of its employees. Jio’s parent company, Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), and its retail arms or affiliates have “no interest and does not intend in future to do corporate or contract farming,” according to the petition. RIL and its retail arms have not purchased any agricultural land directly or indirectly for the purpose of farming, it said. Underscoring that Jio and RIL have the greatest regard for the hard work of farmers, the petition added that RIL and its affiliates have never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain “unfair advantage over” farmers or their produce. Reliance Jio filed the petition on Monday seeking a direction to the government authorities in the state and at the Centre to protect its communication infrastructure as well as ensure the safety of its employees. The plea claims it had been targeted in Punjab because those with “vested interests” were taking advantage of the farmers’ agitation against the recently enacted agricultural laws. Jio also sought the appointment of a competent authority to assess the damages to be recovered from the vandals in the context of a judgment by the Supreme Court that rioters must be made to pay for the destruction of properties. “The destruction has been done in a well orchestrated manner, which is result of a sustained disinformation campaign being carried out by vested interests,” said the plea, demanding that adequate security arrangements be made to stop the vandalism of its infrastructure. Telecom infrastructure owned by the company has been targeted in parts of Punjab by protesters who have alleged that the new farm laws were meant to benefit certain corporate houses at the cost of farmers. The laws change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales, and laying down a national framework for contract farming. In response to submissions, state’s advocate general, Atul Nanda said that the company itself has admitted that the action has been taken to protect its assets. “The government has deployed 1019 patrolling parties in 22 districts and has appointed 22 nodal officers to ensure that no further damage is caused. The state is carrying out the duty enjoined upon it by the various statutes. ..the impact of the agitation on 1300 affected towers has been removed and they are now functioning,” Nanda told the court adding that the task of the state agencies would become easier, if the petitioner was to share information regarding the alleged vested interest involved. These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Farmers say the laws will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the procurement system, whereby the government buys staples such as wheat and rice at guaranteed prices||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-centre-punjab-replies-on-reliance-petition-against-vandalism/story-kXdwmZhHuuQnx1qVJRHFwM.html
06-01-2021||India||Make in India could hit trade: Outgoing US envoy||New Delhi: New Delhi’s self-reliance and “Make in India” initiatives have the potential to lead to higher tariffs and other trade barriers that could hit the country’s capacity to integrate into global value chains, outgoing US ambassador Kenneth Juster cautioned on Tuesday.Juster pointed to “frictions and frustrations” on trade and investment between India and the US, and said the two sides were unable to finalise even a “small trade package” despite persistent efforts. There are also growing restrictions on market access for some US goods and services, increasing tariffs, new limitations on free flow of data and a “less-than-predictable regulatory environment for investors”, he said. On the strategic front, Juster said that “the US is dedicated to not just bilateral relations, but to India’s rise on the world stage”, and that the time has come for India and the US to develop guidelines and “even red lines” for a stronger Indo-Pacific architecture to tackle future challenges. Without naming China, he said this framework should enable all countries to prosper from a region that respects sovereignty and peaceful resolution of disputes. In a farewell address, he also spoke of the need for both countries to preserve their commitment to diversity and tolerance in order to maintain their status in the world and the strength of bilateral ties. Juster, a political appointee of the Trump administration who has overseen key aspects of India-US strategic relations over the years, is set to step down this month. His address, at an event organised by the Observer Research Foundation that was attended by senior diplomats and the media, largely focused on taking forward ties in key areas such as trade, defence and security, energy and health care. Noting that the US is India’s largest trading partner, and India the 12th largest partner of the US, he said bilateral trade was worth $146.1 billion in 2019, up from $18.6 billion in 2001. It is “frustrating” that bilateral trade isn’t near its potential and greater openness on the part of India would boost trade and investment, he added. “This is a lot of good news for the economic and commercial relationship. But I would be less than candid if I did not note that there are also frictions and frustrations on the trade and investment front. Despite persistent efforts, we were unable to conclude even a small trade package,” Juster said. “Moreover, there are growing restrictions in India on market access for certain US goods and services, increasing tariffs, new limitations on the free flow of data, and a less-than-predictable regulatory environment for investors,” he said. Juster added: “As with the US, India would naturally like to enhance its economic security by increasing domestic production and reducing critical dependencies... The current view in India is that the best way to meet these various objectives is through a policy of ‘self-reliance’, emphasising ‘Make in India’, while still seeking to be engaged globally, participate in global value chains, and be an exporter to the world. “It remains to be seen whether all of these policies are compatible and mutually reinforcing, or whether they will lead to higher tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. The latter would limit India’s capacity to truly integrate into global value chains and, in the process, raise prices for Indian consumers.” Juster said India has a “strategic opportunity to become an alternative destination for manufacturing investments” as American and other companies find it “increasingly difficult to operate in China or seek to diversify away from Chinese-led supply chains”, but the Indian government may need to take further action to benefit fully. Without directly referring to China’s aggressive actions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) or in other parts of the Indo-Pacific, Juster said the US and India are committed to a rules-based order, peace and diplomacy, while there are others who “choose suicide vests or military incursions”.In response to a question, Juster said the US has been “very supportive” amid the India-China border standoff. “We both share a vision of the Indo-Pacific region...and that is an inclusive vision that provides opportunities for all countries to grow and prosper but also wants to avoid incursions of any type, intimidations and predatory financing, and when there’s a situation that is along those lines, we cooperate to try to resist it,” he said.The two sides have deepened cooperation on defence and security issues, including efforts to provide security beyond their borders, and convergence on the Indo-Pacific, which has the world’s fastest-growing economies and most populous nations, reflects this cooperation, he said. “We are now building out the foundation of a stronger Indo-Pacific architecture that will enable us to tackle challenges that lie ahead. Our mission over the next five years and beyond should be to give this endeavour further form and substance – to develop guidelines and, if necessary, even redlines,” Juster said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has repeatedly said in recent months that the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative is not a protectionist measure, but is meant to boost the country’s manufacturing capacity so that it can better participate in global supply and value chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-in-india-could-hit-trade-outgoing-us-envoy/story-WMdPdDhqKi28aLsOtQlhQI.html
06-01-2021||India||Transportation to jabs: Centre outlines Covid vaccination plan||The Centre on Tuesday spelled out the mechanics being put in place across the country that will enable the roll-out within the next week of the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive, which will utilise a repurposed form of the existing vaccine delivery platform at national, state, district, and local levels.Even as talks are in the final stages with companies for signing vaccine purchase deals, the Centre’s preparations for the drive vaccine deployment and delivery management is in its advanced stages to vaccinate more than 300 million people in the first phase, said Union secretary of health and family welfare ministry, Rajesh Bhushan, during the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates on Tuesday.“We are confident that we are ready to roll-out the vaccination programme within 10 days of having granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines,” Bhushan added. On Sunday, Drugs Controller General of India announced the emergency use approval for two vaccines – the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine candidate, Covaxin. HT reported on Monday that the government was preparing to start the vaccination drive by next week.Covid update: UK PM’s India visit; England lockdown; Centre explains CoWin appExplaining the logistics, Bhushan said that the Centre is utilising its new digital vaccine delivery management system – Co-WIN – that has been enhanced from its existing platform under the annual Universal Immunisation Programme.Also Read: 60,000 cops registered so far to get Covid-19 vaccine shotsThe “Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system” kicks off with the transport of the doses from the manufacturing plant. In the first part, the vaccines are moved from the factory to the local health care facility. The second part covers the identification, registration of citizens, and the administration of doses, while the final part concerns with the follow-up of patients and lodging of adverse effects, if any.“In the first step, manufactures will transport the vaccines by air to primary vaccine stores run by the Union health ministry, which are called Government Medical Stores Depot (GMSD),” Bhushan said. Currently, there are four such depots in the country – one each in Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata. From these depots, supplies will sent in refrigerated or insulated vans to 37 state vaccine stores spread across various states.“From there on, it is the responsibility either of the state governments or Union Territory administration to deploy the stock further as per their requirement. From the state stores, the supplies will be sent to the district vaccine stores, which is also a temperature-controlled facility,” he said.Also Read:13 people in Delhi have mutant variant of Covid-19, eight are city residentsThis entire process, storage as well as transport, will be digitally monitored in real-time. The second part of the drive will deal with the identification and registration of vaccine candidates as well as the administration of the shot. Health care and frontline workers will not be required to register themselves as their information, gathered from their respective organisations, departments, has already fed into the system and has been populated onto Co-WIN, he said.At-risk population priority groups – people above 50 years of age, and those under 50 years with comorbidities – will be required to register on the app.While people above the age of 50 years will be identified based on electoral rolls, the data for those who are below the age of 50 with comorbidities will be compiled on the basis of an inclusion system which will grade diseases that may be more fatal with Covid. This system is being devised by an expert panel, which is expected to release the exact selection method in “one or two days”, Bhushan said.In the third, and final part of the process officials will be able to follow through with the beneficiaries after the immunisation. The entire process will be digitally documented and captured in the app. “The platform also enables documentation of any adverse event following immunisation in real-time...” Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transportation-to-jabs-centre-outlines-covid-vaccination-plan/story-ia3KVh6KjtuX03HCeSEWSI.html
06-01-2021||India||SII, Bharat Biotech make joint pledge||New Delhi: A day after a war of words appeared to break out between vaccine-makers Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, both of which have received emergency approvals to roll out jabs against the coronavirus, the two Indian companies on Tuesday appeared to bury the hatchet as they jointly pledged for a smooth roll-out of vaccines in the country and the world.On Monday, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella hit out at comments suggesting that the firm’s coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, was “safe like water”, and said its Phase 3 efficacy data, likely to be out by February or March, will silence critics. Though he did not take any names, Ella’s remarks came a day after SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said that only three vaccines had passed all scientific evaluations and others were “safe like water”.In an unexpected joint statement on Wednesday, the two firms said: “Both companies respect the great work being carried out by each other and put behind us the miscommunication and misunderstanding caused during the past week. We are fully aware of the importance of vaccines for people and countries alike, we hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines.”Bharat Biotech has been in the eye of a storm after Covaxin was granted “restricted use in emergency situation” approval, leading to several experts questioning the decision because of the shorter duration of human trials and relatively lower data published for the candidate, which is still in the process of its Phase 3 checks. The Oxford vaccine, called Covishield, got the Drug Control General of India (DCGI) nod based on the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants from overseas studies, as well as interim data from Phase 2/3 trials on 1,600 people in India.Hitting out at criticism at a press conference on Monday, Ella said it was “easy to target Indian scientists”. “I had to tell this because some other company has branded my product as ‘safe like water’. Some local company in press yesterday said that safety is like water of other companies. Only three companies have done efficacy, and other vaccine is like water. I want to deny that.” He also appeared to question the results of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is being manufactured by SII.A day later, however, the joint statement appeared to de-escalate the slugfest between executives of the two vaccine-makers clashed over the approval of their jabs. “Adar Poonawala and Krishna Ella, jointly on behalf of the two companies, today communicated their combined intent to develop manufacture and supply the Covid-19 vaccines for India and globally. They said the more important task in front of them is saving the lives and livelihoods of populations in India and the world,” the statement said.“Now that two Covid-19 vaccines have been issued EUA (emergency use authorization) in India, the focus is on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that populations that need it the most receive high quality, safe and efficacious vaccines. Both our Companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth rollout of vaccines. Each of our Companies continue their Covid-19 vaccines development activities as planned,” it added.The statement was posted on the Twitter accounts of the two companies and also shared by Poonawalla, who said: “This should clarify any miscommunication. We are all united in the fight against this pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-bharat-biotech-make-joint-pledge/story-glBKCKMs2b6jnXqKuwB7JM.html
06-01-2021||India||Pollution control measures key in big development projects: Experts||Smog towers and smog guns are likely to be integral features of air pollution mitigation efforts for all major development projects in future, especially in cities with high air pollution. The Supreme Court (SC), in its judgment on the Central Vista redevelopment project, directed on Tuesday that “the project proponent may set up smog tower(s) of adequate capacity, as being integral part of the new Parliament building project; and additionally, use smog guns at the construction site throughout the construction phase is in progress on the site”. The court also directed the Union environment ministry to consider issuing general directions on installation of smog towers for all upcoming major development projects while granting approval in cities with high pollution levels. “Unless there is a solid plan in controlling traffic emissions, short-term strategies for future projects will not help. Also, scientifically, there is no evidence that smog guns and smog towers work. In all, for future development projects, a holistic air pollution control strategy is needed…,” said Sagnik Dey, professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi. Smog towers are structures designed to work as large-scale air purifiers while smog guns are like giant vacuum cleaners of the ambient air. They are usually fitted with multiple layers of air filters, which clean the air in the area as it passes through them. The smog tower sucks the polluted air, which is purified by the multiple layers before recirculating into the atmosphere. Many scientists think smog towers are ineffective because its nearly impossible to filter polluted air outdoors. Emissions are being generated continuously and from many sources. A senior official of the environment ministry, who did not want to be named, said: “We will integrate the directions of SC in all future projects.” One of the main contentions of a section of environmental and legal experts in the case of Central Vista has been that its cumulative long-term ecological impacts haven’t been studied and components have been isolated for ease of getting clearances. For example, the Parliament Building was appraised by the environment appraisal committee as a separate project while other components of the Central Vista are being appraised now. On Tuesday, a three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar, by a 2:1 majority, held that the grant of the environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use for the project was valid. Justice Sanjiv Khanna dissented with the majority view. Experts stressed that the environment ministry should also consider the cumulative impacts of large buildings and redevelopment projects. “The question of whether the Central Vista redevelopment project is an integrated one or not for the purposes of the environment clearance was discussed extensively in court. Clearly, the bench could not come to an agreement on whether the environmental clearance to the Parliament is legal or not. As Justice Khanna’s dissenting view shows, he is not persuaded by the government’s claim that the Parliament should be viewed as a stand-alone project when it is in fact only one component of the tender for Central Vista redevelopment. This certainly still leaves a question mark about the integrated nature of this project. But what is just as important is that this issue of the integrated nature of large building and construction projects has now gained a lot of legal importance with this dissenting judgment on this matter,” said Manju Menon, senior fellow, the Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-control-measures-key-experts/story-KwKxWC1AWJ9t6ntjfBVSYK.html
06-01-2021||India||Critics insist Central Vista project has several issues, to take a call on review plea||Reacting to the Supreme Court’s approval to the Central Vista redevelopment project by a 2:1 majority verdict on Tuesday, urban planning experts and activists said there were many problems with the Centre’s plan.While the court held that the government and its agencies fulfilled all legal requirements in altering the land use of the seven plots in the area and in obtaining the environmental clearances for constructing the new Parliament building, critics maintained the project was ill-conceived even as they flagged green concerns.Explained: SC win for Modi govt; new Parliament & Central Vista plan clearedAlso Read: Dissenting judge laments lack of public consultationPetitioners who challenged the project said the decision on whether to file a review petition will be taken after going through the 611-page judgment. “We are not against the government constructing a new Parliament building. But public land meant for recreational use can’t be used for it. There are a lot of infirmities in the clearance granted to the project,” said Rajeev Suri, one of the petitioners.Also Read: Pollution control measures key in big development projects: ExpertsExperts said the Central Public Works Department cannot start the work at the new site till it obtains clearance from the Heritage Conservation Committee, Ministry of Housing and Urban affairs, which is responsible for protection of heritage buildings in Delhi. “The judgment is significant for multiple reasons. Even though it upholds the government’s view that there was no infirmity in the processes related to land-use change,  approvals related to the new Parliament’s environment clearance and other approvals, it clearly indicates that no construction can take place even on the new Parliament site before the approval of the Heritage Conservation Committee,” Kanchi Kohli, a researcher with the Centre for Policy Research, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/critics-insist-project-has-several-issues-to-take-a-call-on-review-plea/story-EmQgUW3s30y7tIRyZpSC4N.html
06-01-2021||India||Dissenting judge laments lack of public consultation||Justice Sanjiv Khanna delivered a dissenting judgment on Tuesday regarding approval of the Central Vista redevelopment plan, raising questions over whether the government fulfilled its duty to consult citizens and accord them the right to participate in a project of national importance.Even as he agreed with the majority view of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari on the issues of inviting the bid for consultant for the project, and award of tender, he differed on more fundamental aspects of change in land use, inadequate consultation and public participation.Also Read: Central Vista plan gets SC nod in 2-1 majority verdictThe arguments by the Centre did not convince Justice Khanna with respect to the authorities’ compliance with the laws in letter and spirit for a project, which he said, involved the right to participate and the duty to consult. Explained: SC win for Modi govt; new Parliament & Central Vista plan cleared“I have agreed on the aspect of notice inviting bid, award and order of Urban Commission with the opinion of respected Brother Justice Khanwilkar. However on the aspect of change of land use, I have held that the same was initiated as being bad in law,” he said.While the majority held that it was not incumbent upon the government to give each and every detail of the project while issuing the public notice of the proposed modification in the master plan, Justice Khanna said that it was necessary for the authorities to put the redevelopment plan and layouts in public domain with explanatory memorandum relating to their need and necessity, as well as studies and reports. Also Read: Pollution control measures key in big development projects: ExpertsThe judge highlighted that the Delhi Development Rules, 1959, required authorities to furnish summary of the proposals to enable the public to raise informed objections. “To ignore their salutary mandate as to the manner and nature of consultation in the participatory exercise, would defeat the benefic objective of exercise of deliberation. Public participation to be fruitful and constructive is not to be a mechanical exercise or formality, it must comply with the least and basic requirements,” he said. Justice Khanna maintained that mere uploading of the gazette notification giving the present and the proposed land use with plot numbers was not sufficient compliance. “In the present case, there is no contestation between transparency and the right to know on the one hand, and the concerns of privacy, confidentiality and national security on the other. Further, the Development Act and Development Rules demand and require openness and transparency, and embody without exception the right to know which is implicit in the right to participate and duty to consult,” he held. He also noted that the sanctioning and approving authorities in the central government never examined whether the change in land use was sufficient for the redevelopment project or a conservation plan had to be put in place since the Central Vista area included heritage structures. He also did not accept the majority view that the change in the land use was “minor” and emphasised that what is envisaged is complete redevelopment of the entire Central Vista, with site development infrastructure, landscape design, engineering design and services, mobility plan etc. He faulted the government for issuing the March 20, 2020 notification on change in land use of the seven plots without obtaining prior permission from the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) because the Central Vista is declared as a heritage zone under the Unified Building Bye-laws as also under the master plan of Delhi. Justice Khanna opted to quash the March 20 notification, preferring a review by the HCC regarding the change in land use and restrictions to apply. He opted to set aside the environmental clearance for the new Parliament building, saying the recommendation by the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) on April 22, 2020 did not give reasons on whether clearance could be granted for the Parliament building alone without taking into account the entire redevelopment project. The majority judgment has held that there was no fault in giving a clearance to the new Parliament building after the government chose to segregate the two projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissenting-judge-laments-lack-of-public-consultation/story-Bou4qv2N88Ldcl5MeXywPK.html
06-01-2021||India||‘In line with public trust standards’: How SC judges arrived at Central Vista decision||Arriving at a decision granting approval to the Central Vista redevelopment plan was not straight forward. The majority decision of the Supreme Court, authored by two on a three-judge bench, laboured to arrive at a conclusion by examining underlying constitutional principles, environmental safeguards, and the standard of judicial review to be maintained in examining an iconic project of this nature.Some of the important aspects that make the 611-page judgment interesting are: Rule of law and democratic due processThe petitioners implored the apex court to apply the “rule of law” instead of “rule by law”, which they argued, the government followed to bypass the “democratic due process” in order to obtain various approvals and clearances for the project worth over Rs 15,000 crore (this does not include the PM’s residence, and some other elements of the project). The majority verdict by justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari maintained that the rule of law provides a constant trigger to any state-citizen exchange and calls upon the court to strike a balance between two entities both bound by the same principle of superiority of law. But it added that the import of an expression like “democratic due process” in an administrative matter is fraught with serious consequences, for it will mean a decision on the subjective notion of the court, and not in accordance with the “procedure established by law”. An expansive approach towards democratic due process, where issues of constitutional rights are not involved, will be tantamount to substituting the government’s decision with the wisdom of the court regarding a better course of action or a policy. “Even if a Court finds it debatable, that can be no ground for the Court to quash an action taken strictly in accord with the prescribed procedure,” said the majority view, adding application of democratic due process will lead to withdrawing the task of governance from the democratically elected representatives and the executive by creating an illusory bar on the exercise of their power to function freely despite being within the four corners of the law. Plea for a heightened judicial review Keeping a safe distance from executive policymaking functions, the judges held that it is not the court’s concern to enquire into the priorities of an elected government. “We cannot be called upon to govern. For we have no wherewithal or prowess and expertise in that regard. Judicial review is never meant to venture into the mind of the Government and thereby examine validity of a decision.” The judges noted with concern the misuse of PIL (public interest litigation) jurisdiction by a section of people in society who seek substitution of the government’s view with their view by filing a PIL. “Judicial time is not meant for undertaking a roving enquiry or to adjudicate upon unsubstantiated flaws or shortcoming in policy matters of Government of the day and politicize the same to appease the dissenting group of citizens — be it in the guise of civil society or a political outfit.” Referring to the present set of petitions challenging the project, justice Khanwilkar said, “We need to say so because we had to spend considerable time and energy on this matter despite the pandemic situation, which at the end, we find to be devoid of substance.” The petitioners argued that the courts must adopt a “heightened” judicial review. Discarding this argument, the bench said, “There is absolutely no legal basis to ‘heighten’ the judicial review by applying yardstick beyond the statutory scheme and particularly when the Government has accorded no special status to the project and has gone through the ordinary route of such development projects as per law.” Public participationThe majority verdict addressed the petitioners’ complaints as regards the absence of sufficient public participation in the entire process. The court discussed the principles of natural justice while underlining that the subject matter of a development project, with no direct bearing on lives and livelihoods, cannot be equated with a project which has a direct impact. It noted that whether in a given case, personal oral hearing is to be provisioned for, or mere representations be invited, or public discussion is called for, is a matter for the legislature to make a law in that regard and that a court can’t prescribe a legislation in this regard. “The citizens are completely free to advocate any notion along the government policy or the manner of making it in their free exercise of right to speech and expression, but enforcement of such notion cannot be fructified by resorting to judicial review...No country with a sizeable population like ours can give a promise of direct participation to every individual in the decision-making process (of the government) in administrative matters unless the law so prescribes,” it held. Thus, the scope of public involvement in government processes, it said, is a matter dependent on legal framework of a country and the court should be loath to venture into that area. Environmental concerns While accepting the environmental clearance granted for the development of the new building, the majority decision felt it proper to direct the Central Public Works Department to set up smog towers of adequate capacity at the project site and install smog guns throughout the construction phase to mitigate pollution. “Time has come to advance the intent behind improving air quality a mandatory feature for modern buildings and more particularly during the phase of construction of such major projects in the cities most affected by air pollution.” The court called upon the Ministry of Environment and Forests to issue directions. In addition, the court asked the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to issue general directions to ensure smog guns and smog towers are made mandatory while constructing government buildings, townships or other major private projects. This shall be made an integral part in all future major development projects for grant of development permissions, particularly in cities with bad track record of air quality, the judges held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-line-with-public-trust-standards/story-Q2vTVrsLvpDKGSI3CGRBRN.html
06-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights| Farmers to take out tractor march on Jan 7 at 4 Delhi borders||The ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September entered day 41 on Tuesday and will continue for the time being as the seventh round of talks between the government and the farm union leaders failed to resolve the deadlock between the two sides. Monday’s talks saw both sides stick to their stand, with the government once again reiterating the laws won’t be repealed and insisting on a clause-by-clause discussion, while the farm unions stressed they want nothing short of a rollback. The unions also demanded a legal guarantee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP). The eighth round of talks will take place at 2 pm on January 8.Monday’s developments came despite there being hopes in some quarters of a resolution as, in the seventh round of talks on January 4, the two sides had arrived at a consensus on two out of four demands raised by the farmers. In the seventh round of talks, the central ministers representing the government and the farm unions leaders had also, for the very first time, taken meal together. Also on Monday, Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), whose Jio Infocomm mobile towers have been allegedly targeted by a section of farmers in Punjab, moved Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking “immediate government intervention” to stop the vandalism of its properties.It also accused “vested interests” and “business rivals” of instigating the farmers and further clarified it had never done “contract” or “corporate” farming and has no plans to enter the business.Follow major highlights from day 41 of the anti-farm law protests here:All will resolve soon, say BJP leaders from Punjab after meeting PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi is in the know of all developments related to the farmers’ protest against the new agri laws and the issue will get resolved soon, BJP leaders from Punjab asserted on Tuesday after meeting the PM, reported PTI.Farmers to celebrate ‘Azad Kisan Diwas’ on Netaji’s birth anniversaryKrantikari Kisan Union President Darshan Pal said that ‘Azad Hind Kisan Diwas’ will be celebrated on January 23, on the occasion of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary. Farmers said they would boycott Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies in National Democratic Alliance (NDA), reports ANI.Farmers to take out tractor march on Jan 7 at 4 Delhi borders‘Desh Jagran Abhiyan’ for two weeks to start from tomorrow with protests intensifying throught the country, said Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav. “We have decided that on January 7, we will take out tractor march at four borders of Delhi including Eastern and Western peripheral. This will be a trailer for what lies ahead on January 26,” he added, reported ANI. BJP leaders from Punjab meets PM Modi amid farmers stirBJP leaders from Punjab on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi here amid protests by farmers at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new agri laws for nearly six weeks, reports PTI.Farmers defer tractor parade to Jan 7, says union leadersProtesting farmers has deferred their proposed Jan 6 tractor march to Jan 7, said farmers union leaders, reports PTI.Tomar-led panel to meet on Jan 11 to discuss agri reformsThe agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called for an inter-session consultative committee meeting on January 11 to discuss agriculture’s role and contribution to the Atma Nirbhar Bharat mission and how the new reforms will aid the process, reports ANI.Rajasthan CM asks Centre to accept farmers’ demand, not to make prestige issueRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said that the central government should regularly talk to farmers, accept their demands of repealing the new farm laws and not make it a prestige issue, reports ANI.‘Kisan tractor parade’ planned for January 26On January 1, the farm union leaders had also announced a ‘Kisan tractor parade’ on the occasion of Republic Day on January 26, if their demands to repeal the farm laws are not repealed.Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blockedThe Ghazipur and Chilla borders connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida respectively remain partially blocked with only one carriageway open for those leaving Delhi.Also Read | Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blocked, rain worsens traffic woesProtesters likely to hold “tractor march” tomorrowFarmers agitating against the farm laws are likely to hold a “tractor march” on Wednesday in protest against the laws. At a press conference on January 1, the farm union leaders had announced that a “tractor march” would be held on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway if the seventh round of talks on January 7, too, remain inconclusive.Continuous rain affects stir at Singhu borderProtests at Delhi-Haryana Singhu border affected due to continuous rain. Protesters at Singhu border (Delhi- Haryana) affected due to continuous rainfall#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/lufaPTNNuiPanjab University students write to CJI on stir35 Panjab University students have written an open letter on the farmers’ stir to the chief justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, against attempts being made to paint the protesting farmers as “separatists.” The plea has been converted into a public interest litigation (PIL) and is expected to be heard by the Supreme Court in the coming days.Also Read | Supreme Court will take up an open letter on farmers as PIL7th round of talks fail to resolve impasse, next round on January 8The seventh round of talks between the government and farm union leaders on Monday failed to resolve the deadlock. The eighth round will take place at 2pm on January 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-5-2020/story-1gznUjMYVYlT9tY3kWqocI.html
