07-01-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir cadre of All India Services merged with AGMUT||The Jammu and Kashmir cadre of Indian Police Service, Indian Administrative Service and Indian Forest Service was on Thursday officially merged with the Union Territory cadre through an ordinance issued by the government. The ordinance signed by the President Ram Nath Kovind, amending section 13 and 88 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019, and issued by the ministry of law stated that the members of IAS, IPS and IFoS for the existing cadre of Jammu and Kashmir will now become part of AGMUT (Arunachal, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territories) cadre. The officers from these UTs can now be placed in J&K and vice-versa. According to the ordinance, “all future allocations of All India Services for the UT of J&K and UT of Ladakh shall be made to AGMUT cadre for which necessary modifications may be made in corresponding cadre rules by the Centre”. This J&K cadre of All India services had stopped inducting new officers after the government had recategorised the erstwhile state into two UTs – J&K and Ladakh after scrapping Article 370, which gave the state somewhat special status, on August 5, 2019. The merger of J&K cadre into AGMUT was delayed till now as officials had sought clarification on seniority and nature of posting etc, according to an official at the Centre. J&K is considered to be a ‘hard posting’ for government officials. The ordinance will pave the way for officials from Delhi and other UTs to be posted as District Magistrates, Superintendents of Police, or Director General and other important capacities. It is not clear yet whether this number of officers who can be posted in J&K from other UTs will be limited and what will be the duration of their term. The rules regarding the tenure duration etc will be included in the rules, which will be prepared by the ministry of home affairs (MHA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-cadre-of-all-india-services-merged-with-agmut/story-ug1jcyxIMcBmtCr7j6IxxL.html
07-01-2021||India||NIA arrests key suspect from TN in SSI Wilson murder case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested a key suspect in the murder of a police officer at Chennai airport after his deportation to India from Qatar, the agency said o n Thursday. The January 8, 2020 murder in Kanyakumari was part of a conspiracy by some Islamic State operatives led by Khaja Mohideen to revive the activities of the global terror outfit in the region, officials said. Shihabudeen alias Sirajudeen, 39, who belongs to Chennai, had fled from India after the killing and been in hiding in Qatar. He is accused of having arranged the gun used by another suspect in the case – Abdul Shameem – to kill special sub-inspector (SSI) of Tamil Nadu Police, Wilson.NIA, the central anti-terror agency, had taken the over probe of Wilson’s murder from Tamil Nadu police in February 2020. A charge-sheet was filed in the case July naming Islamic State operative s Mohideen, Abdul Shameem and Y Thowfeek of Kanyakumari; Jaffar Ali (Cuddalore); Mahboob Pasha and Ejas Pasha of Bengaluru. A separate charge-sheet would be filed later in the case against Shihabudeen, according to an NIA officer who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-key-suspect-from-tn-in-ssi-wilson-murder-case/story-6g63s4oXDE2ycGwi6OCEIN.html
07-01-2021||India||Odisha asks people to remain vigilant as 11000 samples test negative for bird flu||Even as 11,000 samples of migratory birds tested by the laboratories in the state were found negative for bird flu, the Odisha government continued to remain cautious asking people to report any unnatural death of birds to the nearest veterinary doctor or chief district veterinary officer.The veterinary department said so far around 11,000 samples of migratory birds in several waterbodies including Chilika Lake have been tested, but all the samples have been detected negative for the disease. On Thursday, around 300 samples including a few birds from a poultry farm of Khurda also tested negative.“In Govindpur village of Badaberana Gram Panchayat in Begunia block of Khurda district, around 120 poultry birds have been reported dead. Five samples from the farm tested negative for the virus based on the Avian Influenza virus antigen test. The rest of the dead birds were buried in deep burial method with proper disinfection measures. The Special Supervisory Team and Rapid Response Teams have sanitized the farm premises with proper application of disinfectants,” said a veterinary department official.Officials said people need not panic and can consume chicken meat, eggs and other poultry products with proper cooking.Nine Special Supervisory Teams have been constituted at the state level to immediately proceed to any suspected location of bird flu in the state. All CDVOs have been directed to constitute 10 to 15 Rapid Response Teams (RRT) at the district level for prompt response to any reports of suspected cases of bird flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-asks-people-to-remain-vigilant-as-11000-samples-test-negative-for-bird-flu/story-Geoena5YTD6QhNGrSKLO5K.html
07-01-2021||India||SC issues notices on plea against merger of 6 BSP MLAs with Cong||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to Rajasthan assembly Speaker, assembly secretary and the six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs who merged with the Congress in September 2019, over two separate petitions.The bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and KM Joseph was hearing two petitions filed by BSP, and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar against the August 24 last year order passed by the state high court. The high court had dismissed BSP’s petition against the September 18, 2019 order passed by the Assembly Speaker approving the merger. Senior advocate Satish Chandra Mishra, appearing for BSP, said that the merger of the six MLAs with Congress cannot be recognised as past rulings of the SC have clearly held that for this to be true, there should be a split in the party at the national level. “Only then, one-third of party members can merge with any political party,” Mishra said. “We will issue notice,” the bench said while seeking responses, including from the Assembly secretary as well as the six MLAs.Six MLAs of the BSP had merged with the Congress giving a boost to the Ashok Gehlot government as the tally of the Congress increased to over 100 in the House of 200 MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notices-on-plea-against-merger-of-6-bsp-mlas-with-cong/story-akQjpN2uLuJ9ANcAqOB5HP.html
07-01-2021||India||131 infiltrators detained in Tripura in 2020, says BSF||A total of 131 people including 85 Indian nationals were detained for illegally crossing the India-Bangladesh international border into Tripura in 2020, a top Border Security Force (BSF) official said Thursday.The rest 46 were Bangladeshi nationals. BSF inspector general Sushanta Nath said that some of those arrested were involved in smuggling contraband items while some infiltrators had strayed across the border. In 2019, the BSF detained 236 people for illegally crossing the international border. Of them, 117 were Indians, 65 were Bangladeshi nationals, 53 were Rohingyas and one was a Nigerian. “We are maintaining tight security as we are aware of the attempt of the militants to revive. We are working closely with the state police and security agencies to prevent border crimes and militancy. “Out of Tripura’s 856-km long international boundary with Bangladesh, 67 km are yet to be fenced. Nath said that 95% of the border areas have been fenced. In November last year, the BSF and Border Guards of Bangladesh (BGB) discussed trans border crimes and preventive measures and the construction of a single row fence along the Indo-Bangla border during a two-day border coordination conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/131-infiltrators-detained-in-tripura-in-2020-says-bsf/story-l7ksZ6Ihdr8zz4xBfprcvO.html
07-01-2021||India||Be prepared for any eventuality: Centre to states on bird flu||As several states are reporting a sudden outbreak of bird flu, the Centre on Thursday confirmed that bird flu has been reported in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh so far, but all states should be prepared for any eventuality.States have been told to ensure sufficient stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations. They have also been asked to create awareness among public that it is safe to consume poultry products after following boiling/cooking procedures.The Secretary in the Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying held a meeting with the states to understand the status of the outbreak of avian influenza (bird flu) and to suggest measures for control, containment and prevention of the spread of the disease, an official statement said.A three-member central team on Thursday took stock of the situation in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in Kerala where over 43,000 ducks have been killed to contain the H5N8 strain. Unusual mortality of poultry, crows, migratory birds has been reported from Kerala, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh.“So far, the disease has been confirmed only from four states (Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh). Culling operations are underway in the affected districts of Kerala,” the statement said.Punjab government on Thursday said there has been no report of bird flu. Delhi government and Noida administration too confirmed that no cases have been reported so far.“States were requested to be prepared for any eventuality of avian influenza and were requested to ensure sufficient stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations,” the statement said.Besides ensuring collection of representative samples and timely submission to the designated laboratories (RDDLs/CDDL/ICAR-NIHSAD), the Centre has asked state animal husbandry departments to ensure effective communication and coordination with health authorities for close vigilance on the outbreak and avoid any chances of jumping of the disease into humans.“Awareness among poultry farmers and the general public (consumers of eggs and chicken) about the disease is of foremost importance. So states have been asked to quell consumer reactions, affected by rumours and increase awareness regarding safety of poultry or poultry products that were safe for consumption following boiling/cooking procedures,” the statement said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-prepared-for-any-eventuality-centre-to-states-on-bird-flu/story-q70hq4g6uSqRwLGFueH1aI.html
07-01-2021||India||Kerala assembly session to commence on Friday||Sparks are expected to fly in the final session of the present Kerala Assembly commencing on Friday with the opposition Congress-led UDF set to attack the CPI(M)-led Left Front government on various issues including corruption allegations.Adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols, the Assembly session will commence with the customary address by Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan.The Assembly had recently met for a one-day special session on December 31 and passed a unanimous resolution seeking scrapping of the three contentious farm laws passed by the centre.Though the Governor had at first turned down the Left government’s plea to convene the House on December 23 for discussing the agri laws, against which farmers have been agitating on Delhi borders for over a month, the session was held on December 31 after the clarifications sought by him were furnished.The last budget of the CPI(M)-led LDF government, which would be vote on account, will be presented by Finance Minister Thomas Isaac on January 15.The session will conclude on January 28.The LDF government, which is hoping to break the jinx and ride back to power for a second term, is expected to line up new proposals and projects for the state’s development, launch people-friendly schemes, besides announcing sops for various sections with an eye on the assembly elections due by April-May this year.The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) will ensure that the final session will not be a cakewalk for the LDF and will hit out at the government on various issues, including the gold smuggling case in which M Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary of Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, now under suspension, is among the accused.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala told P T I that the UDF will “expose” the government in this last session.“This is the most corrupt government”, he alleged.Besides the gold smuggling case, irregularities in the Life Mission project at Wadakancherry are among the various corruption allegations which are likely to be raised by the opposition, which has already served a notice seeking removal of the Speaker, P Sreeramakrishnan after his name cropped up in the smuggling case.Assembly sources said all arrangements have been made for the legislators to undergo antigen testing from 7 AM at the Assembly premises on January 8, 11 and 18.The members, who will be provided N-95 masks and gloves, will undergo thermal scanning before entering the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-session-to-commence-on-friday/story-wcNaIoS1BQAeSCcWuPnPvO.html
07-01-2021||India||SC issues notice on plea to bar turncoat lawmakers from contesting bypolls||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre and Election Commission to examine whether lawmakers who resign to topple an elected government and later join hands with the rival political faction for the lure of ministerial berths should attract disqualification under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice on a petition filed by Jaya Thakur, a social activist from Madhya Pradesh, who demanded that a six-year ban should be imposed on such political turncoats in view of the recent trend emerging from the states of Madhya Pradesh as recently as in March 2020 and Karnataka in 2019. Thakur, in her petition filed through advocate Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “The object of the Tenth Schedule (inserted in the Constitution in 1985) was to curb the evil of political defections motivated by lure of office or other similar consideration which endanger the foundations of our democracy. Evil of the political defection has been a matter of national concern. Therefore, now time has come that a defector should be debarred for a period of six year, so that corrupt practice must be discouraged.” The petition also demanded that any person who gives up membership of the party should be barred from holding any office of a Minister or any other remunerative political post until the term of the House expires. “Politicians including political parties find out a new path to defeat the motive of the Tenth Schedule by giving resignation from an elected post and choose to join the ruling party and take ministerial post or any other public office by contesting bye-elections within six month at the cost of the public exchequer. It is necessary to ban such type of people for up to six years from contesting elections and debar them from holding any public office,” the petition said.The petition cited the recent example of Madhya Pradesh where 22 rebel members of the state Assembly belonging to the Congress resigned to topple the Kamal Nath government in the state. Later, they contested the bye-elections and got re-elected from the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP). Some of them joined as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government.The petition also gave the example of Karnataka where 10 out of 17 members of legislative Assembly (MLA) in the state resigned or stood disqualified for anti-party activities in 2019. Later, on getting re-elected, the BS Yeddyurappa government gave ministerial berths to 10 such MLAs.Senior advocate Anoop G Chaudhary who argued for Thakur told the Court, “MLAs, MPs contesting the election at the public exchequer’s cost cannot resign for personal benefits with ulterior motive. They are defeating the law laid down by the Parliament in the Tenth Schedule, later upheld by the Supreme Court in the Kihoti Hollohan case of 1992.”The Tenth Schedule lays down the process by which legislators may be disqualified on grounds of defection by the Presiding Officer of a legislature based on a petition by any other member of the House. A legislator is deemed to have defected if he either voluntarily gives up the membership of his party or disobeys the party whip on voting.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, agreed to issue notice on the petition to both the Centre and the Election Commission. Since a petition raising similar issue is already pending before the Court in a case titled Lok Prahari v Union of India, the Court tagged Thakur’s petition to be heard along with that case. Chaudhary requested the Court for an early date citing elections in several states but the bench refused to assign any date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-on-plea-to-bar-turncoat-lawmakers-from-contesting-bypolls/story-pHvjPSD3pIGjonu0tYTdBK.html
07-01-2021||India||Ahead of 2nd dry run, Centre says vaccine delivery shortly; alerts 4 states as Covid-19 cases spike||The Union health ministry has informed all states and union territories that the first supply of Covid-19 vaccine will be dispatched shortly. On Friday, the second phase of nationwide vaccine dry run will be taken up by all states and UTs except Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Arunachal Pradesh as they have already conducted dry run in all districts.States like Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal will receive their supply of vaccines by suppliers. While other 18 states and UTs Andaman and the Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Daman and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand, will receive their vaccines from their respective government medical store depots.Though preparation is on for rolling out the vaccination drive, Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh are worrying, the health minister said. The ministry on Thursday wrote to these three states and West Bengal to check the sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in these states.Interacting with the state health ministers regarding the dry run, Harsh Vardhan asked them to submit their inputs after the dry run gets completed. Kerala health minister KK Shailaja raised the issue whether doctors who are practising only in private will be registered for first phase vaccination etc. There is a confusion over the cost of the immunisation drive as well. While priority groups will get the vaccine free, the Centre has not yet spelt out whether the state governments will have to pay for the doses.Like the last round of dry run held on January 2, tomorrow too the districts will identify three types of sessions for the mock drive: district hospital, medical college/private health facility, urban/rural outreach. The steps of a dry run include beneficiary registration, micro-planning, vaccination and the Union minister emphasised that the site organisers will have to hold review meetings after the session to gather feedback. There will be four types of officers deployed at a site. Vaccinator officers include doctors, staff nurses, pharmacists who are legally authorised to give injections. Then there will be vaccine officer 1 including police, home guard, civil defence, NCC, NSS to check the registration status of a beneficiary. Then there will be vaccine officer 2 who will verify documents. Vaccine officers 3 and 4 will manage the crowd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2nd-dry-run-centre-says-vaccine-delivery-shortly-alerts-4-states-as-covid-19-cases-spike/story-CPwfJRYKG4DAEDjJ3nw1yI.html
07-01-2021||India||NGT stops activity in 436 acres in Bhubaneswar for lack of forest clearance||The National Green Tribunal has halted further activity across 436 acres of forest land in one of the prime areas of Bhubaneswar having hotels, government and corporate offices citing lack of forest diversion clearance.“In view of the acknowledged encroachment of forest land and, diversion of forest land having been undertaken without obtaining the mandatory clearance under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, we are of the firm view that no further activity shall be taken up without first complying with the requirements of law,” ordered the NGT bench of justice SP Wangdi and expert member Saibal Dasgupta referring to the 436 acres of land marked as Forest Category (Jungle II) in government records.The NGT bench further said that if the state government allows violation of the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, then the Ministry of Forest MoEF&CC can take appropriate action under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 and Forest (Conservation) Rules, 2003 against those responsible for permitting such violations. It also directed the state government, the Divisional Forest Officer and the MoEF&CC before the next hearing on February 19.The January 5 order was uploaded on the NGT’s website on Thursday.The NGT order came in response to a petition filed by Bhubaneswar-based activist Subash Mohapatra in 2019 challenging the inaction of the state government in checking the illegal and unauthorized use of 568 acres of revenue forest land (Jungle II Kisam) in Khata No 1427 of Jaydev Vihar Mouza in Bhubaneswar for non-forestry purpose. Mohapatra in his petition to the NGT had said that 44 institutions had set up hotels, corporate offices, a school and hospitals without applying for diversion of forest land for non-forest purposes. Hotels like Mayfair, Trident, Swosti Plaza, Sandy’s Towers and Suryansh and offices like Tech Mahindra, Nalco, Employees Insurance Corporation and Loyola School have come up on these lands over the last three decades. A CAG report in 2012 had first flagged the alleged violation of the FC Act by some of these entities.Under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, forest areas can be diverted by the environment ministry for non-forestry purposes. In lieu of the land, money is collected by the government which is then used by the authorities for afforestation.After Mohapatra filed his petition, the NGT in May 2019 had formed a committee comprising district collector and Divisional Forest Officer of Khurda to ascertain the veracity of his allegations and to take action in accordance with law if any of the alleged violations were found to be correct.The committee in its report had informed the NGT that huge tracts of forest land were diverted for non-forest activities by various institutions without obtaining necessary clearances under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. It also said that the state government had asked 44 central and state Government, central and state undertakings and private institutions situated on the forest land to file proposals for diversion of forest land for non-forestry use and to obtain necessary clearances from the MoEF&CC. However, out of 44 institutions, clearance has been accorded by the MoEF&CC to only three institutions between 2014 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-stops-activity-in-436-acres-in-bhubaneswar-for-lack-of-forest-clearance/story-5bf4zuyAEY7UBCyqI0x7SM.html
07-01-2021||India||Railways extends time to claim refunds for trains cancelled from March-June last year||The Ministry of Railways has extended the time limit for cancellation of counter tickets for train journeys between March 21 and June 30, 2020 from the present six months to nine months in view of the coronavirus crisis. The ministry had earlier extended the facility from three days to six months when the coronavirus pandemic had led to the cancellation of all regular trains.“Ministry of Railways has decided to extend the time limit beyond six months and up to nine months from the date of journey for cancellation of PRS counter tickets and refund of fare across reservation counters for the journey period March 21, 2020 to June 7, 2020. It is applicable only for regular time tabled trains cancelled by Railways,” the ministry said in a statement. “After lapse of six months from the date of journey, many passengers may have deposited the tickets to Claims Office of Zonal Railways through TDR or through general application along with original tickets. Full refund of fare on such PRS counter tickets shall also be allowed for such passengers,” it said. Soon after the lockdown was announced in March and regular train services were suspended due to the pandemic, the time limit for ticket cancellation was extended from three days to three months and in May it was extended to six months. This was done to restrict the number of passengers at counters and prevent transmission of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-extends-time-to-claim-refunds-for-trains-cancelled-from-march-june-last-year/story-sO3Ih1hqGiDccAcPgQVtbK.html
07-01-2021||India||Ahead of FATF meet, Pakistan seeks Maulana Masood Azhar’s arrest; court issues warrant||With its Financial Action Task Force (FATF) review around the corner, Pakistan on Thursday acknowledged the presence of Jaish-e-Mohammad chief – Maulana Masood Azhar on its territory and sought an arrest warrant against him, top officials in the government said. Based on a disclosure made by Pakistani authorities, an anti-terrorism court (ATC) judge at Pakistan’s Gujranwala – Natasha Naseem Supra issued an arrest warrant for Masood Azhar on charges of terror financing and directed that he be produced in court on Friday, they said. This, Indian officials added, is clearly linked to FATF taking up Pakistan’s case in meetings this month and February. JeM was among the groups specifically named by FATF for terror financing in its reports in the past two years. India has already provided evidence on JeM and Azhar’s role in last year’s Pulwama attack, in which 40 personnel of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed, an incident that brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. The Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of Pakistan’s Punjab province moved the court seeking an arrest warrant for Azhar on the charges of ‘raising funds’. The CTD had arrested six JeM terrorists - Muhammad Afzal, Muhammad Amir, Allah Ditta, Muhammad Iftikhar, Muhammad Ajmal and Muhammad Bilal Makki, under pressure after the Pulwama attack. Officials said Azhar’s arrest has been sought in the same case. “The move is to duck the FATF black listing by showing that it is taking action against United Nations listed terrorists. The FATF is taking up Pakistan’s case in meetings scheduled this month and in February. JeM was among the groups specifically named by FATF for terror financing in its reports in past two years,” said an official. Pakistan was placed on the ‘grey-list’ by the financial watchdog in June 2018 and had asked it to implement a plan of action to curb money laundering and terror financing by the end of 2019. The deadline was extended due to Covid-19 pandemic. Azhar’s last location was said to be at a safe-house in Bahawalpur. The CTD had said in a statement last year that it had raided the JeM’s safe house and arrested its members who were collecting funds for JeM. “The suspects were collecting funds to finance activities of JeM. The chargesheet against them has been submitted to the Anti-Terrorism Court Gujranwala and they are being interrogated,” the CTD had said. The UN had, in May 2019, designated Azhar a “global terrorist” after China lifted its hold on a proposal to blacklist the Pakistan-based JeM chief, a decade after New Delhi approached the world body for the first time on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-fatf-meet-pakistan-seeks-maulana-masood-azhar-s-arrest-court-issues-warrant/story-YdD4uhH9T43QEgBXa4BepL.html
07-01-2021||India||PM should talk directly with protesting farmers: Harsimrat Badal||A day before the government’s eighth round of talks with protesting farm unions, SAD leader and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the Centre has lost the trust of the entire farming community and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly talk to agitating farmers. Expressing her anguish over the pain of farmers, Badal, leader of the ruling BJP’s erstwhile ally, said, “It is strange that farmers are spending nights in open during the chilling winters and even then their demands are falling on deaf ears.” In an interview to PTI, Badal who resigned from Union Cabinet in September last year when the three farm bills were being passed in Lok Sabha, said what farmers have gone through in last six-seven weeks, is the same what she went through when she was a Union Minister. “...To avoid the situation which has arisen now and the protest, I kept pleading for months, whether it was in cabinet meetings or in direct meetings with top leaders of the central government that please listen to farmers before bringing these three bills as they are ‘annadaatas’ of the country, otherwise it would lead to agitations and protests. But my all pleas fell on to deaf ears,” she said. Asking who will be held responsible for deaths of farmers during the protest, Badal said the Centre has lost the trust of farmers across the country. “Farmers are dying at the doorstep of the central government while protesting for their demands. Who will be responsible for deaths of ‘annadaatas’ of the country?” Badal said. Talking about the ongoing meetings between protesting farmers and Centre, Badal said after seven rounds of meetings nothing concrete has come out. “After several rounds of meetings if ministers are unable to resolve the farmers’ issues then Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly talk to protesting farmers,” Badal said. She also attacked the Congress-led Punjab government and state chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and said he has failed to fulfill his responsibility as guardian of the state and its people. “Both the central and state governments are equal partners in this crime against farmers. While farmers were sitting on dharna, the Chief Minister of Punjab was having fun in his farmhouse. Captain Amarinder Singh has miserably failed to fulfil his responsibilities as chief minister of Punjab and as guardian of its people,” Badal said. Harsimrat Kaur Badal was Union Food Processing Minister in the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre and resigned when the bills were taken up for passage in Lok Sabha. Her husband and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced her resignation in the lower house while participating in the debate on the three farm bills.Days later, SAD also moved out of the ruling NDA breaking its decades-old alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-should-talk-directly-with-protesting-farmers-harsimrat-badal/story-4GqRRadg4zbKIeMzYHVPHN.html
07-01-2021||India||India’s UNSC term critical for New Delhi, Paris, says French President’s top advisor||Emmanuel Bonne, the diplomatic advisor to French President, has called on India for combined initiatives between India and France during India’s tenure at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). “India will be a member of the UN Security Council for 2 years. This will be a critical occasion for both of us to take initiatives whether it’ll be on the Indo-Pacific region or it is about addressing terrorist threats,” he said, as quoted by news agency ANI. On January 4, 2021, India officially began its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UNSC for a period of two years. France is a permanent member of the security council.Bonne also thanked the Indian government and people for their support to France when the country was “under attack by some leaders in Turkey and Pakistan and in other countries”, a veiled reference to the backlash France received from many nations, including Pakistan and Turkey, after the killing of French teacher Samuel Paty. The French government was condemned for its support to acts that hurt their religious sentiments. “We very much appreciate the support we got not only from your authorities but also from Indian civil society when our country was under attack by some leaders in Turkey and Pakistan and in other countries,” he added. The remarks from Bonne came after his meeting with India’s National Security Adviser Ajit Doval earlier on Thursday. The meetings were a part of the annual strategic dialogue between India and France, which was confirmed by the ministry of external affairs in its official statement on Wednesday. The ministry also said that the two sides would discuss “wide-ranging bilateral and global issues.”Bilateral ties between India and France have been strengthening recently with India’s purchase of the Rafale jets from French aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation. Earlier in December 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up the French President Emmanuel Macron and expressed his support for France’s fight against terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-unsc-term-critical-for-new-delhi-paris-says-french-president-s-top-advisor/story-nmhYXbFsHcpdz46r5lbHEL.html
07-01-2021||India||J-K cadre of IAS, IPS and IFoS officers merged with AGMUT||The Jammu and Kashmir cadre of IPS, IAS and Indian Forest Service (IFoS) was merged with the AGMUT cadre on Thursday and its officers will now be posted by the central government. According to a notification signed by President Ram Nath Kovind and issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice, the members of IAS, IPS and Indian Forest Service for the existing cadre of Jammu and Kashmir will now become part of AGMUT (Arunachal, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territories) cadre. Now, the officers of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir cadre can be posted to Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and any union territory. Necessary modifications may be made in the corresponding cadre allocation rules by the central government.The notification said the officers borne or allocated to AGMUT cadre shall function in accordance with the rules framed by the central government.The move comes over a year after the Centre abrogated Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcated the state into union territories in August 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cadre-of-ias-ips-and-ifos-officers-merged-with-agmut/story-gsJITSVkwhzjYpVbxNge1N.html
07-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Union health minister to visit Tamil Nadu tomorrow to review vaccine dry run in state and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to visit Tamil Nadu tomorrow; will oversee vaccine dry run at multiple sitesWith all states gearing up for the second round of the nationwide coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine dry run scheduled tomorrow, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will be visiting Tamil Nadu to review preparedness and oversee mock vaccination drills, according to an official statement. Read moreJustice RS Chauhan takes oath as chief justice of Uttarakhand High CourtJustice RS Chauhan was administered oath as the new Chief Justice of the Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday by Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a ceremony held at Raj Bhawan. The Central government on December 31 had notified the appointment of Justice RS Chauhan as the new chief justice of the Uttarakhand high court. Read moreLeft parties, Bengal Congress discuss seat-sharing ahead of pollsWest Bengal Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) conducted a meeting on Thursday to discuss seat-sharing ahead of the 2021 Assembly Elections in the state. Biman Bose, chairman of the Left Front along with Congress’ Abdul Mannan along with other Left leaders held a meeting after central leadership of both parties permitted the state units to discuss seat-sharing arrangements. Read moreBritain working with Pfizer, AstraZeneca to increase vaccine suppliesThe pace of Britain’s rollout of Covid-19 vaccines is being limited by the supply of shots, and the government is working with both Pfizer and AstraZeneca to increase supplies, health minister Matt Hancock said on Thursday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: The rise of Saini - From Delhi ‘outsider’ to India Test debutThe winter chill outside before dawn on Thursday was in contrast to the warmth inside the house in Karnal. The Sainis living in the Taraori locality of Haryana’s refinery town were brimming with anticipation as their boy Navdeep Saini got ready in faraway Sydney to make his Test debut. Read morePUBG Mobile India latest update: Looks like a new trailer is coming soonThe wait for PUBG Mobile India seems to be never-ending. While we know nothing about when the game might even potentially be released yet, according to reports, there is a new teaser coming in soon. As per InsideSport, PUBG Mobile India is going to release a new trailer any time between January 15 and January 19. Read moreWhen Ranbir Kapoor requested Hollywood star Natalie Portman for a picture, but she asked him to ‘get lost’Ranbir Kapoor has millions of fans across the globe but he had a bit of a fanboy moment himself when he bumped into Hollywood star Natalie Portman on the streets of New York a few years ago. He narrated the story of their meeting on The Kapil Sharma Show in 2016, when he came to promote his film Ae Dil Hai Mushkil. Read moreMan saves money for 2 months to replace sister’s broken laptop, people can’t stop praising himSiblings fight, tease, and even get angry at each other. However, beneath all that, there’s a special bond of love that they share. This post, recently shared on Twitter, aptly shows that relationship between a pair of siblings, a brother and a sister. Read morePregnant Kareena Kapoor Khan in sideswept hair, vintage look raises the bar for maternity fashion, Masaba Gupta heaps praises on ‘hardworking’ BeboBollywood actor and mom-to-be Kareena Kapoor Khan let everyone know when she was pregnant with Taimur, that pregnancy would not get in the way of her work, in fact, she ended up being extremely busy during her first pregnancy, and Begum Pataudi has no plans of backing down for baby number two either. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-union-health-minister-to-visit-tamil-nadu-tomorrow-to-review-vaccine-dry-run-in-state-and-all-the-latest-news/story-c8uIUEKtCVAWheXGK7mwMP.html
07-01-2021||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot urges PM Modi to restart stalled railway projects||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday urged PM Narendra Modi to restart the sanctioned and stalled railway projects of the state on priority. He said the majority, around 42% of the New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) crosses Rajasthan for Gujarat. “We have demanded that a railway station should be made in Bhiwadi town as it has a Japanese investment zone, the first-of-its-kind in India, with around 6521 industrial units,” he said. Speaking about the virtual inauguration of WDFC by PM Modi, the Rajasthan CM said, “A number of projects of Rajasthan, which were sanctioned and had been started are stalled due to some reasons. The PM should take them up on priority and restart the projects.” Gehlot said projects such as Sarmathura-Gangapur via the Karauli railway line was inaugurated but closed later; the Pushkar-Medta road railway line, and Chauth ka Barwada to Ajmer via Tonk railway line work too have been stalled. “The state had 50% partnership in the Banswar-Dungarpur-Ratlam project, benefitting the tribal area adjoining Gujarat. The state had given around Rs 250 crore and the work had started but later due to some reasons it was stalled. I urge the Centre to resume the work on priority but as the state isn’t in a sound position, the entire expenditure now has to be borne by the Railways,” said the CM. “Oil and Gas is there in Jaisalmer and Barmer – the country’s 20% oil is supplied from Barmer. Now the refinery work has also started. The demand for a rail line to connect the Mundra-Kandla port with Jaisalmer-Barmer is there for the last 40 years, which is justified looking to the future,” said Gehlot. The CM added that the gauge conversion of the Loharu-Sikar-Reengus rail line had been done but the operation of trains has not started yet. Welcoming the PM’s move of giving a major part of the WDFC to Rajasthan, the CM said the state is committed to the cause but how the Delhi–Mumbai industrial corridor will be made and developed along the Delhi-Mumbai Freight Corridor continues to remain a big challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-urges-pm-modi-to-restart-stalled-railway-projects/story-IBBEMOxyGgDvdl9lJY7m2I.html
07-01-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi accuses BJP of profiting off people’s woes as fuel prices soar||Congress leader Sonia Gandhi accused the Narendra Modi-led government of bringing instability in the nation citing the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the rise in fuel prices. She lashed out at the BJP government alleging that petrol and diesel prices are the highest in 73 years because the Centre is trying to make profits ignoring the hardships faced by the citizens.Sonia Gandhi alleged that the government recovered Rs 19,00,000 crore from the country’s citizens by increasing excise duty and denied extending the benefits of the global reduction of oil prices across the globe. Oil prices across the globe hit record lows last year due to the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdowns it brought across several countries and major cities.Sonia Gandhi called the government ‘insensitive’ and alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party is busy profiting from the pandemic instead of extending a helping hand to the masses. “I demand from the government that the rates of excise duty on petrol and diesel be made similar to that during the UPA regime and provide immediate relief to the affected people,” she said in her statement, released by the Congress.Petrol prices on Thursday rose by 23 paise per litre to Rs 84.20 in the Capital, which is among the all-time highest prices recorded. Diesel prices rose by 26 paise to Rs 74.38 in New Delhi.Gandhi also said the nation is facing a crisis and appears to be standing at crossroads for the first time since independence. “The country is standing at the crossroads today for the first time in the history of independent India. On one hand, the country’s ‘annadata’ is standing on the borders of Delhi for the last 44 days in support of their legitimate demands, while the country’s autocratic, insensitive and ruthless BJP government is busy breaking the back of the poor, farmers and middle class,” the statement said.Sonia Gandhi in her statement demanded that the prime minister repeal the newly introduced farm laws. “I once again appeal to the government to repeal the three farm laws immediately and fulfil all the demands of farmers,” Gandhi said.The government is scheduled to meet the farmers’ unions on January 8. The farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for the last 44 days demanding the repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers’ groups believe that these three laws will affect the procurement under the Minimum Support Price system and allow private and multinational companies to make profits off farmers as it will encourage corporate farming.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-accuses-bjp-of-profiting-off-people-s-woes-as-fuel-prices-soar/story-X6tNMUHqvBUxitpCDwEtGL.html
07-01-2021||India||At 5265 MW, Delhi records season’s highest power demand||Delhi’s peak power demand clocked 5,265 MW on Thursday, the highest so far this winter, due to the continuing chilly weather, discom officials said. The peak power demand of the city has increased by over four per cent since January 1. It registered an increase of over 50 per cent since December 1 and by 67 per cent since November 1, 2020, they said. “Delhi’s peak power demand continues to increase due to the city’s chilly weather. Today, the peak power demand clocked 5,265 MW, the season’s highest of this winter, pipping this season’s previous high of 5,021 MW recorded on January 1,” said a spokesperson of BSES. BSES discoms -- BRPL and BYPL -- successfully met the power demand of 2,187 MW and 1,093 MW in their respective areas. Delhi’s peak power demand had crossed the 5,000 MW for the first time this winter on January 1, he said. On December 1, 2020, Delhi’s peak power demand was 3,504 MW. Since then, the city’s peak power demand has increased by over 50 per cent. Delhi’s peak power demand this winter can go up to 5,480 MW, surpassing last year’s winter demand, projected the discom officials. Last year, it had risen to 5,343 MW. The peak winter power demand in BRPL and BYPL areas had reached 2,020 MW and 1,165 MW respectively during last winter. This year, it is expected to reach 2,200 MW and 1,270 MW for BRPL and BYPL respectively, said the BSES spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-5265-mw-delhi-records-season-s-highest-power-demand/story-eBSbzxwQohjqYV6iLUV3ZL.html
07-01-2021||India||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to visit Tamil Nadu tomorrow; will oversee vaccine dry run at multiple sites||With all states gearing up for the second round of the nationwide coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine dry run scheduled tomorrow, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will be visiting Tamil Nadu to review preparedness and oversee mock vaccination drills, according to an official statement. Tomorrow’s dry run will be carried out in 736 districts across 33 states and Union Territories (UTs).“The Union health minister will visit the sessions site at Government General Hospital, Chennai followed by the one at Government Omandurar Hospital, Chennai,” the official statement said adding that he would also oversee work at the Apollo Hospital’s vaccination centre after paying a brief visit to the General Medical Store Depot (GMSD) in Periamedu. The health ministry had said on Tuesday that there were four GMSDs located in Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata and 37 vaccine stores across the country.Also Read| Covid-19: Why Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh are cause for fresh concerns“The minister will also visit the vaccination Centre at Chengalpattu. He will be visiting the Hindustan Bio-Tech Ltd campus at Chengalpattu after concluding his supervision at these sites,” the statement added.Earlier, the health minister held a meeting with the health ministers, principal secretaries and additional chief secretaries of states and UTs to review the preparedness of the vaccination mock drill in their respective areas. He also reassured all state health ministers that the cold chain infrastructure-which will be used for storing vials- had been sufficiently upgraded to ensure last-mile delivery and adding that adequate supplies of syringes and other logistics had also been provided for.Tamil Nadu has registered over 823,000 coronavirus cases till now of which 12,188 people have died and nearly 804,000 have recovered. The state added 811 new infections and 11 more deaths on Wednesday. Chennai continues to be the worst affected region in the state with 226,937 cases and 4,035 deaths.Also Read| Covid-19 vaccination dry run at 263 places across Karnataka tomorrowAhead of the mock drill in the state, chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami ordered to take up measures on a war footing for the dry run and all the district collectors are engaged in taking necessary steps to conduct it in their respective districts, health secretary Radhakrishnan said. He added that initially healthcare, frontline workers and senior citizens would be administered vaccine doses. The first dry run on January 2 was carried out in 17 centres across five districts of the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-to-visit-tamil-nadu-tomorrow-will-oversee-vaccine-dry-run-at-multiple-sites/story-BDTXoBbuO9F5m6tw9K2xPJ.html
07-01-2021||India||Justice RS Chauhan takes oath as chief justice of Uttarakhand High Court||Justice RS Chauhan was administered oath as the new Chief Justice of the Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday by Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a ceremony held at Raj Bhawan. The Central government on December 31 had notified the appointment of Justice RS Chauhan as the new chief justice of the Uttarakhand high court. Before his appointment, he was the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court. Senior government functionaries including Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Legislative Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal chief secretary Om Prakash and DGP Ashok Kumar were present on the occasion. Later in the day, Justice RS Chauhan reached Nainital where lawyers and other members of the legal fraternity welcomed him. Before Justice RS Chauhan, Justice Ramesh Ranganathan was the chief justice of Uttarakhand HC. He had been transferred to the High Court of Uttarakhand and had assumed charge in November 2018. He retired on July 27, 2020, after which the post fell vacant. In 2000, when Uttarakhand was carved out from Uttar Pradesh, the Uttarakhand High Court was also established at the same time in Nainital, with Justice Ashok A Desai as the founder Chief Justice of the High Court. The sanctioned strength of Judges at the time of creation was 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-rs-chauhan-takes-oath-as-chief-justice-of-uttarakhand-high-court/story-85sGyk9uEQYaZHzQZG2c0J.html
07-01-2021||India||No evidence found, UP Police drop charges of ‘religious conversion for marriage’||The Uttar Pradesh State government on Thursday told the Allahabad High Court that the police had dropped charges against one Nadeem for allegedly trying to marry a woman from Muzaffarnagar with intentions of her religious conversion as no evidence was found during investigation. In the affidavit, the government said that during investigation no evidence was found that the accused Nadeem was having ‘any illicit relation with the woman’. Further, during investigation, no evidence was found in support of the allegation that Nadeem was trying for her religious conversion as alleged by the complainant, Akshay Kumar in the FIR.The bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice SS Shamshery after hearing parties concerned directed the state government to file counter affidavit in the case and fixed January 15 as the next date of hearing in the case. Earlier, on December 18, last year the Allahabad High Court had asked the UP Police to not take any coercive action against the accused, Nadeem, and has tagged his plea, challenging the constitutional validity of the ordinance with other PILs in the matter.Senior Advocate SFA Naqvi representing Nadeem, had argued that the ordinance is ultra vires of the Constitution of India and any criminal proceeding initiated under the provisions of the ordinance should be quashed.Nadeem who is from Haridwar was booked by the UP Police on November 29, last year on a complaint by one Akshay Kumar of Muzaffarnagar.Nadeem had sought quashing of the FIR lodged against him under Sections 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (Criminal conspiracy) of IPC and Sections 3 and 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020.It was alleged in the FIR that Nadeem developed an illicit relation with the complainant’s wife with the purpose of converting her religion by marriage and was attempting to convert her by threat as well as by exerting undue pressure.Nadeem has denied all the allegations and asserted that he is a poor labourer who had been falsely implicated in the case by the complainant, merely to avoid payment of some dues which the complainant owed him.On December 31, 2020, charge sheet was filed under section 504 and 506 of Indian Penal Code against Nadeem as it was found during investigation that on an occasion Nadeem had called the woman and threatened to kill her.Regarding a batch of PILs challenging constitutional validity of the ordinance, the state government counsel informed the Court that the Supreme Court has taken cognizance of the matter and has issued notice to the state government.The court adjourned hearing in all the PILs till January 15.A bunch of PILs were filed on the issue claiming that the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 to prohibit religious conversions in the name of ‘love jihad’, impinges upon their fundamental right to choice and the right to change faith.According to the petitioners, the ordinance was violative of citizens’ rights under Article 14 (Right to Equality), 15 (Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, etc.), 21 (Right to life) and 25 (Freedom of conscience, etc.) of the Constitution.The government on Thursday filed an affidavit in response to the batch of PILs challenging its controversial ordinance.The government stated in the affidavit that the ordinance is aimed at preventing any form of unlawful conversion actuated by elements of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement, etc and the Constitution of India abhors any form of forceful conversion particularly in matters of religion. Being a secular State it becomes the foremost duty of the State to protect its citizens from any kind of unlawful or forceful conversion so that the liberty of thought, faith, belief and worship as well as equality of status stands safeguarded thereby assuring the dignity of the individuals.The bunch of PILs were filed by Advocate Saurabh Kumar, Ajit Singh Yadav and Anand Malviya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-found-up-police-drop-charges-of-religious-conversion-for-marriage/story-NH0mhaXHqN0nNDlYS90cMM.html
07-01-2021||India||US Capitol Hill siege should not impact India-US relations, says Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday said the violence that took place at US Capitol on Wednesday will not have any effect on India’s bilateral relations with the US. New Delhi will have to work with the Biden administration and other democracies to strengthen democracy around the world, Tharoor said. Hundreds of Trump supporters forcefully entered the US Capitol while the Congress was in a session, in a bid to overturn his election defeat. The violence that followed led to the death of four individuals. Tharoor commended the Prime Minister for distancing the Indian government from the violence by standing up for the peaceful and orderly transition of power. He also cautioned that Wednesday’s incident is a solemn reminder. “I don’t believe it should’ve any implications for our bilateral relations with the US but it’s a sobering reminder. PM expressing concern was a good sign, it showed that he and the Govt are distancing themselves from those who believe ‘iss baar bhi Trump sarkar’,” Tharoor told ANI.I don't believe it should've any implication for our bilateral relations with US but it's a sobering reminder. PM expressing concern was good sign, it showed that he & Govt are distancing themselves from those who believe 'iss baar bhi Trump sarkar': Shashi Tharoor#WashingtonDC pic.twitter.com/nWmnnQpHoRHowever, the US Congress on Thursday formally announced Joe Biden as the next US President released a statement pledging an “orderly transition”.Tharoor also said that the administration at Delhi will have to work with the incoming Biden administration, as it tries to heal the division in its own country, working in tandem with other nations around the globe to strengthen democracy. “I think Delhi will have to work with the new Biden administration as it heals its own country and works with other democracies to strengthen democracy around the world, including in the USA,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-capitol-hill-siege-should-not-impact-india-us-relations-says-shashi-tharoor/story-QfygBUoLCRahzBWHv1T3JJ.html
07-01-2021||India||Poultry sales crash 30% in Lucknow on the back of bird flu scare||The bird flu scare has hit parts of the Uttar Pradesh capital with chicken and egg sellers complaining of drop in sales by about 30%. Bird flu cases have been reported in Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Dilshad Qureshi, a chicken seller at Udaiganj, Lucknow said, “Sales have dropped considerably despite dip in rates. Chicken is now selling at Rs 140 per kg. It was Rs 180 to Rs 200 per kg last week.” Manjeet Singh, wholesaler of eggs in Alambagh said, “Sale of eggs has also dropped by about 20%. In Lucknow, around 2.5 to 3 lakh eggs are sold daily but according to our reports the sale has dropped to just 2 lakh eggs daily.” Meanwhile, the animal husbandry department has divided Lucknow into nine blocks -- Chinhat, Bakshi Ka Talab, Mal, Malihabad, Kakori, Sarojini Nagar, Mohanlalganj, Gosainganj and Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) areas -- to keep an eye on the health of birds being sold in the markets, said nodal officer of the department Dr Tej Singh Yadav. “All inspectors of the animal husbandry department, working at grass roots level, have started contacting chicken sellers to apprise them about the symptoms of bird flu in chickens. The bird starts dying after turning purple in case of bird flu. If the birds are turning purple after death or before death the vendors can call toll free number 18001805141 and a team of animal husbandry department will reach them immediately,” Yadav said.He also said: “The animal husbandry department has written to the forest department to keep an eye on the birds in the forest area, especially crows, sparrows, pigeons, peacocks, etc. These birds also can die due to bird flu.” The chief medical officer (CMO), Lucknow has also been alerted for possible spread of bird flu and asked to store Tamiflu in abundance. The zila panchayat department and police have also been intimated about the possibility of the spread of bird flu.Joint director, animal welfare, LMC Dr Arvind Kumar Rao, said, “We are going to follow all orders of the animal husbandry department. We are in touch with each other and have already started an awareness programme with bird sellers so that they can maintain cleanliness and keep their birds away from any sort of infection.” Dr Yadav has appealed to people not to panic. “They can eat chicken and eggs without any fear. The meat must be properly cooked and eggs properly boiled. People must avoid taking raw egg or meat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poultry-sales-crash-30-in-lucknow-on-the-back-of-bird-flu-scare/story-Lsra6OkS5KvslK0Nf7t8XI.html
07-01-2021||India||Telangana gets additional borrowing permission of Rs 2,508 crore||Telangana has become third state in the country to successfully undertake urban local bodies reform stipulated by the Ministry of Finance, becoming eligible to mobilise additional financial resources of Rs 2,508 crore through open market borrowings.Telangana has now joined Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh which have completed this reform, according to an official statement issued on Thursday.On completion of urban local bodies reform, these three states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 7,406 crore.Reforms in urban local bodies (ULBs) and urban utility reforms are aimed at the financial strenghtening of ULBs in the state and to enable them to provide better public health and sanitation services.Economically rejuvenated ULBs will also be able to create good civic infrastructure.In May last year, the government had enhanced borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their gross state domestic product (GSDP) to meet the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic.Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen-centric reforms by the states which get permission to raise additional funds equivalent to 0.25 per cent of GSDP on completion of reforms in each sector.The four citizen-centric areas identified for reforms were implementation of One Nation One Ration Card system, ease of doing business reform, urban local body and utility reforms, and power sector reforms.So far, 10 states have implemented the One Nation One Ration Card System, seven states have done ease of doing business reforms and three states have done local body reforms.The total additional borrowing permission issued so far to the states which have done the reforms stands at Rs 54,190 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-gets-additional-borrowing-permission-of-rs-2-508-crore/story-yJ74rd1mCwqSfhconYHr5H.html
07-01-2021||India||Friends first: India adopts ‘HCQ model’ to send Covid vaccines to neighbours||India will adopt the ‘HCQ model’ to give other countries access to Covid vaccines being manufactured in the country in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pledge to make the shield against coronavirus available to all humanity. India’s neighbours and closest friends would, however, be given the first priority after setting aside the vaccine needed for people in the country, people familiar with the matter said.India had adopted the same format to make Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) available to friendly countries after studies indicated that the anti-malaria drug could be used as a prophylaxis. Besides sending HCQ supplies as assistance, India had commercially supplied half a billion HCQ tablets to 82 countries.India’s commitment to supply 12 million doses of the vaccine to Nepal, which will be conveyed to Kathmandu when foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali lands in New Delhi next week, is part of this template.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had indicated the broad contours of this approach to extend India’s vaccine umbrella to countries in south Asia when he travelled to Nepal late last year. “The first priority will be for our closest neighbours, our friends,” Shringla had said.Indian diplomats said this format would be replicated elsewhere in the region but the terms of the arrangement could be different. There could be a certain quantity of the vaccine that is made available on a grant basis while the rest would be on a commercial basis.Bangladesh, which had contracted for 30 million doses, has granted approval to the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The vaccines are expected to start landing in Dhaka from early February, according to reports from Dhaka.The Sheikh Hasina government had logged out of clinical trials for Chinese vaccine Sinovac after the manufacturer Sinovac Biotech demanded that Dhaka co-fund the late-stage domestic trial of its potential vaccine. Bangladesh subsequently declined to opt for the Chinese vaccine beyond the 1.1 lakh doses that it was to get free according to the arrangement to allow the trials in the country.The company’s demand that Dhaka should pay for the trials was also contrary to President Xi Jinping’s stated position articulated at the World Health Assembly when he had called the Chinese vaccine a “global public good”, an attempt to recast the narrative around coronavirus in its favour in face of criticism for Beijing’s initial handling of the infection first report from the central Chinese city of Wuhan.Myanmar has, however, kept its options open and has announced a deal to source vaccines from the Serum Institute of India (SII).“The purchase contract for buying the first batch of the vaccines from India has already been signed. As soon as the authorities concerned in India have issued permission to use this vaccine, we have made arrangements for the import of these vaccines into Myanmar,” announced, State Counsellor Daw AungSan Suu Kyi in her New Year address to the nation. Myanmar already has a pact in place to buy vaccines from China.Myanmar has also asked the World Health Organisation’s COVAX programme and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation to secure vaccines for its poor. These, however, are expected to arrive by April.Brazil, which had been facing complications around the Chinese vaccines, has also reached out to New Delhi for vaccine consignments of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine made by the Pune-based SII.Pakistan, as expected, is relying heavily on the Chinese vaccines that are being supplied abroad, according to communist party-linked Global Times, to recoup the cost of giving free vaccinations to the Chinese people.A Global Times article that attributed India’s plans to use the India-made vaccine for political brand-building and counter the international influence of Chinese vaccines, grudgingly acknowledged India’s expertise in the vaccine business.“Experts suggested that India’s vaccines are no less competitive than Chinese COVID-19 vaccines in both research and production capacity, considering that India has the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer and lower costs in labor and facilities,” the Global Times report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/friends-first-india-adopts-hcq-model-to-send-covid-vaccines-to-neighbours/story-oAftKafzFPNNHK8DgiuLVK.html
07-01-2021||India||Arrested ex-Andhra minister prime accused in kidnapping case, say police||Telugu Desam Party leader and former Andhra minister Bhuma Akhila Priya was on Thursday named the prime accused by the Hyderabad police for her alleged involvement in the abduction of three persons in a land dispute case.The police submitted the remand report to the court to this effect, stating that it was Akhila Priya who had hatched the plan to abduct the three persons - K Praveen Rao, K Sunil Rao and K Naveen Rao - from their residence on Tuesday night. The police, who had registered cases against her under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 341 and 342 (wrongful restraint and confinement), 452 (trespassing), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 365 (abduction) of the Indian Penal Code, filed two more cases under Section 147 (rioting) and 385 (extortion) against her on Thursday. Meanwhile, Akhila Priya’s lawyer moved a bail petition in the Secunderabad court stating that her client was pregnant and suffering from health issues. The court asked the police to file a counter and deferred the hearing to Friday. Earlier, the police named AV Subba Reddy, another senior TDP leader from Kurnool, as accused No. 1 (A-1) and arrested him late Wednesday, but let him off after questioning and serving him notice under Section 41 of Criminal Procedure Code (which states the police can arrest a person any time without warrant). He has now been named A-2 in the case. “Her husband Bhargav Rao, who is A-3, is still absconding. Special teams have gone to Bengaluru on coming to know that he had gone there,” the Bowenpally police said, adding that efforts were on to track down other accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-ex-andhra-minister-prime-accused-in-kidnapping-case-say-police/story-ocxRXeskKumhdj1ih0OqjO.html
07-01-2021||India||Rajaji Tiger Reserve flags Railways’ decision to increase train speed inside range||The administration of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve in Uttarakhand on Thursday wrote to the Indian Railways urging it to reconsider its decision to increase train speed from 35 kmph to 100 kmph while passing through the reserve to avoid wildlife casualties. DK Singh, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve said, “Taking cognisance of media reports regarding change of train speed while passing through the reserve, I have written to the railway authorities to reconsider the decision.” “As per the norms of the Union environment ministry and the Nainital High Court, speed limit of trains passing through Rajaji Tiger Reserve should not be more than 35 kmph as it is a wildlife sensitive area with regular movement. The train speed had been specially reduced to ensure that animals like elephants, leopards, tigers do not get killed by trains,” he added. In 2015, the National Board for Wildlife in a standing committee had decided that, “Speed limit of trains shall be followed strictly up to 35km/h during night and 40 km/h during day time.” In 2016, the Nainital High Court had ordered, “Forest department is directed to set up a monitoring cell to track movement of elephants and other wild animals and to inform railway authorities. There shall be coordination between the forest department and the railways. Railway authorities are directed to ensure that speed of trains should not be more than 30km/hr…” Elephant deaths after being hit by trains are a major problem in the Rajaji landscape. Last November, two elephants were found dead within three days in Lachiwala range in Dehradun in the state. Of these two, a 35-year-old female elephant was found dead in the range after being hit by a train. Last year in July, a carcass of a three-year-old elephant was found in a gorge near Nakraunda area in Dehradun forest division after it was hit by a train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajaji-tiger-reserve-flags-railways-decision-to-increase-train-speed-inside-range/story-h9oLo2EPPiqm7wYlw08GIK.html
07-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination dry run at 263 places across Karnataka tomorrow||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday informed that the Covid-19 vaccination dry run will be conducted at 263 places across the state on January 8.Speaking to the media after the video conferencing with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Sudhakar said vaccination drive should be people’s movement, once we get the vaccine.The minister said a detailed discussion was carried out with the Union Government regarding the preparation and distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine.“We are conducting vaccination dry run at 263 places on January 8. Earlier it was planned at 3 locations in each district, but we have prepared to conduct at 7 locations in each district. This dry run will be held at 24 district hospitals, 20 medical colleges, 43 taluk hospitals, 31 community health centres, 87 primary health centres, 30 urban primary health care centres and 28 private health centres across the state,” he added.The minister also said the central government has provided 24 lakh syringes.“We have 10 walk-in coolers, 4 walk-in freezers, 3,201 ILRs, 3,039 deep freezers, 3,312 cold boxes, 46,591 vaccine carriers and 2,25,749 ice packs. The Central government has also provided 64 Large ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs) with a capacity of 225 litres each. Remaining 2 walk-in coolers and 1 walk-in freezer will be received from the Centre,” he added.The health minister said 6.30 lakh healthcare workers serving in both Government and private sector have registered for vaccination and the window for registration is still open.He said the Central government is providing 1 crore vaccines to all states.Police, health workers, defence personnel and Corona warriors will get the vaccine on priority, said the minister.He asserted that there is no harm from vaccination, this will help the people and they should act responsibly. According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, there are 9,196 active coronavirus cases in Karnataka, 9,02,817 recoveries and 12,124 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-at-263-places-across-karnataka-tomorrow/story-fMOesR6WMbxbxdcz6bcQ7H.html
07-01-2021||India||‘Are farmers protected against Covid?’: SC asks Centre, cites Tablighi event||The Supreme court on Thursday asked the Centre whether the thousands of farmers camping in and around Delhi in protest against the three farm laws over the past many weeks are “protected from Covid”. The court likened the state of affairs to one involving the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the capital in March last year that went on to become one of the biggest clusters of coronavirus cases. “This same problem is going to arise during the farmer protest. We do not know if farmers are being protected from Covid. What guidelines have you issued for prevention of such things,” remarked a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde. The bench, which also comprised Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, “Have you learnt from your experience in handling this [Jamaat] event? Have you found out how it happened?” Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, told the bench that the investigation into the Jamaat gathering was still on by the Delhi Police He added Covid-19 guidelines with regard to large gatherings were in place and sought two weeks to file a reply. The remarks were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation by Jammu-based lawyer Supriya Pandita for a CBI probe into the Jamaat gathering. The petition underlined the need for guidelines to prevent such events from creating harm to public health at the time of the pandemic. Pandita’s lawyer, OP Parihar, cited the Jamaat gathering and added the group’s chief Maulana Saad has not been arrested yet. The bench said it is not interested in one person. “We are interested in ensuring Covid guidelines are prepared and implemented.” The PIL alleged negligence on part of the Delhi Government and Centre in allowing a mass gathering of Tablighi Jamaat members to assemble in the Capital. The petition demanded that an independent probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation alone would indicate the administrative lapses. Pandita in her petition stated, “Ignoring all social distancing norms to avoid the deadly coronavirus, hundreds had been staying in the 100-year-old mosque since March 8 last year. More than 2,000 delegates from Malaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Kyrgyzstan attended the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat.” The area where the event took place was sealed on March 30, 2020. Pandita said that “cluster transmission” of the virus took place as at least 16,500 people visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24. The area was sealed by the police on March 30.In June 2020, the Ministry of Home Affairs filed an affidavit in the apex court stating that all efforts were being made by the Delhi Police to complete the probe into the case. It rejected the request of the petitioner to entrust the probe to the CBI. Although the matter was heard by the Court since May 2020, notice on the petition was issued only on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-farmers-protected-against-covid-sc-asks-centre-cites-tablighi-event/story-wesvDKDLkU4gJfvd4caI6K.html
07-01-2021||India||Not interested in govt’s feats, farmers’ group snubs BJP MLA in UP’s Khatauli||A group of farmers disrupted the speech of BJP MLA Vikram Saini while he was enumerating the feats and the schemes of the government at a kisan mela (farmers’ fair) at Khatauli town of Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday and told him bluntly that they were not interested in the achievements of the BJP government,claimed Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) former Muzaffarnagar district president Raju Ahlawat.He claimed that he came to know about the incident from a number of farmers who attended the fair. “We have come here to listen to things about farmers and not the achievements,” said the group of farmers according to Ahlawat. Later, the group of farmers was pacified by administrative and agriculture officials present there, he claimed.Saini, the legislator from Khatauli assembly seat who was the chief guest at the event, however, claimed that nobody opposed him. He further claimed that there were only two farmers who raised the issues related to their bank loans and power bills. A number of farmers attended the kisan mela.The MLA said he spoke about the issues which were related to farmers and mainly focused on how farmers could double their income by adopting modern technology in farming.“I am simply an MLA of the party and therefore can’t say much about farm laws. Top party leaders understand these issues better,” he added.Ahlawat described the new farm laws as a “death warrant for farmers” and said that the anger against BJP leaders was growing in the entire western UP. “The controversial farm laws have united farmers and they are fighting together to oppose them,” said Ahlawat.Jagdish Singh, pradhan of Chabaria village in Meerut district, also endorsed Ahlawat’s claim that anger among the farmers was growing. On the other hand, MLA Saini claimed that farmers of the region were happy with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-interested-in-govt-s-feats-farmers-group-snubs-bjp-mla-in-up-s-khatauli/story-VFNa6zqwl5YBmPlVNRnXOM.html
07-01-2021||India||IAF, commercial airlines to provide transportation facilities for country wide Covid-19 vaccination drive||In support of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and commercial airliners would be used extensively to deliver the two vaccines across the country.“Transport aircraft of the Air Force including the C-130Js and AN-32s are planned to be used for taking the vaccines to the remote parts of the country. Arrangements are being made by the suppliers to provide the vaccines in specialised containers that will keep the vaccines refrigerated safely for 24 hours during transportation and delivery to the local administration officials,” government officials said here.The major part of transportation by air would be done by commercial airliners.IAF would also be providing lending facilities to commercial airliners at the military airfields where commercial planes do not operate, the officials stated.The Air Force transport aircraft would be used for flying vaccines to remote airfields and advanced landing grounds in states such as Arunachal Pradesh and Union Territory of Ladakh.As per the plan, if required, the force would also use its helicopter fleet to take the coronavirus vaccines to the remotest locations. The discussions on the transportation of vaccines are still on and details are being finalised, they said.Last week, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) announced “restricted emergency use” for Bharat Biotech’s COVAXIN and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, which has been developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University.In Delhi, the armed forces have identified Army Research and Referral Hospital, Base Hospital, Armed Forces Clinic, Air Force Centre, Subroto Park, and Air Force Station, Palam for administering the vaccines to its personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-commercial-airlines-to-provide-transportation-facilities-for-country-wide-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-6m7CO4xONNWI10UTmQe0hN.html
07-01-2021||India||Government clears 8 hydropower projects on Indus in Ladakh||The government has cleared eight hydropower projects of 144 MW on the Indus river and its tributaries in Ladakh, the highest so far, sources in the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Thursday. At present, there are several small projects, with a collective capacity of 113 MW on Indus in Ladakh, and the new projects will have much more capacity than those constructed so far, a senior official added.The official said the new projects have been cleared by the Central Water Commission as well as the Indus Commissioner after a separate Union Territory of Ladakh was announced last year. These projects will come up in Kargil and Leh districts of Ladakh. Because of its topography, it is not feasible to construct big hydropower projects in the Ladakh region.Durbuk Shyok (19 MW), Shankoo (18.5 MW), Nimu Chilling (24 MW), Rongdo (12 MW), Ratan Nag (10.5 MW) hydropower projects have been cleared for Leh, while Mangdum Sangra (19 MW), Kargil Hunderman (25 MW) and Tamasha (12 MW) have been cleared for Kargil, the official added. Many of the existing projects as small as 1 MW of capacity. The construction of the new projects will begin after other mandatory clearances are obtained, the official said.   “The designs of these projects have been certified as compliant with the Indus Waters Treaty by the Central Water Commission. The information on the design of these projects is being provided to Pakistan as per the provisions of the treaty,” the official said. “The development of projects on the Indus river has been slow, especially in the Ladakh region. Only two major projects have been constructed so far --- Chutak project of 44 MW on Suru, a tributary of the Indus, and Nimoo Bazgo of 45 MW on the Indus,” the official said. Under the Indus Waters Treaty between New Delhi and Islamabad, the usage of water of Indus and its five tributaries flowing from India to Pakistan have been divided. The treaty specifies that waters of three eastern rivers namely Ravi, Beas and Sutlej, have been reserved for India while that of western rivers, namely Indus, Chenab and Jhelum, are for Pakistan. However, India claims it has unrestricted rights to develop hydroelectric power projects on the western rivers within the specified parameters of design. Of the total 168 million acre-feet, India’s share of water from Ravi, Beas and Sutlej is 33 mcf, which is nearly 20 per cent. India uses nearly 93-94 per cent of its share under the Indus Water Treaty. The rest of the water remains unutilised and goes to Pakistan. The efforts to tap that water through a number of projects like Ujh Multipurpose project, Shahpurkandi Dam project and the second Ravi Beas Link are being made, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-clears-8-hydropower-projects-on-indus-in-ladakh/story-YVTOIP5dNyWreuA0smkIvK.html
07-01-2021||India||BJP national chief JP Nadda to visit poll-bound Bengal, launch new campaign||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda will be in West Bengal on Saturday, leading the party’s door-to-door canvassing and also to launch a new campaign ‘Ek Muthi Chawal’ (fistful of rice grains) to dispel the opposition’s charge that the BJP government at the Centre is anti-farmer. According to a party functionary, Nadda will launch the campaign in Burdwan district of the election bound state and the process will be carried forward by party workers who will visit farming households across 48,000 villages to collect rice. “It is a month-long drive to collect rice, which will then be used for a community meal for farmers, and the poor,” the functionary said. Nadda, who won high praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the party’s performance in the Bihar assembly election, has been leading the West Bengal election strategy as well. Since the Trinamool Congress is expected to rake up the issue of the ongoing farmers’ stir near the Delhi border, the BJP is pulling out all stops to dispel concerns about the new farm laws. The party has instructed its functionaries to carry out door-to-door campaigns, write letters and hold meetings locally across the states covering all the booths to dismiss the allegations that the farm bills are aimed at providing benefit to corporates. “What the party president will initiate will be taken further by the functionaries at all booth levels. The party has already underlined how farmers in the state have been deprived of the benefits of the Kisan Samman Nidhi that offers Rs six thousand a year to farmers through direct bank transfer,” said the functionary quoted above. This will be Nadda’s second visit to West Bengal. Last year on December 10, during a two-day visit, Nadda’s convoy came under attack and stones were pelted at it. While Nadda escaped unhurt, several party functionaries were injured in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-national-chief-jp-nadda-to-visit-poll-bound-bengal-launch-new-campaign/story-Y1LKuWSsvL61e9fA0FRKzK.html
07-01-2021||India||‘Sushant Singh Rajput was sober, innocent,’ observes Bombay high court, reserves order on plea by his sisters||Hearing the plea of deceased Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters who had challenged the FIR filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty, the Bombay High Court on Thursday observed that Sushant Singh was a sober, innocent and very good human being. “From his face, one can make out that he was innocent,” the bench comprising Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said.Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead on June 14 in his Mumbai residence. Mumbai Police declared it as a case of suicide which the CBI is probing.Rhea Chakraborty who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau during a parallel probe into drug rackets in Bollywood and is now out on bail had filed a complaint on September 7 against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters Priyanka, Meetu and a doctor from Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for allegedly getting Sushant drugs without a physical consultation.Appearing for the sisters, Sushant Singh’s family lawyer Vikas Singh on Thursday said the medicines could have been referred to by doctors through telemedicine as per the ICMR telemedicine guidelines. He also said that this is part of the main case being investigated by the CBI.Appearing for Rhea Chakraborty, advocate Satish Maneshinde said Rhea was aware that Sushant was taking medications which led to an altercation between the two, but she was not aware of the prescription at that time. It was only after the prescription was leaked on social media that Rhea realised that her sisters got the prescription.“I pointed out to his household help that he was mixing narcotic substances with the medicines that he was taking. It was going to be a dangerous cocktail. I was aware that he was taking medications and I had an altercation with him on that, but I was not aware of the prescription. When the prescription was leaked in social media, I realised it was on advice if his sisters. So I realised that it could be a cause of his suicide. I have said in my complaint, that these medicines were prescribed by a doctor who had never prescribed him before. They were prescribed without seeing him physically. Telemedicine can be prescribed only with prior consultation with the doctor,” Maneshinde said presenting Rhea Chakraborty’s statement.“My complaint is in relation to a forged prescription of medicines. The circumstances that I am pointing out that should also be examined. His family is concerned with the cause of his death. They say I am responsible, I am giving different circumstances for investigation,” Maneshinde said on behalf of Rhea Chakraborty.The court has reserved its order and asked all parties to submit written statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-was-sober-innocent-observes-bombay-high-court-reserves-order-on-plea-by-his-sisters/story-8Wzy1WIzPb7pIJoyk6TBQL.html
07-01-2021||India||K Chandrashekhar Rao undergoes tests after ‘burning sensation in lungs’||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday underwent a series of diagnostic tests after he complained of a burning sensation in his lungs in the morning, his office said. Doctors at Secunderabad’s Yashoda Hospitals declared that KCR, as the chief minister is known, was not afflicted with Covid-19 and there was nothing to worry about his health condition. “He is absolutely normal. We have conducted routine tests which he undergoes every year,” the chief minister’s personal physician Dr M V Rao told reporters in the evening. Accompanied by his son and minister K T Rama Rao, daughter K Kavitha and Rajya Sabha member J Santosh, the chief minister drove to the hospital in the afternoon for a series of diagnostic tests. He returned to his official bungalow Pragati Bhavan in the evening.According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, KCR complained of burning sensation in the lungs. “His personal physician Dr M V Rao, Pulmonologist Dr Navneeth Sagar and Cardiologist Dr Pramod Kumar conducted the preliminary tests,” the statement said. Following their suggestions, the chief minister underwent a CT Scan and other tests at the hospital. “Since he complained of a burning sensation in lungs, we conducted a CT Scan and some other blood tests. The reports are expected on Friday. There is no need for any MRI. He will be alright if he takes complete rest for a couple of days,” Dr Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-chandrashekhar-rao-undergoes-tests-after-burning-sensation-in-lungs/story-1NZCwyW1mh5mK8sAQQ3LTP.html
07-01-2021||India||India delivered 9 consignments of Covid-19 relief supplies to Bhutan since March||As many as nine consignments containing medical supplies and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) were handed over during March-December 2020 to Bhutan by India as assistance for the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, said the Indian Embassy in Thimphu on Thursday.According to a tweet by the Indian High Commission, RT-PCR testing kits, portable X-Ray machines were sent to Bhutan during the pandemic.“Standing shoulder to shoulder with Bhutan during times of Covid-19! 9 consignments containing RT-PCR test kits, a portable X-Ray machine, medical supplies and PPE equipment were handed over during March-December 2020,” the Indian High Commission tweeted.In December, India handed over a consignment of RT-PCR Covid-19 test kits for 20,000 tests to Bhutan to fight the pandemic. The 9th consignment of medical supplies was delivered at Phuentsholing, Bhutan.India will keep providing all required support to Bhutan in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Embassy of India, Thimphu said. Ambassador Ruchira Kamboj, in a statement dated December 24 said, “India stands alongside Bhutan. Together, we will fight the Covid-19 pandemic, through a sustainable recovery.”As per the latest update by Johns Hopkins University, Bhutan has reported 755 Covid-19 cases in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-delivered-9-consignments-of-covid-19-relief-supplies-to-bhutan-since-march/story-n69bsZi2fzb8QkSfGoaXvK.html
07-01-2021||India||Andhra govt hits back at Chandrababu Naidu for questioning CM’s faith||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday launched a counter-attack on Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu for allegedly politicising the vandalism of Hindu temples by raising the issue of chief minister YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy’s faith. State minister for tourism and culture Muthamsetty Srinivasa Rao told reporters in Visakhapatnam that Naidu was creating communal hatred by linking Jagan Reddy’s Christianity to the recent attacks on temples. “The TDP president is repeatedly raising the issue of the chief minister’s Christian faith so as to gain political mileage. He is acting like a typical movie villain,” the minister said. Minister Kodali Venkateshwara Rao accused Naidu of launching a venomous campaign by alleging that the chief minister was not acting on vandalism in temples because he was a Christian. “Jagan doesn’t discriminate between Hindus and Christians in the implementation of welfare schemes. He launched the house sites distribution programme on December 25 which coincided with Vaikuntha Ekadasi as well as Christmas,” he said. Meanwhile, state director general of police Gautam Sawang has threatened to file a criminal case against the TDP president for attributing communal motives to him. “I am consulting my lawyers before proceeding with criminal action against Naidu,” the DGP said in Tirupati. “I never expected that Chandrababu Naidu, who had served as a chief minister for a long period, would talk so irresponsibly,” he said. The DGP went on to suspect a largescale conspiracy behind the series of attacks on temples in the recent past. “The sequence of events clearly shows that some vested interests are trying to create law and order problems in the state,” he said. A day ago, Naidu had said at a party meeting that the attack on Ramatirtham temple in Vizianagaram on the night of December 28 was due to inaction of the Jagan government. “The chief minister, the home minister (M Sucharita), the DGP and even the district SP are all Christians. They should have taken prompt steps to clear doubts among Hindu devotees. But they displayed total negligence,” Naidu said. TDP official spokesman NB Sudhakar Reddy expressed surprise over the DGP’s statement that he would file a criminal case against Naidu for raising his voice against destruction of temples. He said it was unwarranted on the part of Sawang to threaten the TDP president who had served as the chief minister for 14 years. “The DGP should stop acting like a YSRC worker and do his duty as per the law. Why didn’t he take any action when the chief minister and YSRC leaders repeatedly raised Naidu’s caste with regard to Amaravati issue?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-hits-back-at-chandrababu-naidu-for-questioning-cm-s-faith/story-mfRY9DvNfeibMt4FoxYBSK.html
07-01-2021||India||Former cop accused in hooch tragedy dies in Ujjain jail||A dismissed police constable, who was an accused in an illicit liquor tragedy in Madhya Pradesh which claimed at least 14 lives in Ujjain last October, died in a jail in the district late Wednesday night, a jail official said Thursday. “Dismissed constable Sudesh Khode complained of uneasiness and chest pain on Wednesday evening and was admitted to the hospital’s jail. He died while undergoing treatment late night on Wednesday,” Ujjain jail superintendent Alka Sonkar said.After post mortem, his body was handed over to his family on Thursday morning, said Sonkar. The autopsy report is still awaited.A judicial inquiry has been ordered in the matter. Ujjain, superintendent of police, Satyendra Shukla said, “We are waiting for the post mortem report to take further action. “ Sudesh Khode was dismissed along with two other constables – Nawaz Shekh and Anwar after their involvement was found in the manufacture and sale of hooch in October 2020. Fourteen people died after drinking the illicit liquor. Police filed a charge-sheet last month in the case against 18 accused including Khode, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cop-accused-in-hooch-tragedy-dies-in-ujjain-jail/story-t9NTgZc0sn8mdj6pZSFzmM.html
07-01-2021||India||Unusual wildfires in Uttarakhand: Officials blame scanty rain, combustible material||Accumulation of combustible material due to restrictions on movement in forests because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lack of rainfall led to unusual forest fires in Uttarakhand this autumn and winter, officials said on Thursday.Forest fires are generally reported in Uttarakhand from February to June. They peak in May and June. Despite the onset of winter, forest fires were reported in the state and have damaged over 350 hectares of forestland since October.“Due to the lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19 during the summer months, movement in the forests was restricted. Due to this, a lot of combustible material mostly pine needles was accumulated. These materials are cleared annually through controlled burning but the exercise was affected, which is one of the reasons for forest fires,” said Maan Singh, the state’s nodal officer for forest fires.Also Read: Tiger killed in Uttarakhand’s Nainital after being hit by carSingh said little rainfall during the post-monsoon period has also contributed to the fires. “...forests became dry and added with combustible material, forest fire incidents are continuing. With rainfall in the plains and snowfall in the upper reaches of the state, now forest fire incidents are likely to reduce especially in Oak forests which have received heavy snowfall,” said Singh. He added human activities in the forests following the end of the lockdown also led to some man-made fire incidents.In Uttarakhand, 0.17% of the total forest cover comes under the extremely fire-prone, 1.60% under the very-highly prone, 9.32% under the highly-prone, 21.66% under the moderately prone, and 67.25% under less fire-prone categories.Over 44,554 hectares of the forest area has been damaged in fires since 2000. Uttarakhand forest department has 174 watchtowers and 1,437 station crews across the state to check the fires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unusual-wildfires-in-uttarakhand-officials-blame-scanty-rain-combustible-material/story-IO4cJxQ2BNWQxGNFMsymyN.html
07-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand farmers take out tractor rally against farm laws in Kumaon||Farmers in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district took out a tractor parade against farm laws on Thursday. Farmers reiterated that they would not sit silent till the farm laws were withdrawn by the Narendra Modi government. Vikramjeet Singh, a farmer from Bazpur, said, “We are forced to come on the roads instead of working in agricultural fields as the Modi government is not listening to farmers’ voices. Our fellow farmers are sitting at Ghazipur border and we took out the parade to show solidarity.” The farmers of US Nagar took out a tractor parade in Bazpur, Kichha, Sitarganj and other places of the district. They raised slogans against farm laws and the Modi government. Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Tractor rally today likely to disrupt traffic on Delhi outskirtsIn Bazpur, farmers gathered at the grain market in the morning and took out the tractor parade in Barheni, Beriya Daulat and other rural areas. Their tractor parade ended at the grain market itself. In Kichha and Sitarganj, farmers took out the tractor parade in urban areas, holding placards and raising slogans. Satnam Singh, a farmer from Sitarganj, said, “Three farm laws have been imposed on us to benefit the corporate sector. These laws will ruin the agriculture sector. The Modi government should withdraw the laws in favour of farmers of the country.” A dozen farmers from Jaspur set off towards Delhi’s Ghazipur border with razai (quilt) and daily household items on Wednesday, a farmer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-farmers-take-out-tractor-rally-against-farm-laws-in-kumaon/story-WrdJxT4DEaFeGtFviq8IRK.html
07-01-2021||India||India asks UK to arrest Jaysukh Ranpariya wanted for lawyer Kirit Joshi murder||India has asked the United Kingdom to track down and arrest Gujarat’s Jaysukh Ranpariya who had fled the country to Dubai after allegedly ordering the murder of Jamnagar lawyer Kirit Joshi in April 2018.Jaysukh Muljibhai Ranpariya, also known as Jayesh Patel, has been traced to the UK on the basis of extortion phone calls made by the 41-year-old gangster, people familiar with the matter said.Jaysukh Ranpariya faces 42 criminal cases including murder, extortion, cheating, forgery and money laundering, according to a Gujarat Police dossier seen by Hindustan Times.The Interpol has already issued a Red Corner Notice against Ranpariya to alert countries to take him into custody. Officials said the Gujarat police, in its request to trace and arrest Ranpariya, had cited the Interpol notice.Asked about the request to detain Ranpariya, a spokesperson for the Scotland Yard said they wouldn’t be able to reveal this information. “We do not search by names and we do not identify anyone who may or may not be subject to a police investigation,” the spokesperson said.Back in India, the federal financial crimes agency Enforcement Directorate had attached assets worth Rs 3.97 crore in one 2018 case related to usurping of land in Jamnagar.Ranpariya had been operating in Jamnagar for some years, extorting money from real estate developers and property owners when they tried to sell land or buildings. Ranpariya would get forged documents made and lay claim to the property to create a dispute that would make it impossible for the owner to sell the plot or building. He would back off only when he was paid. Police said the money would run into crores.Ranpariya hit the headlines after the murder of Jamnagar lawyer Kirit Joshi who had been filing criminal cases against him for extortion on behalf of his clients.Joshi was stabbed multiple times by two men when he was about to open his car on a busy road. Police later arrested two men who alleged that Ranpariya had paid them to kill the lawyer.Ranpariya, till then a local land mafia, had anticipated that the police would go after him after this murder and had slipped out of the country using a fake passport. He was believed to have based himself for some time in Dubai.According to Gujarat Police, Ranpriya had been contacting his victims using phone numbers traced to the United Kingdom and would cite the Kirit Joshi’s murder to scare them into paying up. Often, he would also keep the victim’s family under surveillance and threaten to harm them to create fear of his syndicate. Not many would come forward to file police complaints against him.According to the police, they were aware of several cases where people had paid up crores of rupees after his phone call; often in instalments spread over a year.(With inputs from Prasun Sonwalkar in London)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-uk-to-arrest-gujarat-s-jaysukh-ranpariya-for-killing-jamnagar-lawyer/story-wI99xH4L6lRssplBsTiMHL.html
07-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik receives death threat and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesLetter threatening to kill Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik sent to his residenceAn anonymous letter threatening to kill Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik was sent to his residence Naveen Niwas on Thursday in Bhubaneswar, throwing security agencies in the state in a tizzy. Read MoreKerala Speaker and customs face off in gold smuggling caseKerala Assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and the customs department are headed for a face-off in the gold smuggling case after the former’s office rushed a letter to the customs saying it has to take permission of the Speaker before summoning his staff for questioning in the case. Read MoreMadhya Pradesh governor approves ordinance to regulate inter-faith marriagesGovernor Anandiben Patel on Thursday signed an ordinance for its promulgation to regulate inter-faith marriages in Madhya Pradesh. Read MoreTrump supporters storm US Capitol, 4 dead, 52 arrested: In photosUS President Donald Trump’s supporters violently forced their way inside the US Capitol, where lawmakers were meeting to certify Joe Biden as the winner of the November 3 elections. Read More2021 MG Hector, Hector Plus 7-seater version launched. Price and other detailsMG Motor India had a pumped-up Thursday and drove in Hector 2021 and the seven-seat version of Hector Plus in the Indian car market. Read MoreClicking on this scandalous Donald Trump video link could give hackers access to your PCWhile outgoing US President Donald Trump continues to grab headlines for all the wrong reasons, cybercriminals are attempting to cash in on his final days in office to deliver malware to through a new email scam. Read MoreSydney Test Day 1 report: Pucovski, Labuschagne fifties take hosts to 166/2 on rain-hit opening dayIn signs ominous for India and encouraging for Australia, the beleaguered Steve Smith looked dangerous and his understudy Marnus Labuschagne struck an unbeaten half-century. Read MoreTaapsee Pannu’s Surya Namaskar by the beachside comes as fresh workout motivation, here are its benefitsMaking jaws drop in awe as she said no to steroids and robustly trained to get into the shape of an athlete, Taapsee Pannu is now gearing up for the launch of her sports drama Rashmi Rocket. Read MoreTime travel: Video shared by museum takes you on a ‘trip to 17th-18th century France’A trip to 17th-18th century France? Don’t mind if we do,” this is what The Metropolitan Museum of Art wrote while sharing a video that has left people fascinated. Read MoreSaif Ali Khan says failure of his films was like ‘mini death in the family’, convinced him to stop chasing ‘box office success’Actor Saif Ali Khan has said that after a string of commercially disappointing films, he made the decision to chase ‘quality of work’ instead of chasing ‘box office success’. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-receives-death-threat-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mgn7k8UgfMARQF5Z7GjQ1N.html
07-01-2021||India||Jaishankar’s comments signify PM Modi’s commitment to Lankan Tamils: Purohit||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday welcomed External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s statement in Sri Lanka, which he said signified the Centre’s concern towards Tamils and would be welcomed by the people of Tamil Nadu.Jaishankar unequivocally stated the Indian position on the 13th Amendment to the island nation, Purohit said in a statement.Quoting Jaishankar from a press conference he addressed with his Srilankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena in Colombo on Wednesday, the Governor emphasised, “this is an important statement, signifying the concern of the Indian Government towards their Tamil sisters and brothers in Sri Lanka.” “His words are sure to be welcomed by the people of Tamil Nadu.” Jaishankar’s statement “is in the spirit of Prime Minister Narendra Modiji’s own untiring efforts for the welfare of the Tamil population in Sri Lanka,” the Governor said.On January 6, Jaishankar underlined India’s backing for Lanka’s reconciliation process and an “inclusive political outlook” that encourages ethnic harmony.The Foreign Minister had said: “As we promote peace and well-being in the region, India has been strongly committed to the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.Our support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is longstanding, as indeed for an inclusive political outlook that encourages ethnic harmony.” “It is in Sri Lanka’s own interest that the expectations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled.That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lankan government on meaningful devolution, including the 13th Amendment to the Constitution,” Jaishankar added.The progress and prosperity of Sri Lanka would surely be advanced as a consequence, he asserted.The 13th Amendment provides for devolution of power to the Tamil community. India has been pressing Sri Lanka to implement the 13th amendment which was brought in after the Indo-Sri Lankan agreement of 1987.His remarks assume significance in the backdrop of moves by the ruling Sri Lanka People’s Party (SLPP) allies to mount a public campaign for abolition of Sri Lanka’s provincial councils system.The SLPP’s Sinhala majority hardliners have been advocating a total abolition of the island’s provincial council system established in 1987.The DMK had recently urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prevail upon Sri Lanka to give up its ‘proposal’ to abolish the provincial councils as it went against the island nation’s 13th Amendment to Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/jaishankar-s-comments-signify-pm-modi-s-commitment-to-lankan-tamils-purohit/story-1xlrQPo0wV02axB1GHOXVM.html
07-01-2021||India||J&K govt working on land allotment policy for industrialists||The Jammu and Kashmir government, which announced  ₹28,400 crore a new industrial developmental scheme to give impetus to the industrial sector, is also working on a land allotment policy. “The policy is still being formulated...it will look into all the aspects of how much land has to be allotted and how to go about it,” said a senior official. “As of now, 3,000 acres of land has been earmarked,” he said. “For the purpose of investment, a substantial land bank in both Jammu and Kashmir divisions has been created by the government. It will meet the land requirement of new industrial enterprises. It is for both, the industrialists of J&K and those from other parts,” he added. The official, however, didn’t elaborate whether the land will be leased out to industrialists from outside or they will be given absolute proprietorship. “Every aspect will be looked into in the land allotment policy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-govt-working-on-land-allotment-policy-for-industrialists/story-273cMVNagP2sWHf48eCX1K.html
07-01-2021||India||Government wants to privatise farm sector: Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath on Thursday alleged that the Centre wants to privatise the farm sector with its three new agri-marketing laws, which are being opposed by thousands of cultivators.Talking to reporters here while announcing the launch of his party’s protest against the government and an awakening drive for farmers which will continue till January 23, Nath claimed the “RSS and the Bharatiya Jana Sangh were votaries of privatisation since the beginning”.“They (the two organisations) also opposed the nationalisation of banks carried out by former prime minister Indira Gandhi,” the former state chief minister claimed.“The (present) government wants to privatise the farm sector with the three agri-marketing laws,” he alleged. The farmers of Madhya Pradesh are simple and the three new laws are against their interests, he claimed.Thousands of have been camping at several Delhi border points for over 40 days, demanding repeal of the new farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops, besides other issues.“Our protest (against the government) for the farmers’ cause at various levels including blocks and districts across the state - will continue till January 23,” Nath said.On January 15, a two-hour-long “chakka jam” (road blockades) will be held from noon across the state, he said.The Congress would also hold a massive “kisan mahapanchyat” (farmers’ meet) on January 20 in the state’s Morena district, he said.On January 23, farmers would gherao the Raj Bhawan (governor’s house) here over the demand for a repeal of the three new agri laws, the Congress veteran said.The Congress will launch a farmers’ awakening programme from Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh on January 16, the leader of opposition in the state Assembly said.Nath said he will address his party’s first awareness meeting for farmers on January 16.The party would hold such meetings at different places, he added.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the “mandi” (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-wants-to-privatise-farm-sector-kamal-nath/story-qBrXirPwjsV8ZxU90Qk1VO.html
07-01-2021||India||Rajasthan: Tiger mauls man to death in Ranthambore||A tiger mauled a man to death in a village in Ranthambore National Park, Sawai Madhopur on Thursday.The incident took place in the Baler range of the national park in the afternoon.The field director of the national park, Tikam Chand Verma, said, “The administration received information from the patrolling team that a tiger mauled a resident of Kanedi village in Khandar region along the national park.”Authorities identified the victim as 40-year-old Pappu Gurjar but have not been able to identify the tiger so far, he said, adding that Kanedi village is situated on revenue land and lies on the periphery of the national park.Verma said a patrolling team had warned the villagers that tigers could be moving close to their homes.He said that prima facie it appeared that while the tiger attacked the man, it did not eat him.“The wildlife department will provide compensation of Rs4 lakh to the family of the deceased man,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-tiger-mauls-man-to-death-in-ranthambore/story-ujxEnDSCEGkPdR29QPCxhP.html
07-01-2021||India||Centre finalises vaccine transport module ahead of second nationwide dry run||The central government has drawn up a detailed draft for the air transportation of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccines and their movement across different parts of India a day before the second nationwide vaccine dry run scheduled on January 8. The first dry run took place on January 2 at 286 session sites across 125 districts.“For vaccine transportation across the country, a common draft has been made. It will shortly be shared with stakeholders. The transportation of vaccines is likely to begin by today or tomorrow,” government sources told news agency ANI.They pointed out that Pune had been chosen as the central hub for Covid-19 vaccine distribution and added that passenger aircraft will be permitted to transport doses in the belly of the carrier.The Centre has formed mini-hubs across the country for the transportation of the vaccine and a total of 41 destinations (airports) have been finalised for their delivery, the sources said.Also Read| India’s Covid-19 recoveries cross 10 million-mark, 20,346 cases recorded in 24 hoursFor North India, Delhi and Karnal will be the mini-hubs. While Kolkata and Guwahati have been chosen as mini-hubs for the eastern part of the country and Chennai and Hyderabad are the designated points for the southern region, sources in the aviation ministry told ANI. Meanwhile, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday held a meeting with the health ministers of all states and Union territories (UTs) to guide them on the conduction of the vaccine dry run tomorrow. Vardhan urged the state authorities to be prepared and stop any misinformation campaigns.Taking to Twitter, the health minister wrote that nearly 170,000 vaccinators and 300,000 vaccination team members have been trained to administer the doses. “In a massive country-wide exercise, another Mock Drill on Covid-19 Vaccine administration to be conducted in all States & UTs on January 8, 2021. Around 1.7 lakh vaccinators & 3 lakh vaccination team members trained in vaccine administration,” he tweeted.Also Read| ‘Why expose our people to risk?’ Kejriwal urges Centre to extend ban on UK flightsIndia on Tuesday registered 20,346 fresh coronavirus cases and 222 related deaths which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 10,395,278 and 150,336 respectively, as per the health ministry’s update at 8am. The active cases continued to remain below the 300,000-mark while the recoveries crossed 10 million and constituted 96.36 per cent of the total caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/centre-finalises-vaccine-transport-module-ahead-of-second-nationwide-dry-run/story-UI2SD3duKEbe9mpcElxkMK.html
07-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Why Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh are cause for fresh concerns||With all states and union territories of the country reporting a recovery rate of more than 90 per cent, the Covid-19 situation is under control, though the guards should not be lowered, health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday, as three states are seeing a sudden spike in the cases. “This is a warning to all of us that though we are moving towards vaccination, there should be no relaxation,” the health minister said as he was interacting with state health ministers a day before another round of vaccine dry run in the state. The Centre on Thursday wrote to these three states and West Bengal underlining the need for “strict vigil” and “prompt action” to arrest the recent spike.MaharashtraOn Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 4,382 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 19,54,553. It was after 20 days that the state again crossed the 4,000 mark for fresh cases. Though Maharashtra is one of the states worst hit by the pandemic, the situation was brought under control. The sudden spike has, however, not led to any fresh alarm as the state is preparing for another vaccine dry run on January 8. New Year festivities, though there was night curfew in the state on December 31, is being seen as the reason behind the spike.Here are the numbers of daily fresh Covid-19 cases since the beginning of this year.January 5: 3,160January 4: 4,875January 3: 3,282January 2: 3,218January 1: 3,524KeralaKerala on Wednesday recorded 6,300 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally of the state to 7,90,882. So far, 43 people who had returned to the state from the UK tested positive for Covid-19 and six of them have been found with the new mutated strain of the virus, state health minister KK Shailaja said on Wednesday.Fresh cases in 24 hours in the last 5 daysJanuary 5: 5,615January 4: 3,021January 3: 4,600January 2: 5,328January 1: 4,991ChhattisgarhWith 1,050 fresh cases recorded on Wednesday, the spike in the number of fresh cases in Chattisgarh is sudden as the state does not have many records where its 24-hour positive cases breached the 1,000-mark.Fresh Covid-19 cases in the last few daysJanuary 5: 1,021January 4: 1,147January 3: 714January 2: 1147January 1: 932||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-why-maharashtra-kerala-chhattisgarh-are-cause-of-fresh-concerns/story-IEbm6gUKfOXjsDcZOZxhbM.html
07-01-2021||India||Centre approves Rs28,400 crore industrial developmental scheme to boost J&K economy||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday said the Centre has approved a Rs28,400 crore industrial developmental scheme for Jammu & Kashmir to boost the region’s economy and provide employment opportunities in both manufacturing and service sectors. He said the opportunities will lead to socio-economic development, skill, and sustainable development. Sinha added it will provide major support to local industry and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving the scheme.“The new industrial development scheme will boost domestic manufacturing and help Jammu & Kashmir in becoming self-reliant. The scheme will encourage new investment, substantial expansion, and also nurture the existing industries.”Sinha said the scheme will be friendly and hassle-free for the investors. “It will be ensured that entrepreneurs from within Jammu & Kashmir and outside find a smooth and progressive ecosystem for their business plans,” he said. “With our transparent policies, investments in developing infrastructure, market-oriented policy environment, and skilled human capital, we aspire to become a growth pillar for India in the current decade.”Sinha said the government and the industry will work closely to achieve the vision of holistic and balanced development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-rs28-400-crore-industrial-developmental-scheme-to-boost-j-k-economy/story-4WOB2szTczdFO3QqSHhHjN.html
07-01-2021||India||Bastar man marries 2 women on same day, wives say they are ‘very happy’||He fell in love. He then decided to marry. He fell in love with two women. He then married both women. On the same day, at the same ceremony in front of friends, well wishers and with some music to go with the celebrations. The marriage ceremony, which took place on January 5, was attended by about 500 people. The wedding video and invitation card of Chandu Maurya’s marriage function has gone viral on social media. It all started three years ago, when 24-year-old Chandu Maurya, a marginal farmer and labourer of a remote village of Maoist-affected Bastar district, went to install electricity poles in Tokapal area. There the man met 21-year-old tribal girl Sundari Kashyap and both fell in love. They then kept in touch over phone calls and planned to marry. A year later, 20-year-old Haseena Baghel reached Chandu’s village Tikralohnga to attend a relative’s marriage. Chandu fell in love again. When Haseena expressed her love, Chandu confessed that he was already in a relationship but Haseena insisted that they keep in touch over the phone. “Both Haseena and Sundari came to know about each other and agreed to have a relationship with me. We were in touch over the phone but one day Haseena landed at my home to live with me. When Sundari came to know that Haseena is here, she also came to me. And since then, we started living in the same house like a family,” Chandu, who lives with his parents and two siblings, told Hindustan Times. A few months later, the villagers and the family member started questioning the live-in relationship of Chandu with the two women and it was then that he decided to marry both of them. “Fed-up with the questions, I decided to marry both of them because they both loved me. I can’t betray them. They agreed they both will live with me forever,” said Chandu. The family members of Haseena came to attend the marriage ceremony but Sundari’s family skipped the function, said Chandu. Sudari, however, has expressed hope that her parents will come around. “They (parents) are not happy with me today but things will change. Both Haseena and me are very happy with Chandu and his family and will live with him forever,” said Sundari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bastar-man-marries-2-women-on-same-day-wives-say-they-are-very-happy/story-KCz3zz2ZaFh1E5hCwv2pQO.html
07-01-2021||India||Letter threatening to kill Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik sent to his residence||An anonymous letter threatening to kill Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik was sent to his residence Naveen Niwas on Thursday in Bhubaneswar, throwing security agencies in the state in a tizzy. The letter, a copy of which is available with HT, said contract killers armed with AK-47 and semi-automatic pistols are out to kill the CM. “These contract killers are professional criminals and can attack you any time. So please be aware that these contract killers are continuously following you. The mastermind lives in Nagpur... The weapons which will be used to kill you have been brought to Odisha,” read the handwritten letter in English. The sender also gave out a list of 17 cars with registration numbers of Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Punjab, Odisha, Delhi, Haryana and Maharashtra in which the ‘criminals’ are following Patnaik.The home department sent the letter to the DGP as well as the Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Police Commissioner for further action. The chief minister enjoys Z plus security.Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Police Commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi denied seeing such a letter. “Sometimes mad people write such things. I am not aware of such a letter,” he said.In September 2018, a murder accused serving sentence in Bilaspur Central Jail in Chhattisgarh had sent a letter to Patnaik demanding extortion money of Rs 50 crore and threatened him with dire consequences if he failed to pay the amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/letter-threatening-to-kill-odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-sent-to-his-residence/story-kbzmkPtBny8cSIawLMoHFL.html
07-01-2021||India||‘Why expose our people to risk?’ Kejriwal urges Centre to extend ban on UK flights||Amid concerns over the new mutant strain of SARS-Cov-2 virus in India, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged the Centre to consider extending the ban on UK flights. The Centre partially lifted the ban and resumed India to UK flights from January 6. The first flight from the UK will arrive in India on January 8. The civil aviation ministry has revised the number of flights allowed to operate between India and the UK and brought down the number to 30, from 70 till January 23. A detailed guideline has also been issued by the Union health ministry for passengers arriving in India from the UK. However, the Delhi CM took to Twitter and urged the Centre to not lift the ban until January 31. Centre has decided to lift the ban and start UK flights. In view of extremely serious COVID situation in UK, I wud urge central govt to extend the ban till 31 JanAfter a new, possibly more contagious strain of Coronavirus was detected in the United Kingdom in December, several countries imposed a ban on flights from the UK. India, too, on December 21 announced an embargo on UK flights which was effective from December 23 to December 31. Later, it was extended to January 7. With great difficulty, people have brought COVID situation in control. UK’s COVID situation is v serious. Now, why lift ban and expose our people to risk? https://t.co/ql8WIXHFFaThe civil aviation ministry clarified that while flights from the UK will be allowed to enter the country from January 8, India could start its flights to the UK from January 6. Two Air India flights were scheduled on January 6, after a gap of almost a fortnight.The Covid-19 situation in the United Kingdom is extremely serious, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted as he urged the Centre to reconsider the lifting of restrictions. “With great difficulty, people have brought Covid-19 situation in control. UK’s COVID situation is very serious. Now, why lift ban and expose our people to risk?” Kejriwal tweeted. As UK flights are mostly destined to Delhi and Mumbai, the caseload of the cities might get affected by the resumption of the flights.The UK on Wednesday recorded 1,041 deaths — the highest since the peak of the pandemic since April last year. The number of people who have tested positive for the new UK variant of virus in India has reached 73, according to the health ministry on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-urges-centre-to-extend-ban-on-uk-flights/story-MOJh7pRz4OGXFWLYfEg8jL.html
07-01-2021||India||SC issues notice to Rajasthan assembly speaker on pleas against merger of BSP MLAs with Congress||The Supreme Court Thursday sought responses from Rajasthan Assembly Speaker and others on two separate pleas against the merger of all six BSP MLAs into the ruling Congress legislature party in the state.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar have filed separate appeals against an order of the Rajasthan High Court which asked the Speaker to decide within three months a disqualification petition against all the six BSP MLAs ‘merging’ with the ruling Congress party.A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and K M Joseph, in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, also issued notices to the Assembly secretary and all the six MlAs who defected and merged with the Congress.The merger was a boost to Ashok Gehlot-led state government as the tally of the Congress increased to over 100 in the House of 200 MLAs. On August 24, the high court had asked the Speaker to decide within three months the disqualification petition filed by Dilawar.Allowing the plea partially, the high court had set aside the July 22 order of the Speaker rejecting the disqualification petition filed by him in March last year.It had dismissed a writ petition filed by the BSP in the matter, while giving the party liberty to file a disqualification petition with the Speaker.Dilawar had filed the petition in the high court challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs - Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha - with the Congress and demanded a stay on the execution of the order passed by the Speaker.The top court had on the same day disposed of as ‘infructuous’ Dilawar’s plea seeking stay on the Rajasthan Speaker’s decision allowing the MLAs to merge with the Congress after the high court had passed its order on the same issue.The MLAs had contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets but later defected to the Congress party in September 2019.The MLAs had submitted an application for the merger on September 16, 2019 and the Speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-to-rajasthan-assembly-speaker-on-pleas-against-merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-congress/story-JpOIUMTSZACR7gFGWk1dLO.html
07-01-2021||India||Kerala Speaker and customs face off in gold smuggling case||Kerala Assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and the customs department are headed for a face-off in the gold smuggling case after the former’s office rushed a letter to the customs saying it has to take permission of the Speaker before summoning his staff for questioning in the case. Customs had summoned Speaker’s additional personal secretary, K Ayyappan, to appear before the agency three days back but he did not. The Assembly secretary then sent a letter to the customs saying it has to take permission of the Speaker before summoning Assembly staff, because like law-makers, they also enjoy certain privileges.The Opposition Congress and legal experts have criticised the Speaker’s move as an attempt to scuttle the on-going probe into gold smuggling.The Speaker has defended his stance and argued that the legislature secretariat has not blocked any investigation into the smuggling case but it wanted all rules to be followed.“The legislature secretariat has reminded the agency about the house rules. Staff of the assembly also enjoys certain privileges under Rule 165,” he said.However, a senior customs official said the agency had sought legal opinion on the matter and that the Assembly staff wasn’t entitled to any privilege outside the house. He added that a fresh notice will be issued to the additional personal secretary. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress has filed a notice to remove the Speaker in the wake of the allegations against him ahead of the budget session of the assembly, starting Friday. After the gold smuggling case surfaced, the Speaker was accused of close relationship with the main accused Swapna Suresh. He later admitted that he knew Suresh as an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate and attended some functions on her invitation. Also Read: Kerala dollar smuggling case: Customs issues fresh notice to K AyyappanBut Congress and BJP leaders allege that it was more than an ‘official relationship’ and that Sreeramakrishnan had travelled with Suresh several times to West Asian countries.They also allege the accused smuggled US dollars to the Gulf countries using Sreeramakrishnan’s green channel access. They also alleged that a major portion of the smuggled US dollar was commission obtained from various projects. The Speaker has denied these allegations and said he was ready for any probe.“He is misusing rules and privileges to save his face,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. There is a strong likelihood that the Speaker will be summoned by the investigating agencies after the budget session. When the customs busted the gold smuggling racket in July, Suresh was working as a consultant with the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited. Before this, she worked at the UAE consulate at the state capital as its public relations officer. After the gold smuggling case surfaced, her degree was also found to be a fake. Last month Suresh told a court in Kochi that her life was in danger and sought special protection for herself and her family members. She said she was under pressure not to take big names and some people met her in the jail a couple of times to pressurise her. Later, the court directed the prisons department to provide her adequate security. Detained under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa), Swapna is lodged in the women’s jail in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kerala/kerala-speaker-and-customs-face-off-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-DOSOLEqLalGttr6gtrw4dM.html
07-01-2021||India||Industrial development scheme worth Rs 24,800 crore launched in J-K||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has launched an industrial development scheme amounting to Rs 24,800 crore for the Union Territory on Thursday. “The industrial scheme is from the period of the date of notification up to the year 2037 with a total outlay of Rs 28,400 crores. This will encourage new investments, substantial expansion and nurture existing industries in Jammu and Kashmir,” the Lieutenant Governor said. Sinha said the new policy is expected to generate employment for 4.5 lakh people resulting in the socio-economic development of the region. Further, the scheme boosts the industrial development to the block level developing the far-flung areas of Jammu and Kashmir. “In the last 16 months, Jammu and Kashmir has been transformed into a land of opportunity with forward-looking policy to guarantee prosperity and economic success,” he said. “The total amount that was disbursed by the Central government in industrial policy till 2019 was merely Rs 1,123.84 crores while the new policy has an outlay of historic amount of Rs 24,800 crores,” he pointed out. Sinha also announced that Jammu and Kashmir would likely to have metro rail projects in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industrial-development-scheme-worth-rs-24-800-crore-launched-in-j-k/story-85OXcHcI5jWYGbOeqiNqGI.html
07-01-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh governor approves ordinance to regulate inter-faith marriages||Governor Anandiben Patel on Thursday signed an ordinance for its promulgation to regulate inter-faith marriages in Madhya Pradesh. The ordinance provides for two to 10- year imprisonment and a fine up to Rs50,000 for anyone found guilty of “forcing women, minors, and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to undergo religious conversion”.According to the ordinance, reconversion to embrace one’s “ancestral religion” will not be considered a crime, as per the official.An official said Patel has signed the drafts of all the 12 ordinances that the state cabinet approved and sent for her consent and promulgation on December 29. The ordinances were issued as the state assembly’s winter session was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They include the one that provides for life imprisonment for those found guilty of adulteration of food and drugs.Also read | Supreme Court to examine laws against unlawful conversion in UP, UttarakhandThe Madhya Pradesh Dharmik Swatantrata (Freedom of Religion) Ordinance defines ancestral religion as that of a person’s father at the time of birth. It replaces the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act and prohibits conversion and attempts on conversion done through “misrepresentation, allurement, threat, force, undue influence, coercion marriage, and any fraudulent means”. “Conspiracy and abetment to religious conversion have been prohibited too...,” says the ordinance.It provides for annulment of inter-faith marriages solemnised by “misrepresentation, allurement, threat, coercion, undue influence, and fraud”. The ordinance seeks to provide parental property rights to children born out of such marriages and maintenance to the woman and children.The cases registered under the ordinance are cognisable and non-bailable and sessions courts are authorised to hear them.The ordinance has a provision for punishing organisations, which organise such conversions. A person embracing another religion voluntarily and the priest getting it done will have to inform the district magistrate at least 60 days prior to the scheduled date of conversion. Over two dozen Muslim men have been arrested in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh since a similar ordinance was enacted there last month. Other Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states like Haryana, Karnataka and Assam are planning to bring in similar anti-conversion laws that critics say are vague and being used to target inter-faith couples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-governor-approves-ordinance-to-regulate-inter-faith-marriages/story-MKPpZTpAhdxv84kMnUIwGK.html
07-01-2021||India||Kerala dollar smuggling case: Customs issues fresh notice to K Ayyappan||Customs Department on Thursday issued a third notice to K Ayyappan to, Assistant Private Secretary of Kerala Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan asking him to appear before it’s Kochi office tomorrow before 10 am in connection with Dollar Smuggling Case.The notice was sent to K Ayyappan after failed to appear before the Customs Department on Wednesday.Ayyappan informed the Department through the mail that he cannot appear before it due to the busy schedule of the Kerala Assembly session beginning from Friday.This time, the notice was sent to his residential address. Earlier, when the customs sent a notice to his office address earlier, he failed to appear.On Wednesday, Kerala Assembly Speaker’s office issued a letter to the Customs Department stating that the Speaker’s permission is required to interrogate his Assistant Private Secretary.The dollar smuggling came to light during the investigation of the Kerala gold smuggling case, which is currently being probed by the National Investigation Agency, the Enforcement Directorate, and the Customs department.The matter, which pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels, had come to light after 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crores smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-dollar-smuggling-case-customs-issues-fresh-notice-to-k-ayyappan/story-bqS8c80t1Ov3UKgNVTixnN.html
07-01-2021||India||‘Not a cricket match’: Celebs decry use of Indian flag at US Capitol protests||Four people died in the United States on late Wednesday night after thousands of protesters supporting President Donald Trump, demanding presidential election result to be overturned, stormed into the Capitol. During the chaos, rioters roamed the Capitol building and ransacked the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi who is known as a fierce critic of Trump.Meanwhile, what grabbed the attention of many on the social media was the presence of the Indian flag in the pool of protesters. A video which doing rounds on social media showed a person holding the tri-colour amid Trump supporters who were holding banners and waving the American flag.Also Read | Trump summoned supporters to ‘wild’ protest and told them to fight. They didThe person’s identity or political affiliations is not known so far.ALSO WATCH | Indian flag spotted during US Capitol chaos, Varun Gandhi & others react Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi was among those who noticed the Indian flag and asked on Twitter, “Why is there an Indian flag there??? This is one fight we definitely don’t need to participate in.” Why is there an Indian flag there??? This is one fight we definitely don’t need to participate in... pic.twitter.com/1dP2KtgHvfShiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi also took to Twitter to criticise the person holding the flag. “Whoever is waving this Indian flag should feel ashamed. Don’t use our tricolour to participate in such violent & criminal acts in another country,” she said on the micro-blogging site. Whoever is waving this Indian flag should feel ashamed. Don’t use our tricolour to participate in such violent & criminal acts in another country. pic.twitter.com/CuBMkq9SiuMeanwhile, comedian Vir Das took a jibe at the person and said, “Every large crowd IS NOT A CRICKET MATCH!” Dear random Indian dude waving Indian flag at the #CapitolRiots Every large crowd IS NOT A CRICKET MATCH!The violence at the US Capitol was the culmination of months of divisive and escalating rhetoric around the November 3 election, where Trump lost to Joe Biden. Since the election result, Trump has repeatedly made false claims that the vote was rigged while refusing to concede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-cricket-match-twitterati-reacts-to-video-of-indian-flag-during-us-capitol-protests/story-ErhZ2PnoWP0Ypn1ONHUPIO.html
07-01-2021||India||Bird flu outbreak: 4 crows found dead at Mehsana in Gujarat, sent for lab tests||Four crows were found dead in Gujarat’s Mehsana district on Thursday, amid an alert sounded in the state in view of the bird flu cases emerging in some other parts of the country, officials said.The crows were found dead in the premises of the famous Sun Temple in Modhera village of Mehsana.The carcasses have been sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory to check if they died due to bird flu or some other reason, Mehsana’s animal husbandry officer Dr Bharat Desai told PTI.“In case of the avian flu, a large number of birds die suddenly. In this case, only four have died due to unknown reasons. Even though it does not look like a case of avian influenza, we have sent the carcasses to a laboratory in Bhopal for a detailed analysis,” Desai said.As a precautionary measure, the animal husbandry department at Mehsana has collected samples, including bird droppings and blood samples, of 50 migratory birds from the Thol lake and sent them to Bhopal for analysis, he said.The Gujarat Animal Husbandry Department on Wednesday sounded an alert across the state to beef up surveillance and monitoring in the wake of the bird flu scare.Four birds were found dead in Madhi village of Surat district on Wednesday, days after the death of 55 birds in Junagadh, state Animal Husbandry Minister Kunvarji Bavaliya earlier said.The minister, however, asserted that Gujarat was still not affected by the bird flu.Notably, the bird flu virus has been detected in some crows whose carcasses were recently found in Indore, Agar Malwa and Mandsaur districts of Madhya Pradesh, following which the state has banned the entry of chicken consignments from southern states for 10 days as a precautionary measure.An outbreak of the avian flu has also been reported from two poultry farms in Kerala’s Kozhikode district, besides parts of Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan.The Centre on Wednesday deployed multi-disciplinary teams in bird flu-affected areas of Kerala and Haryana.Thousands of chickens and ducks have been culled in Kerala to contain the spread of the H5N8 avian influenza strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-outbreak-4-crows-found-dead-at-mehsana-in-gujarat-sent-for-lab-tests/story-8L731CH3aW1nzhupGAyOzK.html
07-01-2021||India||Justice Hima Kohli takes charge as 1st woman CJ of Telangana high court||Justice Hima Kohli was sworn in as the new chief justice of Telangana high court at a simple but colourful ceremony in Hyderabad on Thursday. State governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administered the oath of office to justice Kohli at Raj Bhavan. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, his cabinet colleagues, high court judges, senior state officials and other dignitaries attended the function. Justice Kohli, who till recently served as a senior judge of the Delhi high court, was elevated as the chief justice of Telangana. She replaces justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan, who has been transferred to Uttarakhand high court, following the recommendation of the Supreme Court Collegium last month. Justice Kohli is the first woman chief justice of the Telangana high court, after it was separated from the combined high court of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on January 1, 2019. Also Read: Former TDP minister held in Hyd abduction caseJustice T B N Radhakrishnan was appointed as the first chief justice of the Telangana high court, but within a few months, he was transferred to Calcutta high court. In his place, justice Chauhan was appointed as the acting chief justice. In May 2019, the Supreme Court Collegium recommended appointment of Justice Chauhan as the permanent chief justice of Telangana high court and he assumed charge as such on June 23, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/telangana/justice-hima-kohli-takes-charge-as-1st-woman-cj-of-telangana-high-court/story-1f6CWmFexKCpqqznoHVcMK.html
07-01-2021||India||Wilson murder case: NIA arrests accused man from Chennai airport||The National Investigation (NIA) on Wednesday said that they arrested an “absconding” accused person connected to the murder of sub-inspector A Wilson that took place in Kanyakumari district on January 8, 2020. The investigation agency arrested 39-year-old Shihabudeen alias Sirajudeen alias Khalid when he arrived at the Chennai International Airport from Qatar. After taking over from the Tamil Nadu Police, the NIA re-registered the case on February 1, 2020 and arrested two suspects, Abdul Shameem and Thoufiq, whom the agency referred to as “Jehadi terrorists”. Also Read: Two suspects arrested in TN cop’s murder caseDuring the investigation, the roles of accused Shihabudeen, Khaja Mohideen, Mahboob Pasha, Ejas Pasha and Jaffer Ali were revealed “in the conspiracy to carry out the terrorist act besides the assistance provided to the assailants in procuring illegal firearm and prohibited ammunition, for waging violent jihad,” the NIA’s statement read. On July 10, 2020, a charge- sheet was filed against the six men under sections 120B, 302, 353 and 506, 34 of the IPC, sections 16, 18, 18B, 20, 23, 38 and 39 of the UA (P) Act besides sections 25(1B)(a) and 27 of the Arms Act.“Shihabudeen had arranged the illegal fire arm and prohibited ammunition used by Shameem and Thoufiq, to commit the terrorist act,” the agency said, adding that he was on the run since January 2020. Wilson,a special sub inspector was on duty at a check post along the Kaliyakkavilai Market Road in Kanyakumari close to the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border when he was shot dead last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wilson-murder-case-nia-arrests-accused-man-from-chennai-airport/story-kmpG9IJyjSOCQeJkgz56HK.html
07-01-2021||India||Tiger killed in Uttarakhand’s Nainital after being hit by car||A 12-year-old tiger was killed in a road accident in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district late on Wednesday evening. The tiger was crossing the Ramnagar-Nainital highway when it was hit by a speeding vehicle. Khyali Ram Arya, range officer of Fatehpur forest range in Ramnagar forest division, from where the accident was reported, said “An SUV hit the tiger near Bhakra bridge on Ramnagar-Nainital highway around 9PM on Wednesday. Our team rushed to the spot on receiving the information.”The body, which could not be located at night, was recovered 150 metres into the jungle on Thursday morning. “It has been cremated after post-mortem. We have registered a case against the car driver under relevant sections of Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and seized the vehicle,” added the range officer. Corbett and its surroundings have one of the highest tiger densities in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-killed-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-after-being-hit-by-car/story-WfnPovcNtPW6rU2AvmQiYM.html
07-01-2021||India||Jumbo committees have no adverse impact on Congress party in TN says Mani Shankar Aiyar||The jumbo committees formed in the Congress’ Tamil Nadu unit ahead of the assembly polls are not going to adversely impact the party as the move brings various factions together, senior leader Mani Shankar Aiyar said on Thursday and predicted a “strong walkover” for the DMK-Congress alliance over the AIADMK in the upcoming elections.The comments by Aiyar, who has been named in several key poll-related panels of the Congress’ Tamil Nadu unit, come days after Congress MP Karti Chidambaram raised questions over the state unit rejig, saying such “jumbo committees” serve no purpose as no one will have any authority which would mean “no accountability”.In an interview with PTI, Aiyar said the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-Congress alliance was facing a “very divided” All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) between Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS) and O Panneerselvam (OPS).Aiyar also said that if either of the “factions” in the AIADMK or the party as a whole joins hands with the BJP then that will be to its further disadvantage “because in Tamil Nadu there has never been and there isn’t now any kind of Hindu-Muslim divide”.“The Congress will not be fighting in Tamil Nadu on its own, it is going to be part of the alliance being put together by the DMK. Now we are faced with a very divided AIADMK between EPS and OPS, where there has been no reconciliation of hearts,” he said.“Although they (AIADMK) have succeeded against many people’s expectations, including mine, in being able to run a coalition government. I call it a coalition government because EPS and OPS are really running irreconcilable factions and these factional rivalries are bound to affect the ground prospects of the AIADMK,” the former Union minister and an ex-MP from Tamil Nadu said.Asked about Karti Chidambaram’s “jumbo committee” remarks and his own take on the Congress appointing 32 vice presidents, 57 general secretaries and 104 secretaries in its state unit last week, Aiyar said this is the “jumbo way” of running the Pradesh Congress.“It is a way of cross stitching differences in the very top provincial leadership of the party. I don’t see this being reversed,” he said.Aiyar hoped that the more active members of the jumbo establishment would form a smaller group of decision makers within the “jumbo committees”.Asked if such large panels in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee could prove to be counterproductive for the party, he said, “It brings the party together.” “It makes all the factions feel that they have representation and that the representation will be effective to the extent that the representatives of these factions are effective in their respective committees.” “I don’t think the mere fact that they are jumbo committees is going to adversely affect the Congress,” he asserted.The fact is that there are factions and it is best that they be recognised, and the answer to this problem has been to make the entire election machinery as comprehensive as possible so that the party fights the elections unitedly, the 79-year-old leader said.Aiyar, who has been named in the TNCC’s executive committee, Pradesh election committee and the manifesto committee, said the issue in the upcoming polls will be the same that has always been there in Tamil Nadu -- good governance.As far as ideology is concerned there is very little to choose between the AIADMK and the DMK who are both offspring of the original Dravidian movement, he said.There would have been an ideological issue had the BJP turned out to be a more important political player than it is, but as the main battle is between the DMK and the AIADMK, there is little to choose ideologically, Aiyar said.“So it does come round to personalities, to whom would you entrust the government of Tamil Nadu, to Jayalalithaa or Karunanidhi. Now both of them have gone but that remains the fundamental challenge; would you prefer M K Stalin to either OPS, EPS or both, or do you have some third alternative in mind. I think the third alternative has been removed by developments over the last couple of years,” he said, referring to the “poor performance” of Rajinikanth and Kamal Hassan.Tamil Nadu has already had five years of OPS-EPS rule and its performance has not been sufficiently outstanding to be a walkover for them, Aiyar said.“Indeed I think it is going to be a pretty strong walkover for the DMK-Congress because as I said the fissiparous tendencies have become so pronounced in the AIADMK,” he said.The Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu are likely to take place in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/jumbo-committees-have-no-adverse-impact-on-congress-party-in-tn-says-mani-shankar-aiyar/story-qYS30D8wsd4kwf997G763M.html
07-01-2021||India||SC asks Centre: What steps have you taken to prevent Covid spread at farmers’ protest site||The Supreme Court on Thursday cited a gathering at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Delhi in March that was blamed for a jump in Covid-19 infections and asked the Centre what guidelines were in place to prevent a similar situation at the farmer protest sites. It issued a notice seeking the Centre’s reply within two weeks.“This same problem is going to arise during the farmer protest. We do not know if farmers are being protected from Covid. What guidelines have you issued for prevention of such things,” a three-judge bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. “Have you learnt from your experience in handling this [Jamaat] event? Have you found out how it happened?”Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, told the bench that the investigation into the Jamaat gathering was still on. He added Covid-19 guidelines with regard to large gatherings were in place and sought two weeks to file a reply.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Tractor rally today likely to disrupt traffic on Delhi outskirtsFarmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalize the sector. They say the reforms will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.The bench was hearing public interest litigation by Jammu-based lawyer Supriya Pandita for a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the Jamaat gathering. The petition underlined the need for guidelines to prevent such events from creating harm to public health at the time of the pandemic.Pandita’s lawyer, OP Parihar, cited the Jamaat gathering and added the group’s chief Maulana Saad has not been arrested yet.The bench said it is not interested in one person. “We are interested in ensuring Covid guidelines are prepared and implemented.”A Delhi court last month acquitted 36 foreign nationals accused of violating Covid-19 protocol by attending the Jamaat event, saying the prosecution had failed to prove that the charges against them. In August, the Bombay high court struck down cases against 29 foreigners and five Indians facing similar charges. “A political government tries to find a scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity, and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them scapegoats,” the court had said. “The material of the present matter shows that the propaganda against the so-called religious activity was unwarranted.”The Jamaat hit the headlines in March when authorities blamed the gathering at its headquarters in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area for the jump in Covid-19 infections. The headquarters was sealed and thousands of attendees, including foreigners from countries like Indonesia, Malaysia, and the US, were quarantined. Police initially filed a case against Saad for violating a ban on big gatherings. He was later booked for culpable homicide, which carries a maximum punishment of 10-year imprisonment.The Jamaat, which has followers in over 80 countries, maintained many visitors at its headquarters were stranded after the government declared a lockdown to check the pandemic spread. The Centre blacklisted around 1,500 foreign Tablighi members for violating their visa norms and multiple cases were registered against them across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-steps-have-been-taken-to-prevent-covid-spread-at-farmers-protest-site-sc-to-centre/story-qPIaQ8n9GnMTFJSjPZ6ZYI.html
07-01-2021||India||PM Modi dedicates Rewari-Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated the 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) to the nation.Through video-conferencing, Modi also flagged off the world’s first double-stack long-haul 1.5-km-long container train hauled by electric traction from New Ateli-New Kishangarh.On this occasion, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot were also present.The New Rewari-New Madar section of the WDFC is situated in Haryana --approximately 79 km in Mahendragarh and Rewari districts -- and Rajasthan --approximately 227 km in Jaipur, Ajmer, Sikar, Nagaur, and Alwar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dedicates-rewari-madar-section-of-the-western-dedicated-freight-corridor-to-nation/story-ofirtyeTvKDjqCN89H1xaM.html
07-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BMC complains Sonu Sood turned residential building into hotel and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesMumbai: BMC alleges actor Sonu Sood turned residential building into hotel, files complaintThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has filed a complaint against Bollywood actor Sonu Sood with the Mumbai Police alleging he converted a residential building in Juhu into a hotel, confirmed officials of BMC on Thursday. Read moreHimachal’s Lahaul-Spiti restricts entry of vehicles till Jan 24 due to heavy snowfallIn view of inclement weather in the high-altitude Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh, the administration has decided to allow tourist vehicles to enter the valley through Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass only from 10am to 11am and from 12 noon to 3pm. Read moreKane Williamson flies high, Virat Kohli higherPropelling New Zealand to their first ever pole position in the ICC Test rankings is an incredible home run that witnessed six consecutive wins—the longest in their history—and an unbeaten streak in 17 Tests since an eight-wicket loss to South Africa in March, 2017. Read moreKaagaz movie review: Pankaj Tripathi tries his best to infuse life into a film killed by clichesReturning to filmmaking after almost five years, Satish Kaushik has made a film quite unlike the ones he has made before. Read moreJeep Compass 2021 breaks cover, gets styling updates and an all-new cabinAfter much anticipation, Jeep Compass 2021 was officially - and finally - unveiled for the Indian car market on Thursday. Read moreKatrina Kaif’s lehenga choli combo is the ultimate bridesmaid attireA good ethnic timeless outfit, which can be worn at any occasion, is a must-have in every wardrobe and to be honest, Katrina Kaif has quite a few of them. Read moreUS Capitol Chaos: 4 dead in mob-police clash; Trump urges supporters to go homeFour killed in the violence that followed after supporters of US President Donald Trump stormed the US Capitol and disrupted electoral count on January 06. Lawmakers were evacuated from the US Capitol after protesters breached security and entered the premises. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bmc-complains-sonu-sood-turned-residential-building-into-hotel-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Gwd2GVZYu5CCF5PsvE6WzN.html
07-01-2021||India||Gauhati High Court rejects anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi’s bail plea||The Gauhati High Court on Thursday rejected a bail application of peasants’ rights activist Akhil Gogoi, who has been in jail since December 2019 in connection with a National Investigation Agency (NIA) case for his role in the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in the state. The decision by a division bench of the court has dashed hopes of his supporters across Assam who had been hoping that he would get released soon to take part in the upcoming assembly polls in the state. “We are waiting for a copy of the order to know the exact reasons for denial of bail. We will soon approach the Supreme Court with an appeal seeking bail for Gogoi,” said Santanu Borthakur, Gogoi’s advocate, after the court’s decision. The case pertains to one of the 13 cases registered against Gogoi, founder of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), for his role in the violent protests that took place in December 2019 against the citizenship law. Gogoi has secured bail in all the other cases, including another one filed by the NIA, except this. Initially filed at the Chandmari police station in Guwahati, the case was later transferred to the NIA. He has been charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, sedition, criminal conspiracy, support to terrorist organization, among others. Gogoi was arrested at Jorhat on December 12, 2019 for his role in the protests against CAA, which seeks to fast forward citizenship to Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Parsis, Buddhists and Jains from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Three of his associates were arrested a day later. He was later handed over to the NIA and a court here sent him to 10 days custody of the agency on December 17. He was taken to New Delhi the same day for questioning. Gogoi was brought back to Guwahati on December 25 and has been in judicial custody ever since. The three associates of Gogoi, who were also arrested in December, are already out on bail. Gogoi’s organization, KMSS, which was at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests, has lodged a political party called Raijor Dal last year with the aim of contesting the state polls. The first convention of the party began at Moran in Dibrugarh district on Thursday and there were expectations that the court would grant bail to Gogoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-high-court-rejects-anti-caa-activist-akhil-gogoi-s-bail-plea/story-uqoAPsMeTncAaahy7CF1wK.html
07-01-2021||India||BMC accuses actor Sonu Sood of converting residential building into hotel, files case||The civic body of Mumbai, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), filed a case against the famous Bollywood actor Sonu Sood on Thursday for allegedly converting a six-storey residential building in Juhu into a hotel.The BMC has filed the case under Maharashtra Region and Town Planning Act accusing Sood of increasing, altering the structure and changing the use of land without prior permission.Reacting to the matter, the actor said that he had already taken permission from BMC and is now waiting for approval from Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority.The complaint by BMC was lodged on January 4 at Juhu police station, as per a report by Livehindustan.com (HT’s sister Publication). In the complaint, BMC stated that Sood converted the Shakti Sagar Building on AB Nair Road into a hotel without permission. “It has been found that Sonu Sood has made a change in the use of land by himself. Apart from this, the residential building has been converted into a residential hotel building by making additional construction out of the fixed plan. For this, they have not even obtained the necessary technical approval from the authority,” Livehindustan reported the BMC as saying.The BMC also accused Sonu Sood of ignoring the notice in relation to the matter. Even after the notice was given, they continued to carry out unauthorised construction, BMC also said.Sonu Sood is known for his famous role in Dabangg, Simbaa and Jodhaa Akabar. During the Covid-19 pandemic, he was at the forefront of the relief efforts as he helped stranded migrant workers and students by arranging buses, flights and trains for them to reach their homes. He also sponsored the medical treatment of the needy and has been involved in numerous humanitarian activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-accuses-actor-sonu-sood-of-converting-residential-building-into-hotel-files-case/story-ARv2OZ0BH2KjRTgG32eGpO.html
07-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest updates: Thursday’s event a rehearsal for January 26 tractor march, says farm leader||Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three laws organised a tractor march on Thursday, converging on the eastern and western peripheral expressways that form a ring around Delhi, as the protest enters its 43rd day. The march comes a day before the government and the farmers’ unions are slated to hold their next round of talks. Women in rural Haryana have been receiving training on driving tractors for today’s tractor march, reported news agency PTI. Union minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday that he sees the ongoing dialogue between farmers and the Centre as an opportunity to explain how beneficial the reforms can be for the former. However, the farmers unions camping at three sites near Delhi have insisted on a total repeal of the new farm laws, while the government has said it is ready to discuss changes to the existing laws. Thursday’s tractor march is being touted by the protesters as a ‘trailer’ of a much bigger march that is being planned for Republic Day. Also Read: Protesting farmers from Uttarakhand hold tractor rally in KumaonFarmers from Kumaon district of Uttarakhand took out a tractor rally to protests against the new farm laws being implemented by the Centre. A protestor told HT that a dozen farmers from Jaspur have left to join farmers at Delhi, with razai and household goods. Also Read : Supreme Court asks Centre about steps taken to combat Covid-19 at protest sitesThe Supreme Court on Thursday asked Centre about guidelines that have been put into place to prevent spread of Covid-19 at farmers protest sites. Citing the example of the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Delhi, the Court asked Solicitor general Tushar Mehta if the Centre has learned anything from the Jamaat experience. Follow all updates here:8th round of talks between govt, protesting farmers tomorrowThe eight round of talks between the central government and the protesting farmers will take place tomorrow. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, along with Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash, have been leading the government’s negotiations with 40 protesting farmer union leaders. The previous rounds of talks have remained inconclusive. However, the government conceded to two demands of the protesters with regard to power subsidy and stubble burning during the sixth meeting held on December 30 last year. Thursday’s event a rehearsal for January 26 tractor march, says farm leaderAs protesting farmers- seated on tractors travelled around the KMP Expressway on the outskirts of Delhi on Thursday, a farm leader told news agency PTI that today’s tractor march was a rehearsal for the January 26 tractor march. Sonia Gandhi slams Centre over ongoing stirCongress President Sonia Gandhi hit out at the central government over the ongoing farmer agitation and the hike in fuel prices by saying that India is standing at the crossroads for the first time since Independence. “I once again appeal to the government to repeal the three farm laws immediately and fulfil all the demands of farmers,” she said in a statement. Supreme Court expresses concern over large gatherings amid Covid-19 crisisThe Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over large gatherings of protesters at Delhi borders and questioned whether they were protected against the spread of Covid-19. Farmers protesting the new farm laws take part in tractor rally at Burari Farmers who are protesting against the newly implemented farm laws held a tractor rally in Burari, reported news agency ANI. Farmers from all over the country have been protesting at three sites in Delhi for well over a month now. As the protest enters its 43rd day, tractor rallies are being flagged off from different parts of the country.Protesting farmers flag off tractor rally from HaryanaA group of protesting farmers started off for Delhi from Haryana after holding a tractor rally in Palwal. “We will head towards Singhu border from here”, said Shiv Kumar Kakka, national president, Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, to news agency ANI. Farmers from all over the country are set to hold tractor rallies in the national Capital ahead of the next round of talks with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-updates-tractor-rally-today-likely-to-disrupt-traffic-on-delhi-outskirts/story-WeUkoDvIR1HLIy6qHpfqqI.html
07-01-2021||India||Air pollution raises risk of pregnancy loss in India, south Asia: Lancet study||Poor air quality is associated with a considerable proportion of pregnancy loss in India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, according to a modelling study published in The Lancet Planetary Health journal, which says such losses are more common in north India and Pakistan.An estimated 349,681 pregnancy losses per year in south Asia were associated with exposure to PM2.5 concentrations that exceeded India’s air quality standard (more than 40 μg/m³), accounting for 7% of annual pregnancy loss in the region from 2000-2016, the study says.For air pollution above WHO air quality guideline, exposure may have contributed to 29% of pregnancy losses. Although WHO’s guidelines aim for a safer level of air pollution, the authors note that India’s standard is a more realistic target level, given the high average levels of air pollution in the region and the need to balance practical governance and public health.Also Read: Lockdown may have pushed communities back to traditional cooking fuels: StudyConsidered the first such study to estimate the effect of air pollution on pregnancy loss across the region, it says limitations in the survey data mean that it was unable to distinguish between natural pregnancy loss and abortions, which may have led to an underestimation of the effect of air pollution on natural pregnancy loss.The researchers included 34,197 women who had lost a pregnancy, including 27,480 miscarriages and 6,717 stillbirths, which were compared to live birth controls. Of the pregnancy loss cases, 77% were from India, 12% from Pakistan, and 11% from Bangladesh.The authors combined data from household surveys on health from 1998-2016 (from women who reported at least one pregnancy loss and one or more live births) and estimated exposure to PM2.5 during pregnancy through combining satellite with atmospheric modelling outputs.They created a model to examine how exposure to PM2.5 increased women’s risk of pregnancy loss, calculating risk for each 10 μg/m³ increased in PM2.5 after adjusting for maternal age, temperature and humidity, seasonal variation, and long-term trends in pregnancy loss.Using this association, they calculated the number of pregnancy losses that may have been caused by PM2.5 in the whole region for the period 2000–16 and looked at how many pregnancy losses might have been prevented under India’s and WHO’s air quality standard (40 μg/m³ and 10 μg/m³, respectively).Gestational exposure to PM2.5 was associated with an increased likelihood of pregnancy loss, and this remained significant after adjusting for other factors. Each increase in 10 μg/m³ was estimated to increase a mother’s risk of pregnancy loss by 3%, the study says.Lead study author Tao Xue of Peking University says: “South Asia has the highest burden of pregnancy loss globally and is one of the most PM2.5 polluted regions in the world. Our findings suggest that poor air quality could be responsible for a considerable burden of pregnancy loss in the region, providing further justification for urgent action to tackle dangerous levels of pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-raises-risk-of-pregnancy-loss-in-india-south-asia-lancet-study/story-Gfnrtiq4OnCDrtX52bSeEL.html
07-01-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath govt paying for misdeeds of previous government: Patel||Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel has been visiting districts in the state and presiding over meetings to take stock of implementation of various development projects. Patel, even though she does not hold any Janata Darbars like many of her predecessors, is often called a proactive governor. Umesh Raghuvanshi spoke to her about her role and the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh. Q. Do you hold Janata Darbar? A. We don’t need to hold a Janata Darbar. If anyone comes to the Raj Bhawan with any problem, we convey the same to the minister of the respective department. There should be no direct intervention from the Raj Bhawan. Q. Are you working as a proactive governor? A. I am doing my duty as a governor. I don’t like the governor spending time within the four walls of Raj Bhawan. This is why I go on tours, meet farmers, teachers and others and visit schools. I convey the problems that are brought to my notice. Q. What about the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh? A. There has been a considerable improvement in the situation on the law and order front and there is a need for even further improvement. I understand many incidents of crime take place because of the complicity of some officers. There are officers who remain alert, and if officers are not hand in gloves with the criminals, they can bring about lots of change. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is very alert about such incidents. The houses/buildings (of Mafia/criminals) constructed illegally have been demolished recently. Q. You have worked as chief minister of Gujarat. How do you find Uttar Pradesh? A. There is a difference in work culture. A desired level of activeness on the part of officers is missing. The officers should be a bit more active. There should be expeditious disposal of files. The officers should feel that files shouldn’t remain pending with them for more than two to three days. But this keeps on happening since they don’t decide issues in three days. I feel bureaucracy is a bit lax in UP vis-a-vis Gujarat. UP’s officers need to expedite decision making. Q. What about implementing the e-office? A. UP is a big state. They (administration) are implementing e-governance. This should show results. Work may take time, but there will be results. Q. Your take on ordinances to make laws like the one enacted to check ‘love jihad’ A. Yes, the state legislature has not been able to meet due to Covid-19. Under such circumstances the governor gives nod to the ordinances in public interest. Q. What about your visits to Varanasi? A. I am associated with a project on ‘anganwadis’ in Varanasi. This may be a model project. The ‘anganwadis’ are being repaired and painted; toys and tricycles are being distributed there. I am involved as I have been asked to. Now, people are coming forward to contribute. In Lucknow, 26 engineering colleges have come forward. Each of them is going to help five ‘anganwadis’. Also Read: UP panchayat polls: BJP begins 10-day rural connect to find new, young facesQ. What changes have you brought about in Raj Bhawan? A. I have done many new things in Raj Bhawan. The women from families of Raj Bhawan employees are being given training in chikankari. We carried out a large plantation drive. We have set up two ‘chandan vatikas’. We have also set up a lotus pond and a zoo. Children are visiting Raj Bhawan. We are saving 25% on power bills. We also took out old crockery and sent them to Kasturba Gandhi Vidyalaya. We have cleared old files that have been unnecessarily stored for years. Q. What challenges do you face in the education sector? A. Yes, we do have a lot of challenges in reforming the education sector. Often small issues cause problems to students and their parents. I have tried to set the things right in this sector. People want jobs and the recruitment process should not have any flaws as this adversely affects the image of universities. We have asked for recording of all the interviews. We can revisit recordings to know about the candidate’s performance and the marks given. The governments in the past did not pay any attention to the issue of recruitment. A large number of cases are pending in courts and the government cannot make related appointments. Q. Why? A. This government is paying for the misdeeds of the previous government. The state government had to recruit 67,000 teachers. The Allahabad high court recently gave nod for recruitment of 32,000 teachers. The cases with regard to remaining posts will go on. How will academic work be carried out if we don’t get teachers? Q. How about the impact of Covid-19? A. Yes, academic classes did not take place due to Covid-19. Those from rural backgrounds are facing problems. A way forward is being worked out. Now work on starting the classes has begun. An improvement has been noticed in the number of students attending the classes. Q. What about political vice chancellors? A. I have stopped political appointments. There is no political interference in appointments. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his ministers don’t interfere with appointments and this has been left to me. This is done with the help of a search committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-govt-paying-for-misdeeds-of-previous-government-patel/story-j4DOCy31ziMgDkab2d9b0J.html
07-01-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries cross 10 million-mark, 20,346 cases recorded in 24 hours||Total coronavirus (Covid-19) recoveries in India crossed the 10-million mark on Thursday. The country recorded 20,346 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total infection tally to 10,395,278, according to the health ministry dashboard at 8am. Also Read: India reports under 300 new Covid-19 deaths for nearly 2 weeksThis comes a day after India became the third country in the world to record 1.5 deaths due to the disease, followed by the US and Brazil. As many as 150,336 fatalities due to the disease have been recorded in the country so far.However, the country has been reporting less than 300 deaths a day for 13 consecutive days now and the Union health ministry credited the government’s ‘effective strategy of containment’ for the same.Also Read: Kalyan-Dombivli sees no Covid-19 death for a week: Maharashtra govt data“There is a steady decline in the number of daily deaths recorded in the country... The effective strategy of containment including prompt tracing and tracking, aggressive and widespread testing, combined with standardised clinical management protocols have ensured the low mortality levels. The effective implementation by the State/UT governments has resulted in early identification, prompt isolation and timely clinical management of the hospitalized cases,” it said in a statement.The national recovery rate went up to 96.36%, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-cross-10-million-mark-20-346-fresh-cases-in-24-hours/story-vIuhCsWTPWqYBGNuGRiogI.html
07-01-2021||India||Centre’s advisory on bird flu: Here’s all you need to know||Authorities issued advisories to contain the spread of avian influenza, or bird flu, on Wednesday and asked all states to keep a close vigil to detect any unusual bird death as the Centre confirmed the outbreak has been reported from at least four states. Here is what we know about the outbreak:-- Thousands of birds have died in Kerala (mostly poultry), Himachal Pradesh (migratory birds), and Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (crows) since the beginning of the outbreak in December-end.-- Migratory birds are believed to have been the source of the outbreak.-- The government has set up a control room in New Delhi to keep a watch on the situation even as no cases among humans has been reported so far.-- Around 400,000 chickens have died in Haryana’s Panchkula district over the past 20 days.-- Similarly, three crows are suspected to have died of the disease in Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun. Their test reports were awaited. -- Jharkhand and Gujarat, too, have sounded an alert.-- The Union health ministry has deployed special teams in Panchkula, apart from Kerala’s two epicentres.-- Experts said the current outbreak is caused by the H5N8 strain, though there are other strains circulating globally. A series of outbreaks have been reported in Europe in the past weeks, with wild birds suspected to be spreading the disease.-- Both H5N1 (another strain of avian influenza) and H5N8 have high pathogenicity (the ability of a pathogen to cause disease), but they do not infect humans much. -- Past outbreaks among farm birds have needed extensive culling.-- The current outbreak began barely a few months after India declared the country free from the disease on September 30. India notified the first outbreak of avian influenza in 2006.-- The government has identified 12 disease epicentres: Baran, Kota, Jhalawar regions in Rajasthan; Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa areas in Madhya Pradesh; Kangra in Himachal Pradesh; and Kerala’s Kottayam and Alappuzha (four epicentres).-- Over 69,000 birds, including ducks and chickens, were culled in Alappuzha and Kottayam, Kerala, on Wednesday. -- Kerala has declared bird flu a state disaster and deployed rapid response teams for culling and surveillance efforts.-- Madhya Pradesh has banned transportation of poultry from other states as a measure to check the bird flu spread.-- Himachal Pradesh banned sale and export of poultry products and fish in the four subdivisions of Dehra, Fatehpur, Jawali, and Indora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-advisory-to-check-spread-of-bird-flu-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-outbreak/story-qO1vOv0LuAQzN6w7Qbl7tL.html
07-01-2021||India||Over 3.5 tonnes of cannabis recovered in Odisha, Chhattisgarh||Police and directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) sleuths seized over 3.5 tonnes of cannabis from Odisha and Chhattisgarh on Monday and Tuesday.“On the basis of specific intelligence input, officers of the DRI Madhya Pradesh intercepted a truck of Andhra Pradesh’s registration number near Raipur (Chhattisgarh). The truck was carrying ganja [cannabis] which was concealed below organic fertilizer sacks,” the DRI said in a statement.The truck was carrying ​1​,​534 ​k​g ​(over 1.5 tonnes) of g​anja worth Rs3.07 crore from Araku Valley (Andhra Pradesh) to Maharashtra’s Rahta. Five people have been arrested in connection with the recovery and more arrests were likely.Over 2,000 kg (2 tonnes) of ganja in a 12-wheeler truck was recovered in Odisha’s Rayagada district on Tuesday even as those in the vehicle escaped.Deputy inspector general of police Jainarayan Pankaj said the consignment was headed for Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, and New Delhi.“Unlike Mallana cream from Himachal Pradesh or Idukki Gold ganja from Kerala, the ganja grown in Odisha and Arakku Valley of Andhra Pradesh are the most popular ones due to their low price. Though locally cannabis is sold at about Rs5,000 per kg, it sells anything between Rs10,000 a kg outside Odisha depending on its quality. In Odisha, the bordering forests of Malkangiri-Koraput districts, Kandhamal and Boudh districts and Rayagada-Gajapati districts are the areas where cannabis is grown on an extensive scale. The plants don’t require much water and can grow in three months,” said Pankaj.Officials said ganja is mostly transported through National Highway-30 in Chhattisgarh’s Maoist insurgency-hit Bastar.“Ganja from Odisha and Araku Valley is transported through NH-30. The trucks enter from Konta and pass through Sukma, Jagdalpur, Kondagaon, Kanker, Dhamatari and reach Raipur. Once the consignment reaches Raipur, it is easy for them to transport in Maharashtra through Rajnandgaon,” said a police officer in Bastar.He added police in these areas are involved in anti-Maoist operations and checking or tracking of ganja peddling is less priority. “We do not have enough police force to engage in tracking ganja…”An intelligence official said about Rs100 crore worth ganja is supplied every year through this route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-5-tonnes-of-cannabis-recovered-in-odisha-chhatisgarh/story-0EQQBh0uhXv41oJ0PLkWwO.html
07-01-2021||India||After four days, flight operations resume at Srinagar airport||Flight operations at the Srinagar airport resumed on Thursday morning. The Srinagar-Jammu national highway is still closed due to landslides and heavy snowfall. Kashmir had been cut off from the rest of the country for the past four days. “We are happy to have restored and resumed flight operation just after heavy snowfall and bad weather condition without leaving any stone related to safety parameters for aircraft operation. We welcome our esteemed passengers again.@Aaisnrairport @aaiRedNR@AAI_Official,” tweeted the official handle of Srinagar airport.“As temperature is below freezing point it is advisable to keep your self warm and fit .In terminal building Srinagar airport, comfortable temperature maintained and look after by our electrical team.We are at your service@Aaisnrairport@AAI_Official @aaiRedNR.Meanwhile, the meteorological department director said that after passing of the Western Disturbance, foggy morning is normally observed in Kashmir Valley because of moisture and a clear sky. “Visibility will definitely improve with the rise of temperature.”Officials said they have restored links between districts despite facing difficulties.“At some places in southern Kashmir, more than four feet of snow has accumulated,” said a senior official.He said at many places the snow machines have failed. “Our control rooms are functioning as from four days the snow has been going in Kashmir.”Locals have complained that snow hasnt been cleared from the roads at several. “The administration is only visible on the social media and on ground people are facing lot of problems,” said Faheem Ahmad a city resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-four-days-flight-operations-resume-at-srinagar-airport/story-2ZqIbYyIWMDuyygMkqDEzO.html
07-01-2021||India||Govt plans WhatsApp chatbot for Covid-19 vaccine queries||The government plans to launch a WhatsApp chatbot to address queries regarding the Covid-19 vaccination, people familiar with the matter said. The queries can be sent on the number 9013151515 with the message “say vaccine”, they added. The project is at the pilot stage and is being used to respond to frequently asked questions (FAQ) about the vaccination.Once the chatbot is fully developed and launched, people will be able to get information about the nearest locations where they can get vaccinated, the number of doses, and when they will need to be administered.“The algorithms are done. We are just identifying the maximum number of possible queries before the launch,” an official said.Also read | 15 more test +ve for new UK Covid strain, total 73The Drugs Controller General of India on Sunday announced that it has approved Covaxin, Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine for Covid-19, and Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India. The immunisation roll-out will begin with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.The Centre has faced criticism for prematurely rolling out Covaxin without the completion of its phase III trials.As per the chatbot’s FAQ section, the vaccine will be introduced in the country only after “regulatory bodies clear it based on its safety and efficacy”.The 13-page document addresses key issues, including who will get the vaccine first, whether those who have recovered from Covid-19 need the vaccine, and how vaccines are chosen for administration. It underlines the vaccination is mandatory.“Once the chatbot is fully functional, it will be linked to the Co-WIN app and be able to provide real-time data,” the official cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-whatsapp-chatbot-for-covid-19-vaccine-queries/story-WPZ4mfC7BBAOkoWRaV0U6H.html
07-01-2021||India||Wildlife Board nod to rail tracks through protected Western Ghats||The National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) has given its nod to Tinaighat-Castlerock-Caranzol railway doubling project. The project is likely to involve diversion of 10.45 ha of forest land of which 9.57 ha is in Dandeli wildlife sanctuary in Karnataka’s Western Ghats.“Happy to inform that in its 60th meeting, NBWL has recommended the proposal for Tinaighat-Castlerock-Caranzol Railway doubling of southwestern railways, Karnataka with certain mitigation measures as advised by the Wildlife Institute of India,” tweeted Union environment minister, Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday. The minutes of the meeting are yet to be published.According to a note by the Southwestern Railways, the existing railway single line between Hospet and Vasco was laid in 1900 and connects industrial areas in Hospet and Marmugoa port and various tourist places in Goa and Karnataka. Due to industrial growth and increase in tourists, the single line is saturated.According to a site inspection report by forest department published on the environment ministry’s Parivesh website, the area covering both Kali Tiger Reserve and Anshi Wildlife Division, harbours tigers, leopards, gaur, sambar etc and is endemic to Castlerock Night Frog. There are already Alnavar-Londa Vasco and Londa Khanapur railway lines in the region where many wildlife casualties have been reported due to train accidents. The proposal will involve the loss of 5,413 trees in Kali Tiger Reserve alone. The doubling of the railway line is mainly proposed for transport of coal according to the report.“The project was vehemently opposed by wildlife scientists in Karnataka and by some members of the Karnataka Wildlife Board also. The rail line will pass through a very eco-sensitive region. It also runs parallel to the NH4A which is being expanded. The two projects together will be a death knell for wildlife and biodiversity here,” said a senior wildlife scientist from Karnataka on condition of anonymity.“The Castlerock area was included in the Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary in 2011 due to its ecological importance as it holds tigers, dholes and several other endangered wildlife species. It connects Dandeli to Bhimghad Wildlife Sanctuary. Adjoining Castlerock are the protected areas in Goa hence it is one of the largest contiguous wildlife habitats in central Western Ghats. It also acts as watershed for several of our streams, rivers and dams,” said Sanjay Gubbi, Conservation Biologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-board-nod-to-rail-tracks-through-protected-western-ghats/story-SpJ3N939rvQflXzcDS23uJ.html
07-01-2021||India||Haryana to hold Covid-19 vaccine dry run today, day before nationwide exercise||Haryana is holding a dry run, a simulation of the actual execution of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, on Thursday. This is being done to ensure efficient planning and management of the immunisation process which is expected to begin in a few days.In Gurugram, where vaccination dry run will be held at six session sites, regional emergencies director of World Health Organisation, Dr Rodrico Ofrin, is likely to visit two sites - at Bhangrola and Wazirabad.Bhangrola is a rural area, with the dry run being held at a primary health centre. Wazirabad, on the other hand, is an urban area, where the drive will be held at a government primary school.The drive will start from 11 am at all locations simultaneously, and is likely to continue till 1 pm.Since the mock drill will be conducted across 22 districts on Thursday, Haryana has been exempted by the Union health ministry from the massive nationwide mock drill to be held on January 8 across all states and union territories.Each district across the country has been asked to identify three types of session sites, similar to the previous dry run conducted on January 2, including a public health facility (district hospital/medical college), private health facility and rural or urban outreach sites, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan will hold a meeting with the health ministers of states and union territories on Thursday to guide them on conducting the dry run.The entire planning of the vaccination drive including beneficiary registration, microplanning and vaccination at the planned session site will be tested under the leadership of District Collector or District Magistrate during the dry run.The dry run will also familiarize the state, district, block and hospital level officers on all aspects of the Covid vaccine roll out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-to-hold-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-today-day-before-nationwide-exercise/story-wVzP1I0H6hJA2jQ1zHGowM.html
07-01-2021||India||Rain likely to reduce significantly over NW India from today||Rain over plains of northwest India is likely to reduce or stop completely from today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Heavy to very heavy rains are however likely to persist over many parts of peninsular India due to intense easterly waves The Western Disturbance which brought rain and snow to the hills in the past four days has moved away and the moisture feed from Arabian Sea has significantly reduced, according to IMD’s Wednesday bulletin. Scattered snowfall is likely over Jammu-Kashmir-Muzaffarabad-Gilgit-Baltistan-Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Light rainfall is also likely over Punjab, Haryana-Chandigarh-Delhi and east Rajasthan and scattered rainfall over West Uttar Pradesh. Dry weather is likely to set in over the northern plains from Thursday.A feeble Western Disturbance is likely to impact only the Western Himalayan region on Thursday and Friday bringing light rain and snow in the hills.Under the influence of a trough (area of low pressure) from central parts of south Arabian Sea to north Madhya Maharashtra and an active easterly wave spell, scattered to fairly widespread rain accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning is likely over southern peninsular India during the next 3-4 days. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and isolated heavy rainfall over Kerala, Mahe, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema is also likely.Minimum temperatures are likely to fall again by 4 to 6 degree C over plains of northwest India during the next 4-5 days. Cold wave conditions are likely over plains from January 11 to 13. Due to abundant moisture and other favourable meteorological features, dense to very dense fog is likely in many pockets over northwest India between January 7 and 10.“When Western Disturbances bring rain to northwest India, easterly waves affect the peninsular region particularly Tamil Nadu. The northeast monsoon also hasn’t withdrawn completely from there. The easterly waves have been intense with moisture feeding in from the ocean. We are expecting more rains in peninsular India in the next few days,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.“Chennai’s Minabakkam and Nungabakkam recorded very heavy rains on Wednesday, a record definitely in the past decade and possibly many more decades. Rains reduce in January and normal are extremely low in February and March. So, this is unseasonal and unexpected. There have been record rains in many parts of northwest India due to a slow-moving western disturbance that persisted for 3 to 4 days and an induced cyclonic circulation over west Rajasthan which also persisted. Now again unseasonal rains are expected over Karnataka and parts of Maharashtra because a trough (line of low pressure) is extending from Arabian Sea to Madhya Maharashtra. Light snowfall is likely over the western Himalayas again on January 8 due to an approaching Western Disturbance,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-likely-to-reduce-significantly-over-nw-india-from-today/story-YUV5ghay1Cx6jvhDCldqzI.html
07-01-2021||India||‘Democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests,’ PM Modi tweets on violence at US Capitol||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that he is distressed to see news about the violence at the US Capitol. He also said that democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests.“Distressed to see news about rioting and violence. Orderly and peaceful transfer of power must continue. The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests,” PM Modi tweeted.Hundreds of President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday in a bid to overturn his election defeat, occupying the symbol of American democracy and forcing Congress to briefly suspend the session to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.Click here for live updates of US Capitol violencePolice evacuated lawmakers and struggled for more than three hours after the invasion to clear the Capitol of Trump supporters, who surged through the hallways and rummaged through offices in shocking scenes of chaos and disorder.Meanwhile, one woman lost life after being shot during the mayhem, Washington police said. The FBI said it had disarmed two suspected explosive devices.The violence at the US Capitol was culmination of months of divisive and escalating rhetoric around the November 3 election, with Trump repeatedly making false claims that the vote was rigged while refusing to concede. He has also s worked over the last two months to convince his supporters to help him overturn his loss.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/democratic-process-cannot-be-allowed-to-be-subverted-through-unlawful-protests-pm-modi-tweets-on-violence-at-us-capitol/story-wxNVBcl0ScJonCDgfWEW2N.html
07-01-2021||India||SC relief for student who lost IIT-B seat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed an exception for an 18-year old to complete his engineering course from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay after it had last month ordered the institute to provisionally admit him. Siddhant Batra was ranked 270 in the All India Joint Engineering Entrance 2020 but clicked the ‘withdraw’ link during the online admission process. Disposing the petition filed by Batra, the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy asked IIT, Bombay to regularise Batra’s admission despite the fact that the institute had admitted students to its capacity and had even begun classes. However, the bench made it clear that this will not be treated as a precedent. On December 9, the SC issued notice on Batra’s petition and held, “By interim order, we direct that the petitioner should be permitted to join the respondent-institution and pursue his course subject to fulfillment of all other formalities.”Batra had initially approached Bombay High Court but IIT-Bombay refused to admit Batra’s action to be a mistake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-relief-for-student-who-lost-iit-b-seat/story-lV71vOZtfw4SoK4pDWgX8L.html
07-01-2021||India||15 more test +ve for new UK Covid strain, total 73||With 15 more people testing positive for the new UK variant of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the total number of UK returnees having tested positive for the mutant virus in the country has reached 73, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.The results are based on the genome sequencing of positive samples released by the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium labs that the Centre has specifically created for the purpose of monitoring any kind of mutations in the virus.“The total number of cases infected with the new strain of the novel coronavirus first reported in the UK now stands at 73,” the ministry said.All these persons have been kept in single room isolation in designated health care facilities by respective state governments. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine., the ministry said.“The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs,” said the health ministry in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-more-test-ve-for-new-uk-covid-strain-total-73/story-POfg6JWjQv45VEi2VUE1qK.html
07-01-2021||India||Vaccine pricing still a sticking point?||Negotiation over pricing remains an issue that is being ironed out before the Centre signs a purchase order for the roll-out out of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, experts indicated on Wednesday, even as the government continued to finalise the infrastructure and other mechanisms to deploy the jabs against the coronavirus.While distribution in other nations started soon after approval with pricing deals signed ahead of time, New Delhi and Serum Institute of India – the world’s biggest vaccine maker by volume and AstraZeneca’s local partner – have engaged in months of discussions behind and are yet to sign a formal supply agreement, according to a Bloomberg report.SII previously said that it offered the vaccine to the government at the cost of Rs 200 per dose for the first 100 million doses. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is priced at 2.5 euros ($3) per dose in the international market.“The paperwork in these types of deals does take some time. Prices are negotiated when such huge orders are to be placed in bulk as India is launching one of the largest government vaccination drives. “What is more important is that the vaccine delivery management system should work flawlessly,” a government official said on condition of anonymity.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday said that the vaccination drive in India will begin 10 days after two vaccines, the one manufacture by SII and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, received emergency use authorisation. The approvals were granted on Sunday. Bharat Biotech has not made a public statement about the pricing of its vaccine so far.Bhushan did not respond to queries about the pricing still to be finalised. Niti Aayog’s Dr Vinod Paul also declined to comment on the matter.India plans to vaccinate 30 million health care and frontline workers in the first phase of the vaccination for free. The government has said it plans to vaccinate 300 million people on priority by July this year.An expert, who asked not to be named, said the paperwork should have been sorted months ago since the government had pre-ordered vaccines. As dry runs were being conducted over the past week, the vaccine roll-out should have happened by Monday, he argued. “There seems to be no other reason for the delay. Usually, negotiations take place around the price per dose as the volume is huge,” said a public health expert on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-pricing-still-a-sticking-point/story-N5rnIHEBBgHpI3gHmua5fN.html
07-01-2021||India||AIADMK member held in 2019 Pollachi sexual assault case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday arrested three people, including a functionary of Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK, in connection with the 2019 Pollachi sexual assault case, officials familiar with the matter said. A total of eight people have been arrested in the case that came to light in February 2019 when a 19-year-old woman filed a complaint against four men for allegedly sexually assaulting her and filming the act in Coimbatore district’s Pollachi town. During the investigation, it was revealed that a network of men sexually assaulted close to 50 women. Those arrested on Thursday were identified as K Arulanantham, 34, the AIADMK’s Pollachi town students’ wing secretary, Haron Paul, 29, ‘Bike’ Balu, 27, a second-hand bike dealer, police officials said.“They are friends of the accused who were previously arrested in the case,” a senior police official said on condition of anonymity.The AIADMK announced Arulanantham’s expulsion from all party posts. “We request that party workers should not have any contacts with him,” chief minister E Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam, said in a statement in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-member-held-in-2019-pollachi-sexual-assault-case/story-HomCnCOz8RaOb0UUOTTy8I.html
07-01-2021||India||12-member panel set up ahead of state polls||: The Congress has set up a 12-member panel to oversee the election campaign management and coordination ahead of assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory, an official statement from the party said.Four states -- Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal – along with Puducherry are scheduled to go to polls before May this year. The party has appointed Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and senior party leaders Mukul Wanki and Shakeel Ahmad Khan as the senior observers for Assam. In Kerala, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and former Karnataka deputy chief minister G Parameshwara will take charge, according to the statement.Former Karnataka CM Veerappa Moily, along with Pallam Raju and Nitin Raut will oversee the poll preparedness in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the statement said. In West Bengal, BK Hariprasad, Alamgir Alam and Vijay Inder Singla have been appointed, it added.“The leaders will coordinate with the general secretaries to oversee preparations for the elections. They are all senior leaders who will monitor election management,” party general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal said.The party statement said Congress president Sonia Gandhi has appointed the leaders as senior observers for overseeing the election campaign management and coordination in states where assembly elections are going to be held in 2021. Their appointment is with immediate effect. They will discharge their duties in close coordination with AICC general secretaries and in-charges in the respective states, the party said. The party faces an uphill task after it suffered a drubbing in the Bihar assembly elections in November, where it only won 19 seats of the 70 seats it contested. The result of the Bihar polls has prompted the party to take other measures, including an outreach programme to win back women voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-member-panel-set-up-ahead-of-state-polls/story-0nh44OL7jNQPnbYDc8q9AJ.html
07-01-2021||India||Whatsapp policy update indicates data of users to be shared with Facebook||WhatsApp appears to have made it mandatory for users to share information with Facebook – a possible change from its previous policy that allowed a user to opt out of this feature – the messaging app’s updated terms indicated.The feature was conveyed to users in an app prompt and the updated terms of use will come into effect on Friday.“The information we share with the other Facebook Companies includes your account registration information (such as your phone number), transaction data, service-related information, information on how you interact with others (including businesses) when using our Services, mobile device information, your IP address, and may include other information identified in the Privacy Policy section entitled ‘Information We Collect’ or obtained upon notice to you or based on your consent,” the Facebook-owned app said in its FAQs. A WhatsApp spokesperson said, “...as part of WhatsApp’s business vision in October 2020, in order to enable small businesses better, we are updating our terms of service and privacy policy as we work to make WhatsApp a great way to get answers or help from a business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-policy-update-indicates-data-of-users-to-be-shared-with-facebook/story-czhcV2XsMLSxHxT0yMUSKJ.html
07-01-2021||India||Doval, French prez adviser to hold strategic talks today||French President Emmanuel Macron’s top adviser Emmanuel Bonne and India’s National Security Adviser Ajit Doval will on Thursday hold an annual strategic dialogue that is expected to review the progress made over a 10,000-megawatt nuclear power plant to be set up in Maharashtra and the construction of six diesel-electric submarines under the Indian Navy’s P-75I programme, people aware of the developments said.The two top advisers will also discuss improving maritime security and developments in the Indo-Pacific region, particularly in the context of China’s aggressive moves along the Line of Actual Control, they said.Bonne, President Macron’s diplomatic adviser, is expected to call on PM Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar, and meet foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on Friday. “The two sides will hold discussions on wide-ranging bilateral and global issues,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement ahead of the strategic dialogue that will seek to reinforce deep ties between the two countries. France has been one of India’s most reliable partners in Europe for years but the two countries inched closer over the last few years, leading to a defence deal for 36 Rafale aircraft. When French defence minister Florence Parly was in India last year in the context of the induction of the fighter jets in the Indian Air Force, she and defence minister Rajnath Singh agreed to stick to the Rafale template of government-to-government deals for future defence purchases.India is expected to sign a $2.5-billion contract this year for 56 medium-transport aircraft under the Make in India initiative. India is also looking at the acquisition of six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tanker aircraft for expanding the IAF’s strike capability through latest mid-air refuellers as well as the Safran aircraft engines under the Make in India programme. The jet engines which are used by Dassault Aviation for the Rafale jets could be used to power the twin-engine advanced multi-role combat aircraft developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) till it develops its own version.An official said that France responded positively to New Delhi’s concerns about access of military technology to countries which have adversarial relations with India, a reference to Pakistan. France has decided against helping Pakistan upgrade its fleet of Mirage fighter jets, air defence system and Agosta 90B class submarines, a decision that was timed after Prime Minister Imran Khan’s loud criticism of French President Macron. Around the same time, France also conveyed to Qatar, which had earlier bought Rafale jets for its air force, not to allow any Pakistan-origin technicians near the aircraft for maintenance.Pakistan watchers said that it was on account of the French government’s restrictive approach that the Mirage 3 and Mirage 5 fighter jets in Pakistan air force’s inventory did not participate in last month’s joint aerial exercises, Eagle-IX, involving the Chinese and Pakistan air force. Doval and Bonne are also expected to discuss India’s other neighbour, China, in some detail, particularly given French concerns around Beijing attempting to flex muscles in the Indo-Pacific region. China has, for instance, been trying to get people in the French island group of New Caledonia to vote for independence in three referendums being held to decide its future. This island group with an area of 18,575 sq km, located in the South Pacific east of Australia, is one of the 16 overseas territories of France that are home to 1.5 million French citizens.In October last year, France formalised its interest in the Indo-Pacific when President Macron appointed Christophe Penot, one of his country’s most senior diplomats as the first French envoy for the Indo-Pacific. As part of this focus, France has forged new initiatives such as the trilateral dialogue launched with India and Australia in September last to enhance cooperation and strengthen multilateralism in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doval-french-prez-adviser-to-hold-strategic-talks-today/story-2qWm078ieDnCWZaWP7oRhI.html
07-01-2021||India||Heritage experts dissatisfied with SC verdict, worry about future changes||Heritage experts expressed dissatisfaction over Tuesday’s Supreme Court verdict that said only a part of the Central Vista area can be declared a heritage precinct while approving all environmental and land use changes to pave the way for the nearly ₹15,000-crore redevelopment project to begin. Five petitioners — and 10 petitions — had challenged the redevelopment project over the Centre’s alleged lack of transparency and objectivity in awarding clearances such as on land use change to proceed with redevelopment of the area.Pointing out that the Delhi Master Plan 2021 listed the Lutyens Bungalow Zone (or LBZ) as one of the six heritage zones in the city, founder-member of INTACH and noted architect-academician AG Krishna Menon contended that the heritage of Central Vista should not be seen in a piecemeal fashion; its heritage value lay as much in its present-day function as a seat of power as in its role as “a massive public space”. The redevelopment project, he said, “changed the significance of the place.” “Of course, change is important, but we have to ask what adds and improves the heritage value of a place. By demolishing buildings, and emptying out others, what significance are we retaining?” Menon, who was one of the five petitioners who challenged the project in the apex court, asked. Together with petitioners Rajiv Suri and Anuj Srivastava, he claimed that the redevelopment plan would destroy Central Vista’s heritage value. Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management Ltd, which will be redeveloping the Central Vista has proposed to convert the North and South Blocks — where ministries such as finance, defence and home, have offices — into museums. The redevelopment plan also proposes to raze some buildings located on either side of the avenue to build anew a set of buildings where all ministries’ offices, now spread across Delhi, will be brought to one place.Author and Delhi historian Swapna Liddle feared that the land use change that the top court approved —all seven plots up for redevelopment in the area have undergone changes that broadly pertain to four categories of land use: recreational, government, public-semi public and residential — would pave the way for future changes.“So, for example, a land use change from recreational to government means that it is lost to the public forever,” Liddle said.HCP director Bimal Patel said the plan would not tamper with heritage buildings.“The proposed master plan respects the existing layout and aims to strengthen it. All the works planned on the Central Vista are designed to respect the heritage buildings, spaces and their character. The notified heritage buildings being dealt with as part of this plan will be retrofitted in compliance with the prevailing regulations in all aspects,” Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heritage-experts-dissatisfied-with-sc-verdict-worry-about-future-changes/story-miAJlcCOEmFGonoV4MDSLO.html
07-01-2021||India||Talks healthy, closer to resolution, SC told||The central government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that an “understanding” could be in sight with the farmers’ unions over the contentious agricultural laws, even as the Chief Justice of India (CJI) lamented that there was “no improvement in the situation”.CJI SA Bobde, however, also said that the top court has always encouraged talks, and that the legal adjudication surrounding the farm laws and farmers’ protests could wait if there was the possibility of a breakthrough. The court said it would take up the matter on January 11 but could defer the hearing in case there was some progress in talks.The statement by the government suggesting a headway in negotiation has come two days after the seventh round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders ended in a stalemate. The three Union ministers part of the negotiations had suggested it was not possible to commit to a rollback of the laws without wider consultations with higher authorities. The farm unions had rejected this position, and said they would enhance their agitation -- a large tractor rally has been planned on the outskirts of the Capital on Thursday. Both sides, however, agreed to continue the talks on January 8.On Wednesday, the CJI-led bench was hearing a plea by petitioner-advocate ML Sharma, who has challenged the laws on the ground that Centre lacked power to legislate on the issues directly relating to agriculture produce, its trade and market.The bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told Sharma that his petition could also be heard along with another batch of petitions on the same issue that are listed on January 8. At this point, the CJI remarked: “There is no improvement in the situation at all.”The comment triggered a response from solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who said that the government was into “healthy discussions” with the farmers, and this is why they did not want to file an affidavit in response to the petitions in the court.“We will have to oppose the petitions if we file our counter affidavit. We are into a healthy discussion otherwise. So, we don’t want to file our affidavits and oppose the petitions. We don’t want to oppose anything formally since we are discussing right now,” Mehta submitted, indicating that a documented counter by the government at this stage may not be conducive for the talks.Attorney general KK Venugopal, who also represents the Centre in these matters, added that the government would not want to put on record any kind of opposition regarding the farmers’ issues. “There are good chances that parties may come to an understanding. In case such an understanding is to be reached, we would not want to file our affidavits and oppose anything,” said Venugopal. The law officers’ submissions prompted the CJI to observe: “We would like to encourage talks. That has always been our intention since we started hearing this matter.”The bench then assured Venugopal and Mehta that the court could simply adjourn the proceedings on Monday to a future date if the talks continue. “We don’t want to create more problems when the talks are going on,” it added.Asked about the government’s contention in the Supreme Court, Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the farmers’ agitation, said: “We are not a party to the any of the petitions regarding the three farm laws. Hence, we have no stand on this. The government must repeal the three laws, which continues to be our foremost demand.”Pal, however, said the government has not shown any signs of rolling back the laws, and he insisted that there could be no progress without that.Balbir Singh Rajewal, another farm union leader, said if there was any verdict by the court that has a bearing on the agitation, a response will be formulated only after studying the ruling. He said that the court had already made it clear that farmers had a right to protest peacefully.Thousands of farmers are “fully prepared” for Thursday’s tractor rally that is planned to converge on the KMP Expressway, Rajewal said. The rally, which the farm unions are calling a “rehearsal” for a larger rally on Republic Day, will cover both eastern and western peripheral expressways.“This will be a dress rehearsal for the tractor parade by farmers on Republic Day in the national capital,” said Yogendra Yadav, one of the leaders coordinating the protests.Meanwhile, the court issued notices on Sharma’s petition, which has also challenged the 1954-amendment in the Constitution by virtue of which Entry 33 of the Concurrent List was re-enacted. This re-enactment also gave Centre the authority to legislate on trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of foodstuffs, cattle fodder, raw cotton and cotton seeds; and raw jute.According to Sharma, the government misused Entry 33 to frame the three laws — Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Agriculture and Promotion) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. His petition contends the Centre has no authority under the Constitution to legislate on these issues, and only states can frame these laws. Sharma’s plea added the laws will lead to exploitation of farmers by big corporate houses.On December 17, hearing a clutch of petitions relating to the farmers’ protests, the top court allowed the agitations to go on, and showed its inclination of setting up an independent committee to mediate between the protesting farmers and the government. The decision on the constitution of the committee, however, was deferred since the prominent unions spearheading the protests did not participate in the court proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-healthy-closer-to-resolution-sc-told/story-y8UepwRdNsby30UAcVuZVP.html
07-01-2021||India||Bovine wisdom from govt body: India cow is clever, warm; jersey cow is lazy, emotionless||Indian cows, or “gaumata”, are clever and warm creatures who don’t sit in dirty places; produce milk with traces of gold; and their dung has anti-radioactive properties. In contrast, “exotic” jersey cows are dirty, lazy and emotionless creatures who sit idly all day and are prone to diseases because they’re unhygienic. Such bovine wisdom, and more, has been published by the national government body for cow welfare, Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog, to help candidates prepare for India’s first annual countrywide cow examination on February 25. “The cow is full of science and scientific facts. Gaumata will play an important role in building a $5 trillion economy,” said Aayog chief Vallabhbhai Kathiria.The exam, formally known as the Kamdhenu Gau-VigyanPrachar-Prasar Examination, will be held online in four tiers spanning primary, middle and high school students, college students and the general public. It will have multiple-choice questions for 100 marks across 14 languages. “This will infuse the curiosity into all Indians about the cows, and make them aware of the unexplored potential and business opportunities a cow can offer, even after it stops giving milk,” said the body in a press release on Tuesday. Successful candidates will be given awards and certificates. To help candidates prepare for the challenging examination, the body published a 54-page booklet specifying the various properties of the “gaumata”, her emotions, usefulness, and physical features. A highlight is the 20-point distinction between Indian and jersey cows. The Indian cow is “very active in nature and shares warmth with all,” it said. The jersey, in contrast, “sits idle and very inactive, likes to sit at one place.” “Whenever any unknown person comes near desi cow, she will immediately stand,” the booklet said. The jersey cow, however, displays no emotions. “Indian cows maintain hygiene, [are] hardy and clever enough not to sit at dirty places,” it stated. “Jersey cows are known to be very lazy and highly prone to diseases. It has also been seen that they attract infection by not being hygienic enough.” The reference material also hailed cow products and said the Indian cow’s milk is light yellow in colour because of traces of gold in it. “Cow dung has antiseptic, anti-radioactive and anti-thermal properties…In 1984, more than 20,000 people died due to gas leaks in Bhopal. People living in houses with cow dung coated walls were not affected. Even today, nuclear power centres in India and Russia use shielding dung to radiation,” the booklet read.It claimed that cow urine is an antidote for phlegm, abdominal diseases, eye diseases, bladder diseases, respiratory diseases, inflammation, liver diseases, acidity, leprosy and other skin diseases. “By regularly taking cow urine before sickness, we gain so much immunity that any attack of diseases is repulsed…the only disadvantage of Gaumutra is its smell or taste.”The booklet expands on the ideal feed for a cow, the properties of an ideal cow shelter and even links cow slaughter to earthquakes.“Acoustic anisotropy leads to a very strong anisotropic stress on a rock. The daily butchering of thousands of animals continually for several years generates acoustic anisotropy due to Einsteinian Pain Waves (EPW) emitted by dying animals. And the accumulated acoustic anisotropy is found to be related with the stress history of rocks.” A statement by the Aayog said Union education ministers, chief ministers, state education ministers, chairmen of cow welfare commissions of all states, district education officers of all states, principals of all schools, print and electronic media, NGOs and cow donors will be involved in the exercise. The test will be an annual affair.“I don’t know anything about this, but any claim needs to pass rigorous scientific tests based on facts,” said Samir Brahmachari, a biophysicist and former director-general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bovine-wisdom-from-govt-body-india-cow-is-clever-warm-jersey-cow-is-lazy-emotionless/story-SG3fEUVeIQfcBvKFSqZCtO.html
07-01-2021||India||UK flights resume after two-week suspension||Two weeks after India had suspended all flight operations to the UK, in the wake of the outbreak of a new COVID strain, the first flight for the UK left Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport on Wednesday with 252 passengers. Another flight left for London on Wednesday evening, from Mumbai. The first flight from London, will land at the Delhi airport on Friday, officials said.December 23 onwards, India had suspended all flights to and from the United Kingdom (UK) up to December 31 in order to stop the arrival of a new strain of Sars-CoV-2 that spreads faster. The ban was later extended till January 7.The two Air India flights that left India on Wednesday, from Delhi and Mumbai international airports will land at Heathrow airport in London on Thursday. The two flights carried a total of 491 passengers. On Friday, both the Air India flights are expected to return to their base in Delhi and in Mumbai. These will be the first flights coming to India from the UK since the flight suspension.Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had also said on Tuesday that the number of flights to the UK from India have been reduced by 50 per cent.The government has laid down stringent procedures that the incoming passengers are required to go through upon their arrival. In a set of standard operating procedures (SOP), the ministry of health and family welfare said all the incoming passengers from UK will require declaring their travel history of past 14 days. The passengers also need to fill up a self-declaration form and upload it on the online portal at www.newdelhiairport.in at least 72 hours before their scheduled departure.The SOP says, “All passengers arriving from the UK should be carrying negative RT-PCR test report for which test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. The same shall also be uploaded on the online portal at www.newdelhiairport.in.”The order also asks the airlines to check the negative RT-PCR test reports before allowing the passengers onboard.Asking the airport authorities to ensure adequate arrangements, the SOP mandates an RT-PCR test for all the passengers arriving from the UK upon their arrival in India. “Passengers testing positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility coordinated by respective state health authorities. Those who are found negative on testing at the airport would be advised quarantine at home for 14 days,” it said.The order further said that all the contacts of the passengers arriving at various ports from the UK between January 8 and 30, who have test positive, would be subject to institutional quarantine in separate quarantine centers and would be tested as per the ICMR guidelines. For this, the bureau of immigration has also been asked to share the state-wise passenger manifest of the flights landing in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, for the said period, with the state governments.Meanwhile, arrangements have been made at the Delhi airport for passengers scheduled to arrive from the UK on Friday. Dr. Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings diagnostics that is conducting the RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport, said her team is ready to receive the passengers.“It takes 4-6 hours to get the reports, however as a mandate the entire flight will have to be halted till the time all results are declared. All arrangements have been made to ensure that the RT-PCR tests for all the passengers and the crew arriving from the UK are conducted smoothly,” she said.Delhi airport operator and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that guards the airport have also together set up a dedicated corridor to escort the arriving passengers up to the testing facility so that they do not mix with other passengers at the airport.Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said they have also made arrangements to make sure all the passengers arriving from the UK are tested and no one skips the test or attempts to escape.Two passengers had escaped on their way to quarantine facility in Delhi on December 22 after they had tested positive at the Delhi airport. While one had reached Punjab, another managed to reach Andhra Pradesh.As many as 11 passengers had tested positive for the Coronavirus at Delhi airport last month upon their arrival from the UK and 50 others who had come in direct contact had to be quarantined. These passengers were among 950 passengers who had arrived in four flights on December 21 and 22, right before the suspensions of flights between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-flights-resume-after-two-week-suspension/story-OaCfaBUlVPm9nPhZtZhcwJ.html
07-01-2021||India||States on alert as bird flu spreads, toll soars||The central government confirmed on Wednesday that avian influenza, or bird flu, cases were reported across 12 epicentres in at least four Indian states even as authorities issued advisories to contain further spread of the outbreak and asked all states to keep a close vigil to detect any unusual bird death.Thousands of birds have died in Kerala (mostly poultry), Himachal Pradesh (migratory birds), and Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (crows) since the beginning of the outbreak in December-end. Officials said migratory birds are behind the outbreak. The government said it has set up a “control room” in New Delhi to keep a watch on the situation. No case among humans has been reported.  In addition to the four states with confirmed cases, around 400,000 chickens have died in Haryana’s Panchkula district over the past 20 days. Similarly, three crows are suspected to have died due to the disease in Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun. Their test reports were awaited. Jharkhand and Gujarat, too, have sounded an alarm. The Union health ministry said it has deployed special teams in Panchkula, apart from Kerala’s two epicentres.Experts said the current outbreak is caused by the H5N8 strain, though there are other strains circulating globally. A series of outbreaks have been reported in Europe in the past weeks, with wild birds suspected to be spreading the disease.Experts added that both H5N1 (another strain of avian influenza) and H5N8 have high pathogenicity (the ability of a pathogen to cause disease), but they don’t infect humans very effectively. However, past outbreaks among farm birds have needed extensive slaughtering programmes.“…people who are handling birds (culling them or handling meat) should be careful and take full precautions. If it does transmit to humans, the influenza can be very severe...Human-to-human transmission is also not common, but can happen. Eating properly cooked poultry is unlikely to transmit the infection. We have had several bird flu episodes in the past but managed to control them,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The current outbreak began barely a few months after India declared the country free from the disease on September 30, 2020. India notified the first outbreak of avian influenza in 2006.“Bird flu cases can be found all over the world. India was declared free of bird flu in September. Then in October, we issued an advisory that the cold is coming and that there is a need to take precautions. Today, most of the cases are being reported from the places where migratory birds arrive, and they are the reason for bringing the virus to the country,” Giriraj Singh, the Union minister of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, told news agency ANI.“The government is on alert. Samples from all states are being sent to Bhopal (for testing at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases). There is nothing to worry about. The government will also provide compensation to the farmers for the poultry that died,” Singh said.In a statement, his ministry identified 12 disease epicentres: Baran, Kota, Jhalawar regions in Rajasthan; Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa areas in Madhya Pradesh; Kangra in Himachal Pradesh; and Kerala’s Kottayam and Alappuzha (four epicentres).In India, the ministry said, the disease spreads mainly by migratory birds during winter months from September-October to February-March. The secondary spread by human handling (through fomites) cannot be ruled out.“Infection in humans is not yet reported in India though the disease is zoonotic. There is no direct evidence that AI (avian influenza) viruses can be transmitted to humans via the consumption of contaminated poultry products,” it added.Over 69,000 birds, including ducks and chickens, were culled in Alappuzha and Kottayam, Kerala animal husbandry minister K Raju said on Wednesday. His government has declared bird flu as a state disaster. Rapid response teams are on the ground for culling and surveillance efforts.“The state cabinet, which met today (Wednesday), has decided to compensate the farmers for culling their birds. For culled birds over two months old, farmers will be given ₹200 for each… for those under the age of two months, farmers will be compensated at ₹100 for each,” the minister said.Madhya Pradesh has banned transportation of poultry from other states as a measure to check the spread, government officials said. “Testing of poultry samples from districts affected by bird flu suggests poultry is not affected, but as a precautionary measure, the Mandsaur district administration has ordered a ban on the sale and purchase of chicken and eggs... 250 crows have been found dead so far in the district,” said JN Kansotia, the state’s animal husbandry principal secretary.In Himachal, there was a complete ban on the sale and export of poultry products and fish in the four subdivisions of Dehra, Fatehpur, Jawali and Indora, according to Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. “We can’t stop it (movement of migratory birds); it will continue till February-end,” said Prajapati.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said six screening teams were sent to the worst-hit Barwala belt, considered Asia’s second largest poultry belt with over 7.7 million birds in 110 farms. Across states, poultry farm owners feared losses due to the culling of birds --- a likely outcome of the outbreak. “I have more than 40,000 chickens at my farm. If the virus spreads, culling would be carried out and that would mean losses worth lakhs or rupees,” said Pushp Barotia, a poultry farm owner in Kangra. The scare has led to a drop in chicken prices in many parts of the country. Annu Gulati, an office-bearer of the Uttar Pradesh Poultry Farm Association, said prices have come down to ₹20-25 per kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-on-alert-as-bird-flu-spreads-toll-soars/story-U5M37npC49OTvwqFCpexSP.html
07-01-2021||India||Centre rushes teams to Kerala, Haryana affected by Avian influenza as precautionary measure||The Union ministry of health and family welfare has deployed multi-disciplinary teams to states affected by the Avian Influenza as a precautionary measure, officials said on Wednesday. The Union health ministry said in a statement that the teams have been deployed in Haryana’s Panchkula district and in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts of Kerala.“The two multi-disciplinary teams comprising experts from National Center for Disease Control, National Institute of Virology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, Dr RML Hospital, New Delhi, and Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi, have been deployed to the affected districts by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on 4th January 2021 to assist the State Health Departments in implementing Ministry of Health & Family Welfare’s Avian Influenza containment plan,” the statement said. “Directions have already been issued to states in this regard,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.The steps taken by the ministry are precautionary as no cases of the flu have been detected in humans so far. “So far, no human case of Avian Influenza has been reported. Ministry of Health & Family Welfare continues to keep a strict watch over the evolving scenario,” the ministry statement read.The Additional Director General (Wildlife) at Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Soumitra Dasgupta said that the states have been asked to report to the centre any new cases of the flu. “We have mainly received large number of positive H5N1 cases in Himachal Pradesh. Sporadic cases in poultry have been reported from parts of Kerala, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Reports are coming in everyday. In HP, the virus has been found in large number of bar-headed geese. All chief secretaries and chief wildlife wardens have been alerted and asked to send reports immediately,” Dasgupta said. The department of animal husbandry on January 4 notified the detection of Avian Influenza (H5N8) in samples of ducks found dead in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts of Kerala. A similar report of the bird flu was received from poultry samples from Haryana’s Panchkula district, following which the health ministry called a meeting of experts to monitor the situation.First set of high level team was sent to the affected states on January 4. Other states, including Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, have similarly reported incidence of the avian influenza, involving crows and migratory birds. According to protocol, the department of animal husbandry has issued alerts to further intensify surveillance to detect any cases in poultry birds.The environment ministry had written to chief secretaries of all states on Tuesday directing them to constitute state level monitoring committees for the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-teams-to-kerala-haryana-affected-by-avian-influenza-as-precautionary-measure/story-RwcpBeJsmJPDPozRoZhsmL.html
07-01-2021||India||SCI hub, Libgen case: Delhi HC to hear students, researchers||The Delhi high court on Wednesday agreed to hear representations from scientists, researchers and students before passing any interim order in the copyright infringement claim filed by three academic publishing houses seeking to block popular online repositories Sci Hub and Libgen in India.Justice JR Midha also issued notice to Elsevier Ltd., Wiley India Pvt. Ltd. and American Chemical Society, and posted the matter for February 23. “It is an issue of public importance. It’s very important to the scientific community,” Midha said. The court’s decision came after Delhi Science Forum, Society for Knowledge Commons and a group of 20 scientists and scholars filed an application that said blocking free-to-download websites, which provide access to research, will deprive scientific researchers in poor and developing countries. “I agree urgent hearing is required but that does not require you to march over the other cases,” the judge observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sci-hub-libgen-case-delhi-hc-to-hear-students-researchers/story-PxBftjgAPFPfuXGok4qG7N.html
07-01-2021||India||274% excess rain in January first week||Very high rainfall was recorded over northwest India and parts of central and peninsular India in the first five days of 2020 --- unusual for this time of the year, according to the weather department.Overall, India recorded 274% excess rain till January 6 with 17 states recording “large excess”, or 60% above normal rain. There was no rain in 14 states during the week.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said such widespread and heavy rains in January was being recorded for the first time in several decades.Usually, India sees an average rainfall of 2.4 mm from January 1-6. This time, it was 9 mm.  “Last year, we saw 27.4 mm rain in the entire country in January, while the normal is 16.1 mm. This year, we have already realised 9 mm. This spell was unique because it may be one of the longest wet spells recorded in January,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.While winter rain occurs over northwest India during January-February due to western disturbances (WDs), the intensity of the one that triggered rainfall in northwest India in the first week of 2020 was very high. In peninsular India, the northeast monsoon hasn’t withdrawn completely and intense easterly waves are bringing widespread and heavy rains.“The intensity, distribution and lingering rains for a number of days was striking this time. There is always winter rain; we expect six western disturbances on average in January and February, but they are not usually as intense as this one. The WD moved very slowly, bringing rain and snow continuously from January 3,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.The western disturbance has moved away and the moisture feed from Arabian Sea has significantly reduced, according to IMD’s Wednesday bulletin. A feeble western disturbance, however, is likely to impact only the Western Himalayan region on Thursday and Friday, bringing light rain and snow in the hills.Minimum temperatures are likely to fall again by 4-6 degrees Celsius over plains of northwest India during the next 4-5 days. Cold wave conditions are likely over plains from January 11 to 13. Due to abundant moisture and other favourable meteorological features, dense to very dense fog is likely in many pockets over northwest India between January 7 and 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/274-excess-rain-in-january-first-week/story-zj5VUI1C7cNnoASYm2nLeL.html
07-01-2021||India||Congress announces new executive body with 39-members for Rajasthan||Nearly six months after the open rebellion by Sachin Pilot, the much-awaited Rajasthan Congress executive list was announced on Wednesday night. The 39-member team comprises 7 vice-presidents, 8 general secretaries, and 24 secretaries. On expected lines, the executives have a mixture of both senior and junior leaders. The party leadership has tried to maintain a balance between supporters of CM Ashok Gehlot, former deputy CM Sachin Pilot, state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara and some recommended by other state leaders. MLAs such as GR Khatana, Rakesh Pareek and Ved Prakash Solanki, who were among the 18 MLAs, who were with Pilot when he rebelled against Gehlot in July last year, have been accommodated among the general secretaries. The party has accommodated 11 MLAs in the executive on VP and GS posts. Govind Ram Meghwal, Harimohan Sharma, Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Naseem Akhtar Insaaf, Rajendra Choudhary and Ram Lal Jat have been appointed as vice presidents.. The leaders who have been chosen as General Secretaries are GR Khatana, Hakim Ali, Lakhan Meena, Mangilal Garasiya, Prashant Bairwa, Rakesh Parikh, Rita Choudhary and Ved Solanki. The 24 secretaries are members of Youth Congress, NSUI and Seva Dal. Prominent among the secretaries are former MLA Mahendra Singh Gujjar, party MLA candidates Pushpendra Bhardwaj and Prashant Sharma. A senior leader on condition of anonymity claimed that among the VPs are Rajendra Chowdhary, and among the GSs Khatana, Parikh and Solanki are known to be Pilot loyalists. The former deputy chief minister’s loyalists have also been accommodated in the secretaries list. In the executive body, three women have been included.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted his best wishes to the newly formed executive committee. “I hope that under the leadership of Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasara ji, you will be able to carry the policies, programs, principles and ideology of Congress to every village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-announces-new-executive-body-with-39-members-for-rajasthan/story-yXDdhkjdHPTVJaMfpr0CFL.html
07-01-2021||India||Amid bird flu scare, poultry from southern states banned in MP, control rooms set up in districts||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to ban the supply of poultry from Kerala and certain other southern states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu etc to Madhya Pradesh as a measure to check the spread of bird flu in the state while control rooms have been set up in every district to monitor the spread of the virus, according to government officials. Till now, 15 districts have been affected by bird flu. Control rooms have been set up in all the districts to monitor the situation. However, as per officials, the presence of H5N8 has been detected only in crows so far. Poultry remains unaffected, as per officials. The decision to ban the supply of poultry from southern states was taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday. Officials of the Animal Husbandry and Health departments attended the meeting. “Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has instructed that all efforts should be made for prevention of bird flu in chickens also, even though poultry remains unaffected by the disease,” said an official release. Principal Secretary, Animal Husbandry, JN Kansotia said, “Poultry supply to Madhya Pradesh is mainly done by states like Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Kerala has sounded a high alert and there is a report from there about culling of poultry. Hence, the state government has decided to take this measure.” The official release said, “Necessary precautionary measures are being taken. Districts have been made aware of the guidelines issued by the government of India. Poultry will be banned for a limited period.” The release said, “The Animal Husbandry department and allied departments and agencies are vigilant. The poultry farms where deaths of birds have been reported are being monitored. Daily status of bird flu in the state is being conveyed to the Government of India.” “Divisional teams are closely monitoring reservoirs, poultry farms and poultry markets in the districts. Necessary information about prevention of bird flu is being given to poultry farmers and businessmen. On receiving information regarding sickness or unnatural death of crows or chickens, immediate samples are collected and sent to the laboratory,” said the official release. According to the release, infected places are being disinfected and sanitised in collaboration with the local bodies of the district. “It is important for non-vegetarians to ensure that the chicken is cooked well before consumption so that it does not pose any threat to health,” states the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-bird-flu-scare-poultry-from-southern-states-banned-in-mp-control-rooms-set-up-in-districts/story-WFd9wVwlqe8iSJ0W5HgDxJ.html
07-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand to conduct second dry run for vaccine rollout in 10 booths of every district on Jan 8||After challenges faced during the first dry-run for the vaccination drive in the state, the Uttarakhand government has announced a second trial process to be conducted across the state on January 8. Chief Secretary Om Prakash while conducting a review meeting of the preparations for Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday informed that a dry run for the vaccination process will be conducted across the state on January 8. “All the necessary preparations have been ensured by the districts for vaccination. The dry run will be done on January 8 in ten booths in each district. The entire process of vaccination should be widely publicized and deployment of officers should also be ensured for arranging cold chain logistics and monitoring of vaccination sites,” said the chief secretary. He added that internet connectivity should be ensured at vaccination sites. “In areas where there is a problem in reaching the beneficiary due to lack of network connectivity or due to lack of registration, block-level officers should spread awareness like the election process. Ensure that all the necessary information is sent to the beneficiary,” he added. Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination, said that on the day of the first dry-run (January 3) for vaccination process the health workers faced challenges while using the CoWin mobile application. “The one main challenge that we faced was of information technology issues while using the CoWin application, where details of vaccine candidates are to be uploaded during the process. Initially, our healthcare workers were not able to upload all details due to usage of the application and connectivity problems but gradually it was worked out. However, to avoid such incidents during the actual vaccination process, we are getting vaccination cards made, where details will be noted down and later uploaded on the portal of the Central government,” said Martoliya. The vaccination cards are being made as given the topography of Uttarakhand, internet or mobile connectivity is not always guaranteed in hilly areas. He further said that at present around 3000 healthcare workers have been trained on how to administer the vaccine and more nurses, medical professionals from government and private hospitals will be trained in the future as needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-conduct-second-dry-run-for-vaccine-rollout-in-10-booths-of-every-district-on-jan-8/story-ciuV7zmXLHm9lc5SemFhHI.html
07-01-2021||India||Centre gears up for another dry run on Friday||The central government is gearing up to conduct another dry run of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine across the country, except in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, on Friday, ahead of the actual execution of the vaccination roll-out, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. “The roll out of Covid-19 vaccine is expected to begin in the near future. This milestone entails the need for testing of all planned mechanisms for conducting the vaccination drive in the country,” health ministry said in a statement. Each district will identify three types of session sites, similar to the previous dry run including a public health facility (district hospitals and medical colleges), private health facilities and rural or urban outreach sites.Health minister Harsh Vardhan will also hold a meeting with states in this regard on Thursday, to guide them on the conduct of dry run, the ministry said in a statement. The first nation wide dry run was conducted on January 2.As a simulation of actual execution, another round of dry run will be conducted in all 700 plus districts of all states and Union territories, except UP and Haryana which have planned to conduct theirs on Thursday. It is better to test the platform before the actual exercise begins to avoid last minute glitches. The idea behind having this drills conducted is to ensure there are no surprises on the D-day,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.“The entire planning of the vaccination drive including beneficiary registration, microplanning and vaccination at the planned session site, will be tested under the leadership of District Collector/District Magistrate. The dry run will also familiarise the state, district, block and hospital level officers on all aspects of Covid-19 roll out. This activity will help administrators in strengthening the linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms, identification of any residual challenges prior to the actual implementation and to provide confidence to the programme managers at all levels to carry out a smooth implementation of the vaccination drive,” the health ministry statement read.The health ministry will be constantly monitoring the drill and provide necessary support, ensure timely resolution of the identified challenges before the actual vaccination roll-out.Union ministry of health and family welfare has been conducting mock drills to test functioning of the digital platform, Co-WIN, which is the backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine delivery management system, before the actual vaccination drive is rolled out sometime next week. The ministry has been conducting these mock drills in collaboration with the state governments and other stake holders.Two Covid-19 vaccines — Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — have been given emergency use authorisation by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday. To facilitate the entire vaccination process, Co-WIN has been repurposed for real time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries for COVID-19 vaccine. This software will assist the programme managers across all levels in conduct of the vaccination sessions. A dedicated 24x7 call centre has also been established for technical queries of Co-WIN users.The cold chain infrastructure (like walk-in-freezers, walk-in-coolers, ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers) along with sufficient supplies of syringes and other logistics have also been ensured for the exercise.Around 1.7 lakh vaccinators and 3 lakh vaccination team members have been trained on the process to be followed at the vaccination sites which include beneficiary verification, vaccination, cold chain and logistics management, bio-medical waste management, adverse event following immunisation (ARFI) management and reporting on Co-WIN software. Detailed operational guidelines on all aspects of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, including session planning and management, session site layout and its organization, AEFI management, communication messages, infection prevention and control practices etc., have already been shared with the States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gears-up-for-another-dry-run-on-friday/story-awCLeVwiZoms65sF4NetRN.html
07-01-2021||India||Former TDP minister held in Hyd abduction case||Hyderabad: The Telangana Police on Wednesday arrested Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Bhumika Akhila Priya from Kurnool district in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh for her alleged involvement in the abduction of three brothers in connection with a land dispute, officials said.“We have taken Akhila Priya (a former tourism minister of Andhra Pradesh between April 2017 and May 2019) into custody from her residence in the morning…after preliminary interrogation, she was arrested her formally in the afternoon,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar told reporters. She was sent to 14 days of judicial custody.Another senior TDP leader from Kurnool, AV Subba Reddy, was arrested in connection with the case late Wednesday night.Akhila Priya‘s husband, Bhargav Ram, among others, too was believed to be involved in planning and executing the abduction, Anjani Kumar said. “We have formed special teams of the police for tracking down the other accused.” The three kidnapped – K Praveen Rao, K Sunil Rao and K Naveen Rao -- are related to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, according to police officials who did not want to be named. Praveen Rao is a former national-level badminton player. “The brothers were said to be involved in a land dispute with the accused at Hafeezpet on the city’s (Hyderabad’s) outskirts. The details of the land issue are being probed into,” Anjani Kumar said. According to the police commissioner, about 10 people barged into the residence of Praveen Rao, who stays with his brothers at Krishna Residency apartment complex in Bowenpally’s Manovikas Nagar, around 7.20pm on Tuesday. They introduced themselves as income tax officers. “They separated the brothers from the rest of the family and asked them to sit in the hall. They forced others to go into the bedroom. Later, they whisked the three brothers away in a vehicle. They also took away laptops and mobile phones from them,” the police commissioner said. Family members alerted the police and a first information report (FIR) was registered on the basis of their complaint.Around 3.30am on Wednesday, the suspects released the three brothers at Kokapet-Narasingi area on Hyderabad’s outskirts.“Based on the complaint by the family members, we have arrested Akhila Priya. We are on the lookout for others,” the police commissioner said. Praveen Rao’s another brother, Pratap Rao, told reporters earlier in the day that there was a dispute between the accused and his family over 50 acres of land at Hafeezpet. TDP Kurnool president Somisetty Venkateshwarlu said it was Akhila Priya and her family’s “personal issue”, and that it had nothing to do with the party. “In any case, her arrest has not come up for discussion in the party yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tdp-minister-held-in-hyd-abduction-case/story-0FwQwC5uKiYKxWGJguhEKP.html
07-01-2021||India||SC agrees to examine U’khand and UP’s laws on conversions||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine two contentious laws passed by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand regulating religious conversion through interfaith marriages and sought responses from the respective state governments and the Centre on whether the legislation violated constitutional rights.But the three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, refused to order a stay. Soon after the SC order, a Muslim organisation, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, applied to intervene in the case and alleged that the two laws were targeting Muslim youth. This application will come up for hearing along with the two petitions after four weeks. The bench was hearing petitions filed by advocates and a non-governmental organisation, Citizens for Justice and Peace, challenging the constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018.Initially, the top court hesitated to issue notice because separate petitions are pending before the Allahabad high court and Uttarakhand high court, respectively. “Only the society in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will be affected by this law. Why should the petitioners not approach the respective high courts,” observed CJI Bobde. CJP told the court that the issue was arising in other states as well. “The state of Himachal Pradesh has re-enacted a similar law (HP Freedom of Religion Act) in 2019 after its earlier law prohibiting conversion from one faith to another was struck down by the Himachal Pradesh high court in 2012. Now the new law has roped in marriage by conversion as a ground to prosecute persons. We have multiple states,” said senior advocate CU Singh, representing the NGO.The other petition, filed by lawyers Vishal Thakre and Abhay Singh Yadav and researcher Pranvesh, asserted that the problem needed to be addressed by the top court and alleged the two laws violated the basic structure of the Constitution.The bench agreed to issue notice seeking responses on whether the laws violated fundamental right to practice one’s religion, guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution among other rights protected under Article 14 (right to equality), 15 (right against discrimination) and 21 (right to dignity). The petitioners also asked for a stay on the laws. But the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was not convinced because the respective governments had not been heard. “Can a law be stayed if prosecution is oppressive or false,” the bench asked.The UP law was enacted on November 24 and prescribes a jail term up to 10 years and fine up to Rs 25,000 for conversion under force, fraud, allurement or marriage. The Uttarakhand law prescribes imprisonment of up to two years and a fine for anyone found guilty of conversion by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-agrees-to-examine-u-khand-and-up-s-laws-on-conversions/story-CG54VewX4cZh2WEzEFY1OJ.html
07-01-2021||India||Covering all 300 million people could take 7-8 months: VK Paul||It could take at least seven to eight months for the 300 million people identified by the Union government for vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to get the shot in the first phase, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said on Wednesday. “We would have enough stockpile to cater to the 300 million people in seven to eight months,” he said during the National Grand Rounds – a virtual platform for doctors to share knowledge about Covid-19 organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Paul, who was the head of the department of paediatrics at AIIMS, was talking about the logistics of the large-scale vaccination drive India is set to initiate and how the priority groups – healthcare workers, frontline workers, people over 50, and those who have comorbid conditions – were selected for the first phase. India’s drug controller has cleared two vaccines for restricted emergency use. While the one by Oxford University-AstraZeneca is being manufactured in the country by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the other one is Bharat Biotech’s indigenously developed candidate. “I will take whatever (vaccine) is allotted to me by the health department of my state. I will take absolutely without hesitation; I am willing to take it in public whichever vaccine is tossed up. And, if I was to exercise a choice… I have a preference for the vaccine that my institution AIIMS has tested,” said Dr Paul, referring to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. The government has faced questions for what critics termed rushed approvals to the two vaccines, especially Covaxin, which is yet to release its phase III data. Bharat Biotech, however, has said the vaccine is “200% safe”.At the event, vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang said: “The phase III data of Covaxin will likely be available by March or April of this year. The next vaccine to be approved will likely be the one developed by Gamaleya (Sputnik V) that is conducting a restricted trial like the AstraZeneca vaccine. The full dataset will likely be available by April.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covering-all-300mn-people-could-take-7-8-months-paul/story-6UUxxIdReEOySDn1xRaeZM.html
07-01-2021||India||Amid vaccine dry runs, states say connectivity biggest hurdle||Two weeks into Covid-19 vaccinations dry runs state health officials said their biggest challenge was not crowd management, vaccine storage or transportation but updating the data of those mock vaccinated on the Union health ministry mobile application CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) due to patchy internet connectivity. After eight districts in four states conducted the first dry run on December 28 and 29, an all-country dry run was carried out a day before the national drug controller cleared two coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines on January 3. Another all-India dry run of mass immunisation will take place in all districts over Thursday and Friday.Earlier this week, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a media briefing that the actual vaccination drive would take place around 10 days after the regulatory approvals. Based on that, mass immunisation with the approved vaccines is expected to take place around January 13.However, the lack of proper internet connectivity may throw a spanner in the works.The Centre has mandated that the details of everyone receiving the vaccine must be uploaded on the CoWIN app after they have been verified and approved. The app updates the information in real time and any glitch in the process means that the vaccine would not be released. “We faced connectivity issues at certain locations because of which the time taken to administer the vaccine was very high,” said a UP government official who did not wish to be named.The state conducted a dry run on Tuesday at six sites in all the 74 districts (12 in the state capital) to assess the preparedness for administering the vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Goa Health Secretary Amit Satija on Wednesday admitted that issues of connectivity affected the dry run that took place in the state on January 2.Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said another dry run will be conducted in 10 booths of every district on January 8. “Internet connectivity should be ensured at vaccination sites and awareness about the mock run would be created like it is done for elections,” he said. In Bihar, district administration also faced a sudden rush of health workers who thought that the real vaccine was being administered. “They went back after they were convinced that it was only a dry run and they would be informed through SMS about the real vaccination,” said a government official not willing to be named. State health departments are also required to record the time taken for transportation of the vaccine from the nodal office to district headquarters and thereon to health centres designated for the vaccination drive. A Bihar health department assessment found that many auxiliary nursing midwives (ANMs), engaged in the vaccination programme, were not aware of how to handle smartphones or tablets they were provided to upload the data from. “Our district immunisation officers will now train the ANMs for uploading the data,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director Bihar Health Society and also the nodal officer for the vaccination programme in Bihar. Officials in states such as Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Kerala, West Bengal, Punjab and Haryana said they faced no major problem during first dry run conducted earlier this week. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-vaccine-dry-runs-states-say-connectivity-biggest-hurdle/story-4J7j3Q8ySSba1wcKeBhtmI.html
07-01-2021||India||Congress lost focus, wrote Pranab in memoir||The Congress lost “political focus”, Sonia Gandhi was “unable to handle the affairs of the party”, Manmohan Singh’s “prolonged absence from Parliament” eroded contact with other parliamentarians, and if he had still been in active politics, the party would not have faced the “drubbing” it received in 2014, according to former president Pranab Mukherjee in his posthumously published memoir, The Presidential Years 2012-2017. In a wide ranging autobiography, the late Mukherjee — who passed away in 2020 — has documented his years as President, weaving in the personal and the political. The 2014 mandateMukherjee noted that he expected the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to be the single largest party in the 2014 elections with 195-200 seats — and while most political interlocutors had given him a similar sense, it was only Piyush Goyal — then BJP treasurer — who had said the party would get between 265-280 seats. When the final numbers came in, with BJP winning a comfortable majority on its own, Mukherjee writes, “I was greatly relieved over the decisive mandate but also disappointed at my one-time party’s performance. It was difficult to believe that the Congress had managed to win just 44 seats...I feel the party failed to recognise the end of its charismatic leadership.” His two PMs In his assessment of the two Prime Ministers Mukherjee worked with, the late president noted that Manmohan Singh had “determination…a strong sense of propriety…steely will power” and documented his long relationship with the former PM. Mukherjee said he had a clear understanding of his role as President and had resolved not to cross the limits imposed on him, but on one occasion, asked Singh about an ordinance that his government was bringing. “Sensing my disquiet, the PM spoke to his minister, who then informed me that the government had decided to withdraw the ordinance”. On Modi, Mukherjee said that his approach to maintaining cordial ties came from his belief in the parliamentary form of government and that Modi had received a decisive mandate — and that both knew how to manage those differences, “without bringing them out in the public”.Demonetisation The late president said PM Modi had not consulted him prior to the announcement of demonetisation in 2016, but believed that the criticism that the PM should have engaged in consultations was unwarranted. “Demonetisation could not have been done with prior consultation because the suddenness and surprise, absolutely necessary for such announcements, would have been lost after such a process.” But after addressing the nation, the PM visited Mukherjee and said he had three objectives — tackling black money, fighting corruption, and containing terror financing. Mukherjee said that four years after demonetisation, one thing could be stated — the multiple objectives of the decision have not been met. He then recounts how this was not new — and Mukherjee had sent a note on demonetisation in the early 1970s to the Prime Minister’s Office. Indira Gandhi then rejected the suggestion, “pointing out that a large part of the economy was not yet fully monetised and a substantial part of it was in the informal sector”. Foreign policyIn his assessment of PM Modi’s handling of foreign policy, Mukherjee noted, “One could expect the unexpected from Modi because he had come with no ideological foreign policy baggage.” But the late president did not agree with all his steps — in particular, the PM’s 2015 stopover in Lahore, terming it “unnecessary and uncalled for”. On China, Mukherjee said on his visit to the country in 2016, at the formal banquet, he and President Xi Jinping had an hour-long discussion — for most part without an interpreter though one was present — with Xi asking questions about functioning of the Indian government, the constitutional framework and implementation of policies. The only time he sought an interpreter was when Mukherjee discussed the McMahon Line. “After the discussion, (the then foreign secretary), S Jaishankar rushed to me and asked if anything important had been discussed. I told him the only important thing was that one had to revisit the story of India’s Constitution and its functioning since the 50s.”Mercy petitionsMukherjee, who acquired a reputation for rejecting mercy petitions of convicts sentenced to death, also wrote of the pain and anguish while taking these decisions. “The president is not the punishing authority…the president is the last resort”. He would take more than a week to read the case history and court judgments, but not take more than three weeks to dispose off a file.In an oblique criticism of his predecessors, Mukherjee noted that APJ Abdul Kalam and Pratibha Patil left a large number of cases pending, with the former hardly disposing off any petition and the latter granting clemency to 34 convicts and rejecting just three petitions. “I rejected 30 mercy pleas involving nearly 40 convicts...I saw no point in keeping such files pending.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-lost-focus-wrote-pranab-in-memoir/story-EPHZBnyQDWy2HvLHmNhwRP.html
07-01-2021||India||Crisscrossing migration puts India at high risk, say experts||India has one of the highest incidences of bird flu outbreaks globally because it lies underneath three transnational flight paths of migratory birds, officials have said.An outbreak of avian influenza has gripped four states, but it poses little risk to humans at this stage, the officials said, as the Union government put all states on alert to stop its spread and economic impact. “The current outbreak has been caused H5N8 strain, but there are other strains circulating globally,” said Dr C Tosh, principal scientist of the Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD). In Kerala, mostly poultry have been affected, a federal official said, while in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan,thousands of crows have been impacted. In Himachal Pradesh, mostly migratory birds have taken ill. Several hundreds have died. “Reports show that the pathways of infection are mostly through migratory birds, although cross-contamination can’t be ruled out,” Tosh said. After confirmation of positive samples from NIHSAD, bird flu has been reported from the following epicentres: Baran, Kota and Jhalawar (Rajasthan), Mandsaur, Indore and Malwa (Madhya Pradesh ), Kangra (Himachal Pradesh), and Kottayam and Allapuzha (Kerala). Several streams of flight paths of migratory birds crisscross the country’s skies. India is also a terminal destination for many such streams, making it a biological hot spot for bird disease, according to Sobhit Pal of the Bombay Natural History Society.For instance, Amur falcons take off from Nagaland, racing southwards and flying over three oceans to South Africa and onwards to Mongolia. The feathered flier clocks 22,000km, outstripping the air distance between Delhi and San Francisco, the world’s longest commercial flight way, by nearly 8,000km. It takes the bird roughly two months to make the journey. Nearly 370 species of birds, from the northern wheatear to yellow-rumped flycatcher – crisscross India from Europe, Russia and Mongolia each year, according to Pal. This brings joy to birders, but also makes the country vulnerable to bird flu, which has occurred 24 times across states since the first outbreak 2004. The last outbreak happened in 2016, infecting poultry in Delhi, Kerala, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. Data from states show that back then, nearly 400,000 poultry was culled due to the outbreak.Bird flu also has serious economic impacts. Government records show nearly Rs 400 crore have been paid to poultry farmers from 2004 till 2016 as compensation for mass killing of birds.When the poultry business gets hit, prices of maize, used as feed, tend to crash, hurting farm incomes, said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. Most cases in 2016 too were determined to be of the H5N8 type.“H5N8 type is highly pathogenic but it isn’t known to easily transmit to humans,” a government official said on condition of anonymity, citing a World Health Organization (WHO) update on India.All states, particularly those already infected and their neighbours, have been asked to follow bio-security measures for implementing the National Action Plan for Control and Containment of the Avian Influenza guidelines, which prescribe proper sanitisation, separation, use of PPE kits, surveillance and culling, among other measures.The agriculture ministry has said the National Institute for High Security Animal Diseases, which functions in coordination with the World Organisation for Animal Health, along with four specialised regional labs, is coordinating efforts to contain the outbreak.The government hasn’t banned poultry for human consumption. All bird sanctuaries with lakes have been advised to keep a close watch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crisscrossing-migration-puts-india-at-high-risk-say-experts/story-098ChCwiZbGpdj2ShH0BLN.html
07-01-2021||India||Vaccine drive: Those below 50 but with comorbidities may spike numbers under third category||The number of eligible people for the Covid-19 vaccine in the third category comprising those above 50 years and those with comorbidities in Delhi is going to be more than 4.2 million as was initially estimated by the city administration last month, senior government officials said on Wednesday.While the numbers of healthcare workers (300,000) and front line workers (600,000) remain roughly the same, a major spike in the number of beneficiaries is going to be seen in the “under 50 with comorbidities” category as the initial estimate of 4.2 million included only those above 50 years of age, a senior health official said.Government data accessed by HT showed that the 4.2 million beneficiaries in the third category are only those above the age of 50 years as per the electoral rolls. The age of the beneficiary as on January 1 will be considered for vaccination.Senior officials in the state chief electoral officer’s (Delhi CEO) office said the Delhi government estimate of 4.2 million is “nearly correct”.“As per the electoral roll published on January 6, 2020, Delhi had nearly 4 million people who are 50 and above. The electoral roll published on January 18, 2019, had over 3.6 million such voters. From 2019-2020 we had seen an increase of 8.6% in the 50 and above segment of voters. Till November 16, 2020, we added 151,723 new voters to Delhi’s electoral rolls taking the total voters in Delhi up to at least 14,843,859,” said an electoral officer on condition of anonymity. “As per the electoral roll published on January 6, 2020, Delhi had nearly 4 million people who are 50 and above. It’s been a year since then, so the number of such voters should be nearly 4.2 million as on date,” an electoral officer said, on condition of anonymity.However, complete data of those below the age of 50 having comorbidities is still being collected at the district level, a senior revenue official said. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the numbers announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last month across the three categories for the first phase of vaccination were broad estimates which are likely to change as the registration process intensifies.“The combined number of people who will get the Covid-19 vaccine shot in the first phase is fixed at around 5.1 million. However, the numbers within the categories of healthcare and front line workers are likely to decrease as their eligibility is being verified during the registration process. So, the vaccine shots slotted for other categories will also be given to the third category of 50+ people and those with comorbidities. Nevertheless, there is no need to panic and get stuck on specific numbers. Our vaccination programme will be an inclusive one and every one will get a shot sooner or later,” said Jain.On Tuesday, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul, during a press briefing, had said that the central government will soon release the inclusion criteria for states to identify those with comorbidities and prepare the priority list as per the severity of the comorbid conditions. “A committee has been constituted to identify comorbid conditions that increase the risk of mortality if the person contracts Covid-19. The committee will decide criteria for inclusion such as for how they had the condition, or what a report needs to show. The committee will also suggest ways in which the criteria can be implemented. The report of the committee is expected within a couple of days. We will consider it and move ahead,” Dr Paul had said. Senior officials in at least six of the 11 districts in Delhi said that a database of Delhi residents below the age of 50 with comorbidities was not available with them as on Wednesday. “Each district has readied the list of those above 50 years of age from the electoral rolls. The districts have also gone a step further and segregated those who are 60 or more years. However, there is only a rudimentary database available as of now on the people below the age of 50 with comorbidities,” said a district magistrate on condition of anonymity. A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of South district who did not wish to be named said, “We have some data from the multiple surveys conducted during the last seven months. But, we don’t know whether that will be used or if some other mechanism will be used. We are told the Centre will issue some guidelines on how to identify and prioritise those below 50 with comorbidities.”But, some areas such as the southeast district have asked their surveyors to continue with the door-to-door survey which began from hotspots and containment zones on November 20.“That time, the focus was mostly on identifying comorbidities among high risk groups which includes senior citizens and pregnant women. Now, we have asked our anganwadi workers to specifically ask the age of a person and the types of comorbidities one has. It is true there is no fresh proforma to carry out the survey for identification of vaccination beneficiaries as of now,” said a senior official of the district.An Asha worker employed at a dispensary in southwest Delhi and currently involved in survey work said, “We have been asked to collect health data of those 60 years and above for the list of Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries. In addition, we have been asked to collect information of people who are 50-year-old and above with comorbidities as of now.”The country is set to roll out the vaccine first among the healthcare workers within 10 days of the two vaccines – by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech – receiving emergency use authorisation from the apex drug regulator. Dropping by at the vaccination sites, however, will not help in registering for the vaccine.As per a senior Delhi government official, “Those above the age of 50 not on the electoral roll can either register themselves on the Co-WIN app or go to their Block Medical Officer to get registered. Those under the age of 50 with comorbidities will also have to do the same but they would need a doctor’s certificate on their current condition.” As for those who do not have an address proof of Delhi, any government issued ID proof along with a photo certificate issued by their workplace and verified by a gazetted officer will be acceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-drive-those-below-50-but-with-comorbidities-may-spike-numbers-under-third-category/story-KpA40QR25veFdAR39dOsEP.html
07-01-2021||India||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee sends legal notice to Babul Supriyo, demands an apology within 72 hours||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee has sent a legal notice to Union minister Babul Supriyo for his comments linking Banerjee to smuggling activities and has demanded an unconditional apology from the minister within 72 hours. The minister has, however, hit back saying that he wants Abhishek Banerjee to tender an unconditional apology to the people of West Bengal for whatever Bhaipo (nephew) and Pishi (aunt) have done to the people of Bengal.The legal notice, sent through advocate Sanjay Basu, has also accused Supriyo of contempt of court and deliberate disobedience of court orders, including the Calcutta High Court. Supriyo had on December 31, 2020, while addressing the media allegedly said that Banerjee had used his black money earnings from cow smuggling, sand smuggling and iron smuggling to build his palatial house. “By making defamatory statements in violation of the orders of the city civil court and Calcutta High Court you have caused to willfully and deliberately violate and disobey the orders dated July 24, 2018 and July 5, 2019 passed by the courts,” the legal notice stated. Abhishek Banerjee happens to be the nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The notice was sent on January 4. The notice says that Supriyo should withdraw his statements and “issue an unconditional apology within 72 hours retracting the alleged virulent and mala-fide statements and giving appropriate clarification for the same.” “I want Abhishek Banerjee to tender an unconditional apology to the people of Bengal for whatever the Bhaipo-Pishi (nephew-aunt) syndicate has done to the people of Bengal. As far as the legal notice is concerned, the legal team will send an appropriate response. He (Abhishek Banerjee) sends a plethora of defamation suits to all BJP leaders. It would be a hard job for my lawyers to find out which one he is talking about. He has his own interpretation of what the court says,” said Supriyo. This is, however, not the first time that BJP leaders have attacked the TMC supremo and her nephew over alleged corruption and nepotism. In most cases, however, the BJP leaders didn’t name the duo and launched veiled attacks. Supriyo, however, allegedly named Abhishek Banerjee in his statements. “We all know that our Bhaipo (nephew), who thinks that no one has the courage to take his name, so I’ll use his name “Abhishek Banerjee,” Supriyo had said according to the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-s-abhishek-banerjee-sends-legal-notice-to-babul-supriyo-demands-an-apology-within-72-hours/story-8G4XuO1JZyudursiUYeyFI.html
07-01-2021||India||Farmers protest highlights: Mega waterproof tent installed at Singhu border as stir continues amid rain||Thousands of farmers protesting near Delhi against the Centre’s three farm laws have decided to postpone their tractor march by a day as sporadic rain hampered their plans to stage a protest. The tractor march, now scheduled to be held on January 7, is a glimpse of how farmers are planning to intensify their protest after the government on January 4 refused to repeal the laws.“We will take out tractor march at four borders of Delhi including Eastern and Western peripheral. This will be a trailer for what lies ahead on January 26. As you know that the government has held seven formal rounds of talks with the farmers on January 4,” Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav, who has joined the protests, said.“Seven months have passed when the ordinance was brought and later made into law. We are demanding the repeal of these laws. The only option left is to intensify our protest,” he added. Why are the farmers protesting?Through one of the largest strikes in decades witnessed by India, the farmers are demanding the repeal of the three contentious laws. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law. The government has made it clear that it won’t scrap these laws.Here are the highlights:Mega waterproof tent installed at Singhu border as stir continues amid rainAmid the rainfall reported in the national capital and neighbouring regions, protesters installed a mega tent at centre stage where their leaders address protesters every day. The 60 feet x 280 feet dimension waterproof tent covers the sitting area in front of the main stage. Discussions with farmers opportunity to explain them benefits of laws: GoyalUnion minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday that he considers the ongoing discussions with farmers as an opportunity to explain them the benefits of the new farm laws against which they have been protesting. “For example, when I go along with Agriculture Minister Tomar for discussions with farmer unions, should I see that as a problem for myself or as an opportunity that I am getting,” he said.Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders take out tractor rally in CM’s home districtThe Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders had taken out a tractor rally in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s home district of Sehore to protest against the farm laws.  Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders take out tractor rally in Sehore, the home district of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, to protest against #FarmLawsWill approach SC regarding farm laws: Punjab CMPunjab chief minister captain Amarinder Singh said that he would approach the Supreme Court regarding the farm laws since he felt that they were ‘anti-farmer bills’. We are very clear in our mind, these are anti-farmer Bills. We will approach the Supreme Court: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh pic.twitter.com/tUwd6B02BnSolution must be found at PM level: Punjab CMPunjab CM captain Amarinder Singh said that the solution to the protests must come from the Prime Minister’s level. He said that the PM should sit with his ministers and come up with a solution.  The solution has to be found at the level of Prime Minister. He must sit with his ministers and Home Minister and come to a solution. It has to be found by the PM finally: Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh pic.twitter.com/peOHgV0IvUBring peace to state, bring farmers home, repeal laws: Amarinder SinghPunjab CM captain Amarinder Singh said that the Centre should bring peace to the state and get the farmers back home by repealing the laws. He said that new laws could be formulated later after speaking with farmers’ committees but the currently laws must be repealed since the farmers were demanding it.  If farmers are saying to withdraw the laws, you can withdraw laws & can talk to farmer's committees to bring whatever laws you want later on. But to bring peace to the state & bring farmers home, repeal the laws as they are demanding it: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder SinghNo law has that sanctity which can’t be touched: Amarinder SinghPunjab CM captain Amarinder SIngh said that no law had the sanctity which can’t be touched, citing the several constitutional amendments since its introduction.  No law has that sanctity which can't be touched. For instance, the constitution has been amended over 100 times since it was introduced in 1950. So why is it that this law can't be amended and you just have to withdraw it?: Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh https://t.co/UiwZhQ1Mw8Punjab CM expresses his sympathy towards protesting farmersPunjab CM captain Amarinder Singh said that it was the farmers’ right to protest and that the protesting farmers, old men and women had ‘101%’ of his sympathy. He said that the farmers were sacrificing their lives as well.  Farmers have every right to protest. My sympathy is 101 percent with the farmers,there are old men and women sitting & protesting at the borders (Delhi border). Till last reports, 55 farmers had died — they are sacrificing their lives:Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh pic.twitter.com/9dRTeVgevUDuty of the government to respond to people of the country: Punjab CMPunjab chief minister captain Amarinder Singh urged the Centre to heed the demands of the protesting farmers and nor remain unresponsive. Singh said that the farmers had made their point clear and the Centre should repeal the laws.  It can't be the that the whole farmer community of the country is asking for something and the govt remains unresponsive. It is the duty of the govt to respond to ppl of the country. I feel that farmers have made their stand very clear that the laws should be repealed: Punjab CM pic.twitter.com/AL2jZp9MtgFarmers construct brick floor at Tikri border as rains flood tentsThe protesting farmers have constructed a brick floor using cement, gravel and bricks at the Tikri border as reported by news agency ANI. “Our tents were flooded with water due to rains, we had to sit throughout the night. We have used bricks & cement to build the floor & plan to construct more in coming days,” a protester said.  Delhi: Farmers construct brick floor using cement, gravel & bricks at Tikri Border."Our tents were flooded with water due to rains, we had to sit throughout the night. We have used bricks & cement to build the floor & plan to construct more in coming days," says a protester. pic.twitter.com/8pJYKbMfSrCommitted to the welfare of farmers: Narendra Singh TomarUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the government was committed to the welfare of the farmers. He said that he met with both supportive and protesting farmers and urged the latter to think about the welfare of farmers and arrive at a solution. Farmers make their protest waterproof at Singhu borderFarmers at Singhu border launched a massive exercise on Tuesday to cover all the tents with waterproof plastic sheets following rains in the city. Large bamboo sticks and iron pipes were brought to the border with hundreds of waterproof tarpaulin sheets to cover the tents. Farmers said a mega tent is also being set up at the centre stage from where the leaders address the protesters every day.Delhi’s borders with Haryana, UP remain partly closedThe National Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at several points on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad while the opposite carriageway remains open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-tractor-march-deferred-till-tomorrow-due-to-bad-weather/story-MGyYRXeRN2xTLvf1ssriVM.html
