08-01-2021||India||Assam to give khadi clothes to government employees in January||The Assam government has decided to gift khadi clothes to state employees as a mark of respect to Mahatma Gandhi. The government has decided to provide khadi shirts, and shawls and stoles made of ‘Eri’--a variety of silk produced in Assam-- to grade IV employees in a phased manner starting this month. Chairing a meeting to expedite the process of giving free khadi clothes to state government employees, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said that the move is part of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ (Self-reliant India) campaign and to promote Assamese weavers. Sonowal stated that the move would strengthen the khadi industry in the state and empower local weavers as nearly 80,000 khadi shirts, shawls and stoles would be required to be knitted in the first phase to give as gifts to grade IV employees. Also Read: Gauhati High Court rejects anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi’s bail plea“Khadi industry is the pride of the local industry. Promotion of this industry will amount to endorsing an ideology of self-reliance and empowerment of every man and woman,” said Sonowal. The CM said that the state government would open new outlets to promote sale of khadi clothes. He added that the move will amount to showing true respect to Mahatma Gandhi who promoted khadi as part of awakening of nationalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-give-khadi-clothes-to-government-employees-in-january/story-K2nANlW6UodoDX62fTutAP.html
08-01-2021||India||In MEA’s clear-cut message to US, a reminder on S-400 deal||Against the backdrop of possible US sanctions on the $5.4 billion deal with Russia for S-400 air defence systems, India on Friday said it has an independent foreign policy that guides defence acquisitions in line with national security interests.Recent reports have suggested the US could impose secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). The Russian side has said the deal for five S-400 systems is progressing according to schedule despite the threat of possible sanctions. “India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership. India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “India has always pursued an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies which are guided by our national security interests,” he said in response to a question on the S-400 deal.Outgoing US envoy Kenneth Juster said this week that sanctions under CAATSA weren’t aimed against friends of the US, though India might soon need to make hard decisions regarding the acquisition of military hardware.Also read: PM Modi to meet all chief ministers on Jan 11 to discuss Covid-19 vaccination rollout India has sought to keep its options open on arms purchases and the country’s leadership has signalled its intent to continue with the acquisition of military hardware from Russia, which accounts for more than 60 per cent of the weapons systems of the three services. Responding to another question on the US administration’s plans to modify the selection process for H-1B visas by giving priority to salary and skills instead of the current lottery, Srivastava said India is in communication with the American side to ensure “increased predictability” in the visa regime.Almost 70 per cent of the 65,000 H-1B visas issued by the US each year go to Indian nationals. “We are engaged with the US government for increased predictability in the visa regime and to minimise inconvenience to Indian nationals in the US or those proposing to travel to the US for bonafide reasons, including the movement of Indian professionals,” Srivastava said. India has also noted the US government’s recent proclamations extending by three months the suspension of entry of certain immigrants and non-immigrants, he said.“People-to-people relations are a vital part of the partnership between India and the US. There is recognition in the US of the fact that Indian skilled professionals have contributed to the growth of the US economy and helped the US retain its competitive edge and innovation advantage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mea-s-clear-cut-message-to-us-a-reminder-on-s-400-deal/story-UQMd43MEwrNvz4QGXxdcVI.html
08-01-2021||India||India, France firm on inclusive Indo-Pacific, equal access to Covid-19 vaccines||India and France discussed cooperation on issues ranging from defence and counter-terrorism to civil nuclear energy and reiterated their commitment to an inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific during their annual strategic dialogue. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Emmanuel Bonne, diplomatic advisor to the French president, participated in the dialogue in New Delhi on Thursday. Bonne, who is France’s Sherpa for the G7 and G20, also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. The agenda for the strategic dialogue included defence and security, key international and regional issues, including the Indo-Pacific, counter-terrorism, cyber-security, and cooperation in space and civil nuclear energy. “On each topic, the two sides noted the high degree of convergence of views and agreed on concrete steps to further enhance their cooperation. In particular, they reiterated their attachment to an inclusive, rules-based Indo-Pacific which contributes to a multipolar Asia in a multipolar world,” the French embassy said in a statement. In his meetings with the Indian leadership, Bonne conveyed President Emmanuel Macron’s wish to further strengthen the relationship of trust and friendship with India. “Indo-French cooperation will be key to tackling global challenges in 2021, such as ensuring equal and universal access to Covid-19 vaccines, protecting climate and biodiversity, and building a renewed multilateralism,” the statement said. Also Read: India says maintaining communications with China for complete disengagement at LACIn this respect, Bonne said France will work closely with India in the UN Security Council in 2021-22 and reiterated his country’s support for India’s bid for a permanent seat in the council. India recently began a two-year stint as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. The external affairs ministry said that both sides highlighted the convergence of views on a range of issues. France and India established a strategic partnership in 1998 that has grown in scope and depth. France has also backed India’s efforts to counter terrorism at multilateral bodies such as the UN and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-firm-on-inclusive-indo-pacific-equal-access-to-covid-19-vaccines/story-S0gU2QYXtZKT992Y24gzBO.html
08-01-2021||India||India says maintaining communications with China for complete disengagement at LAC||India on Friday said it was maintaining communications with China for complete disengagement at friction points in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) against the backdrop of a stalemate in efforts aimed at ensuring de-escalation. At a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on December 18, the two sides reviewed developments on the LAC and agreed to hold another meeting between senior military commanders at an early date. However, the commanders are yet to meet, reflecting the differences between the two sides. “As you are aware, the latest round of WMCC was held on December 18. The two sides have agreed to hold the next round of senior commanders meeting and are in constant communication through diplomatic and military channels in this regard,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “In the meantime, both sides have maintained communication at the ground level to avoid any misunderstandings and misjudgements even as discussions continue for achieving complete disengagement in all friction areas in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements to restore peace and tranquillity,” he said, without giving details.Also Read: What India should, and shouldn’t, do in Nepal The two sides had earlier acknowledged that talks between the military commanders had contributed to stability on the ground. The last two meetings between the military commanders were held on October 12 and November 6. Tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in along the LAC in sub-zero conditions after diplomatic and military talks failed to take forward disengagement at friction points in Ladakh sector. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has said bilateral ties were “very significantly damaged” by Beijing’s violation of border agreements, and that the deployment of thousands of soldiers on the LAC had pushed relations into their most difficult phase ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-maintaining-communications-with-china-for-complete-disengagement-at-lac/story-Wmmbiumtu7tz7irytUm5nJ.html
08-01-2021||India||Jharkhand HC pulls up govt for shifting jailed Lalu Prasad to bungalow||The Jharkhand high court on Friday pulled up the state government for shifting RJD chief Lalu Prasad from the paying ward of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) to the hospital’s director’s bungalow and then back to the ward without having a standard operating procedure(SOP).Prasad, serving imprisonment after conviction in different fodder scam cases, has been undergoing treatment for more than two years at RIMS. He was shifted to the director’s bungalow in August last year, purportedly due to the spread of covid-19. Prasad returned to the hospital ward after two months in October.It was alleged that Prasad had violated the provisions of the jail manual to avail facilities not available to any prisoner.Hearing the matter on Friday, the bench of justice Aparesh Kumar Singh observed, “The government functions as per law and not by individual wishes.”The bench said that RIMS management failed to clarify what other options they had looked into before deciding to shift Prasad to the hospital’s director’s bungalow.“Why have they selected this bungalow only. They should have considered other options also. Any such decision should have been taken in accordance with the law,” the bench said.Earlier, the court asked under what provisions Prasad was provided these ‘extra’ facilities. It also asked the government to clarify under which provision Prasad, a prisoner, kept helpers when in jail. What are the rules and how are these helpers selected and appointed, the court asked.Inspector general (IG), prison, filed a reply stating that the hospital management had shifted Prasad to the bungalow to safeguard him from Covid-19 infection. The jail manual doesn’t clarify as to what different facilities should be made available for a prisoner who is undergoing treatment in custody outside jail, the IG’s report said.“It is also silent on whether such ailing prisoners should get helpers. There is no SOP (standard operating procedure) for this as well. The government is in the process of bringing changes in the jail manual and to prepare SOPs too,” the IG said in his report. Considering this, the bench adjourned the matter asking the government to furnish a copy of the SOP by January 22, the next date of hearing.Also Read: Man held for threatening ex-deputy CM of Jharkhand Sudesh MahatoPrasad had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of the six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from the Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was given bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.His troubles renewed in 2017-18, when he was convicted and sentenced to different terms of imprisonment in three separate fodder scam cases in quick succession. He has secured bail in two of them and his bail application in the third and the last case is under the high court’s consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-hc-pulls-up-govt-for-shifting-jailed-lalu-prasad-to-bungalow/story-8hwqmTfQctfI7kpf4CkicK.html
08-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Customs dept to question Kerala Speaker in gold smuggling case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Customs officials set to grill Kerala Speaker in gold smuggling caseThe customs department, which is part of the multi-agency team probing the sensational gold smuggling case, is set to question Kerala assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan after it obtained legal advice that house privilege won’t be applicable in such cases. Read more‘Centre to hold ‘Know Your Constitution’ campaign in schools, colleges’: Om BirlaThe Centre would soon hold a campaign named “know your Constitution” in schools, colleges and universities across the country, said Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in Dehradun on Friday. Birla talked about the campaign while chairing an event organised by the Uttarakhand panchayati raj department on the subject, Panchayati Raj System - Empowering Decentralised Democracy. Read moreIt’s not just repeal of farm laws, other issues involved too: Haryana CM Manohar Lal KhattarHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday a solution could have been reached during the meeting between the Centre and agitating farmers if repealing of the three new farm laws was the only issue. Read moreUS Capitol violence: Democrats discuss Trump impeachment for a second timeCongressional Democrats on Friday were weighing impeaching U.S. President Donald Trump for an unprecedented second time after his supporters, inflamed by his false claims of election fraud, stormed the US Capitol. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Will rewind and watch it again,’ Ravindra Jadeja hails Steve Smith’s run out as his ‘best effort’Friday was a near perfect day on the field for India allrounder Ravindra Jadeja at Sydney Cricket Ground. Coming down to bowl on Day 2 of the third Test against Australia, the visitors were in a spot of bother, especially with Australia posting 166/2 at stumps on Day 1. Read moreWATCH: Saree-clad gymnast Parul Arora wows Internet with her flawless triple flipWe all remember National Gold Medal winning gymnast Parul Arora, after a video of her performing several stunts and flips wearing a saree went viral late last year. Now, the 23-year-old has gone viral again after author and social activist shared a clip of the gymnast doing a triple flip in a purple saree on her Twitter. Read moreWhatsApp clarifies its new terms of service is for business chatsWhatsApp has been notifying users of its new terms of service that come into effect on February 8. The new policy change comes with this option to either agree to the updated terms or lose access to one’s WhatsApp account. Read moreRajiv Lakshman deletes photos with Rhea Chakraborty, says he took them down due to his ‘irresponsible choice of words’Rajiv Lakshman deleted an Instagram post featuring Rhea Chakraborty, in which he called her ‘my girl’. He also took down pictures of her added to his Instagram stories, citing ‘unnecessary trouble’ stirred by them. Read moreTwitter thread prompts netizens to share their unique AirPods covers, results are too adorableIn today’s edition of interesting Twitter threads, we would like to bring your attention to this oh-so-cute thread about AirPods case covers. Even if you are not an AirPods user, the cute little case covers that come in different shapes, sizes and colours may make you scroll through this thread. Read moreAmit Sadh: Don’t want to be a star but there should be place for everyoneBollywood actor Amit Sadh speaks to HT City Entertainment Editor, Monika Rawal, about his journey from films to films to web projects, time when there was a lull in his career and how projects like Breathe and Sultan gave his career a new direction. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-customs-dept-to-question-kerala-speaker-in-gold-smuggling-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-x7JQr7YWLhI8RHcQ0gZXPJ.html
08-01-2021||India||Special Forces’ Captain Ankit Gupta remains missing, search on at Jodhpur lake||Five rescue teams, including from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), continue to search for 10 Para (Special Forces) Captain Ankit Gupta, who drowned during a training exercise at Takhat Sagar Lake in Jodhpur on Thursday. Captain Gupta is the commander of 10 Para Special Forces, which was selected as the best unit of the year (2020) in the Indian Army. As a part of a drill, he jumped from a helicopter into the Takhat Sagar reservoir on Thursday. Three other commandos also jumped with him, but Captain Ankit could not come out. The army’s search operation in the lake started Thursday afternoon but had to be halted after dark. “The teams of NDRF, SDRF, civil defence and army are continuously searching for the submerged captain, but he is still missing. As part of the exercise, some jawans jumped into the lake from the helicopter to improve their skills in rescuing drowned people,” said SHO Jaikishan Soni. He added that 10 Para personnel initially tried to locate Captain Gupta but informed their seniors after they failed. Search operations were carried out throughout Friday with no luck. During the exercise, the commandos of the 10 Para had to throw their boats in the water and jump from a helicopter. “After this, they were to attack the enemy by riding on a boat. Under this mission, four commandos led by captain Ankit threw their boat first into the Takhat Sagar reservoir and then jumped into the water themselves. Three commandos reached the boat, but Captain Ankit could not. After waiting a bit, the commandos started searching for him,” said a senior police official from Jodhpur. 28-year-old Ankit, a resident of Gurugram, got married less than two months ago on November 23, 2020.“His passion for the army can be gauged from the fact that he stayed with his wife for a very little period after marriage and returned to complete his special training,” the police official said. The unit, famously known as the Desert Scorpions, is among the most battle hardened units of the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-forces-captain-ankit-gupta-remains-missing-search-on-at-jodhpur-lake/story-CEyDiBrsGROYmEBlMMXc0J.html
08-01-2021||India||PM Modi to meet all chief ministers on Jan 11 to discuss Covid-19 vaccination rollout||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of all states and Union territories virtually to discuss the rollout of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, news agency ANI reported on Friday. The Prime Minister will also discuss the current situation of the coronavirus pandemic in the nation with the chief ministers at 4pm on Monday.Also Read: Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan inspects dry run in Chennai, promises vaccine in a few daysWATCH | Harsh Vardhan reviews dry run, assures vaccine availability in few daysThe meeting comes after the Union ministry of health and family welfare recently conducted two dry runs for the Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country. The health ministry had conducted its second dry run on Friday to check states’ and Union territories’ preparedness ahead of the vaccine rollout. The first vaccine dry run was conducted on January 2 across more than 700 districts across the nation.Also Read: Govt issues guidelines for transportation of Covid-19 vaccine by airA government expert panel had approved two Covid-19 vaccines on earlier this month - Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University for emergency use. The government has also said that in the first phase of vaccination healthcare and frontline workers will be prioritised. State governments, panchayats and municipalities are being constantly trained to ensure last-mile delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine. The government is also looking forward to procuring at least 50-60 million doses of vaccine as it targets to vaccinate 30 million people in the first phase.Also Read: India adopts ‘HCQ model’ to send Covid vaccines to neighboursPrime Minister Modi has assured citizens of the nation that India will complete the world’s largest inoculation drive and lauded scientists and manufacturers for the “Made in India” vaccines last week after the expert panel approved the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-all-chief-ministers-on-jan-11-to-discuss-covid-19-vaccination-rollout/story-571vrhAerM3fEA2nZ6sPEL.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Centre to hold ‘Know Your Constitution’ campaign in schools, colleges’: Om Birla||The Centre would soon hold a campaign named “know your Constitution” in schools, colleges and universities across the country, said Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in Dehradun on Friday. Birla talked about the campaign while chairing an event organised by the Uttarakhand panchayati raj department on the subject, Panchayati Raj System - Empowering Decentralised Democracy. The event was attended by the gram pradhans and members of various panchayats of the state, panchayati raj minister Arvind Pandey and Uttarakhand assembly Speaker Premchand Agarwal. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat attended the event virtually. “The ‘Know Your Constitution’ campaign would be held in schools, colleges and universities of the country for which the framework has been created. It was somewhat delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but now when the pandemic is getting under control, it would soon be commenced,” said Birla. He said that the initiative will “largely help the youngsters getting aware of the various aspects of our Constitution.” “Most of us know about the rights given by the Constitution but not about the duties. This initiative will explain the significance of the duties also. This would make our democracy stronger,” said Birla. The Lok Sabha Speaker while highlighting the importance of the panchayati raj system in the country said that, “It is in existence in our country since Vedic times. This sort of an event will help in making it stronger which in turn will strengthen the democracy of our country.” Also read: Pak court jails LeT’s Lakhvi for terror financing, India calls it ‘farcical’He informed, “In efforts to strengthen the panchayati raj system, we would also soon hold an event in Delhi for the chairman of zila panchayats, municipal corporation and municipal council. It would make the democratic process strong and make the elected public representatives more accountable towards the public.” On the recent violence and protest in Washington against the election of new president Joe Biden and growing similar aggressiveness in dissent of thoughts in India, he said, “Raising of slogans, throwing of microphones and chairs has increased recently in the House. We would take measures to prevent such acts in future and promote resorting to democratic and peaceful ways to raise voice.” Earlier, CM Rawat while addressing the gathering at the event said, “Our democracy will become strong with the decentralisation of rights in the panchayati raj system.” “Today our democracy is standing strong in the world because the panchayats are providing strength to it. This shows the importance of the villages without which the cities can’t develop,” said Rawat. He said, “We need to make the economy of villages strong and make sure more money is flowing there because a majority of the buyers are there while the manufacturers are in cities. If the rural buyers will be strong then the economy would be effectively driven towards development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-hold-know-your-constitution-campaign-in-schools-colleges-om-birla/story-uB4cPkCNZRnqCHX01IctAL.html
08-01-2021||India||Pak court jails LeT’s Lakhvi for terror financing, India calls it ‘farcical’||A Pakistani anti-terrorism court on Friday convicted and sentenced Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi on charges of terror financing, though India dismissed the development as a “farcical” action made with an eye on the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). The anti-terrorism court in Lahore found Lakhvi guilty under three sections of the Anti-Terrorism Act for running a dispensary to raise funds for terror financing. The judge gave Lakhvi separate five-year prison terms under each section, to be served concurrently. The court also imposed fines totalling Pakistan Rs 300,000 on Lakhvi and said he would face additional jail time of 18 months if he failed to pay up. Lakhvi was present in court during the hearing and judge Ejaz Ahmad Buttar directed police to send him to jail to serve his sentence. This is the first time that Lakhvi, accused of masterminding the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, has been convicted of a terrorism-related offense. However, a spokesman for the Counter-Terrorism Department of Pakistan’s Punjab province told media he had been arrested for terror financing and not for any “specific militant attack”. In New Delhi, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, told a regular news briefing hours after the sentencing, that Pakistan’s “farcical actions” appeared to be aimed at an upcoming review by the FATF of the country’s efforts to counter terror financing. He also called for “credible action” by Pakistan against terror groups. “The timing of these actions clearly suggests the intention of conveying a sense of compliance ahead of the APG (Asia-Pacific Group) meeting and the next FATF plenary meeting in February. It has become routine for Pakistan to come up with such farcical actions prior to important meetings,” he said. “UN-proscribed entities and designated terrorists act as proxies for the Pakistani establishment to fulfil its anti-India agenda. It is for the international community to hold Pakistan to account and ensure that it takes credible action against terror groups, terror infrastructure and individual terrorists,” he added. Also Read: Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi: UN-designated terrorist, 26/11 mastermindLakhvi was convicted and sentenced in his first appearance in court after his arrest on terror financing charges on January 2. The judge said in his order that the prosecution had proved Lakhvi was using the dispensary to raise funds to finance terrorism and that there was “sufficient evidence in the form of oral testimonies”. The court also directed authorities to arrest Lakhvi’s associate, Abu Anas Mohsin, who was involved in running the dispensary. The court’s order said Lakhvi will serve his sentence in Rawalpindi’s Adiala Jail, where he was held earlier after he was arrested in connection with the Mumbai attacks. He was freed on bail in 2015 but reports had suggested that he had continued to guide the LeT’s operations even when he was in jail earlier. Last year, LeT founder Hafiz Saeed was convicted and sentenced in five separate cases of terror financing. He was given prison terms ranging from five years to fifteen-and-half years that will run concurrently. Several close aides of Saeed were also sentenced in cases of terror financing. Pakistan was retained in FATF’s “grey list” last year for failing to fully deliver on an action plan to fight terror financing, and the multilateral watchdog has given the country time till February to address what it said were “very serious deficiencies”. The FATF’s plenary and working group meetings during February 21-26 will review Pakistan’s case, and this will be preceded by another assessment by APG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-court-jails-let-s-lakhvi-for-terror-financing-india-calls-it-farcical/story-hT9cuyMgVKRkmsyvRkbMoI.html
08-01-2021||India||Will continue fight if laws not repealed, says farm leader Hannan Mollah||All India Kisan Sabha’s general secretary Hannan Mollah said on Friday farmers would continue their fight against the Centre’s contentious farm laws unless they were repealed and that the Republic Day tractor parade will go on as planned. The next round of talks between representatives of the Centre and the farmers is scheduled to be held on January 15 after their eighth round of meeting ended in a stalemate. The Centre told the farmers that it “cannot and will not repeal” the laws while the farmers have made it clear that the demonstrations would not stop until they were repealed.“There was a heated discussion. We said we don’t want anything other than the repeal of laws. We won’t go to any court. This (repeal) will either be done or we will continue to fight. Our parade on January 26 will go on as planned,” Mollah was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after the eighth round of talks.Watch: Farmers, Centre hold 8th round of talks to find ‘solutions’ amid protestAccording to farm leader Kavitha Kuruganti, farmers shouted slogans inside, saying, “We will either die or win.” Another farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said they had also raised the issue of BJP leaders branding the protesters from Punjab ‘Khalistanis’, referencing the Sikh separatist movement. “We told the government that this is highly objectionable. On one hand, the government is negotiating with farmers, while the ruling party’s leaders are trying to tarnish our movement all the time,” he said.Also Read: It’s not just repeal of farm laws, other issues involved too: Haryana CM Manohar Lal KhattarThe eight rounds of talks between the farmers’ representatives and the Centre have yielded no solution. However, the Centre had said it will accept two of the farmers’ demands during the talks held on December 30. The government had agreed not to pay direct cash to farmers instead of power subsidy for agricultural use, which the farmers argue would increase power costs for them. It also agreed to keep farmers out of the ambit of an anti-pollution law that prescribes harsh penalties for crop-residue burning.Thousands of farmers have been protesting around the borders of the national capital for well over a month against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year. Their demands are a repeal of the three laws as well as a legal guarantee for federally fixed minimum support prices. The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act and enable contract farming based on written agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-fight-if-laws-not-repealed-says-farm-leader-hannan-mollah/story-LgF8pdSGJvN9sRe8ZmlMLN.html
08-01-2021||India||‘India reports 82 positive cases of new Covid-19 strain’: Health ministry||The total number of cases infected with the new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) strain that was first reported in the United Kingdom, stands at 82 in the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has stated. The results are based on the genome sequencing of Covid-19 positive samples released by the Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) labs.The Central government created a network of 10 advanced labs across the country last month to step up disease surveillance in the wake of mutations detected in the Sars-Cov-2 virus that cause Covid-19.The designated 10 INSACOG labs are - NIBMG Kolkata, ILS Bhubaneswar, NIV Pune, CCS Pune, CCMB Hyderabad, CDFD Hyderabad, InSTEM Bengaluru, NIMHANS Bengaluru, IGIB Delhi and NCDC Delhi.Out of these laboratories conducting genome sequencing, six have found samples positive for the new UK variant.All patients have been kept in a single room isolation at designated health care facilities of respective state governments. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is currently going on.Also read: Bird flu confirmed in 6 states; unusual avian deaths in Delhi being checkedFrom November 25 to December 23, 2020, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19.The presence of the new UK Variant has already been reported by countries such as Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.Meanwhile, the country has been reporting a streak of low daily new cases of the viral disease. According to the health ministry data, only 18,139 people were found to be Covid-19 positive on Friday in the country.The number of new deaths due to Covid-19 has also remained under 300 for the past two weeks.“The overall numbers are on a decline, but there are some states where a sudden surge in cases during the past few days has been reported, this highlights the need for people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, particularly wearing a mask and maintaining a distance of at least 6-feet with others,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-82-positive-cases-of-new-covid-19-strain-health-ministry/story-8qd8aw5W9jSyODocUBtOLK.html
08-01-2021||India||‘It is a good day to act’: SC urges Centre to decide Rajoana’s mercy plea before Jan 26||The Supreme Court on Friday urged the Centre to decide on an eight-year old mercy plea of a death row convict in two weeks. The convict, Balwant Singh Rajoana, has been in jail for over 25 years after being convicted for triggering a bomb blast that killed former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh in August 1995.Rajoana had approached the Supreme Court last year, complaining about the delay on part of the Central government to process his mercy petition, filed on March 25, 2012 with the President of India. The Supreme Court on December 4 enquired about the delay with the Centre and came to know that the proposal for his commutation was yet to be processed.The ministry of home affairs reasoned that since other co-accused involved in the crime with Rajoana had filed appeals, which were pending before the apex court, a decision on Rajoana’s mercy petition was put on hold. Rajoana had not filed any appeal challenging his death sentence before the apex court.On Friday, additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj told a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde that the file has been processed by the home ministry. “We have processed the file from our end. It has been sent to the competent authority to take a decision.”The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked the law officer, “Give him (Rajoana) some relief before January 26. It is a good day to act. If possible, pass an order before January 25.” Hopeful of a positive outcome, the bench posted the matter for hearing on January 25.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Rajoana said, “The delay of eight years in processing the mercy petition is fatal. This is enough for commutation of death sentence to life as decided by the Supreme Court in Shatrughan Chauhan case in 2014.” In this judgment given by a Constitution bench, undue, inordinate delay in deciding mercy petitions was held to be a ground to commute punishment of death row convicts. Also Read: Pak anti-terror court jails Mumbai attack mastermind LakhviRajoana was sentenced to death on July 27, 2007, when the trial court found him and his associate Jagtar Singh Hawara guilty of killing the former chief minister by triggering a bomb blast at Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat on August 31, 1995. Later, on October 12, 2010, the Punjab and Haryana high court confirmed the death penalty on Rajoana, while sparing Hawara from the guillotine. In his petition filed through advocate Rupesh Kumar, Rajoana informed the court that on September 27, 2019, the centre wrote a letter to Punjab chief secretary where it said that the mercy plea of Rajoana is to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution coinciding with the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. When the same was not done, Rajoana knocked the doors of the apex court to remind the Centre of its resolve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-a-good-day-to-act-sc-urges-centre-to-decide-rajoana-s-mercy-plea-before-jan-26/story-RBo44iAoMX2icPgJa9v0GM.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Will not back down on farm laws’: Priyanka Gandhi tells Cong MPs||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra told Congress leaders, protesting against the three controversial farm laws in New Delhi, that nothing short of a repeal of the legislations was acceptable, said party leaders present in the meeting with Gandhi at the protest venue at 12 Tughlaq Lane.“We will not back down,” Priyanka Gandhi said at the meeting. “The only solution is that they revoke the laws, there is no other solution.” The Congress general secretary also discussed the way forward with the protesting members of parliament and other leaders. “She extended her sympathy for our plight,” said a leader, who attended the meeting. “She also discussed a programme that the Congress will launch if the laws aren’t repealed,” he added.Party leaders present at the meeting also said that issues regarding the organisation were discussed. The meeting, which lasted over two hours, also addressed the need for improvements in the party to better provide an effective opposition. “The government is delaying repealing the laws,” Congress MP Jasbir Singh Gill, who attended the meeting, said. “It is deliberately using these tactics because it wants to tire out the farmers and drive them away without addressing their concerns.”Also Read: It’s not just repeal of farm laws, other issues involved too: Haryana CM Manohar Lal KhattarThe Congress MPs and legislators have been protesting at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi since last month to draw the government’s attention to the plight of the farmers. Despite eight rounds of talks, with the latest one being held on Friday, the government has refused to compromise on its stand and repeal the three controversial laws that the farmers say will deprive them of their livelihood and make them vulnerable to powerful private firms. The government has, however, offered to set up a committee to examine the laws. The Congress has been vehemently opposing the government’s stance, with interim party chief Sonia Gandhi calling for a complete revocation of the “black laws”. She has targeted the government for being “ruthless, insensitive and arrogant”, for allegedly displaying complete “apathy” towards the plight of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-back-down-on-farm-laws-priyanka-gandhi-tells-cong-mps/story-RnBjgwgA4Ulyiob08DUPKM.html
08-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reverses 100% occupancy order in movie theatres after Centre’s notice||Tamil Nadu government on Friday rescinded its order which allowed 100% seating in cinema halls across the state after the Union home ministry flagged that the new order violates the guidelines issued to control the spread of Covid-19 in the country. The union home ministry in a notification told the Tamil Nadu government that its recent order is in dilution of Covid-19 preventative guidelines issued by the ministry. “Government of Tamil Nadu order of permitting increase the seating capacity of Cinema/theatres/ multiplexes from existing 50% to 100% is a dilution of MHA order. States and UT shall not dilute guidelines issued under DM act in any manner,” the notification said. “In view of the above, Govt of Tamil Nadu is requested to immediately issue necessary order to bring their Guidelines in line with the MHA guidelines dated 28 December 2020 and inform compliance to this Ministry,” the notification further added. Cinemas across Tamil Nadu reopened in November allowing 50% occupancy but movie theatres failed to attract people due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The state government after holding meetings with theatre owners association decided on January 4 to allow movie theatres to operate at full capacity. It had also asked the theatre owners to strictly follow Covid-19 preventative measures during showtimes. Theatre owners across Tamil Nadu were concerned with reduced footfall in movie theatres as concerns surrounding a mutated strain of Covid-19 has gripped the nation. 82 people across the country have been detected with the mutated strain of coronavirus which is believed to be more infectious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reverses-100-occupancy-order-in-movie-theatres-after-centre-s-notice/story-tra0dohOxj9vm26h1f31XP.html
08-01-2021||India||Customs officials set to grill Kerala Speaker in gold smuggling case||The customs department, which is part of the multi-agency team probing the sensational gold smuggling case, is set to question Kerala assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan after it obtained legal advice that house privilege won’t be applicable in such cases.It sought the opinion of senior constitutional lawyers in the Supreme Court and later the assistant solicitor general who is camping in Kochi, a senior official of the customs said. The official added that the investigation into gold and dollar smuggling case is at a crucial stage.“We are summoning an individual, not a post. Privilege is only applicable while carrying out an official duty. Privilege is not meant to cover any illegal activity,” said the official, adding that the Speaker will be summoned soon. The customs got the advice that it can wait till the ongoing budget session is over. He said if his summoning poses any problem, the customs department will move the court to obtain its permission. “We have certain leads. We want more clarity on them. It is the duty of persons holding high positions to come on their own and explain rather than bunking it,” he said. Meanwhile, the Speaker’s secretary K Ayyappan appeared before the customs on Friday after it toughened its position. Earlier, it sent summons to him twice but he ignored them citing certain privileges of the assembly staff. Also read: ‘Cannot and will not repeal laws,’ says Centre as farm talks hit another stalemateLater, the assembly secretary also sent a letter to the customs saying it needed the Speaker’s permission for questioning assembly staff which triggered a big outrage. Legal experts also said employees of the assembly were not covered under privilege shield. Last month, while hearing the bail plea of one of the accused, a court dealing with economic offences in Kochi had expressed ‘shock’ at the involvement of “big sharks” in the case and observed that people holding high positions had misused their power and authority. There are also media reports that some of the accused gave confessional statements taking big names. Later, main accused Swapna Suresh sought special protection in the jail complaining her life was in danger. After the gold smuggling case surfaced in July, there were reports allegedly linking the main accused Suresh with the Speaker. He later admitted that he knew Suresh as an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate and attended some functions on her invitation. But opposition Congress and BJP leaders alleged that it was more than an ‘official relationship’ and that Sreeramakrishnan had travelled with Suresh several times to West Asian countries.They also alleged that the accused smuggled US dollars to the Gulf countries using Sreeramakrishnan’s green channel access. A major portion of the smuggled US dollar was commission obtained from various projects, they further alleged. The Speaker denied these allegations and said he was ready for any probe. But when customs officials approached his secretary he retracted flaunting privilege card. When the customs busted the gold smuggling racket, Suresh was working as a senior consultant with the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited. Before this, she worked at the UAE consulate at the state capital as its public relations officer. After the gold smuggling case surfaced, her degree was also found to be fake. Last month, Suresh told a court in Kochi that her life was in danger and sought special protection for herself and her family members. She said she was under pressure not to take big names and some people met her in the jail a couple of times to pressurise her. Later, the court directed the prisons department to provide her with adequate security. Detained under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa), Swapna is lodged in the women’s jail in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kerala/customs-officials-set-to-grill-kerala-speaker-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-eLzxdO3k02CMuH0VEBWaWI.html
08-01-2021||India||Govt issues guidelines for transportation of Covid-19 vaccine by air||Centre on Friday issued guidelines for the packaging and transportation of the Covid-19 vaccines by air directing airlines and airport authorities to ensure the vaccines are packaged in dry ice and refrigerated material in a bid to maintain low temperatures ranging between -8° C to -70° C essential for its transportation.The guidelines issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) state all scheduled operators who have been currently authorized to carry dangerous goods may carry Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice, meeting the regulatory requirements, the guidelines reviewed by HT state.The civil aviation ministry on Friday held a round of meetings with airlines executives and airport authorities to finalise the logistics needed for the transportation of the Covid-19 vaccines.“All arrangements have been made at airports for the transportation who are on standby and are ready to carry the consignment as and when the orders are placed,” a senior official said.The aviation ministry had directed all airlines in December to begin preparations and had instructed airport operators, including state-run Airports Authority of India (AAI), ground handling service providers and airlines to put in place standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines that will be approved by the government.“Carriage of Covid-19 vaccines from the manufacturing units to the place of administration gains significant importance especially in the light of the high expectations of the government(s), health care personnel and the general public. It is needless to say that amongst the various modes of transport, air transport is the most efficient option. Hence, it is imperative that air logistics provide a well-defined procedure that meets the global safety standards and requirements based on local conditions,” the DGCA noted.“Non-scheduled operators including aircraft engaged in general aviation that are required to participate in the carriage of Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice shall seek specific approval before commencing such operations. Compliance with ICAO Doc 9284 (Technical Instructions for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air) is the responsibility of each operator,” it added.Elaborating on the need to package the vaccines with dry ice the DGCA noted that the temperature maintenance requirement for Covid-19 vaccines is reported to be varying from -8° C to -70° C and hence, the use of refrigerant material during the transportation becomes essential.“Though there may be different refrigerant options, use of dry ice (Carbon Dioxide Solid) is the most commonly used, affordable and readily available refrigerant material available in the country for transportation of perishables by air. Dry ice continually sublimates (Dry ice that is solid, transforms into Carbon Dioxide gas (COz)) at temperatures higher than -78°C (-108.4O F) under normal atmospheric pressure. At reduced pressures, the sublimation rate of dry ice will increase while all other factors being the same,” it noted.The DGCA said all operators while engaging in transportation of Covid-19 vaccines packed with dry ice shall establish the maximum quantity of dry ice that can be loaded in a given cargo hold and/ or compartment or in the main deck (passenger cabin) when a passenger version aircraft is deployed for all cargo operations.“This maximum quantity shall be based on the aircraft manufacturers’ information on maximum recommended dry ice quantities that the aircraft ventilation can support, depending on the sublimation rate and also the requirements of the operators’ Safety Management Systems,” it noted.TransportationThe guidelines state vaccines packed in dry ice should preferably be transported in lower-deck of the cargo compartments of the planes, however in case the operators desires to carry vaccines packed in dry ice in the passenger cabin area the operators will have to ensure that the occupants on board are limited to the flight crew while other passengers should not be allowed.“The operator should take all necessary steps to ensure that the flight crew is not harmed by carbon dioxide incapacitation or intoxication. Flight crew should be properly trained on the hazards and risks of transporting dry ice and on the procedures related to the operation. Any other occupants on-board should only be allowed if required under demonstrated urgent operational needs (e.g., additional flight crew for the return flight or additional persons needed for the cargo handling),” it said.Occupants, that are not considered flight crew, should be protected against a potential CO2 intoxication by the following means: Have access during all phases of flight to approved supplemental oxygen equipment ready to be used. Have been properly trained on the use of oxygen equipment,” it added.Adequate number of CO2 detectors should be available in the cabin, it noted.For the transport of vaccines in dry ice in excess of the limit specified in the operations manual or other applicable aircraft manufacturer documents, the operator should perform a specific risk assessment. The risk assessment should ensure that all relevant technical and operational aspects have been taken into account, it noted.Ventilation pressurisation systemFor aircraft dispatch, the air conditioning, air supply and the distribution/ventilation system should use configurations recommended by the manufacturer, DGCA stated.“The operator’s standard operating procedures should also include lowering of temperature in the cargo compartment as much as possible to minimise the sublimation rate of dry ice.To mitigate the risk of higher concentrations of CO2, the ventilation and pressurisation system shall be fully operational, i.e. all air-conditioning packs should be running at all times,” it noted.“In case of partial failure of the ventilation system in flight, the situation has to be carefully evaluated in order to decide if the flight may continue to destination. The OEM guidance should account for a single next critical failure to enable continuation of the flight, while total failure of the ventilation system in flight should lead to an immediate diversion to the nearest suitable airport,” it added.For aircraft dispatch the crew oxygen systems should be fully operative, it noted. “It is recommended to use the cargo compartment that is located next to the outflow valve, in order to effectively ensure that even in the case of partial or complete failure of the ventilation and pressurization system during flight, the CO2 will be ventilated overboard,” DGCA said.Packaging and handlingThe operators have to ensure that the shipments containing Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice shall be accepted and handled by appropriately trained personnel only. Operators will also have to prepare a ‘Dos & Don’t’ guidance and circulate among those handling personnel the specific requirements that may be applicable for handling shipments containing Covid-19 vaccines.“Adequate precautions need to be taken at the end of a flight, as compartments or a Unit Load Device containing dry ice will tend to have high concentration of CO2 and also the area immediately outside the door experiences high concentration of CO2 for several minutes,” it noted.Operators also have to ensure that each package containing Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice is clearly marked —’ Dry ice or Carvon Dioxide Solid .’ Operators also have to inform the Pilot-in-command in writing of the quantity of dry ice loaded including loading locations.“In line with our business model and cost leadership strategy, we are happy to evaluate the shipment of the Covid-19 vaccines onboard our aircraft and will promise to contribute to the best of our abilities,” a spokesperson for Indigo said.Aviation ministry secretary Pardeep Kharola had last week said the SOPs will be drafted in coordination with the ministry of health and the department of pharmaceuticals, which will be spearheading the formation of a multi-mode cold chain that will ensure the refrigerated production, transport, storage and distribution of the vaccines.India’s vaccine roll-out is set to begin by next week. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri had last month said that the Centre aims to inoculate at least 300 million people until July 2021 for which at least 600 million doses will be required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-guidelines-for-transportation-of-covid-19-vaccine-by-air/story-CHaGdh7rBmVNk51UQwcmzH.html
08-01-2021||India||Farm laws: Tomar asks farmers’ unions leaders to offer alternative other than total repeal||Union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday the farmers’ unions representatives were adamant on their demands of repealing the three farm laws during the eighth round of talks. Tomar also pointed out that the government urged farmers’ unions’ representatives to propose alternatives other than demanding a total rollback.“Discussion on the laws was taken up but no decision could be made. The government urged that if farmers’ unions give an option other than repealing, we will consider it. But no option could be presented, so the meeting was concluded and it was decided to hold the next meeting on January 15,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Tomar, along with Piyush Goyal and other Union ministers, has conducted eight rounds of discussions with the representatives of the farmers’ unions but both parties have failed to reach an agreement over the farm laws. Ahead of the meeting, Tomar had reiterated that both sides need to take steps to reach a solution. “I am hopeful that talks will be held in a positive atmosphere and a solution will be found. During discussions, each side has to take steps to reach a solution,” Tomar had said before reaching Vigyan Bhavan.While the government has previously indicated that it is ready for the long haul and is not keen on repealing the laws, farmers’ unions’ representatives also remained stolid on their stance. The farmers, who are agitating at Delhi’s borders since the last 45 days, have warned that the protests will further intensify and more tractor rallies will be organised to protest against the government’s stance.Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader, said that farmers will continue to remain at Delhi’s borders unless the laws are repealed. “Farmers won’t relent before the laws are repealed. We’ll come on Jan 15 again. We’re not going anywhere. The government wanted to talk about amendments. We don’t wish to have clause wise discussions. We simply want a repeal of the new farm laws,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Hannan Mollah, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) leader, who had earlier in the day said that he is ready for any eventuality, echoed similar sentiments and said that the protest scheduled for January 26 will go ahead as planned. He said, “There was a heated discussion, we said we don’t want anything other than repeal of laws. We won’t go to any Court, this (repeal) will either be done or we’ll continue to fight. Our parade on January 26 will go on as planned.”Tomar also said that there are several farmers’ groups who are supporting the farm laws and are ready to discuss concerns with them. The government believes that the introduction of these laws will help the agricultural sector in the country and allow farmers to double their incomes.Farmers believe that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 will affect the procurement of yields under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system and allow multinational companies to use the sector to maximise their profits at the expense of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-tomar-asks-farmers-unions-leaders-to-offer-alternative-other-than-total-repeal/story-fE4Tbxo95PsbTeomz0W2iO.html
08-01-2021||India||Air India’s all-women pilot team to fly over North Pole on world’s longest air route||An all-women pilot team of Air India will fly over North Pole on the world’s longest air route and the flight from San Francisco (SFO) will reach Bengaluru on January 9 covering a distance of about 16,000 kilometres.“Flying through the North Pole is very challenging and airline companies send their best and experienced pilots on this route. This time Air India has given responsibilities to a woman captain for the journey from San Fransico to Bengaluru via polar route,” an Air India official said.AI Captain Zoya Agarwal, who will be commanding the flight, and her team is very eagerly waiting to create history on January 9. “Most people in the world will not see the North Pole or even its map in their lifetime. I feel truly feel privileged and humbled by the trust posed in me by the civil aviation ministry and our flag carrier. It is a golden opportunity to command a Boeing 777 inaugural SFO-BLR, one of the world’s longest flight over the North Pole,” Captain Zoya Agarwal told ANI.“I am extremely proud to have with me experienced women team comprising Captains Thanmai Papagari, Akanksha Sonawane and Shivani Manhas. This is the first time an all-women pilots team will fly over the North Pole and create a history of sorts. It’s indeed a dream come true for any professional pilot,” she added.According to aviation experts, flying over the North Pole is extremely technical and requires skill and experience.“The thrill of actually realising that you will be passing the North pole where the compass will flip 180 degrees...something which is fascinating indeed,” Captain Zoya said.The longest flight over the North Pole will be another feather in her cap as she was the youngest woman pilot to fly a Boeing-777 in 2013.“I am the youngest woman commander in the world on Boeing 777. Women should have self-belief even if they face societal pressure not consider any task impossible,” she said.She will become the first woman commander of Air India to command flight over the North Pole. Though Air India pilots have flown over polar route earlier also, it is for the first time a team women pilots will fly over the North Pole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-s-all-women-pilot-team-to-fly-over-north-pole-on-world-s-longest-air-route/story-vkmELZUvI3Qvzhh0Ch09iI.html
08-01-2021||India||Centre confirms bird flu in 6 states; unusual avian deaths in Delhi being checked||Bird flu has been confirmed in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat so far, the Centre said on Friday and asked these states to contain the disease. States unaffected by Avian Influenza (AI) have been asked to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality among birds and to report immediately so that necessary measures are taken in the fastest possible time, it added.“So far, the disease has been confirmed from six states. It is learnt that culling operations have been completed in both the affected districts of Kerala. The disinfection process is underway,” the government said in a statement.The death of 16 birds has also been reported at DDA Park in Delhi’s Hastsal village and their samples have been sent to a testing lab.Here’s what we know so far:1. Central teams have been deployed to visit Kerala, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh for monitoring and epidemiological investigation, officials have said.2. The government said there has been confirmation of Avian Influenza positive samples from ICAR-NIHSAD in poultry in two farms of in Haryana’s Panchkula district. Positive samples have also been reported in migratory birds in the Junagadh district of Gujarat and in crows in Sawai Madhopur, Pali, Jaisalmer and Mohar districts of Rajasthan.Also read | Jammu & Kashmir bans poultry import amid bird flu outbreak3. “Unusual mortality of 16 birds has also been reported in DDA park Hastsal Village, Delhi. The AH (animal husbandry) Department of NCT of Delhi has reportedly taken precautionary measures and sent samples to ICAR-NIHSAD and a test report is awaited,” the statement said.4. The department of animal husbandry and dairying has suggested the affected states to contain the disease as per the action plan on Avian Influenza. Also read | Four crows found dead in Chhattisgarh amid bird flu scare5. The government said awareness among poultry farmers and the consumers of eggs and chicken about the disease is of foremost importance. “Communication from the secretary, department of animal husbandry and dairying, has also been sent to the health ministry to restore consumer confidence in consumption of chicken and eggs,” the statement said.6. The statement also said that appropriate advisories have been requested to be issued from the health ministry in this regard so that consumer confidence affected by rumours is put to rest.7. “Also, states have been requested to increase awareness regarding safety of poultry or poultry products that were safe for consumption following boiling/ cooking procedures for which central support would be available,” it said.   (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-confirms-bird-flu-in-6-states-unusual-avian-deaths-in-delhi-being-checked/story-rOgA4rnpJykgxC4Jo8rCtN.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Cannot and will not repeal laws,’ says Centre as farm talks hit another stalemate||The Union government has told protesting farm unions it “cannot and will not repeal” three contentious agricultural laws during the eighth round of talks which took place on Friday at the national capital’s Vigyan Bhavan, a farm leader told HT, deepening a stalemate between the two sides. The next round of talks is now slated to take place on January 15. Tens of thousands of farmers are on protest for over a month, demanding the government scraps its pro-reform farm laws approved by Parliament in September.“The government has said it cannot and will not repeal the laws,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a farm leader who was present at the talks. ALSO WATCH | Farmers, Centre hold 8th round of talks to find ‘solutions’ amid protest The first session of the talks, which ended a short while ago, saw the farmers hardening their stand, who said they were interested only in a repeal of the laws. According to Kuruganti, farm leaders raised slogans inside the meet to make their stand clear, “We will either die or win.” Also read: Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi: UN-designated terrorist, 26/11 mastermindThree Union ministers — Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash - who are representing the Centre had met Union home minister Amit Shah before heading into the talks. Farm minister Narendra Tomar, opening the negotiations, said that the three federal laws to open up agricultural markets apply to the whole of the country and many farmer organisations support the laws. “The government said it couldn’t repeal the laws and is ready to discuss anything farmers find objectionable,” Balbir Singh Rajewal, a farm leader, told HT from inside the venue. Rajewal, who opened the negotiations from the farmers’ side, said the farmers won’t give up their agitation unless the laws are repealed. The farmers raised the issue of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Punjab calling protesting farm leaders names and branding them Khalistanis, a reference to the Sikh separatist movement. “We told the government that this is highly objectionable. On one hand, the government is negotiating with farmers, while the ruling party’s leaders are trying to tarnish our movement all the time,” Rajewal said. Also read: Global terrorist Masood Azhar is finally a wanted man in Pak. Dawood next?During a tea break amid talks, the three ministers sat in a separate adjacent room to discuss among themselves. The seventh round of talks, held on January 4, had ended in a stalemate too. While the farmers pressed the government to repeal the three agricultural laws, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said it was not possible to commit to a repeal.  In the previous round of talks, held on December 30, the government agreed to two demands of the farmers. One, the government had agreed not to pay direct cash to farmers instead of power subsidy for agricultural use, which the farmers argue would increase power costs for them. Two, the government had agreed to keep farmers out of the ambit of an anti-pollution law that prescribes harsh penalties for crop-residue burning.  Farmers are demanding a repeal of three pro-reforms laws as well as a legal guarantee for federally fixed minimum support prices.  The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-and-will-not-repeal-laws-says-centre-as-farm-talks-hit-another-stalemate/story-eRQEIanpllKQcvV2AsWVqN.html
08-01-2021||India||Jagan answers criticism over temple vandalism with bhumi pujan for 9 temples||In an apparent bid to silence his critics over the vandalization of Hindu temples and desecration of idols recently, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Friday, performed a ceremony for the reconstruction of nine major temples in Vijayawada that were demolished during the previous Telugu Desam Party regime. As if to counter the opposition parties, which sought to link his Christian faith to his government’s alleged failure to prevent the attacks on Hindu temples, Jagan performed the ‘Bhumi Pujan’ ceremony of the Sri Seethamma Vari Padalu (Sita’s feet) temple on the banks of Krishna river. Wearing a traditional Hindu attire of silk ‘dhoti’ and ‘uttareeyam’ (scarf) and sporting a ‘tilak’ on his forehead, Jagan laid the foundation stone for the temple amidst chanting of Vedic hymns. He also unveiled another plaque for the construction of Shaneeshwara Swamy temple close by. Later, the chief minister visited goddess Kanaka Durga Temple atop Indrakeeladri hill in Vijayawada and launched eight development projects worth Rs 77 crore from inside the temple premises. After having a ‘darshan’ of the goddess, he received Veda Asheerwachanam (Vedic blessings) from the temple priests, before unveiling the annual calendar of endowments department. Several ministers, AP Brahmin Corporation Chairman Malladi Vishnu, other MLAs, endowments secretary Girija Shankar and others were present. According to official figures, as many as 40 temples and two Muslim religious structures were demolished, all along the Krishna river near Vijayawada, by the then Chandrababu Naidu government for road widening during the Krishna Pushkarams held in 2016. The demolitions triggered a lot of protests from Hindu groups at that time. Now, the Jagan government took the decision to reconstruct nine major temples, out of these 40, in the wake of large scale protests from the TDP, BJP and various Hindu groups over the vandalization of temples in the recent past.Also Read: Arrested ex-Andhra minister prime accused in kidnapping case, say policeThe desecration of Lord Rama idol at Ramatirtham temple in Vizianagaram district on the night of December 28 triggered a nation-wide outrage, landing the government in an embarrassing situation and forcing it to order a CID inquiry. On Thursday night, the government issued an order constituting a state-level eight-member communal harmony committee with the chief secretary as its chairman and the director general of police as its vice-chairman. The panel would monitor the security at all religious structures and monuments, besides, formulating an action plan to ensure communal harmony, among other things. Similar communal harmony committees will also be constituted at the district-level, headed by respective district collectors. Meanwhile, the TDP ridiculed Jagan’s move to reconstruct temples and described it as a big drama to divert the people’s attention from the recent attacks on various temples. TDP general secretary Panchumarthi Anuradha said all the temples demolished during the road widening project were relocated and developed during the TDP regime. “If the chief minister has so much concern for Hinduism, why did he stall the construction of Lord Venkateshwara Swamy temple by TTD at Amaravati?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/andhra-pradesh/jagan-answers-criticism-over-temple-vandalism-with-bhumi-pujan-for-9-temples/story-6aNkXLN1i8P14E8IWwJTnO.html
08-01-2021||India||Cold wave to be back in northwest India from January 22||A western disturbance is impacting the Western Himalayas, which is likely to bring light rain or snow to the hills and light rain to the north western plains on Friday. The impact will gradually reduce on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department.Minimum temperatures over northwest India are likely to fall gradually by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius during the next four or five days due to dry northwesterly winds which are bringing cold air from the snow-clad Himalayas.“We can expect minimum temperatures to fall in Delhi from January 11. The wind speed will be around 20 to 25 kmph for the next three days in association with the present western disturbance. We are not expecting any intense western disturbance in the next 10 days so the weather is likely to be dry in most parts of northwest India,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Also Read: Snowfall warning for hills; light rain likely in NW plains todayDue to abundant moisture and other favourable meteorological features, dense to very dense fog is also likely over isolated pockets in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on January 9 and 10.“Due to the prevailing dry north/northwesterly winds over most parts of northwest India, minimum temperature will fall gradually by 3-5 degrees Celsius during the next 4-5 days causing “cold wave” conditions over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan during January 11 and 12.Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over southeast Arabian Sea and another cyclonic circulation over south Sri Lanka; widespread rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over southern peninsular India during the next 3-4 days.Heavy rainfall is also likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and Kerala during January 8 to 11 and over coastal and south interior Karnataka on January 8 and 9.Due to a trough (area of low pressure) in low level easterlies from southeast Arabian Sea to Gujarat region, isolated to scattered rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is also likely over Maharashtra and Goa during the next two days.Between Thursday and Friday morning, Agumbe in Karnataka recorded 11cm rain; Piravam and Ernakulam in Kerala 8cm and 7cm each; Sringeri and Puttur in Karnataka 7cm and 8cm each. Rainfall will continue over the region for at least a week due to intense easterly waves according to IMD’s two week outlook released on Friday.It also says that below-normal minimum temperatures are likely over Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Sub Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Marathawada and Vidarbha during the next couple of weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-to-be-back-in-northwest-india-from-january-22/story-QpD6hNHweC3KERFfg5SHIJ.html
08-01-2021||India||10 constables suspended in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar for alleged involvement in illegal activities||Ten constables from two police stations in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar were suspended on Friday for their alleged involvement in extortion, illegal mining, and absence from duty, said senior police superintendent Daleep Singh Kunwar.In October, 10 police personnel were suspended for their involvement in illegal mining. Eight others were also removed and attached to the police lines in Rudrapur over the same allegations.Also read | Uttarakhand HC stays wildlife board nod to de-notification of Shivalik Elephant ReserveTwo of the constables suspended on Friday were held responsible for the escape of a person involved in a firing incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-constables-suspended-in-uttarakhand-s-us-nagar-for-alleged-involvement-in-illegal-activities/story-iQ2igtjTUwYxiUUAx0xpjL.html
08-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MP police finds evidence of teenager’s gang rape on arrested robbers’ phone and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MP police finds evidence of teenager’s gang rape on arrested robbers’ phoneA mobile phone of an accused, arrested for an incident of loot, revealed evidence of a gang rape of a teenager, who didn’t register the crime with the police fearing social stigma. Madhya Pradesh police arrested all the four accused and has now booked them for gang rape on Thursday evening. Read moreCaptain acting as BJP’s CM, attempting to weaken farmers’ protest: SukhbirShiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday alleged that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has been working as the “BJP’s CM” since the Congress formed the government in the state in 2017. Read moreCovid-19: Harsh Vardhan inspects dry run in Chennai, promises vaccine in a few daysUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan, who on Friday oversaw the dry run for Covid-19 vaccination at government and private hospitals in Chennai and is on his way to the adjoining district of Chengalpattu said that the vaccine would be rolled out in a few days. Read moreElon Musk crowned world’s wealthiest: Here are 9 other richest people on the planetSouth African-born US entrepreneur Elon Musk has become the world’s richest person, with a net worth of $195 billion, according to Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a daily ranking of the world’s richest people. Musk, the chief executive officer (CEO) of both SpaceX and Tesla, had a rather underwhelming response to his crowning glory moment, tweeting “How strange!” adding, “Well , back to work.” Read moreIndia vs Australia: Steve Smith breaks Kohli, Tendulkar’s record as he scores 27th Test hundredSteve Smith roared back into form on Friday as he put an end to his miserable run in the four-match Test series against India. Smith scored a century on the second day of the Third Test in Sydney as he powered Australia to a first innings total of 338 runs. Read moreKiara Advani is extremely charged for 2021, her rigorous fitness post is proofAfter coming back from her vacation in the Maldives and ringing in the New Year in the land of white beaches and blue water, Kiara Advani has started 2021 on a fitter note. The actor, who was in the Maldives with her rumoured boyfriend Sidharth Malhotra shared a lot of gorgeous images from the little slice of heaven where she enjoyed the sun and gorged on delicious food. Read morePieces of a Woman movie review: Simply brilliant, if you can get over Shia LaBeouf’s problematic presencePieces of a Woman peaks in its prologue. In hindsight, downhill is the only direction it could’ve gone in. This isn’t because the rest of the film is poor, but only because that opening is outstanding. Read moreRescue cat who lost her babies adopts two orphaned kittens. WatchStories showcasing animal bonding often leave people with a warm feeling in their hearts. Just like this beautiful post that describes how a rescued cat, who lost her babies, adopted two orphaned kittens. A video of this feline family, shared alongside the post, has now struck a chord with many. Read moreWatch: Kangana Ranaut, Rangoli reach Bandra police station to record statementsBollywood actor Kangana Ranaut reached the Bandra police station on Jan 8 to record her statement in a case related to sedition and other charges. Ranaut, who has been provided Y-plus category security of CRPF personnel, arrived at the police station in suburban Mumbai around 1 pm along with her advocate amid heavy media presence. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mp-police-finds-evidence-of-teenager-s-gang-rape-on-arrested-robbers-phone-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fMGIv1tqHRy3kTCEnY7kDN.html
08-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan inspects dry run in Chennai, promises vaccine in a few days||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who on Friday oversaw the dry run for Covid-19 vaccination at government and private hospitals in Chennai and is on his way to the adjoining district of Chengalpattu said that the vaccine would be rolled out in a few days. “In a few days... in the near future, we should be able to give these vaccines to our countrymen,” he told reporters after visiting the first site—Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai. “We have ensured that every detail is conveyed from the national level up to the grassroot level,” he said A nationwide dry run for administering the vaccine was conducted in 736 districts across 33 states and Union Territories on Friday.The priority groups for Covid-19 vaccination across the country are healthcare workers in the public and private sectors, followed by those on the frontlines, such as police, army and paramilitary personnel, and sanitation workers. The second phase will take place for the vaccination of people above the age of 50 followed by those below that age with co-morbidities. “India, in a short time, has been able to develop a vaccine, two of which have now been approved for emergency use,” Vardhan said.Also Read: Flights from UK resume today amid scare about new coronavirus strainThe minister also visited a vaccination site at the Omandurar multi-speciality government hospital and the Apollo Hospital and met chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami at the state secretariat.Vardhan inspected the General Medical Store Depot, Periamet, in Chennai— which is one of the four national vaccine storage facilities in the country besides Mumbai, Kolkata and Karnal. Chennai would store the vaccine for distribution to southern states, Vardhan said.The Union minister was accompanied by Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabhaskar and health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Vardhan interacted with healthcare workers who were participating in the dry run.He hailed the state for bringing down the number of Covid-19 cases and conducting 100% RT-PCR tests and for its treatment. “All through we were worried about many stated and of course Tamil Nadu was one of them,” Vardhan said. “But things were done in such a good manner in Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-harsh-vardhan-inspects-dry-run-in-chennai-promises-vaccine-in-a-few-days/story-wLMcgAF8Qk09hOIT3wMNNN.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Will we ensure women’s safety with such behaviour?’: Priyanka Gandhi slams NCW member over Budaun rape||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday criticised a member of the National Commission for Women’s (NCW) for her comments against the gangrape in Uttar Pradesh’s Budaun and questioned whether women’s safety could be ensured with such behaviour. A 50-year-old Anganwadi worker was gang-raped and murdered by a priest and his two aides in Budaun district on January 3. All the accused have been arrested by the state police.“Will we be able to ensure women’s safety with this behaviour? Members of the Women’s Commission are blaming the victim for the rape. The Budaun administration is concerned about who leaked the post-mortem result of the victim,” Priyanka Gandhi wrote on Facebook in Hindi.NCW’s Chandramukhi Devi had stoked controversy when she reportedly blamed the Budaun rape victim, saying if the woman did not go alone, the crime could have been avoided. “I think if she (the victim) had not gone out in the evening or was accompanied by a family member, maybe this incident could have been avoided,” Devi said while addressing reporters after she met the victim’s family. She added that the victim could also have been saved if the police showed swiftness.Also Read| Temple priest, prime accused in Badaun rape-murder case, arrestedGandhi cited another incident of rape reported from Moradabad and said that women would never forgive this administrative system. “Remember that at this time, the victim of Moradabad is fighting a battle against death in another horrific rape case. Women will not forgive this administrative system and this disgrace,” she said.On Wednesday, the Congress leader had alleged that there was something wrong in Uttar Pradesh’s administration with regard to women’s security.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma condemned Devi’s behaviour and said that women had the right to move out whenever and wherever they wanted to. On being asked whether she stood by Devi’s remarks, Sharma said, “No I don’t... I don’t know how and why the member has said this but women have all the right to move on their will whenever and wherever they want to. It’s society’s and the state’s duty to make places safe for women.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-we-ensure-women-s-safety-with-such-behaviour-priyanka-gandhi-slams-ncw-member-over-budaun-rape/story-TeuM4u4GIZtaaFRhhuohKK.html
08-01-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention 2021 tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 16th edition of Pravasi Bharatiya Divas on Saturday in a virtual event. The theme of the convention, aimed at encouraging Indian diaspora to be part of socio-economic development in India, is “Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat”, Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement. The Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas is held in the country every year to sustain and nurture the symbiotic relationship between India and its diaspora, and to address the development challenges that the country faces.The convention will have three segments, the official statement read. It will also feature a keynote address by the Chief Guest, H.E. Mr. Chandrikapersad Santokhi, Hon’ble President of the Republic of Suriname. The PBD Convention will include two Plenary Sessions -- ‘Role of Diaspora in Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Facing Post Covid Challenges-Scenario in Health, Economy, Social and International Relations’.“The first Plenary on Role of Diaspora in Aatmanirbhar Bharat, will feature addresses by External Affairs Minister and Commerce and Industry Minister while the second Plenary on Facing Post Covid Challenges - Scenario in Health, Economy, Social and International Relations, will be addressed by Minister of Health and Minister of State for External Affairs,” the PMO release read. President Ram Nath Kovind will address the valedictory session. The names of the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Awardees for 2020-21 - conferred to select Indian diaspora members to recognise their achievements and honour their contributions to various fields, both in India and abroad - will also be announced. The winners of the online Bharat ko Janiye Quiz for the youth will also be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-pravasi-bharatiya-divas-convention-2021-tomorrow/story-iWT9PxZVPHzxVJnGuHwT5O.html
08-01-2021||India||One ‘Republican’ to another: Athawale slams Trump over siege||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Friday said US President Donald Trump has lost the right to be called a Republican after his supporters stormed the Capitol in a bid to overthrow the November 3 election result.Athawale said he used to have a lot of respect for Trump but it dissipated after the latter insulted the public mandate following the US presidential election.“What Trump did ahead of the transition of power is detrimental to democracy and so he has lost the right to be called a Republican,” the Republican Party of India leader said in a statement.“Trump should have conceded defeat and made efforts to win the next election but instead of doing so, he disrespected people’s mandate and insulted democracy,” said Athawale, who sometimes comments on matters of global concern.Five persons were killed and 60 arrested after several protesters broke into the Capitol building on Wednesday and roamed the corridors as tens of thousands gathered outside in support of Trump’s false claims of election fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-republican-to-another-athawale-slams-trump-over-siege/story-VlHN5XQ6oE9MO8m4hMT2EJ.html
08-01-2021||India||In Bihar, man lynched over cattle theft suspicion, 2 others badly injured||A man was lynched and the eyes of two others were badly damaged over suspicion of cattle theft at Kadgama village under Shrinagar police station of Purnia district in Bihar on Thursday, said police.The deceased was identified as Shyam Dev Yadav of Araria, said police.Locals said that the three drunk persons were caught trying to steal two buffaloes that led to the lynching. “Soon after they were caught, villagers thrashed them mercilessly and one of them died while two others were seriously injured,” said a police official, adding, “we somehow managed to bring them to hospital.”“Eyes of one person Manoj Yadav of Purnia have been badly damaged while the third Kailash Sah of Araria is also injured. The two are undergoing treatment at Purnia sadar hospital,” said the police official.A hospital source said, “One of the injured may lose his eyesight as his eyes have been badly damaged. We are trying our best to restore his eyesight.”The police say they have started identifying the people behind the incident. “We have identified the culprits and police will soon arrest them,” station house officer (SHO) Santosh Kumar Jha said.In May 2019, a 50-year-old was beaten to death by a mob in Araria on suspicion of being a cattle thief. Before that in January a 55-year-old man was brutally beaten to death over suspicion of cattle theft.Cattle theft rampant in SeemanchalCattle theft is rampant in four districts – Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj besides Purnia. A report recently prepared by the Kishanganj office of Border Security Force (BSF) said about one lakh cattle were either smuggled to Bangladesh or sold to hundreds of slaughterhouses in Seemanchal.“Seemanchal people’s economy largely lies on cattle rearing and agriculture and they become furious over cattle theft,” said social activist Vijay Kumar Shreevasatava. He suggested ‘better arrangements for slaughterhouses’ and checking cattle smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-man-lynched-over-cattle-theft-suspicion-2-others-badly-injured/story-8R0cqqvAKMyIzy9ryuCkqJ.html
08-01-2021||India||Karnataka: 6.3 lakh health workers in line for Covid-19 vaccine; 13.9 lakh vials arriving||Karnataka health and medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Friday that the state is likely to receive 13.9 lakh vials of Covid-19 vaccine in a ‘day or two’.Speaking to the media after visiting a hospital where a vaccination dry run is taking place, Sudhakar said, “The big good news for Karnataka is that I have received information from the health ministry that either tomorrow or day after, probably 13.9 lakh vials of the vaccine (will arrive) in the state. It is a big happy news for us.”About 6.30 lakh healthcare workers, serving in both government and private sector, have registered for vaccination. Policemen, health workers, medical personnel and Corona warriors will get the vaccine on priority, said the minister.The vaccination dry run is being conducted at 263 places across the state on Friday. It is being carried out at seven locations in each district, across 24 district hospitals, 20 medical colleges, 43 taluk hospitals, 31 community health centres, 87 primary health centres, 30 urban primary health care centres and 28 private health centres across the state.Also Read: Income tax department searches offices of Flipkart unit, Swiggy on alleged tax-evasion chargesOn Thursday, the minister said that the central government had provided 24 lakh syringes and that the state has 10 walk-in coolers, 4 walk-in freezers, 3,201 Ice-Lined Refrigerators (ILRs), 3039 deep freezers, 3,312 cold boxes, 46,591 vaccine carriers and 2,25,749 ice packs. The central government, Sudhakar added, had also provided 64 large ILRs of 225 litres holding capacity each. Two walk-in coolers and one walk-in freezer will be received from the centre, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/karnataka-6-3-lakh-health-workers-in-line-for-covid-19-vaccine-13-9-lakh-vials-arriving/story-Kq9GXydox4ype0yMRe7NOK.html
08-01-2021||India||Farm laws: Centre, farmers’ unions leaders begin eighth round of talks||The Centre and the representatives of agitating farmers’ unions on Friday began the eighth round of talks to resolve farmers’ concerns regarding the new farm laws. The meeting is currently underway as Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal reached Vigyan Bhavan in Delhi.Before the meeting, both farmers’ union leaders and Union agriculture minister Tomar on Friday expressed hope that a solution to the issues will be found. “I am hopeful that talks will be held in a positive atmosphere and a solution will be found. During discussions, each side has to take steps to reach a solution,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Watch: Farmers, Centre hold 8th round of talks to find ‘solutions’ amid protest Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar also held an hour-long meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday before reaching Vigyan Bhavan, news agency PTI reported. Click here for LIVE updatesRakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said that farmers’ leaders are hoping that both parties will reach a resolution. “We going for talks with the hope that there will be a resolution today,” Tikait said.The farmers have warned the government that if the talks fail then they will take out tractor marches towards Delhi. The farmers also plan to take out a tractor march on January 26. Farmer leader Hannan Mollah said that he is ready for any eventuality as the government is not ready to repeal the laws. “The minister yesterday categorically declared that repeal of farm laws was not accepted. I don’t know what will happen during the discussions today. Anyway, we hope for the best and (are) prepare(d) for the worst,” Mollah was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Friday.Also Read: Swaminathan says MSP better than loan waiverThe government continues to claim that the new laws would increase incomes of farmers and introduce a level-playing field in the agriculture sector. Government has also highlighted that farmers can now sell their produce anywhere in the country. Several BJP leaders have also said that these same reforms were promised by other political parties in their previous election manifestos as well.Also Read: 3,000 tractors at farmers’ marchFarmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other northern states have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for the last 45 days demanding the rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers say that despite government assurances they fear that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system will be affected. They have also demanded a total rollback of the laws as they fear corporate farming will affect their earnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-centre-farmers-unions-leaders-begin-eighth-round-of-talks/story-XS3s0eqB2s20p5kuf1RPcM.html
08-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Five die after drinking spurious liquor in Bulandshahr||Five people died and 16 others fell ill after allegedly consuming spurious liquor at Jeetgarhi village in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Thursday night, police said on Friday. The condition of the five of the 16 was said to be critical, they added.Senior police superintendent SK Singh, who has suspended a station house officer, a sub-inspector, and two constables for alleged dereliction of duty over the tragedy, said the bodies of the five have been sent for post-mortem.Also read | Former cop accused in hooch tragedy dies in Ujjain jail“We are getting it [liquor sample] tested to know from where it was supplied and then sold,” he said. “[We have made] announcements in the neighbouring villages to identify persons who may have consumed the liquor of the same brand and to provide them treatment if required.”Singh, who visited Jeetgarhi along with district magistrate Ravindra Kumar, said the last location of the person believed to have supplied the liquor was traced to Shahdara in Delhi. “Police teams have been sent there to arrest him. We have also detained a few persons for interrogation.”Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed officials to ensure proper treatment of the 16 and to book those responsible for tragedy under the stringent National Security Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-five-die-after-drinking-spurious-liquor-in-bulandshahr/story-UXxCpcurHiLjRd74vQKlOP.html
08-01-2021||India||J&K Police introduces highway patrol vehicles to increase security||Further strengthening its security grid, Jammu and Kashmir Police have introduced highway patrol vehicles and launched CCTV network monitoring lab in Jammu.“There have been many infiltration attempts in Jammu province through national highway in past years. There have been many encounters and a larger number of arms and ammunition have been recovered at the highway,” said Mukesh Singh, IGP Jammu Zone.“The security personnel have prevented these by strengthening the border grid. In this process, the police headquarters has introduced highway patrol vehicles which are equipped with screens, cameras and announcement systems,” informed IGP.“These vehicles can send live feeds in the highway patrol vehicles CCTV network monitoring lab and police control rooms where head police officials will be able to keep an eye on the moments on the highway especially during infiltration, protest, accident or while following a vehicle,” IGP said adding that the higher officials could also be able to guide the jawan in the vehicle if needed with the help of the two-way communication system installed in the vehicle.“As many as 33 vehicles have been introduced across the Jammu region,” informed Kulbeer Singh, SSP Police Control Room, Jammu.“The vehicles have cameras on its front and rear side both,” he said.Apart from introducing these vehicles, the Jammu and Kashmir Police have been strengthening the nakas to stop the infiltrations by installing cameras and deploying a composite strength of paramilitary and police personnel here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-introduces-highway-patrol-vehicles-to-increase-security/story-nO5qrpBbQ47Vn8Nkdw8VMK.html
08-01-2021||India||‘To protect Delhiites’: Delhi govt announces rules for UK returnees||The Delhi government on Friday announced a set of rules for people returning to the national capital from virus-hit United Kingdom in order to prevent influx of Covid-19 cases. The city-state government has decided to mandatorily test all the travellers arriving from UK through self-paid RT-PCR tests. “All those arriving from UK, who test positive will be isolated in an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for 7 days followed by 7 days home quarantine,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Del govt takes imp decisions. All those arriving from UK, who test positive will be isolated in an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for 7 days followed by 7 days home quarantine pic.twitter.com/hYDsaOn8q1He further said that this has been done “to protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK”.“As a matter of abundant precaution, in view of the increased transmissibility of the new variant, it is decided that all travellers coming from the UK to India would be mandatorily subjected to self-paid RT-PCR tests on arrival at the airport. Those who are found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in as separate (isolation) unit as per existing laid down protocol. Those who are found negative shall be kept in compulsory institutional quarantine for a period of seven days followed by seven days of home quarantine,” read the order. The Delhi government order has stated that this protocol will be strictly followed in Delhi on a trial basis for a week till January 14.The new variant of coronavirus disease – B.1.1.7 – has been dubbed as highly infectious by scientists and medical experts as the UK government has confirmed that the infection rates have increased faster than expected in the affected areas where the new strain has been circulating and stronger measures are required to get the virus under control.Four more Delhi residents had tested positive for the new coronavirus strain, news agency PTI reported on Thursday, even as health minister Satyendar Jain appealed to the Centre to extend the ban on flights between India and the UK till the end of January.The total number of people found infected with the mutant variant of Covid-19 that was first detected in the UK now stands at 13 in Delhi.Four more samples sent for genome sequencing have been found positive, as part of the door-to-door medical checkup of people who had recently arrived from the UK and persons who came in their contact in the city, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-protect-delhiites-delhi-govt-announces-rules-for-uk-returnees/story-GvrtHmwTHBhuaqDD9SOO2K.html
08-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand HC stays wildlife board nod to de-notification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve||Uttarakhand high court on Friday stayed the approval given by the State Wildlife Advisory Board on November 24, 2020, for de-notification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve. The board had taken the decision to pave the way for the expansion of Dehradun airport project. The high court has sought reply from the state government, Centre, State Biodiversity Board and State Wildlife Board in the matter. A division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and Justice Lok Pal Singh issued these directions while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dehradun-based activist Reenu Paul. Abhijay Negi, counsel of the petitioner, said the PIL pointed out to HC that “Supreme Court in a recent decision delivered by a three-judge bench led by the Chief Justice of India on October 14, 2020, had passed several guidelines for elephant conservation and the decision of the Uttarakhand State Wildlife Board was in the teeth of the said decision of the apex court.” Also read | Unusual wildfires in Uttarakhand: Officials blame scanty rain, combustible materialCiting provisions of the Biological Diversity Act 2002 and the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, the petitioner argued that “it was not open to the State Wildlife Board to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve in such a summery manner without assessing the ecological catastrophe that it can push the state and the entire region into”. In September last year, the state government had written to the Union environment ministry for obtaining prior approval under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for non-forestry use of 87.0815 hectares of forest land for “Expansion of the Jolly Grant Airport.” This land falls within the Shivalik Elephant Reserve. Officials estimate that about 10,000 trees will be felled for the expansion. In October, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change wrote to the state government that it “may explore alternatives for the proposal such as acquiring area lying north of the existing runway…the entire proposed forest area for diversion falls within the Shivalik Elephant Reserve and elephant corridors within its 1km radius. Moreover, the notified Kansaro-Barkot Elephant Corridor is located within 5km radius. The state government should consider avoiding these sensitive areas and explore alternative lands.” In November, responding to ministry’s letter, the state government said an alternative land will not serve the purpose as the existing runway needs to be expanded and with alternative land, a completely new airport will have to be established. Following the board’s decision on de-notification in November, state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat had said, “The State Wildlife Board, during its 16th meeting, approved the de-notification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve as there is no law to define an elephant reserve. In the late 90s and early 2000s, the state government had sent a proposal to the Centre seeking a clarification regarding the said area, after which it was notified as an elephant reserve in 2002. But as per the norms of the Central government, there is no law or Act yet under which the legal status of an elephant reserve is defined.” Uttarakhand has over 2,000 elephants at present, according to the elephant census released in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-stays-wildlife-board-nod-to-de-notification-of-shivalik-elephant-reserve/story-gFb1B6WolEbtY4SNlnTQxO.html
08-01-2021||India||NIA asks J&K govt for details about PDP youth prez Waheed Parra’s properties in Srinagar||The Jammu and Kashmir government has started gathering details about the properties of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youth president and recently elected District Development Council (DDC) member Waheed ur Rehman Parra in Srinagar on the instructions of National Investigative Agency (NIA). The office of deputy commissioner of Srinagar has issued a communication to officials seeking details about the properties of Parra in the district.Also Read: Jammu & Kashmir bans poultry import amid bird flu outbreak“The Superintendent of Police NIA headquarters New Delhi vide letter no/ RC/01/2020/NIA/ Jammu/127 dt 4 -01-2021 has requested to provide movable or immovable properties owned or possessed in district Srinagar in the name of arrested accused Waheed ur Rehman Parra... In this connection you are requested to furnish a detailed report in the matter after proper verification in the light of Revenue records immediately. The matter be treated most urgent in view of investigation,” reads the letter. Parra was arrested by NIA, a day after he had filed his nomination papers from Pulwama in November, for allegedly getting in touch with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists seeking support for PDP president and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba during the Parliamentary elections. Parra won the DDC election as a People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) candidate. NIA alleged that Parra had paid money through suspended Deputy SP of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh, who has already been arrested for ferrying terrorists from Srinagar to Jammu.Mufti had termed the allegations against Parra baseless and fabricated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-asks-j-k-govt-for-details-about-pdp-youth-prez-waheed-parra-s-properties-in-srinagar/story-EXfnnNX2HztDlqGz20DCMN.html
08-01-2021||India||Flights from UK resume today amid scare about new coronavirus strain||Flights from the United Kingdom resumed today in a limited capacity amid concerns about the new strain of the coronavirus that was recently detected in the UK.The first flight carrying 256 passengers arrived in Delhi today from London, airport officials informed. The ban on flights to the UK was lifted on January 6. 30 flights will operate each week - 15 each by Indian and UK carriers. This schedule will continue till January 23, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had informed earlier. Passengers will have to take an RT-PCR test up to 72 hours before a flight and on arrival. Meanwhile, leaders, including Rajasthan and Delhi Chief Ministers Ashok Gehlot and Arvind Kejriwal, hit out at the Centre for partially lifting the ban and urged authorities to extend the ban. “Cases of the new corona strain from Britain are increasing in India. The government of India should reconsider the decision to resuming flights from Britain after January 7,” the Rajasthan CM said. Kejriwal asked why the ban had been lifted and urged for it to be extended till January 31. “With great difficulty, people have brought the COVID situation in control. UK’s COVID situation is very serious. Now, why lift the ban and expose our people to risk? Centre has decided to lift the ban and start UK flights. In view of the extremely serious COVID situation in the UK, I would urge the central government to extend the ban till January 31,” he wrote. The total number of people who tested positive for the new UK strain of the Coronavirus in India reached 75 on Thursday, the special surveillance report issued by the central government said.As per the report, a total of 4,858 people have been traced who traveled between India and the UK after the cases of infection by new variant came to light.“A total 1,211 travellers from the UK have completed 28 days from their arrival in India. out of 75 people infected with UK variant of Covid-19, 33 were found in Mumbai, 14 in Pune, eight in Thane, nine in Nagpur, two each in Nashik, Aurangabad, Raigad and Buldhana, and one each in Osmanabad, Nanded and Washim,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-from-uk-resume-today-amid-scare-about-new-coronavirus-strain/story-K9lf3oQ8lJKyLBlSUTIulI.html
08-01-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut reaches Bandra police station to record statement in sedition case||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Friday reached the Bandra police station to record her statement in a case related to sedition and other charges amid heavy police security. Ranaut has been provided Y-plus category security of CRPF personnel.An FIR was lodged against Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through their remarks in October.A magistrates court had directed the Mumbai police to carry out an inquiry against the Bollywood actor and her sister based on a complaint lodged by a casting director Munawwar Ali Sayyad, who had pressed the allegations referring to Ranaut’s tweets and other social media posts.Ranaut and her sister were booked under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention).Earlier, the Mumbai police had sent notices three times asking them to appear for recording their statements in the case.The Bombay High Court in November had granted interim protection from arrest to Kangana and her sister, and directed them to appear before the police on January 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-reaches-bandra-police-station-to-record-statement-in-sedition-case/story-OLvtt6H1T9IP9RptNXCPPL.html
08-01-2021||India||Kerala Assembly speaker’s personal staff appears before Customs||Kerala Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan’s assistant private secretary on Friday appeared before Customs officials probing the dollar smuggling cases in the state, sources said.The Customs department on Thursday had served a notice to the official, K Ayyappan, at his residential address in Thiruvananthapuram, directing him to appear before the investigation team in Kochi.Ayyappan was responsible for charting out the Speaker’s daily programmes and travel related matters.Customs sources said Ayyappan was summoned to cross examine the evidence it had gathered into the alleged involvement of some powerful persons in connection with the smuggling of dollars.The notice asking Ayyappan to appear for questioning was delivered at his residential address on Thursday after the Speaker maintained that his prior permission was required to interrogate a member of his personal staff.The central agency had earlier issued summons to Ayyappan at his official address in connection with the probe into the case related to alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE Consulate here to Muscat in Oman.The Speaker had come under criticism from the Opposition for inaugurating the shop of one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, Sandeep Nair, months ago.Sreeramakrishnan has said he did not think that the central investigating agencies would question him.“I am fully confident that there was no lapse from my side. So I have no anxiety,” he said on Thursday, adding that he would end his political career if it was proved that he had accepted even one rupee as bribe from anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kerala/kerala-assembly-speaker-s-personal-staff-appears-before-customs/story-8T5KuTuCWe79Lt7UmZNFxO.html
08-01-2021||India||Income tax department searches offices of Flipkart unit, Swiggy on alleged tax-evasion charges||India’s Income Tax Department this week conducted searches at offices of a group firm of Walmart’s Flipkart and local food delivery startup Swiggy for alleged tax evasion by their third-party vendors, two sources told Reuters.The searches began on Wednesday at Swiggy and Instakart’s offices in the southern city of Bengaluru, the sources said.The search at the office of Instakart, e-commerce giant Flipkart’s logistics arm, concluded late on Thursday, one of the sources said.At least 20 income tax officials visited the Instakart office to inspect invoices issued to its vendors, the source added.In a statement, Flipkart said it was providing the officials with “all the required information and are extending our full co-operation”, adding it was in full compliance with all tax and legal requirements.Swiggy, backed by South African internet giant Naspers, too said it was in full compliance with tax and legal mandates. “The survey by the IT officials is currently underway and our team is extending full cooperation in the matter.” The tax department did not immediately respond to Reuters’ request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-searches-offices-of-flipkart-unit-swiggy-on-alleged-tax-evasion-charges/story-Sxnq8JC5l4JFfAxHclytRN.html
08-01-2021||India||PM Modi condoles death of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s niece Chitra Ghosh||Chitra Ghosh, youngest daughter of Sarat Chandra Bose and niece of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, died in Kolkata on Thursday. She was 90. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled his interaction with her and expressed his condolences on Friday. “Professor Chitra Ghosh made pioneering contributions to academics and community service. I recall my interaction with her, we discussed many subjects, including declassification of files relating to Netaji Bose. Saddened by her demise. Condolences to her family. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.  narendramodi: Professor Chitra Ghosh made pioneering contributions to academics and community service. I recall my interaction with her, when we discussed many subjects including declassification of files relating to Netaji Bose. Saddened by her demise. … pic.twitter.com/u4yE6ZcytxGhosh was the chairperson of the platform named Open Platform for Netaji, which was formed in 2012. On October 14, 2015 Ghosh led a delegation to meet PM Modi. It led to the declassification of Netaji’s files. She headed the political science department at Lady Brabourne College and served as a visiting lecturer of political science and international relations at Calcutta University and Jadavpur University. Ghosh also partnered with her husband Subimal Ghosh, former Sheriff of Kolkata, in his philanthropic work. She has authored books like The Rights and Obligations of Indian Women, Women’s Studies in India, Women and Politics, among others “Her husband had passed away in October 2016. Ghosh is survived by son Sutanu Ghosh and daughter Suneepa Dutta and grandchildren,” said Chandra Kumar Bose, nephew of Chitra Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-s-niece-chitra-ghosh/story-Ux4dSXHVRDqemeTJ3OE0JP.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Repeal farm laws today itself’: Farmers message to govt ahead of talks||Adamant on the repeal of three contentious farm laws, farm union leaders on Friday reiterated their pointed demand seeking rollback of the legislations ahead of their eighth round of talks with the government.“There is no scope of clause-wise talks. The government should hold a meeting to repeal these laws today itself,” says Balvinder Singh Raju, a farmer told news agency ANI on Friday.Signalling hope, Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union said, “We are going for talks with the hope that there will be a resolution today.”The eighth round of talks between three Union ministers - Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash - and the farmer unions to end the more than a month long agitation is scheduled to begin at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi at 2 pm. Tomar is likely to call on Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the issue before the talks begin, reported news agency ANI.So far the farmers and the government have engaged in seven rounds of talks to end the deadlock but inconclusively. Thousands of farmers have been camping on Delhi’s borders in bitter cold as a statement of protest against the three agricultural laws cleared by the Parliament in September last year. Another farm union leader stated that they are hoping for the best but are prepared for the worst. “The minister yesterday categorically declared that repeal of farm laws is not accepted. I don’t know what will happen during the discussions today. Anyway, we hope for the best and prepare for the worst,” Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha said.Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhury hoped that a resolution will come out of Friday’s meeting. Talking to PTI, Choudhury said, “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday’s meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting.” There was no demand for a repeal of the three farm laws at the first meeting, he added.The protests - longest such demonstration in decades of Independent India - have entered the seventh week and shows no signs of abating as the farmers have refused to halt them till their demands are met. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law. The government has made it clear that it won’t scrap these laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-farm-laws-today-itself-farmers-message-to-govt-ahead-of-talks/story-tZFSlduVKuKEzArmxEgnbN.html
08-01-2021||India||Jammu & Kashmir bans poultry import amid bird flu outbreak||Jammu & Kashmir on Thursday banned the import of poultry until January 14 a day after the Centre issued advisories asking local authorities to keep a close vigil to contain the spread of avian influenza or bird flu. The Centre on Wednesday said the outbreak has been reported from at least four states.Officials said checkpoints have been set up on the Delhi-Jammu national highway and no vehicles with poultry are being allowed to enter the Union Territory that imports over 60% poultry from Punjab and Haryana.In the order issued banning the import, principal secretary Navin Choudhary cited the bird flu spread in neighbouring states. It called the ban “a measure of abundant precaution” and added it was imposed as Jammu & Kashmir has been declared a “controlled area” in view of the outbreak.Also Read: No bird flu cases in Delhi yet, sample collection ordered to check spreadAuthorities have separately instructed the animal husbandry department officials to keep a close watch on the situation, especially in the poultry farms even, as no bird flu case has been reported in the Union Territory yet.Thousands of birds have died in Kerala (mostly poultry), Himachal Pradesh (migratory birds), and Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (crows) since the beginning of the outbreak in December-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-kashmir-bans-poultry-import-amid-bird-flu-outbreak/story-othx8F7ZGAJqzrAccITGRN.html
08-01-2021||India||Four crows found dead in Chhattisgarh amid bird flu scare||Four crow deaths have been reported from two places in Chhattisgarh’s Balod district, officials said on Friday two days after the Centre issued advisories asking states to keep a close vigil to detect any unusual bird death to contain the spread of avian influenza, or bird flu. The Centre on Wednesday said the outbreak has been reported from at least four states.The officials said villagers burnt one of the dead crows while the rest were sent for examination to Pune. “...a crow was found dead on Wednesday in a paddy field in Pondi village...four crows...were found in a pond. However, we have no confirmation of bird flu till now. Our officials rushed to spot and sent the samples of dead crows for further examination,” said Balod collector Janmajay Mahobe.Also Read: No bird flu cases in Delhi yet, sample collection ordered to check spreadAgriculture production commissioner M Geetha said they were testing and collecting samples from the seven government poultry farms of Chhattisgarh to check the outbreak.Thousands of birds have died in Kerala (mostly poultry), Himachal Pradesh (migratory birds), and Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (crows) since the beginning of the outbreak in December-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-crows-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-amid-bird-flu-scare/story-gd1eYbDbuuDfrhgxVZmdPK.html
08-01-2021||India||Global terrorist Masood Azhar is finally a wanted man in Pak. Dawood next?||The arrest warrant issued against Maulana Masood Azhar, the chief of the proscribed Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), is the first small step against the global terrorist who was claimed by Islamabad to have disappeared. Pakistani diplomats last year told the global anti-terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) that it hadn’t been able to take action against Masood Azhar because he was missing. Indian officials had then rebutted Pakistan, pointing that he was still holed up in his bomb-proof house behind the terror group’s Bahawalpur headquarters at Markaz-e-Usman-o-Ali, Railway Link Road, in Pakistan.The FATF kept Islamabad in its ‘grey list’ that continued to make it difficult for Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to get financial aid from international lending agencies such as the IMF. As he faces the most serious challenge from a combined opposition that has been mobilising public opinion against him, Pakistan watchers say that Imran Khan’s best chance to hold power is to get the economy back on rails to ensure that the opposition campaign doesn’t find traction with the people. By most accounts, it isn’t easy.Indian officials explain Pakistan’s recent steps - a warrant against Azhar who had been shielded for a decade at UN Security Council meetings by Islamabad as well as Beijing and the arrest of Lashkar-e-Taiba’s operations commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi - to indicate Islamabad’s desperation to get off the ‘grey list’.Pakistan watchers believe that Islamabad would use its leverage with the Quetta-based Taliban Shura in Afghanistan to conclude a deal with the incoming Joe Biden administration to seek the US support for Islamabad at the FATF meetings in exchange for its support for the peace talks. Pakistan’s deep state is also expected to use its capacity to calibrate violence in Afghanistan to convince the US administration.Also Read: ‘Brief the boss’: The backstory of Masood Azhar’s global terror tagOfficials underline that neither of the two of Pakistan’s most prominent faces of terrorism faces charges for terrorism and killing scores of people but for terror financing. Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi was the Lashkar commander who had plotted and supervised the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack.“But the baby steps are also important for the message they hold,” an Indian counter-terror official said, a reference to the pressure on the Imran Khan government to get off the FATF’s grey list. At the last meeting, the FATF had repeated its warning to his government to take more steps or risk being blacklisted.The official said it was true that the arrest warrant against Azhar and Lakhvi’s arrest were reversible steps. Lakhvi did spend time behind bars after the 26/11 attacks - he lived in “relative luxury” and fathered a child while in prison on terror charges - but was set free when the global pressure on Islamabad eased.“But at the same time, these steps also imply progress, however gradual it may be,” the official said.It is in this context that Indian officials believe that pressure is mounting to take steps against Dawood Ibrahim, once the Mumbai don who crossed the line when he plotted the March 1993 bombings in the city before fleeing the country.Dawood Ibrahim has been living in Karachi from where he has controlled South Asia’s biggest crime syndicate for most of the last two decades. Islamabad has all along claimed that Dawood Ibrahim was not in Pakistan despite documentary evidence produced by India that places him in Karachi.Also Read: Why one of India’s most wanted Dawood Ibrahim continues to be a fugitiveIndian officials said action against Dawood Ibrahim would be the acid test for the Imran Khan government’s efforts to project that it was serious on acting against terrorism. Dawood Ibrahim is well-entrenched in Pakistan’s power circuit. In 2005, Dawood - also designated as a global terrorist by the UNSC and US - married off his daughter Mahrukh to Junaid Miandad, son of former Pakistani cricketer Javed Miandad. According to Indian intelligence, Mahrukh and Junaid have secured Portuguese passports that would let them leave the country if things get too hot.Abu Salem, who was once a close associate of Dawood Ibrahim and had escaped to Pakistan after the 1993 before he fell out, had also moved to Portugal where he was finally arrested in 2002 and extradited to India three years later.Incidentally, Masood Azhar had entered India on a fake Portuguese passport in January 1994 when he was arrested in Jammu and Kashmir two weeks later. He had dodged immigration officials’ queries about his Portugese passport, claiming that he was a Gujarati by birth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-terrorist-masood-azhar-is-finally-a-wanted-man-in-pak-dawood-next/story-3KXKEO37mDaEd2BREvggiJ.html
08-01-2021||India||2020 one of warmest years on record, despite cooling La Nina effect: Study||Last year was one of the two warmest years on record, tying with 2016 which was the previous warmest year. For Europe, it was the warmest year on record, 0.4 degree Celsius (°C) warmer than 2019 which was previously the warmest year on record for the continent, according to the latest data from Copernicus Climate Change Service of the European Union.Also read | Climate change-led migration in India could treble by 2050: ReportScientists observed that 2020 ties with 2016 despite the cooling effect of La Niña, whereas the latter was a record year that began with the strong warming effect of El Niño. This essentially means that the impact of global warming has become more pronounced.“The fact that 2020 tied with 2016 as the warmest year on record is another stark reminder that human-induced climate change continues unabated. This is particularly remarkable, as 2020 was not under the influence of an El Niño, a mode of natural climate variability in the tropical Pacific which ‘supercharged’ 2016 with extra heat. 2020 did not have such a ‘boost’, yet it almost exceeded the previous record holder. In fact, only a notably colder December (compared to November) prevented 2020 from becoming the new stand-alone warmest year,” said Karsten Haustein, Scientist at the Climate Service Center Germany (GERICS), in a statement.The carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere have continued to rise at a rate of around 2.3 parts per million/year in 2020 reaching a maximum of 413 ppm during May 2020. Last year was 0.6 °C warmer than the standard 1981-2010 reference period and around 1.25 °C above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial period, according to Copernicus service. This makes the last six years the warmest six on record.The highest warming was recorded over the Arctic and northern Siberia where the mean temperature was over 6°C above the average for the reference period of 1981-2010.Last year was the eighth warmest for India also since the country started keeping records in 1901, according to the India Meteorological Department’s statement on Climate of India in 2020.During the year, the annual average temperature in the country was 0.29°C above normal (29-year average from 1981-2010). In 2016, India recorded the warmest year when the mean land surface temperature was 0.71°C above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-was-as-warm-as-2016-despite-cooling-la-nina-effect-study/story-W2qJkPw5HNmCuSDMUfuCuL.html
08-01-2021||India||Before 8th round of talks with protesting farmers, govt says hopeful of resolving issues||Ahead of the eighth round of talks between farmers’ union leaders and representatives of the government over the three controversial farm laws passed in September, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhury hoped for a breakthrough in the impasse. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday’s meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting.” There was no demand for a repeal of the three farm laws at the first meeting, he added.Also Read: ‘Repeal farm laws today itself’: Farmers message to govt ahead of talksChoudhury reiterated the centre’s stand that the laws are in interest of the farmers. These legislations are just a beginning, he said, and added that the unions are agitating against the laws under the “influence of arhtiyas (commission agents)”. “Next, the Pesticide (Management) Bill and the Seed Bill will come. At that time too, farmers can be misguided,” he said.The eighth round of talks will take place between Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash and the 40 protesting farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan at 2pm on Friday. Tomar is likely to call on Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss the issue ahead of the talks, sources told news agency PTI.Click here for live updates on farmers’ protestWhile the government has said it will consider making changes to the laws but won’t repeal them, farmers have demanded that they be revoked completely. Both sides have said they won’t budge from their positions. These laws are Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-8th-round-of-talks-with-protesting-farmers-govt-says-hopeful-of-resolving-issues/story-0BCEDTJ0lfj3qtBEaAlG6N.html
08-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Srinagar-Jammu road remains closed due to snowfall and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Srinagar-Jammu national highway closed for 6th dayThe Srinagar-Jammu national highway continued to remain closed for traffic on Friday. Flight operations were resumed at the Srinagar airport on Thursday but people faced problems due to traffic jams on the airport road and adjacent highways. Read morePETA urges Tamil Nadu government to withdraw jallikattu orderPeople for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to withdraw the order to conduct jallikattu (bull taming sport) citing a letter written by 52 doctors from across the country. Read more‘PM Modi should take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine’: Tej Pratap YadavRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap Yadav joined the growing voices of opposition leaders who are against taking the coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine shot when it becomes available in the country. Read more4 wickets, stunning run out of Steve Smith: Ravindra Jadeja, the ‘MVP’ of India does it againRavindra Jadeja was the star of the show as India bowled Australia out for 338 to stage a strong comeback on Day 2 of the India vs Australia third Test in Sydney. Read moreSamantha Akkineni reveals new hobby for the New Year with mind blowing clipMost people make resolutions, try new things and have new hobbies in the New Year. Samantha Akkineni also belongs to this group. Read moreShah Rukh Khan’s fanmade family portrait with Gauri, Aryan, Suhana, AbRam and his parents goes viralShah Rukh Khan lost his parents very early, even before he could become a Bollywood star. While both his parents couldn’t see him attain super stardom or become a father to three kids, a fan art shows all of them in one frame. Read moreDrone captures dolphins ‘showing off to their buddies’. Watch amusing videoIt is always fascinating to watch the videos which showcase the gorgeous creations of nature. Case in point, this video involving a pod of dolphins. Read moreWatch: Army troops help pregnant woman reach hospital amid heavy snowfallAmid heavy snowfall, Army troops helped a pregnant woman in Kupwara reach hospital by carrying her for about 2 km in knee-deep snow before she could be driven to a hospital. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-srinagar-jammu-road-remains-closed-due-to-snowfall-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kNmV9dqBhQLQY8Km7BmQdO.html
08-01-2021||India||Earthquake in Uttarakhand with magnitude 3.3 strikes near Bageshwar||An earthquake of magnitude 3.3 was reported near Bageshwar district in Uttarakhand on Friday morning, according to India’s National Center for Seismology.The earthquake struck at 10:04 am at a depth of 10 km from the surface.National Center for Seismology (NCS) is the nodal agency of the Centre under earth sciences ministry for monitoring of earthquake activity in the country. The hilly districts of Uttarakhand often report earthquakes, mostly low intensity. On December 1, 2020, an earthquake hit Haridwar after a gap of 40 years. The 3.9 magnitude earthquake was reported from Haridwar region at 9:41 am. Experts pointed out that the source of the earthquake was due to stress release in the Himalayan Frontal Fault which is located in this area. On December 8, 2019, Joshimath area was hit by a 3.2 magnitude earthquake. On November 12, 2019, a 4.5 magnitude earthquake was felt in Pithoragarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-in-uttarakhand-with-magnitude-3-3-strikes-near-bageshwar/story-oj4fYReuclZZQss6YxeFTK.html
08-01-2021||India||Srinagar-Jammu national highway closed for 6th day||The Srinagar-Jammu national highway continued to remain closed for traffic on Friday. Flight operations were resumed at the Srinagar airport on Thursday but people faced problems due to traffic jams on the airport road and adjacent highways. “It was chaos outside the airport due to a traffic jam on the highway leading to the airport. It took me four to five hours and a change of several vehicles to reach Batamaloo,” city resident Mohammad Abdullah said. He said many people missed their flights as they couldn’t reach the airport on time.The highway was closed for traffic past Sunday following heavy snowfall and incessant rains which triggered multiple landslides and shooting stones. With the weather improving now, it could be opened soon, said a traffic official. Currently, from Qazigund to Udhampur, there are more than 3,000 vehicles stranded on the national highway.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted that there won’t be fresh snowfall in the next 10 days. The night temperature in Srinagar was recorded at -1.9 degrees Celsius and in Jammu at 11.4 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-jammu-national-highway-closed-for-6th-day/story-MzZa1DwbN24FJznrSmX4cO.html
08-01-2021||India||Ruling alliance in Puducherry begins protest seeking recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi||The ruling Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) in Puducherry on Friday began its four-day long agitation here demanding recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi for allegedly “impeding developmental plans and welfare measures of the elected government.” Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, the lone Lok Sabha Member from Puducherry V Vaithilingam, Congress legislator T Jayamoorthy, leaders of the CPI, CPI(M) and VCK also participated in the protest.Although the SDA had earlier decided to hold the agitation by picketing Raj Nivas (office-cum-residence of the Lt Governor), the venue was shifted to Maraimalai Adigal Salai (more than a km away) as police did not give permission in view of an order in force restricting agitations within 500 metres of Raj Nivas and the Assembly.Leaders and workers of the DMK, an ally of the ruling Congress were not present at the agitation and reason for their absence could not be known immediately.The Centre had already deployed the Central Armed Police Force and the Central Industrial Security Force personnel at vantage points here to maintain law and order.Although the Chief Minister was claiming that the agitation would continue “till Kiran Bedi left Puducherry”, the duration of the stir has been reduced to four days.This is the second time that such an agitation against Bedi is being held herewith the Chief Minister and his ministerial colleagues and leaders of the alliance parties taking part.The earlier stir was held in February 2019 to push the demands for reopening of the closed industries and public sector undertakings and also for smooth operation of the free rice scheme.The present stir is limited to the demand that Bedi be recalled, sources in the Congress said.Narayanasamy and the others earlier garlanded statues ofleaders including former Chief Minister V Venkatasubba Reddiar before arriving at the protest venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruling-alliance-in-puducherry-begins-protest-seeking-recall-of-lt-governor-kiran-bedi/story-ENIKZli8NjRdoncnxD5wQK.html
08-01-2021||India||PETA urges Tamil Nadu government to withdraw jallikattu order||People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to withdraw the order to conduct jallikattu (bull taming sport) citing a letter written by 52 doctors from across the country to chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and health minister C Vijayabhaskar. The letter calls the sport a non-essential activity which will lead to Covid-19 spread.“If huge crowds gather to torment bulls, society will be tormented,” said PETA India research associate Dr Anikta Pandey in a statement. Incidentally, minister for revenue and disaster management RB Udhayakumar on Thursday said that Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, along with senior ministers, will flag-off a jallikattu event in Madurai’s Alanganallur on January 16. He spoke to reporters after inspecting the location. Activists have called this a political decision as Tamil Nadu goes to assembly polls in April or May this year.The letter shared by PETA is signed by doctors and healthcare professionals predominantly from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand besides Tamil Nadu, New Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka. “The highly contagious nature of the disease and the way participants and spectators inevitably come into contact in such mass gatherings, even with precautions planned by the Tamil Nadu government, the risk of infection is high,” the letter from the medical representatives said. On December 23, the state allowed jallikattu to be conducted during the Pongal festival following Covid-19 restrictions. Participants must undergo an RT-PCR test from government recognised labs and submit a negative certificate. The number of players will be limited to 150 per event. The spectators cannot exceed more than 50% of the capacity of the premises so that social distancing norms are followed and all viewers will have to wear masks. All entrants will be screened using a thermal scanner to check body temperature. The doctors’ statement warned that a clinical sample which shows a false-negative could be a source of infection. They added that the state which banned public celebrations from December 31, 2020 to January 1, 2021 should apply a similar logic to this event.In 2017, huge protests erupted across the state for the ban against jallikattu by the Supreme Court to be lifted. The Tamil Nadu government unanimously enacted a legislation to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, to “preserve the cultural heritage and ensure the survival and continuance of native breeds of bulls”. PETA stated that since 2017, at least 22 bulls and 57 people have died while 3,632 people were injured during jallikattu events organised across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peta-urges-tamil-nadu-government-to-withdraw-jallikattu-order/story-SCPKLIHTo8sIy8Il0R7A2L.html
08-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena criticises Bihar govt over rising crime rate, lawlessness||Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ on Friday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party and Nitish Kumar over the increasing crime and deteriorating law and order situation in Bihar.Talking about the recent incident of murder of the 22-year-old son of a teacher in Muzaffarpur, Shiv Sena in its editorial said “The shocking thing in this incident is that the cousin of the deceased is an IPS officer, yet the criminals did not take have fear before executing the incident.”Taking about another incident from Muzaffarnagar itself, where a class 10th girl was raped at gunpoint and when the family reached to the police for an FIR, the police did not take the complaint seriously like all other incidents.This picture is not only of Muzaffarpur but this situation same everywhere in Bihar. Then be it Darbhanga or Jehanabad, Bhagalpur or Araria, Supaul or Purnia or Gopalganj or the capital Patna. Criminals are fearlessly orchestrating a crime in the state, it said.In Bihar, the figures of murders, gangrape, rape, extortion, kidnapping, abducted marriage, molestation and bullying are competing with Uttar Pradesh, if the public starts to feel like this, then there are facts in it, the editorial alleged.Whether it is Chief Minister Nitish Kumar or the Bharatiya Janata Party in power, both do not seem to have any special concern with this ground reality, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece said.Both parties are still engaged in setting mutual political scores. Some are doing political harvesting, while some are making the audio viral and tarnishing the image of the other, it said.The BJP is engaged in gathering the MLAs of its allies and supporters, but as it appears every citizen of Bihar felt as with this exercise it is rapidly losing the trust of its allies and the people of the state. Criminals and mafia are taking advantage of this situation of this anarchy in Bihar, it alleged.The graph of crime organised under the protection of the police is rising rapidly. The rate of crime in Bihar has overtaken the pandemic.The publication goes on to state that the condition in Bihar is that on average, 4 cases of murders and rapes are being reported here every day. According to the SCRB i.e. State Crime Records Bureau, as of September last year, a total of 2,406 murders and 1,106 rapes were reported in the state.During the election, crime was at the top and the government and its associates were busy in play the election game by showing the dream of crime-free Bihar.Even after the elections, crime figures kept on increasing and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar could not do anything beyond the high-level meeting with the police officers.Nitish Kumar has probably realized the worsening situation in the state. So now he is trying to show the fear of CID to police by saying CID has eyes on the law and order situation in the state, on the other hand, by breaking the protocol, he is also interacting with the public on the streets of Patna.The Bihar Chief Minister may get a photo opportunity from this interaction, but to regain the lost faith of the public, he will have to use a stronger dose of vaccine for crime than corona because the statistics have proven that the crime rates ae more as compare to corona in Bihar, it said.Therefore, he should understand that if he is not able to provide safety and security to the crowd in which he is standing and having a photo session with women, students and children and trying to compensate for his political loss, then his future lies in the same crowd of people, the publication added.“It is the wish of all Biharis to have a happy Bihar and to have a vaccine to control both corona and crime. It is also the wish of the people that there is ‘Good Governance’ in Bihar!” it went on to state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-criticizes-bihar-govt-over-rising-crime-rate-lawlessness/story-bclJAqOq6QUeaRrBIrpkkN.html
08-01-2021||India||‘PM Modi should take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine’: Tej Pratap Yadav||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap Yadav joined the growing voices of opposition leaders who are against taking the coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine shot when it becomes available in the country. Yadav said on Friday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should lead and take the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, following which others will also get it.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, then, we will also take it,” said the Bihar politician, reported news agency ANI.The RJD leader’s comments come in the backdrop of staunch disapproval from several leaders from the opposition including Congress’ Manish Tewari and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav.Earlier this week, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said that the state government was all prepared for administering Covid 19 vaccinations across the state.“We are prepared for administering vaccination in Bihar,” he said at a function and spelled out the priority list for Covid-19 vaccination.“The vaccination will be done in accordance with the Centres guidelines and priority will be given to those who are more than 50 years of age or are involved in professions like health care, frontline workers, priority age groups, public representatives, all people engaged in government works, contract workers, shopkeepers, traders and all vulnerable groups, etc.,” the CM had said.Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh have expressed concerns regarding Covaxin, the vaccine made by Bharat Biotech and recently approved by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). “A number of eminent etymologists and other medical practitioners have expressed surprise with regard to the fact that this vaccine has been cleared without phase III trials having been completed,” Tewari said. “This obviously raises questions with regard to the efficacy of the vaccine.”“In other words, those Indians who would be administered Covaxin would, in effect, be volunteers for the required third stage clinical trial - without the mandatory ‘informed consent’. This is, to put it mildly, highly unusual. It is also ethically dubious,” Tharoor said.In a tweet, Ramesh said, “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister @drharshvardhan should clarify.”Congress leader Anand Sharma-led parliamentary standing committee on home affairs has also advised caution in granting emergency approval to the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-should-take-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-tej-pratap-yadav/story-jEZgbspBVHHYSPG3uYpBgI.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Rape could have been avoided if...’: Member of National Commission for Women on Badaun incident||A member of the National Commission for Women (NCW) has said that the rape-murder of the anganwadi worker in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun could have been avoided if the victim had not gone out alone in the evening.“I tell women again and again that they should never go out at odd hours under anyone’s influence,” NCW member Chandramukhi Devi said on Thursday, when she visited the family of the woman.Also Read: Temple priest, prime accused in Badaun rape-murder case, arrested“I think if she had not gone out in the evening or was accompanied by any child of the family perhaps this incident could have been avoided. But this was pre-planned as she was called through a phone call. She went (out) and then returned in such a state,” Devi said.The prime accused in the case, a temple priest, was arrested in a late night crackdown by the police in Thursday along with his two aides.The 50-year-old anganwadi worker, who had gone to a temple on the outskirts of her village, was found dead on Sunday. According to the police complaint, the temple priest and his aides brought her body to her house in a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and told her family members that she fell into the dry well on the temple premises.Also Read: Akhilesh Yadav sets up 3-member panel to ‘probe’ Badaun gang-rape and murderThe victim’s family members accused the temple priest and his aides of raping and murdering her and a case was registered against them.Devi met the family of the victim and took stock of the action taken by officials in the case. The Station House Officer (SHO) of the area has been suspended.The incident was “most sickening and unfortunate”, she said, pointing out that suspending the SHO was not enough. “The incident was most heinous and strict action should be taken. The government is very serious on these matters and yet such incidents take place,” she said.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-could-have-been-avoided-if-member-of-national-commission-for-women-on-badaun-incident/story-2CuCbd6XXBJcF28A25RQrI.html
08-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath’s office faces sealing for violating rules||Authorities were due to resume the process for sealing a building in Chennai on Friday as the Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath (TNTJ) has been using for its activities even as it was meant to run a lungi unit. They had taken police protection to seal the building on Wednesday but the operation was suspended after TNTJ protested saying it was not served any notice.TNTJ, an Islamic organisation founded in 2004, said they have been paying Rs4 lakh rent annually for 12 years to the government-appointed custodian of the property.The Custodian of Enemy Property for India (CEPI), which is empowered to appropriate properties of Pakistani nationals in India, took over the building after its owner, Tuba Khaleeli, settled in Pakistan in the 1960s.Also Read: Wilson murder case: NIA arrests accused man from Chennai airportI Ansari, the group’s state secretary, said TNTJ’s former general sectary R Rehamatullah runs a wholesale lungi business from the building. “...social welfare activities of TNTJ have also been on-going for 12 years. All the rental bills are in his name and we have been ready to purchase this after the 2017 amendment (to the Enemy Property Act, 1968). So how can they suddenly come to seal the building with no notice or prior information? We are readying our legal recourse.”A CEPI official said issuing notices is not part of their procedures. “They [TNTJ] asked for two days... we agreed and that will serve as the notice period. Following that we will seal the building because they have violated the rules.”The Centre in January last year formed a panel to monitor the sale of enemy properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-thowheed-jamath-s-office-faces-sealing-for-violating-rules/story-OqA89KYnSek3TE5Q360NOI.html
08-01-2021||India||Four dead as train on trial run crushes them in Haridwar; Uttarakhand CM order probe||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the Haridwar mishap in which four people died after being run over by a train on Thursday evening. In a tweet, Rawat said the district magistrate (Haridwar) would initiate an inquiry into the incident. He tweeted, “Got the tragic news that some people have died while coming under a train. I express my deep condolences to the kin of those who have died and wish speedy recovery of the injured.” Four people were crushed to death by a train which was on trial run on Laksar-Haridwar railway line on Thursday evening. The accident occurred near Jamalpur railway crossing in the rural segment of Haridwar. An investigation has been ordered by divisional regional manager, Northern Railways, Tarun Prakash, into this accident. Prakash said the accident occurred 200 metres from railway crossing 14 at Jamalpur village. The train was on trial run to test the newly laid Haridwar-Laksar double line track with its speed, which was earlier 50km/hr on single line, being 100 km/hr. Jwalapur station house officer Praveen Koshyari said the bodies of the deceased have been sent for post-mortem and identification process is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-dead-as-train-on-trial-run-crushes-them-in-haridwar-uttarakhand-cm-order-probe/story-AjSPq8okDfJyjUxkuOu3DL.html
08-01-2021||India||UP Congress leaders camp in districts, Priyanka Gandhi monitors progress||In an effort to take the Congress to the grassroots in Uttar Pradesh, a team of about 80 to 100 leaders have begun camping in different districts for the party’s “sangathan srajan” programme, which was launched on January 3. The programme runs till January 25.Under the programme, the party proposes to set up its units in all the 8,000 ‘nyay panchayats’ wards in urban areas to bolster the party’s chances in the state polls to be held next year. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is monitoring the exercise and may soon visit a district in any zone to make an on-the-spot assessment. “We are following the exercise of setting up and holding meetings of nearly 8,000 nyay panchayat units under the programme. This programme has been organised all over the state at the behest of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. We also propose to set up nearly 60,000 village level units by next month,” said UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu who camped in Sultanpur and Faizabad districts on Thursday. Lallu though did not give any programme of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit but said there were indications of her visit to any district soon. Five All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries Jubair Khan, Dheeraj Gujar, Bajirao Khade, Sachin Naik and Rohit Chaudhary along with teams of UPCC office bearers and other youth leaders have also begun camping in districts allotted to them. “We are closely following the exercise. No meeting of nyay panchayat is considered complete unless attendance of party’s representatives of all the villages under the respective nyay panchayat is verified. As nyay panchayats will lead to setting up of nearly 20,575 member committees in 823 blocks of the state the party will have a verified and committed team of more than 28,000 leaders ready at the grassroots level soon,” said UPCC organisation secretary Anil Yadav. Besides setting up the units at nyay panchayat levels, the Congress also proposes to focus on setting up ward units in the cities. Yadav said, “Our city units have begun setting up party structures at the ward levels. We hope to complete the same after completion of nyay panchayat level exercise.” Taking a cue from the exercise being carried out in rural areas the city unit presidents in many districts have already begun setting up ward units. “We have already set up our units in 45 out of 110 wards. We will complete the exercise in all the wards by the deadline,” said Lucknow City Congress Committee president Mukesh Chauhan. As the Congress proposes to change its district president in some districts, the announcement about setting up nyay panchayat units there may be delayed. “Four district units may see new presidents soon. Any announcement about setting up the nyay panchayat units or the ward units in these districts may not be made now,” said an office bearer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-congress-leaders-camp-in-districts-priyanka-gandhi-monitors-progress/story-AN5iL0nnD0PG1vH7ATGlzK.html
08-01-2021||India||Kerala’s spurt in Covid cases due to robust surveillance: Health Minister||After managing to flatten the Covid-19 curve within months of reporting the country’s first coronavirus case last year, Kerala is now grappling with a sharp surge in its daily infections, prompting the Centre to send a high-level team to assist it.However, the state government maintains the “high numbers” are a result of robust surveillance and reporting system, while pointing to its low fatality rate.Close to 40,000 cases have been reported from the southern state in the last week alone, with a daily addition of around 5,000, even as its neighbours and other high prevalence states like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have started seeing a reversal.As of Thursday, Kerala recorded 5,051 new coronavirus cases, including four UK returnees and 5,638 recoveries as the total caseload inched towards the eight lakh mark.The toll stood at 3,234 while the active cases are nearly 65,000.“The rise in the number of cases in the state is due to a robust surveillance and reporting system. We managed to delay the peak of the pandemic and upgraded the threshold of our health system.” “Our ultimate aim is to save the lives of the people and reduce the mortality rate. Even with this high number of cases, we managed to reduce the death rate,” Health Minister KK Shailaja told PTI.She said the upward graph could also be attributed to the recently concluded local body polls, swept by the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF.The state saw the virus curve flatten in April-May last year, even as it witnessed an increase in the cases later in the wake of the return of Keralites from abroad following the lockdown.Shailaja said Kerala managed to maintain a very low case fatality rate in the state even as it was in a vulnerable position with high population density, high number of old-age population and the most number of diabetic patients.“Yes there is an increase in cases due to the recently concluded local body polls and all. But we need to understand that the pandemic is still here and the lockdown restrictions were eased. The most scientific method of approach in connection with a pandemic is to delay the peak of it.” “Many nations faced a shortage of beds as the cases peaked and choked their health system resulting in high mortality rates,” she added.When asked about the state accounting for over 25% of new cases in the country, she said “it is meaningless to say that Kerala’s situation is worse.” “In certain other states, when they reached the peak of the pandemic, thousands had lost their lives and their health systems were choked. It is meaningless to say that Kerala’s situation is worse as we have a high number of positive cases. They are not considering the case fatality rate.“Look at the example of Dharavi (in Mumbai). They have done a good job there. But the pandemic was contained there after nearly 400 deaths,” the minister said.She inissted the state delayed the peak of the pandemic by “maintaining a stable plateau” without a sudden surge in cases and “the advantage is that we could maintain the number of cases within the potential threshold of our health care system giving us breathing space”.By delaying the peak of the pandemic, the government increased the number of ICUs, ventilators in the hospitals and oxygen supply has been ensured to all beds.“Even though there was an increase in the number of cases, it has only taken up 50% of our hospital capacity. Similarly, we are using only 50% of our ICUs, and only 40% of our ventilators are filled. Our case fatality rate is at 0.4%,” she said.On the Centre deputing a team, headed by the Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr SK Singh to support public health interventions for Covid-19 management in Kerala, Shailaja welcomed the move.“It is always good to have a central team visiting the state. We can explain to them the steps taken by us in containing the virus,” she added.Public Health officials of the state say the percentage of active cases is high in Kerala because of the state’s discharge policy which stipulates that the patient should record a negative result before discharge.“Our increased number of cases at this period of time is rather a reflection of our success of implementing the delaying of the peak of the pandemic rather than our failure.That is the way we deal with a pandemic. The only question that will be asked at the end of the pandemic is how many lives we have saved and at what cost,” Dr Mohammed Asheel, Director of Social Security Mission said.A senior public health official from the state told PTI that along with the case fatality rate, “it is equally important to keep the system from being over stretched.” The official said Kerala never had any issue of shortage of beds in ICUs in the hospitals.“We never had any issue of shortage of oxygen. Such lapses are being reported even from developed nations. In Kerala such a situation will never arise as we are all prepared. Still we need our numbers to come down and for that public should take the responsibility,” the official said.While the total virus caseload in the state has mounted to 7,95,933, recoveries have touched 7,28,060 and the active cases stand at 64,445, as of Thursday.At least 1,93,370 people are under observation in various districts, including 11,435 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kerala/kerala-s-spurt-in-covid-cases-due-to-robust-surveillance-health-minister/story-aQQOY72ur7wmBG9ankfu8K.html
08-01-2021||India||India to chair Taliban sanctions committee, to keep focus on terrorists, sponsors||India on Friday took a tacit swipe at Pakistan for backing cross-border terrorism as it announced it would be chairing three key UN sanctions committees, including the Taliban sanctions committee, during 2021-22. TS Tirumurti, India’s envoy to the UN, said the country had been asked to chair three important subsidiary bodies of the Security Council – the Taliban sanctions committee or the 1988 sanctions committee, the counter-terrorism committee and the Libya sanctions committee. The move follows India joining the Security Council as a non-permanent member for 2021-22. India will chair the Taliban sanctions committee – also called the 1988 sanctions committee as it was formed through resolution number 1988 in 2011 by splitting the 1267 sanctions regime on al-Qaeda – at a time when there is growing concern worldwide at alarming levels of violence in Afghanistan that has been blamed on the Taliban. Also Read: Afghanistan busted Chinese spy ring, kept it a secret. NDS chief explains why“The Taliban sanctions committee, also called the 1988 sanctions committee, has always been a high priority for India, keeping in mind our strong interest and commitment to peace, security, development and progress of Afghanistan,” Tirumurti said in a video message. Without naming Pakistan, he added: “Our chairing this committee at this juncture will help keep the focus on the presence of terrorists and their sponsors threatening the peace process in Afghanistan. It has been our view that peace process and violence cannot go hand in hand.” After a recent visit to Pakistan by a Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, videos emerged of the group’s leaders visiting terror training camps on Pakistani soil and meeting injured fighters at a hospital in Karachi. One of the videos showed Baradar – the group’s main negotiator at the peace talks in Doha – telling Taliban members in Karachi that the group makes all decisions related to the peace talks after consulting its leadership and clerics’ council based in Pakistan. Referring to the counter-terrorism committee, which will be chaired by India in 2022, Tirumurti noted that the panel was formed in the aftermath of the 9/11 terror attacks in New York and that India had led it during its last stint as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council during 2011-12. He also noted that India would chair the counter-terrorism committee on the 75th anniversary of the country’s independence. “The chairing of this committee has special resonance of India, which has not only been in the forefront of fighting terrorism, especially cross-border terrorism, but has also been one of its biggest victims,” he said. The Libya sanctions committee, also known as the 1970 sanctions committee, is a “very important subsidiary body” of the Security Council that implements a sanctions regime, including a two-way arms embargo, assets freeze, travel ban and measures to prevent illicit export of petroleum, Tirumurti said. India will chair this committee at a “critical juncture, when there is international focus on Libya and on the peace process” in that country, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-chair-taliban-sanctions-committee-envoy-says-will-keep-focus-on-terrorists-and-sponsors/story-wvqUHFGroJjNu1ivy7g07O.html
08-01-2021||India||Opposition in Kerala boycotts Governor’s address, stages protest outside Assembly||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) opposition on Friday boycotted Governor Arif Mohammad Khan’s address in the Kerala Assembly on the first day of the budget session.The opposition legislators, who came with banners and posters, raised slogans against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Speaker as Khan arrived to deliver his customary address. They said that it was the most corrupt government the state has seen.Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan is facing the opposition ire after the Customs department served a notice to his additional private secretary K Ayyappan in connection with the dollar smuggling case. Ayyappan appeared before the customs team for questioning on Friday morning.The Governor requested the opposition legislators to carry out his constitutional obligation. “I am doing my constitutional duty. It is expected that no obstruction shall be created while the governor is performing his constitutional duty,” Khan said in his address.He then listed the achievements and performances of the Left government in its over four and half year tenure.The opposition then walked out of the Assembly and staged a sit-in in front of the House, raising slogans and displaying banners and posters.Meanwhile, the Governor continued his speech, saying the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has been facing challenges ever since the Covid-19 pandemic struck.Kerala was also the first state to announce a pandemic relief package of Rs 20,000 crore. The southern state also declared floor price of 16 vegetables produced in the state, he said.This is the last session of the government as elections will be held in Kerala in four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-in-kerala-boycotts-governor-s-address-stages-protest-outside-assembly/story-Xad3HTPxqyqkU0QpPsF0LK.html
08-01-2021||India||Man killed for objecting daughter’s harassment, claims family; cops disagree||The family of a 45-year-old man has alleged that he was beaten to death in Bansri village of Etawah district in Uttar Pradesh when he objected to the alleged harassment of his minor daughter by some youths with their family members. Lotan Darzi died while being taken to the district hospital after the attack. Police said they have registered a case of murder against four people on the complaint of the victim’s son, but denied the man was murdered for opposing harassment of his daughter, a class nine student.The police said Darzi was murdered following a monetary dispute. According to the deceased’s family members, his daughter was sweeping the floor outside the house late Wednesday evening when some local youths harassed her. The girl narrated the incident to her father when he returned late in the night. Upset over the incident, Darzi reached the house of Sukhveer Parihar and Beetu Parihar in the village to complain to their family members, said the police complaint. It is alleged that Sukhveer, Beetu and their fathers Lakhan Singh and Udal Singh, respectively, attacked Darzi. He was beaten up badly till he fell unconscious. All the attackers fled the village when Darzi’s family members reached the site. However, superintendent of police (rural) Om Veer Singh said the dispute involved an issue over the buying of pan masala from a shop of Lakhan Singh.The accused are absconding and a man hunt has been launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-killed-for-objecting-daughter-s-harassment-claims-family-cops-disagree/story-OaYOs3paILihm41FQCX3jN.html
08-01-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav seeks reservation proportional to population of castes, accuses BJP of seeking to divide backward classes||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has sought reservation proportional to the population of various castes while accusing the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of seeking to divide backward classes.“The BJP government is trying to divide the other backward classes (OBCs) under backward and most backward categories. As per chief minister Yogi Adityanath, only one caste was getting the benefit of reservation,” he told reporters in Chitrakoot upon his arrival in Bundelkhand to participate in an SP training camp.He called BJP a party of liars and said Adityanath has not given any new project to Chitrakoot. Yadav added Adityanath has only changed the names of his previous SP government schemes to claim the credit.“This airstrip where I am standing was built when my father [Mulayam Singh Yadav] was the chief minister.”Yadav said the government has no concrete Covid-19 vaccination plan and added it should tell the poor when would they get the vaccine. He criticised the government over the law-and-order situation. He added women were unsafe and crimes against them have increased while citing the Badaun rape and murder. Yadav insisted the SP would form the next government in Uttar Pradesh in alliance with smaller parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-seeks-reservation-proportional-to-population-of-castes-accuses-bjp-of-seeking-to-divide-backward-classes/story-eY3sAY4sKheNHNEB4tTOdI.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Vaccine for Indians in next few days’: Union health minister Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan hailed the scientists and doctors for their work in the filed of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine development and said vaccines will be provided to the people of the country in the next few days. He was speaking after visiting the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai to review the arrangements for Covid-19 vaccine dry run which is taking place today.Also Read | 2nd vaccination dry run across the country today: All you need to know“In a short period of time, India has done well by developing vaccines. In the next few days, in the near future, we should be able to give these vaccines to our countrymen. It will be given to our healthcare professional followed by frontline workers,” Dr Harsh Vardhan told reporters. Tamil Nadu Health Minister Dr C Vijayabaskar was also present on the occasion.“We’ve ensured that every detail is conveyed to the people from the national level to the grassroots level. Lakhs of healthcare workers trained and the process continues,” Vardhan added.A dry run was carried out in eight districts on December 28-29 and the first countrywide drill was held on January 2. On Friday, the mock drill will be conducted in as many as 33 states in the second round of nationwide dry run.Also Read: Ahead of 2nd dry run, Centre says vaccine delivery shortly; alerts 4 states as Covid-19 cases spike“On January 2nd, we did dry run in almost 125 districts in the country and today, we are doing it across the country except the three states who did it earlier,” he said. Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Arunachal Pradesh will not be participating in this dry run as they have already conducted them in all their districts.“Request the NGOs working in the field of health to help in the smooth conduct of the Covid-19 vaccination program and mobilisation of beneficiaries in the best possible manner,” he said.The Union minister also said that a three-day national immunisation drive for Polio will begin on January 17. “This is essential to maintain the overall immunity level of our country particularly pertaining to polio,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-for-indians-in-next-few-days-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-cHFLQ9crtvdg9Dbq9ori8M.html
08-01-2021||India||India to chair 3 important committees of UNSC: All you need to know about them||India has been asked to chair three important committees of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), Ambassador of India to UN TS Tirumurti said on Friday.“Happy to announce that Flag of India #India will be chairing 3 key subsidiary bodies of @UN #SecurityCouncil during #IndiainUNSC (2021-22): Taliban sanctions committee, #CounterTerrorism committee (for 2022), #Libya sanctions committee,” TS Tirumurti tweeted.India began its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on Monday with the stated objective of raising its voice against terrorism, speaking for the developing world and bringing human-centric inclusive solutions to matters of global peace and security.Here is everything you need to know about the committees that India will chair and why they are important.• Tirumurti said the Taliban Sanctions Committee has always been a high priority for India. Chairing this Committee at this juncture will help keep the focus on the presence of terrorists and their sponsors, threatening the peace process in Afghanistan, he added. It is also called the 1988 Sanctions Committee.• The Libya Sanctions Committee is a very important subsidiary body of the council, which implements the sanctions regime, including a two-way arms embargo on Libya, an assets freeze, a travel ban, measures on illicit export of petroleum. “We will be assuming the Chair of this Committee at a critical juncture when there is an international focus on Libya and on their peace process,” Tirumurti said in a video message.• India will also chair the Counterterrorism Committee in 2022, which coincides with the 75th Anniversary of India’s Independence. It was formed in September 2001 soon after the tragic terrorist attack of 9/11 in New York. India had chaired this committee in the Security Council in 2011-12. “The chairing of this Committee has a special resonance for India, which has not only been at the forefront of fighting terrorism, especially cross-border terrorism but has also been one of its biggest victims,” said Tirumurti.India won the eighth term in an election last June securing 184 of the 192 votes cast. It was last on the council in a two-year term ending 2012. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-chair-3-important-committees-of-unsc-all-you-need-to-know-about-them/story-nIIB8a11mVJCnr98OoCfvN.html
08-01-2021||India||JD(U), BJP discuss Bihar cabinet expansion, 1st meeting since Arunachal jolt||BJP’s Bihar in-charge Bhupender Yadav, and its Bihar state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, the two BJP deputy CMs met chief minister Nitish Kumar to discuss cabinet expansion and council polls days after the split suffered by Nitish Kumar’s party in Arunachal Pradesh where all but one MLA of the party crossed over to the BJP.The JD (U) had won seven seats in the assembly polls held last year in Arunachal Pradesh and had become the main opposition group while the BJP had achieved power.The meeting assumes significance as it was the first meeting of senior leaders of two alliance partners post Arunachal Pradesh developments.NDA sources said that discussion between the two parties centered on proposed ministerial expansion which will take place after January 14 and Legislative Council polls for two seats scheduled on January 28. The seats had fallen vacant after the election of Sushil Kumar Modi to Rajya Sabha and election of MLC Binod Narayan Jha to the Legislative Assembly. Though both the seats belong to BJP quota, NDA sources say, they can go to JD (U) to accommodate ministers Ashok Chowdhary and VIP leader Mukesh Sahani. Earlier, in the afternoon, Yadav and Jaiswal had a closed-door meeting with JD (U) national president R C P Singh at JD (U) party office for 30 minutes. “It was a normal courtesy call. RCP Singh has been elected as the national president of JD(U). I came to congratulate him on the behalf of my party. He has a long administrative and organisational experience,” Yadav said after meeting Singh.The JD (U) reciprocated the gesture by downplaying the Arunachal developments.“We are not sad. We are never sad and live happily,” said Singh after the meeting. “Everything (cabinet expansion) will be done at the right time. Top leadership is in touch with the chief minister,” he added. Yadav said that no other matter was discussed. “The NDA government under Nitish Kumar is strong. The issue of cabinet expansion is not a big issue. Everything will be done at an appropriate time,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-bjp-discuss-bihar-cabinet-expansion-1st-meeting-since-arunachal-jolt/story-0Ddb4xO6ZZXYExNFYSZWIM.html
08-01-2021||India||18,139 new Covid-19 cases push India’s tally to above 10.4 million||India recorded 18,139 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update on Friday. With this, the nationwide tally reached 10,413,417.The number of active cases stood at 2,25,449. After a marginal rise on Thursday, the active cases declined by 2,634, according to health ministry update at 8 am.The disease claimed 234 lives in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 1,50,570.The government is holding a dry run today, to prepare health authorities ahead of the official roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine which is expected in a few days. The second nationwide dry run will take place in 33 states and Union Territories (UTs).Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan interacted with the ministers and principal secretaries/additional chief secretaries of the states/UTs on Thursday to review the preparedness for today’s dry run.Also Read: Latest updates on Covid-19 vaccinesThe objective of the mock drill is to simulate the actual vaccine administration event. The health ministry said that the entire planning of the vaccination drive, including beneficiary registration, micro-planning and vaccination at the planned session site, will be tested under the leadership of District Collector/District Magistrate.As per the health ministry, 19 states and UTs would receive the Covid-19 vaccine through their suppliers while the remaining 18 states/UTs will get the vaccine through Government Medical Store Depot (GMSDs).The immunisation of healthcare and frontline workers in national capital Delhi is likely to begin by Wednesday, with the first batch of vaccines expected to arrive in the city soon, according to state government officials who are involved in the vaccination drive.Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine Covishield, manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India, is likely to be the first vaccine to become available in Delhi.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-139-new-covid-19-cases-push-india-s-tally-to-above-10-4-million/story-faJ8CBdDnKlPOpS7jZgdWK.html
08-01-2021||India||US to modify H1B visa selection process, to give priority to wages, skill level||The United States on Thursday announced that it will modify the selection process for H-1B visa, giving priority to salary and skills instead of the current lottery procedures. The final rule to be published in the federal register on January 8, officials said, is aimed to protect the economic interests of US workers and better ensure the most highly skilled foreign workers benefit from the temporary employment programme. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. Modifying the H-1B cap selection process will incentivise employers to offer higher salaries, and/or petition for higher-skilled positions, and establish a more certain path for businesses to achieve personnel needs and remain globally competitive, said US Citizenship and Immigration Services. The final rule will be effective 60 days after its publication in the Federal Register. The next H-1B visa filing season is slated to start on April 1. “The H-1B temporary visa programme has been exploited and abused by employers primarily seeking to fill entry-level positions and reduce overall business costs,” said USCIS Deputy Director for Policy Joseph Edlow. “The current H-1B random selection process makes it difficult for businesses to plan their hiring, fails to leverage the programme to compete for the best and brightest international workforce, and has predominantly resulted in the annual influx of foreign labor placed in low-wage positions at the expense of US workers,” he said. This effort will only affect H-1B registrations (or petitions, if the registration process is suspended) submitted by prospective petitioners seeking to file H-1B cap-subject petitions. It will be implemented for both the H-1B regular cap and the H-1B advanced degree exemption, but it will not change the order of selection between the two as established by the H-1B registration final rule, USCIS said. The Department of Homeland Security had previously published a notice of proposed rulemaking on November 2, 2020. It carefully considered the public comments received before deciding to publish the proposed regulations as a final rule, USCIS said. According to the final rule, a version of which was released by Department of Homeland Security, Instead, a registration system that faithfully implements the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) while prioritising registrations based on wage level within each cap will incentivize H-1B employers to offer higher wages, or to petition for positions requiring higher skills and higher-skilled aliens that are commensurate with higher wage levels, to increase the likelihood of selection and eligibility to file an H-1B cap-subject petition. Moreover, it will maximize H-1B cap allocations, so that they more likely will go to the best and brightest workers; and it will disincentivise abuse of the H-1B programme to fill relatively lower-paid, lower-skilled positions, which is a significant problem under the present selection system, it said. “While administering a random lottery system is reasonable, it is inconsiderate of Congress’s statutory purposes for the H-1B program and its administration,” said the final rule. The changes in this final rule will apply to all registrations, including those for the advanced degree exemption, submitted on or after the effective date of the final rule. As per Congressional-mandated cap, USCIS in one year can issue a maximum of 65,000 H-1B visas. It can also issue another 20,000 H-1B visas to those foreign students who have completed higher studies from a US university in STEM subjects. During the public notice period, the department said, several commenters expressed support for the rule and the need to stop visa fraud, abuse, and flooding of petitions by certain staffing or consulting companies. One commenter said the proposed rule would disincentivize companies from abusing the H-1B programme and harming US workers. Other commenters said the proposed rule would decrease potential visa abuse by employers and make sure all workers were paid according to their skillset as employers no longer would be able to lower labor expenses by hiring foreign workers. Another said that the proposed rule would have a positive impact on US employees and college educated US citizens who take out loans for their education by making it harder for technology companies to discriminate against US citizens; US workers are being laid off in large numbers because corporations are outsourcing for profits; and the proposed rule is necessary because Indian corporations are acquiring US jobs, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-modify-h1b-visa-selection-process-to-give-priority-to-wages-skill-level/story-fyrRZuRcyQqpbQzFsdvUyJ.html
08-01-2021||India||No bird flu cases in Odisha, people can consume poultry products: Govt||Amid bird flu scare following the death of over 100 poultry birds in Khordha district, the Odisha government on Thursday asked people not to panic over the incident as the avian influenza virus test came negative in all five selected samples.The Fisheries and Animal Resource Development Department in a statement said that people can consume chicken meat, eggs and other poultry products produced in the state after properly cooking them.Panic sparked after around 120 poultry birds were found dead at Govindpur village of Badaberana Gram Panchayat under Begunia block of Khurdha District.“A State Level Special Supervisory Team along with the District Level Rapid Response Teams rushed to the Govindpur village and took stock of the situation. Five of the dead birds have been taken to ADRI for laboratory investigation,” an official said.“All five samples have been tested negative for Avian Influenza virus based on the Avian Influenza virus antigen test,” he said adding that rest of the dead birds was buried in deep burial method with proper disinfection measures.The Special Supervisory Team and Rapid Response Teams have sanitised the farm premises with proper application of disinfectants, he said.The official also said that there is no other case of death of birds in the surrounding area of the farm. However, more samples have been taken from adjoining areas for testing, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-bird-flu-cases-in-odisha-people-can-consume-poultry-products-govt/story-JdKRMmNrnK3Tn2zv0UgeIM.html
08-01-2021||India||Eighth round of talks between Centre, farmer leaders today: All you need to know||The eighth round of talks between the Centre and farmer leaders over the three farm laws enacted in September are scheduled for Friday even as protests over the legislation continue. Here is all that you need to know about the laws, protests and the talks:1. The seventh round of talks over the scrapping of the laws ended in a stalemate on Monday as three Union ministers leading the negotiations said it was impossible for them to commit to a rollback of the legislation without wider consultations.2. The two sides agreed to continue the talks on January 8 (Friday) even as farm unions hardened their stand, saying farmers will drive into Delhi in their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands of scrapping the laws are not met by January 26.Also Read: Tractor march, ‘healthy discussion’: Where farmers’ protest stands ahead of 8th meeting3. Tens of thousands of farmers on tractors held a rally near New Delhi on Thursday to build pressure on the government ahead of Republic Day.4. Farm union leaders have said they were prepared to intensify their agitation as the government has not been prepared to budge.5. The government has ruled out a repeal of the laws and asked farm unions to point out what they considered objectionable in the legislation.6. It has also sought to discuss the demand of a law guaranteeing assured prices for 23 farm commodities known as minimum support prices (MSP).7. The government has told farm leaders that it will review any clause farmers have a problem with but farms leaders have insisted on repealing the laws and bringing a law guaranteeing MSP.8. Some headway was made in the sixth round of talks on December 30 as the Centre agreed to exempt farmers from heavy fines for crop-residue burning as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance.9. The government promised to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use. The discussion on demands of the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of MSP were deferred till January 8.10. Farmers launched one of the biggest strikes in decades last month to force the Centre to revoke the three laws.11. The laws change the way farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old government marketplaces.12. They allow traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.13. Farmer leaders have said the government’s “ego problem” was coming in the way of resolving the issues.14. They have insisted they would not relent on their key demands for the repeal and a legal guarantee for MSP as thousands of farmers have hunkered down at various Delhi border points for over a month against the laws.15. The protesting farmers have stayed put despite heavy rains and water logging at protest sites besides severe cold weather conditions saying the laws favour big corporations at their cost.16. Farm leaders have said they will implement their new protest agenda, which includes picketing of governor houses, toll plazas and boycott of goods and services of the Reliance and Adani groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eighth-round-of-talks-between-centre-farmer-leaders-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-qWJb6izV7v1x0F6MWCK2iK.html
08-01-2021||India||Bodies of tiger cub, wild boar recovered from well in MP’s Sehore district||Carcasses of a tiger cub and a wild boar were found in a well in Sehore district, 37 km south of Bhopal, on Wednesday night, said a forest official. Sehore divisional forest officer Ramesh Ganawa said, “The carcasses of a one-year-old cub and a wild boar were found in a well in Dungaria village of the district, about 20 km from Ratapani Wildlife Sanctuary which houses more than 40 tigers.” All the body parts of the animals were intact and veterinary doctors ruled out the possibility of death by electrocution or poisoning, said the DFO. The DFO said, “This might be an accident as the well doesn’t have a parapet. They might have fallen in the well accidentally but the real cause of death will be ascertained only after an investigation.” After post mortem, the carcasses were disposed of, said the DFO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-tiger-cub-wild-boar-recovered-from-well-in-mp-s-sehore-district/story-YVnsejM3paYRArodip0PyN.html
08-01-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: After crows, poultry samples test positive for bird flu||Two samples of poultry tested positive for the avian influenza virus in two districts of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, said an official from the animal husbandry department. This is the first instance of bird flu in poultry in the state. The district administrations of Indore and Neemuch sent samples of poultry to the laboratory of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal on Wednesday and the positive reports came on Thursday, said JN Kansotia, principal secretary, animal husbandry department. Though the virus found in the poultry is H8N as per the institute’s report, Kansotia said the exact strain (whether N5 or N1 or some other strain) was yet to be known. Also Read: No bird flu cases in Delhi yet, sample collection ordered to check spreadThe state government issued an order to shut poultry shops within a radius of 1km of the affected areas in Indore and Neemuch for seven days, as per Kansotia. However, in Neemuch, the district administration decided to order the closure of all meat and eggs shops in the district and sent more samples of poultry to Bhopal for a test. “Two days ago, 40 crows were found dead in Neemuch but bird flu is yet to be confirmed in the crows. As a precautionary measure, we ordered closing of all the meat and eggs shops in Neemuch,” said Jittendra Singh Raje, district collector, Neemuch. Bird flu was confirmed in crows in 11 districts of MP. The H5N8 strain of Avian influenza caused the death of more than 700 crows in MP, according to animal husbandry department’s data. The state government has set up a central control room at State Disease Investigation Lab of Animal Husbandry department at Bhopal with the phone number 0755-2767583 . Another control room at the state level has been set up in the directorate of animal husbandry department with the phone number 0755-2270279, as per an official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-after-crows-poultry-samples-test-positive-for-bird-flu/story-4rWCKR8GOa3kYdPn43cgVM.html
08-01-2021||India||Temple priest, prime accused in Badaun rape-murder case, arrested||A temple priest, the prime accused in the rape-murder of an anganwadi helper in Badaun, was arrested on Thursday night, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan. According to the police, the priest was hiding in the village where the heinous crime took place.Hindustan quoted police officials as saying that the priest was about to leave the village when the locals apprehended him and handed him over to the cops. A cash reward Rs 50,000 was announced for his arrest.The priest used to live in the temple where the woman was gang-raped and murdered on Sunday night. He was booked along with his two aides for the ghastly crime. The aides were arrested on Wednesday.According to the police, the priest is a native of Aonla area of Bareilly district. He moved to Badaun seven years ago and started living in the temple.As per the police complaint, the woman went to the temple located on the outskirts of her village on Sunday afternoon and did not return. Later, in the night, the priest and his two aides brought her body to her house in a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and informed the family members that she fell into the dry well on the temple premises. They then left the place hurriedly.The family members, however, informed police and the body was taken for a post-mortem examination on Monday evening. The post-mortem report confirmed rape. The woman suffered a rib fracture and her left lung was also damaged because of heavy force, the post-mortem report further said.Chief medical officer, Badaun, Dr Yashpal Singh said the woman died of trauma and excessive bleeding.Meanwhile, a team from the National Commission for Women (NCW) on Thursday met the family members of the woman. NCW member Chandramukhi Devi, who arrived here on Wednesday night after the panel took note of the incident, met officials and took stock of the action taken in this connection.The Station House Officer (SHO) of the area has been suspended for dereliction of duty. The district magistrate has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the family of the deceased.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed authorities to take the strongest legal action against the accused and instructed ADG Zone, Bareilly to submit a report. He also instructed the UP Special Task Force to assist in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-priest-prime-accused-in-badaun-rape-murder-case-arrested/story-bcVPLgObdTcD5x0afHq3GP.html
08-01-2021||India||India to hold second nationwide Covid-19 vaccination dry run today||A second nationwide drill to test the country’s preparedness for conducting a mammoth Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive is set to be conducted on Friday across 737 districts in 33 states and Union Territories. Friday’s drill will be the largest undertaken in the country so far. The first countrywide drill that was held on January 2 covered 74 districts. The first dry run was carried out in just eight districts in four states on December 28-29. “The lessons learnt from the earlier exercises will be made use of to execute another dry run. Whatever was lacking earlier has been rectified, and will be tested in Friday’s dry run,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told states and Union Territories in an online meeting on Thursday.The planning of the vaccination drive, including beneficiary registration, microplanning and vaccination at the planned session site, will be tested under the leadership of district collector or district magistrate. Also read | Third vaccination dry run covering all 11 districts of Delhi todayThe dry run will also familiarise the state, district, block and hospital level officers on all aspects of Covid-19 roll-out. This activity is aimed to help administrators in strengthening the linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms, identification of any residual challenges prior to the actual implementation and to provide confidence to the programme managers at all levels to carry out a smooth implementation of the vaccination drive. The exercise is to test the Co-WIN digital platform, which is the backbone of Covid-19 vaccine delivery management system, to provide real time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. At least 7.8million beneficiaries have already been registered on the platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-hold-second-nationwide-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-today/story-cJ46bNOLE7UaYt6CnXiRvO.html
08-01-2021||India||Snowfall warning for hills; light rain likely in NW plains today||Rain and snowfall is likely today over the Western Himalayas and light rain is expected in some parts of the northwestern plains including Punjab, Haryana, northeast Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over western parts of Afghanistan, snowfall in the hills and light rain is likely in the plains today.Due to a cyclonic circulation over southeast Arabian Sea and another cyclonic circulation over south Tamil Nadu coast, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls and moderate thunderstorm and lightning is likely over the southern peninsular India during the next 2-3 days. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Kerala, Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next 24 hours.Under the influence of a trough (area of low pressure) in low level easterlies from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast in lower tropospheric levels; isolated to scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Maharashtra during the next 2 days.Over northwest India, the minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 3 to 4 degree Celsius over most parts during the next 4-5 days. Cold wave conditions are likely over Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan on January 8 and 9.Due to abundant moisture available and other favourable meteorological features, dense to very dense fog is likely over parts of Punjab and Haryana and dense fog over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, north Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh is likely today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-warning-for-hills-light-rain-likely-in-northwestern-plains-today/story-yUgi17KNfVF8nTuhvoHEhL.html
08-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest updates: AAP to install Wi-Fi hotspots at Tikri border for protesters||The ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws entered day 44 on Friday, when the eighth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders took place. This meeting remained inconclusive too as the Centre told the protesting farmers that it will not repeal the three laws- which were passed by the parliament in September. The next round of discussions will be held on January 15. Thousands of armers have been camping at border points in Delhi and neighbouring states since November 26. Meanwhile, Hannan Mollah, General Secretary, All India Kisan Sabha said on Friday that the protesting farmers don’t want anything other than the repeal of the farm laws. “ There was a heated discussion, we said we don’t want anything other than repeal of laws. We won’t go to any Court, this (repeal) will either be done or we’ll continue to fight. Our parade on 26th Jan will go on as planned,” he said. Also Read | Farmers’ protest updates: Thursday’s event a rehearsal for January 26 tractor march, says farm leaderSeveral rounds of between the two sides held earlier have failed to resolve the deadlock, with the government firm the laws won’t be repealed, while the farmers are adamant on a complete rollback. The sixth round of talks, on December 30, had ignited hopes of a resolution as the two sides arrived at a consensus on two of the farmers’ four demands. However, nothing came out of the seventh round on January 4, with a legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and a total repeal of the three laws being the two sticking points. The government has offered making amendments to the laws, as well as forming committee comprising members from both sides to review these but the proposals have been rejected by the farmers.Follow all live updates from day 44 of anti-farm law protests here:AAP to install Wi-Fi hotspots at Tikri border for protestersAAP leader Raghav Chadha said on Friday that the party had started installing Wi-Fi hotspots at the Tikri border for the protesting farmers after the same was done at the Singh border. “After Singhu Border, Sewadaar @ArvindKejriwal’s WiFi sewa reaches Tikri Border. Free WiFi Hotspot installation in full swing at Tikri,” Chadha tweeted.Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over handling of farmers’ issuesCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government regarding the handling of farmers’ issues in the state. In a tweet today, Gandhi shared a video in which police and other administrative officials could be seen arguing with a Sikh man who is a farmer.A solution would’ve been reached if repealing of laws was the only issue; several other issues to be addressed: Haryana CM KhattarHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday that he was hopeful that a solution could be reached in the next round of talks on January 15. He however pointed out that if repealing of laws was the only issue, a solution would have been reached. Govt ready to consider any option presented by farmers other than repeal of laws: Agriculture ministerUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that a discussion was held regarding the farm laws but no decision could be taken. He further added that the government was ready to consider any option presented by the protesting farmers other than the of the removal of the laws.  Those supporting the protest are of the view that the laws be repealed & there are many others who support the laws. Govt is continuously talking to the unions who want these laws be repealed. We also give appointment to those supporting the laws, when they request us: Agri Min https://t.co/xL7q2BlF2a pic.twitter.com/5gD2OyWzdsDon’t want anything other than repeal of laws: Farmer leaderWith the eighth rounds of talks ending between the Centre and the farmers’ unions, Hannan Mollah, General Secretary, All India Kisan Sabha said on Friday that the protesting farmers don’t want anything other than the repeal of the farm laws.  There was a heated discussion, we said we don't want anything other than repeal of laws. We won't go to any Court, this (repeal) will either be done or we'll continue to fight. Our parade on 26th Jan will go on as planned: Hannan Mollah, General Secretary, All India Kisan Sabha pic.twitter.com/uzuckdI8DMEight round of talks between Centre, farmers’ unions concludes, next round to be held on Jan 15Friday’s meeting between the Union ministers and the farmers’ unions remained inconclusive as the former was firm that the new farm laws will not be repealed. Another meeting between the two sides will take place on January 15 as the standoff has entered day 44. Centre tells farmers’ unions it cannot repeal farm laws amid ongoing discussionsThe Centre on Friday remained firm on its stand and told farmers’ unions during the eight round of talks that the three new farm laws, which were passed by Parliament in September, could not repealed. Eighth round of talks beginsEighth round of talks between Centre-farm union leaders begins.Narendra Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive for talks with farmersUnion ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive at Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with farmer leaders. Delhi: Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive at Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with farmer leaders pic.twitter.com/4yYZrwaorYCongress MPs, protesting against farm laws, meet Priyanka Gandhi VadraCongress MPs and leaders, protesting against Centre’s three farm laws at Jantar Mantar, meet Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at Rahul Gandhi’s residence.Each side needs to take step to find solution: Agriculture minister Tomar“I am hopeful that talks will be held in a positive atmosphere and a solution will be found. During discussions, each side has to take steps to reach a solution,” says Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Hopeful for a resolution today, says BKU’s Rakesh Tikait“We’re going for talks with the hope that there will be a resolution today,” says Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson.Hope for best, prepare for worst: Hannan Mollah, farmers’ leader“The minister yesterday categorically declared that repeal of farm laws not accepted. I don’t know what will happen during the discussions today. Anyway, we hope for the best and prepare for the worst,” says Hannan Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).Farmer leaders leave for eighth round of talksFarmer leaders from Singhu border leave for Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi for the eighth round of talks with the Centre on farm laws. Haryana: Farmer leaders from Singhu border leave for Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi for the eighth round of talks with the Union Government on farm laws pic.twitter.com/ai1vd8VN9KNo scope of clause wise talks, says farmer “There is no scope of clause-wise talks. The government should hold a meeting to repeal these laws today itself,” says Balvinder Singh Raju, a farmer.Solution possible if clause by clause talks are held, says union minister Kailash Chaudhary“A solution will be found when clause by clause talks are held with farmers. Government of India is ready to make amendments in the laws. We are hopeful of resolution,” says MoS (agriculture) Kailash Choudhary.Peaceful protests integral part of democracy: Rahul Gandhi“Peaceful protests are an integral part of democracy. The movement which our farmers are have launched is getting support from all over the country. You too should raise your voice in support of them so that this anti-farmers’ law ends,” tweets Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. शांतिपूर्ण आंदोलन लोकतंत्र का एक अभिन्न हिस्सा होता है। हमारे किसान बहन-भाई जो आंदोलन कर रहे हैं, उसे देश भर से समर्थन मिल रहा है।आप भी उनके समर्थन में अपनी आवाज़ जोड़कर इस संघर्ष को बुलंद कीजिए ताकि कृषि-विरोधी क़ानून ख़त्म हों।#किसान_के_लिए_बोले_भारत pic.twitter.com/fT7ujHPg3gDelhi’s borders with UP and Haryana remain closedDelhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur, as well as those with Haryana at Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli, and Mangesh, remain shut due to the farmers’ agitation.Also Read | Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers’ protest, traffic diverted8th round of talks to take place at 2pm todayThe eighth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders will take place at 2pm on Friday. The seventh round, held on January 4, too, had failed to end the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-8-2021/story-ZPjVdCVWDXQLc21NA3dRZI.html
08-01-2021||India||2nd vaccination dry run across the country today: All you need to know||The second phase of nationwide coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccination dry run, the largest such drill undertaken so far, will be conducted across 33 states and Union Territories (UTs) on Friday. A dry run was carried out in eight districts on December 28-29 and the first countrywide drill covering 74 districts was held on January 2.Also Read: Ahead of 2nd dry run, Centre says vaccine delivery shortly; alerts 4 states as Covid-19 cases spike“The lessons learnt from the earlier exercise will be made use to execute another dry run. Whatever was lacking earlier has been rectified, and will be tested in Friday’s dry run,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told states and UTs in a meeting on Thursday.Here is all you need to know about the coronavirus vaccine dry run:- The process began days after India’s drug regulator gave its clearance for two Covid-19 vaccines -  Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.- The dry run on Friday will be conducted across 737 districts of the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage-  All participating districts will identify three types of sessions for the mock drive: district hospital, medical college/private health facility, urban/rural outreach. Following this, beneficiary registration, micro-planning and vaccination will take place. Then, site organisers will have to hold review meetings after the session to gather feedback, Vardhan has said.- Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Arunachal Pradesh will not be participating in this dry run as they have already conducted it in all their districts.- Vardhan has asked state health ministers to submit their inputs after the dry run gets completed.- According to a statement issued by the Union health ministry, states and UTs are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccines shortly. The mock drills being conducted are aimed at familiarising district and block-level officials with the process of Covid-19 roll-out and vaccination.- The Co-WIN digital platform, government’s Covid-19 vaccination online portal, will also be tested through these exercises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-vaccination-dry-run-across-the-country-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-c9Cg2lR5Na4e9c7NwQ5tHJ.html
08-01-2021||India||Fresh round of farmer-govt talks on three laws today||Farmers on protest for over a month demanding the scrapping of three agricultural laws will hold their eighth round of negotiations with the government on Friday. The government has refused to roll back the laws farmers say will hurt their incomes; the last round of talks on January 4 failed to end the impasse. On Friday, thousands of farmers staged a tractor march from their camps on Delhi’s borders to converge on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway, ahead of a planned march to the Capital on Republic Day. “There are media reports doing the rounds that the government has formulated a new proposal. There is no such thing. This is a game to divert media attention away from our successful tractor march today,” said Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India and a leader of the farmers’ agitation. At the seventh round of talks on January 4, while the farmers pressed government to repeal the three agricultural laws approved by Parliament in September, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said it was not possible to commit to a repeal. “...we are again reminding the government ahead of tomorrow’s meeting that these laws should be completely repealed and remunerative MSP should be made into a legal right of all farmers,” Darshan Pal, a farmers’ leader, said. “...the farmers’ agitation will continue and we will enter the capital to celebrate Republic Day without disturbing the official parade if our demands are not met,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. “The government is ready to fulfil all the demands. But farmers are now saying that the laws be repealed...I think farmer unions don’t want a solution. I think their plan is something else,” Punjab BJP leader Surjit Kumar Jyani said after meeting home minister Amit Shah.Analysts say the government and farmers have to find a middle ground. “The repeal of the laws has to be a political call but it is possible to devise mechanisms such as price deficiency payments...,” said RS Mani, a former economist with Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-round-of-farmer-govt-talks-on-three-laws-today/story-klMkODrCD5izPUnwmoQCoL.html
08-01-2021||India||Cops book protesters, Cong leaders for rioting||A day after clashes broke out between protesting residents and the Goa Police, an uneasy calm prevailed in Xel-Melaulim village where the government has proposed setting up an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Goa campus on one million square metres of land. The Goa administration kept a strong police force of over 800 personnel on standby while officials remained huddled in series of meetings in a bid to work out a solution to the deadlock.The villagers, who had besieged the local Valpoi police station on Wednesday, too decided to call off a fresh protest.On Thursday, the Goa Police filed FIRs against a person identified as Vishwesh Prabhu and other unnamed persons for inciting, rioting and preventing government officials from conducting their duties, along with some Congress leaders. “The Valpoi police booked Congress’s Goa unit general secretary Sankalp Amonkar, party’s Valpoi block president Dasharath Mandrekar, the block’s women’s cell chief Roshan Desai and social activists Rama Kankonkar, Ranjeet Rane and others for instigating the crowd,” a senior police official said.The protesting villagers, who have set up a blockade at the entrance to the proposed site for the IIT, have for several months now been refusing to allow government surveyors to demarcate the land to be handed over for the construction of an IIT. Things reached a head on Tuesday when villagers forced surveyors to retreat. When the villagers continued to squat on the site on Wednesday, the police charged them with batons, which led to clashes. The Goa government has claimed that since it is government revenue land, ownership claims by villagers have no legal basis. Villagers have said that it was a colonial injustice that the government has continued in denying them rights to forested land that have sustained their families for generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-book-protesters-cong-leaders-for-rioting/story-UB8xtDXvQ2MQ5BPo6jCYYI.html
08-01-2021||India||SC cites Tablighi event, asks whether protesting farmers safe from Covid||The Supreme Court on Thursday cited a large congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Delhi in March that was blamed for a sharp increase in Covid-19 infections and asked the Centre what guidelines had been put in place to prevent a similar situation at the farmers’ protest sites on the Capital’s borders. It issued a notice seeking the Centre’s reply within two weeks. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde remarked: “This same problem is going to arise during the farmers’ protest. We do not know if farmers are being protected from Covid. What guidelines have you issued for prevention of such things?” “Have you learnt from your experience in handling this [Jamaat] event? Have you found out how it happened?” the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre. Thousands of farmers have massed on Delhi’s borders since November 26 to protest against three laws seeking to open up agricultural markets that cultivators say would hurt their interests, weaken their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of large agribusinesses. Mehta told the bench that an investigation of the Jamaat congregation was still underway by Delhi Police. He added that guidelines seeking to curb large gatherings were in place and sought two weeks to file a reply. The remarks were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation by Jammu-based lawyer Supriya Pandita for a CBI probe into the Jamaat gathering. Pandita’s lawyer, OP Parihar, cited the Jamaat gathering and added that the group’s chief Maulana Saad had not yet been arrested. The bench said it is not interested in one person. “We are interested in ensuring Covid guidelines are prepared and implemented.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-cites-tablighi-event-asks-whether-protesting-farmers-safe-from-covid/story-imZioGQswH6BHSPStRf96L.html
08-01-2021||India||‘For collective good’: UP defends ‘love jihad’||Community interest trumps an individual’s right to choose a life partner and the foremost duty of a secular state is to protect citizens from unlawful conversions, the Uttar Pradesh government told the Allahabad high court on Thursday, defending a contentious new anti-conversion law that critics allege violates constitutional rights.In an affidavit responding to a clutch of public interest litigations (PILs) challenging the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020, the state government said community and social interest are on a much higher pedestal than the right of two people to enter into wedlock.“When there is fear psychosis spread in the community at large and the community itself is endangered and succumbs to the pressure resulting in forceful conversion…it becomes necessary that the interest of the community as a whole requires protection and no microanalysis of individual interest can be looked into,” the affidavit, which HT has seen, read. “Community interest will always prevail over the individual interest.” The affidavit was submitted before a bench led by chief justice Govind Mathur. The UP ordinance was enacted on November 24 and prescribes a jail term up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversion under marriage, fraud, coercion or enticement. The law came into force days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath promised to fight against “love jihad”, a term used by some Hindu groups to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. Several activists and legal experts have argued that the law could be used to target Muslims and infringed on the fundamental rights to equality, freedom of religion, and life and personal liberty.But the 35-page affidavit contended that the law sought to protect the dignity and interest of a woman while she exercised her right of persona liberty and chose a life partner. It also said that the people were feeling safe after the legislation came into force. “Once two adults agree to enter into a wedlock but if there is a fear psychosis in the community, then it is about the community interest rather than community thinking.This community interest is on a much higher pedestal than agreement of two individuals to enter into a wedlock,” the document read. “Community interest is synonymous to social interest which is equivalent to public interest.”The state’s additional advocate general Manish Goyal requested the case be adjourned indefinitely since the Supreme Court also issued notices on similar petitions on Wednesday. This plea was opposed by petitioners’ lawyers Devesh Saxena and Shashwat Anand. The bench proceeded to turn down the state government’s request, observing pendency of the matter before the apex court cannot be the sole reason for the high court to keep its hands off the case. The bench fixed the matter for a hearing on January 15. The state government also pointed out that the words “love jihad” were nowhere used in the ordinance and claimed the law was equally applicable to all forms of forced conversion, not just to interfaith marriages.“Thinking of family or community is not the foundation but the interest of the community and interest to keep the family safe, and as a consequence, the entire social fabric in a balanced position is the objective, for which the consent of two adult individuals has to be regulated. In this regard, there being no existing law in the state of UP, the present legislation seeks to cure the mischief...In fact, people have reposed faith and are feeling safe after coming into force of the present legislation,” stated the affidavit. The document also detailed four instances to illustrate what constituted forced conversion in the government’s view.A Hindu, Sikh or Muslim boy studying in a convent school, and a Christian family living as a tenant alongside non-Christian families constituted situations that didn’t amount to a forced conversion.But if Scheduled Caste person converts after being “lured” by a group of missionaries, or a Hindu woman marries a Muslim man, that could be an example of forced conversion, according to the government. In the latter case, the document said that after marriage, the woman will find herself under pressure to give up her faith even if she didn’t wish to; and stop worshipping idols and accept Islam so that she could have a valid marriage under the personal law and enjoy the right of inheritance in her husband’s properties. “This will amount to forceful conversion.The position remains the same if a Hindu boy wants to marry a Muslim girl. The Hindu boy will have to accept Islam.Here again, there is exercise of freedom of choice but loss of dignity, and the conversion is not exercised as a choice but on account of compulsion due to personal law intervening,” maintained the affidavit. According to the government, the ordinance intended to address this “conflict of interest” by safeguarding the inter-fundamental rights of individuals. The law did not aim at putting any fetters on the right of a woman to marry as per her choice but subjected it to “certain machinery provision which are regulatory in character”, it added.Justifying the urgency behind the ordinance instead of passing a bill in the state assembly, the government maintained that a rise in cases of forced conversions led to some heinous crimes and a public outcry. It also pointed out that similar statutes existed in eight other states, and countries such as Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. The government further urged the high court to leave it to the executive to decide the questions relating to validity of a marriage, as provided under the ordinance, and not decide such issues in judicial proceedings. It cited a judgment by the United States Supreme Court to buttress this argument. On the question of the law placing the onus on the accused to prove his innocence as against the common principle of presumption of “innocence till proven guilty”, the affidavit said the burden of proof had rightly been placed on the accused since they will only have special knowledge of facts in these cases and that reverse onus is justified in cases of “social evil”. The state government also criticised the November 11 judgment by another bench of the high court, which held that the right to choose a partner, irrespective of religion, was intrinsic to “ the right to life and personal liberty”. That judgment was passed in a case related to an interfaith marriage between a Hindu woman and a Muslim man.The affidavit submitted that the HC judgment was “not a good law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-collective-good-up-defends-love-jihad/story-O4J7iBG0SsbTEKuX3m1hRO.html
08-01-2021||India||2nd nationwide vaccine dry run in 33 states, UTs today||A second nationwide drill to test the country’s preparedness for conducting a mammoth vaccination drive is set to be conducted on Friday across 737 districts in 33 states and Union Territories, days after India’s drug regulator gave its clearance for two Covid-19 vaccines. Friday’s drill will be the largest undertaken in the country so far. A dry run was carried out in just eight districts on December 28-29. The first countrywide drill covering 74 districts was held on January 2. “The lessons learnt from the earlier exercise will be made use to execute another dry run. Whatever was lacking earlier has been rectified, and will be tested in Friday’s dry run,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told states and Union Territories in an online meeting on Thursday.Vardhan, who faced questions about the timeline for receiving vaccine shots at the meeting, added: “It [supply of vaccines] is in works, and we will intimate you [states/UTs] all soon as we are moving towards the final stages of vaccination in the country.” His remarks came on the day the Union health ministry said in a communique that states and UTs are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccines shortly and asked them to remain prepared to accept the consignments. India’s drug regulator on January 3 approved the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and the indigenously developed Bharat Biotech vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country. Officials have indicated that vaccination drive will begin in the second week of January.Friday’s mock drills are another attempt to test the infrastructure and the logistics that will play a major role in immunising the country of 1.3 billion people, and familiarise district- and block-level officials on all aspects of Covid-19 roll-out. The exercise will also involve testing the Co-WIN digital platform that will be the backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine delivery management system. The app will be used to provide real-time information on vaccine stock, cold storage status and help coordinate the dates and venue for vaccination with recipients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-nationwide-vaccine-dry-run-in-33-states-uts-today/story-iO39rySm5PDL0v6N7Kk2HP.html
08-01-2021||India||3,000 tractors at farmers’ march||A day ahead of their talks with the Centre, farmers protesting against the three farm laws took out a tractor march on the two ring highways around the Capital on Thursday. According to farm union leaders, nearly 3,000 tractors participated in the march on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal or Western Peripheral expressway and at least 500 on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal or Eastern Peripheral expressway. Together, the two expressways form a ring around Delhi and were constructed to keep non-destined traffic away from Delhi in view of the rising air pollution. With speakers mounted on tractors playing songs of resistance, the protesters from the Singhu border had started the rally towards the other protest site at the Tikri border and vice-versa at 11 am. The farmers took a U-turn from the Kharkhauda-Bahardurgarh exit on the expressway around 1pm and returned to their protest sites by the evening.The tractor march in western UP began from the UP Gate at 9.30am. They drove on the inner lanes of the Delhi-Meerut expressway (DME) for about one hour to reach the EPE’s Dasna interchange (about 23 km). The farmers had earlier planned that from the Dasna interchange they would move to EPE up to Palwal. However, they cut the route short and went up to the Sirsa toll near Dankaur in Gautam Budh Nagar and returned to the UP Gate by 5.30pm. In Nuh district of Haryana, some farmers alleged that they were prevented from joining the rally. The protesters, along with local residents. They marched within the district. The protesters said Thursday’s march was just a trailer of their planned march on the Republic Day, if the government would not accept their demands. Jasbinder Kaur, 65, a resident of Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, rode on a tractor to participate in the rally. “My kids said that it would not be suitable for me to ride a tractor on a highway in this cold weather, but I insisted on joining them. I am here to fight for my future generations and will not return till these three black laws are revoked. It’s just a trailer. The picture will be released on January 26, when we all will march towards India Gate,” she said.Amarpreet Kaur, 18, said she has been attending the protest at the Tikri border for the last 40 days. “My father had died by suicide three years ago after he failed to repay a loan of Rs 6 lakh. We have been struggling to survive since then. I wanted to go to a good college in a big city like any other girl but I had to stay back in the village to help my mother in farming. The government wants to rob us of a small land left with us. It’s a dress rehearsal today. But it’s not even close to what will happen on 26 January. Thousands of farmers are joining us for the tractor march to India Gate that day,” she said.Many women were also seen riding the tractors during the rally. Among them was Harinder Bindu, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan). She said, “We want to tell the government that we are ready for as long as it takes. It will be better if the government listens to our demand at the earliest. We are living on highways in this biting cold. Who likes to live like this?” Farmer leaders said they received “overwhelming” support on Thursday. “Hundreds of tractors had joined us from Punjab and Haryana during the rally. Many of them did not go back and joined us at Singhu and Tikri to participate in the January 26 march to India Gate. The government should understand the range of our protest and accept our demands,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of BKU (Punjab). Farmers camping at Burari ground also took out a tractor march.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said they had to close the EPE for traffic in the wake of the rally. “The regular commuter traffic faced disruptions at the DME when tractors drove to Dasna from UP-Gate in morning and also when the returned back to UP-Gate. Further, we had to stop traffic on the entire EPE stretch till the time it was occupied by tractors. As per the MoRTH guidelines, no tractors were allowed on EPE. But they came. We had written to the district authorities on Wednesday about this but our EPE traffic was still disrupted,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. Gaurav Tikait, national president of youth wing of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), who is leading the protests at UP Gate, said, “ It was not a ‘shakti pradarshan’ (show of strength) before the talks scheduled with the government on Friday. It was aimed at consolidating our collective fight and to meet other groups who are protesting at different sites,” Tikait said. Police and paramilitary personnel were deployed on the expressways to ensure law and order. No untoward incident was reported from any spot.A senior Delhi Police officer said, “The situation remained peaceful in the Capital. No untoward incident was reported.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-000-tractors-at-farmers-march/story-03L9M5ypiWHobN5HknEckM.html
08-01-2021||India||Govt: Begin surveillance of human population||The Centre has asked four states affected by an outbreak of avian influenza, or bird flu, to begin surveillance among human population as a precautionary measure. No case among humans has been reported in the country so far. “...It is absolutely critical that appropriate measures for effective containment among bird/poultry population and active surveillance in human population has to be ensured…,” Rajesh Bhushan, secretary of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, said in a letter to the four bird flu-hit states (Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh).The letter asked the states to identify high-risk zones and carry out surveillance among human habitats. “...further, you are requested to keep vigilance for any unusual death amongst the bird/poultry in the State,” the letter added.Thousands of birds have died in Kerala (mostly poultry), Himachal Pradesh (mostly migratory birds), and Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (mostly crows) since December-end. Officials said migratory birds are behind the outbreak. In addition, around 400,000 poultry birds have died in Haryana’s Panchkula over the past 20 days, sounding alarm bells. Their test reports were awaited. “No case of human transmission has been reported in India so far, but states have been asked to step up vigil in order to detect warning signs early. High-level teams have also been rushed to these states to take stock of the situation and devise preventive strategies, if required,” said a senior health ministry official. The ministry has deployed special teams in Panchkula, apart from Kerala’s Alappuzha and Kottayam districts.A three-member central team took stock of the situation in Alappuzha, officials said. The team comprising the Union health ministry’s public health specialist Dr Ruchi Jain, Pune National Institute of Virology scientist Dr Shailesh Pawar and Delhi RML Hospital physician Dr Anith Jindal visited the hotspots in the district.State authorities have banned the sale of bird meat and eggs in the affected regions. To provide relief to the affected farmers, the state has decided to compensate them for culling their birds.On Thursday, Madhya Pradesh reported the first cases of the flu virus spreading from crows to poultry, forcing the state government to consider culling of thousands of bird. Two samples of poultry birds tested positive for avian influenza in two districts, said JN Kansotia, principal secretary, animal husbandry department. Madhya Pradesh has already banned transportation of poultry from other states to check the spread. The state has also banned the sale of chickens and eggs within a radius of 1km of the affected areas in Indore for seven days, officials said. In Neemuch, all meat and egg shops have been shut. “Two days ago, 40 crows were found dead in Neemuch but bird flu is yet to be confirmed in the crows. As a precautionary measure, we ordered closing of all meat and egg shops,” said district collector Jittendra Singh Raje. Odisha heaved a sigh of relief after tests of 11,000 poultry birds came negative. The samples were tested after 120 birds died in a poultry farm in Kurda. In Jharkhand, the animal husbandry department has sent 700 samples of poultry birds and four crows that were found dead in Jubilee Park in Jamshedpur to the Research Disease Diagnostic Lab, Kolkata, for tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-begin-surveillance-of-human-population/story-AhpRfzjiMRpXkpwCcLvXsO.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Vista consultations to be made public’: Hardeep Puri||The Union government will put all details of consultations on the Central Vista redevelopment project in the public domain, minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said in an interview to Anisha Dutta. The minister spoke about the Supreme Court’s approval for the project and the concerns raised over the alleged lack of public hearings on the project and its environmental impact. Edited excerpts:That would have been done by now. The heritage committee is headed by our additional secretary; the process would have been finished by now.Whatever it is, it will be done very quickly.The thing to note about the Supreme Court judgment, it is a 600-page judgment. It has upheld our position on everything. One suggestion they have made is the requirement of installing smog towers into the design of the buildings for environmental consideration. We are happy to do that. That is why I welcomed it and said we will comply with it and observe the highest standards in the construction and environmental protection.Insofar as the dissenting judgment also, they have upheld everything, they have said go ahead with it but they said the public consultation should have been more comprehensive. We will now put in public domain all the consultations we have had on the project. You and I may not be aware of what consultations have been done. For instance, in Parliament, we have consulted the speakers of the House; there has been a process going on from the 1985 estimates committee’ in 2012 the speaker’s officer on special duty (OSD) had written to the urban development secretary asking for a new Parliament building. It has been an ongoing process. I have consulted members of Parliament, the speaker has taken meetings and so on. Maybe it has not been on the public domain, but we will put all that up on the public domain. And certainly going forward from now, we are very happy to make the public consultation process more comprehensive, plus in another few days’ time we will have a website which will have all the information on these projects; the new Parliament and the Central Vista avenue, the government buildings and all the other aspects of it and there people can interact even more freely.That we will go through...consultation is one thing but if somebody doesn’t agree with you, he or she doesn’t have a veto power on it. The majority opinion doesn’t uphold that. We are happy to consult and we have consulted. We will give more time, but the government is the executive which has the ability and the responsibility to take a decision...And I have said right from the beginning that we will comply with every rule in the book. We will make sure every procedure is followed. If there has been some laxity anywhere we will correct it, no issues.I don’t know what the sequence is but we will follow all the protocols.Let’s be very clear, we have just got the nod on the new Parliament and we have opened the tender on the Central Vista area. We are going step by step.We are not going to raze anything till the new ones are ready, this is not going to be a hop, step and jump move. There is not going to be two moves. I will move from this office only when the next office is ready.We will stay in our existing buildings till the new buildings are ready. Some people will need to be moved. For instance some are being moved to Janpath Hotel etc temporarily but they are the ones currently housed at IGNCA {Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts}. We are in touch with all the government departments but that sequencing is being done in consultation with them.We will have a hearing but the idea is to go ahead. Many things will be done simultaneously also but we will go through all this, yes.One criticism was also the fact that public hearing process was bypassed and the proposal was directly sent to the EAC.No public hearing process was bypassed. There may have been compressed processes or in some cases there may be a disagreement, if you can invite comments online etc, all that we will look at very carefully and we will get the project done.Can you elaborate on the compressed processes?What has happened is alright, going forward we will give notice before every segment is done and this time we will put all the information on public domain. IF we are consulting architects or town planners etc it would happen in closed rooms...what people are not understanding is it is not one big townhall meeting where 5000 people are collected. There are simultaneous processed going on we will put all that in public domain to show that even in the past consultations have been held. I have held meetings at Prasar Bharti Bhawan, we had called editors of newspapers, I’ve called few journalists, I’ve called MPs etc. We have held meetings where MPs have been invited, we have had meetings with town planners and architects. Mr Bimal Patel has met people individually. So to say that public consultations have not been held is an opinion that may be coming on the account that people are not aware about it. We must be able to document it with audios and videos. We will put all of that up.Will Smog Towers be enough to curb pollution levels of the proposed construction that the project entails?Let me tell you that we were planning it in any case because of the environment concerns etc...the hearings in the Supreme Court which were over many days and our people were there, we heard the argument and we were very confident. But at the end of the day if some additional ideas come we welcome them. They have recommended integrating Smog Towers in the design of the building and we will do that, whether or not that is enough is something that we will determine as we go along. If additional measures are required we will make them also.There were concerns raised over transplantation of trees as well.In any case we were on board for that. There is concern but we ourselves are doing. Whether it is transplanting of trees or even relocating statues, we are taking all the precautions.There was some political backlash on relocation of the statues are these going to be shifted to the new building, what is the plan?Each of them have their own dynamism...these are processes on which we are taking abundant caution.What about the icon statue of Mahatma Gandhi? Will that be moved as well?All that is being done. As you go along we have had individual discussion on each of these with MPs. It is not for me as the Minister for Housing and Urban affairs to make those announcements. Even the decision to construct the new Parliament came from the hon’ble speaker, I am merely executing agency. There will be announcements made as we go along.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vista-consultations-to-be-made-public-hardeep-puri/story-mC8nZuTtGxmKGG1b4JQM7O.html
08-01-2021||India||‘I store stories and characters in my head…’||Hailing from Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, writer, poet, screenwriter and lyricist Gaurav Solanki says being in a creative field makes people more observant and watchful. “I love observing people and storing real-life instances that finally makes a large part of my stories and scripts. I have it in me to store stories and characters in my head for years till I get an opportunity to pen them for some project,” said lyricist of films ‘Veere Di Wedding’ and ‘Ugly.’ His last co-written release ‘Article 15’ won him both awards and accolades and currently Gaurav is all set for streaming of his solo-written series. Talking about his projects, he said, “Upcoming series ‘Tandav’ has an ensemble cast and we have worked tirelessly on it for a couple of years. As a writer, I have tried adding number of interesting emotional and political elements to the story. I hope that will go down well with the audience. Also, 2021 will see the release of OTT film ‘Freedom’ that I co-wrote with Dibakar Banerjee along with another OTT series.” The IIT-Roorkee graduate is also preparing to make his directorial debut. I’m a writer and I love telling stories but, at the same time, I want to direct a project soon. I feel that when you direct, you are able to add your own vision and reflection to it. Also, you well understand how your characters should look on screen because you are the one who crafted them and is well-versed with their traits,” he said.The writer is going slow on writing stories based on lockdown. “A lot of content is being generated based on lockdown and pandemic. I too have a lot of content on the subject but I have deliberately decided to go slow on it .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-store-stories-and-characters-in-my-head/story-OFCkzCbqBfHAeXxRqBoMGM.html
08-01-2021||India||After the lull, I have my hands full, says Atul Srivastava||Actor Atul Srivastava was one the first few actors to shoot after lockdown with Akshay Kumar for an ad. After that there was no work for him. Then the tables turned and from November he is on a roll doing back-to-back projects. On his visit to hometown, Lucknow he said, “I had a packed scheduled in 2020 but after the lockdown the projects that were scheduled to happen either got deferred or shelved. There was no work, but with God’s grace, now I have a packed schedule.” Telling more about his projects, “I went to Indore for OTT series ‘Aapatkalin Baithak’ with young makers. I shot for it with Brijendra Kala and it’s a wonderful project. Then I joined Sushant Panda’s film ‘Prachand’ in Bhubneshwar with Pitobash Tripathy and Anant Mahadevan.” Atul is most excited for ‘The Kashmir Files’ that he shot in Mussoorie-Dehradun. “The film is by ‘The Tashkent Files’ director Vivek Agnihotri and it’s a very powerful script. It has Mithun Chakraborty, Puneet Issar, Vijay and Anupam Kher — we all play parallel-lead.” Last, he shot ‘Shubh Ratri’ in Maheshwar in which he plays ‘Mirzapur’ actor Aasif Khan’s father. He has two films lined-up for release. “February will see ‘Sonam Gupta Bewafa Hai’ that was shot in Badaun (UP) with Jassi Gill. Before that, ‘Mere Desh Ki Dharti’ will release, in which I play Divyenndu’s father.” He has three projects lined up for shoot out of which two are in Lucknow. “Next, I am going to Pushkar to shoot for ‘Babu aur Chameli ki Shadi’ where I’m playing Manish Paul’s father. I will also shoot for Pushpendra Nath Misra’s next series that is scheduled to be shot in Lucknow. Besides, I’m also a part of Sailesh Srivastava’s film ‘Palak’ in the state capital. It’s all packed schedule till March.” The Bhartendu Natya Academi (BNA) alumni is happy the way his roles are shaping up. “The roles I am getting are all important ones. It’s because I have started saying no to small roles even in big projects. Even, during the lull period, I kept waiting than jumping on just anything. ‘Thodi zid kar li hai, zabardasti ka kaam nahi karunga.’ Now, I wish to play a dark shade character soon,” he concluded with a shine in his eyes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/after-the-lull-i-have-my-hands-full-says-atul-srivastava/story-skc174cpAq6f7VWyCdxJ9O.html
08-01-2021||India||Jammu-Srinagar national highway remains shut for 5thday due to slippery stretches, landslides||Vehicular traffic on the 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway (NH44) remained suspended for the fifth consecutive day on Thursday due to slippery stretches around Jawahar Tunnel (JT) and landslides at some places along the highway between Banihal and Udhampur. According to SSP, Traffic, National Highway, JS Johar although the road stretch between Nashri and south portal of Jawahar Tunnel was cleared and made motorable for one-way traffic at most of the places yet it was still to be cleared completely on the other side of the JT towards Kashmir valley. The landslide and boulders were yet to be cleared at Samroli in Udhampur. At Samroli, the authorities had to blast big boulders, which had blocked the highway since Wednesday. Johar informed that though no passenger was stranded in any of the danger zones along the highway but more than 3000 vehicles including HMVs were stranded between Udhampur and Jammu or in Qazigund area. The road between Nashri and Banihal was cleared for one-way traffic at most places. “As and when traffic is resumed, only stranded vehicles will be allowed to move. No fresh traffic will be allowed,” said Johar. He said men and machinery were on the job to clear the highway, but the road was still blocked at several places. Mughal Road, the alternate road-link which connects the valley to Jammu region through Shopian-Rajouri axis, remained closed for traffic due to heavy snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-remains-shut-for-5thday-due-to-slippery-stretches-landslides/story-whNZPTT36KWcgIGgKT9BhM.html
08-01-2021||India||NIA arrests key suspect from tn in SSI wilson murder case||New Delhi/Chennai: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested a key suspect in the murder of a police officer at Chennai airport after his deportation to India from Qatar, the agency said o n Thursday. The January 8, 22 murder in Kanyakumari was part of a conspiracy by some Islamic State operatives led by Khaja Mohideen to revive the activities of the global terror outfit in the region, officials said. Shihabudeen alias Sirajudeen, 39, who belongs to Chennai, had fled from India after the killing and been in hiding in Qatar. He is accused of having arranged the gun used by another suspect in the case – Abdul Shameem – to kill special sub-inspector (SSI) of Tamil Nadu Police, Wilson. NIA, the central anti-terror agency, had taken the over probe of Wilson’s murder from Tamil Nadu police in February 2020. A charge-sheet was filed in the case July naming Islamic State operative s Mohideen, Abdul Shameem and Y Thowfeek of Kanyakumari; Jaffar Ali (Cuddalore); Mahboob Pasha and Ejas Pasha of Bengaluru. A separate charge-sheet would be filed later in the case against Shihabudeen, according to an NIA officer who didn’t want to be named. This officer said Mohideen, a member of the Islamic State who was arrested by the agency in 2017, had radicalised Shameem and Thowfeek on the jihadi (violent extremist) ideology since May 2019, and recruited them into his terrorist gang to carry out attacks against the establishment, especially the police, in Tamil Nadu.As part of the plan, in October 2019, Mohideen instructed  Pasha, Ejas and Jaffer to procure illegal fire arms and prohibited ammunition for carrying out such attacks. After mid-December 2019, on Mohideen’s instructions, Shameem and Thowfeek were sheltered in Karnataka and Maharashtra by Pasha and they were subsequently provided illegal firearms and ammunition arranged by Shihabudeen, said a second officer. By January 2020-end, when Tamil Nadu police arrested the associates of Pasha in Bengaluru and started pursuing the others, Mohideen instructed Shameem and Thowfeek to attack the Tamil Nadu police at check posts along the inter-state border in Kanyakumari district. “The assailants travelled to Kaliyakkavilai on January 8 and attacked on-duty SSI Wilson. After the murder, they escaped towards Kerala and concealed the knife and illegal firearm used in the attack near the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus stand in Thriuvananthapuram and Ernakulam, respectively,” said the second officer, who also requested anonymity. Thereafter, they fled to Kozhikode, changed their appearance and travelled to Maharashtra to live in disguise before returning to Udupi in Karnataka, where they were arrested on January 15, 2020, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-key-suspect-from-tn-in-ssi-wilson-murder-case/story-UBmypwmIyG0GR4IxE8RS7L.html
08-01-2021||India||Nadda to launch new campaign on farm laws during Bengal visit||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda will visit West Bengal on Saturday to launch the party’s ‘Ek Muthi Chawal’ campaign to dispel the opposition’s allegations that the ruling party at the Centre is anti-farmers, a functionary familiar with the matter said. Nadda will also lead the party’s door-to-door canvassing ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections scheduled to take place before May this year.According to the party functionary speaking on condition of anonymity, the BJP president will launch the campaign in Burdwan district after which party workers will visit farming households across 48,000 villages to collect rice.“It is a month-long drive to collect rice, which will then be used for a community meal for farmers, and the poor,” the functionary quoted above said. Nadda has been leading the election strategy in West Bengal after the party’s performance in Bihar, where it won 74 seats of the 110 it contested in the 243-member house and formed the government with JD(U), which contested on 115 seats and won 43.The BJP is pulling out all the stops to dispel concerns about the three farm laws even as farmers have massed Delhi’s borders since last November to protest against the laws. The party has instructed its functionaries to conduct door-to-door campaigns, write letters and hold meetings locally across the states to dismiss the allegations that the new laws will benefit corporates. “What the party president will initiate will be taken further by the functionaries at all booth levels. The party has already underlined how farmers in the state have been deprived of the benefits of the Kisan Samman Nidhi that offers six thousand a year to farmers through direct bank transfer,” said the functionary quoted above. Nadda had last visited the state on December 10 when his convoy was stoned at Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas district. Several BJP leaders were injured in the attack. Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP locked horns over the incident that took place in the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-to-launch-new-campaign-on-farm-laws-during-bengal-visit/story-B5WbqG5iv9zTx8MDBeHXCJ.html
08-01-2021||India||No evidence of forced conversion in arrest made under new law: UP to HC||The Uttar Pradesh government told the Allahabad high court on Thursday that it dropped charges of forced conversion against a 32-year-old Muslim man, who was among the first people booked under the state’s controversial anti-conversion law, after police found no proof of allegations.Police lodged a First Information Report (FIR) against Nadeem Ahmad and his brother Salman under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 on November 29 on a complaint by Muzaffarnagar resident Akshay Kumar Tyagi, who alleged that Nadeem lured his wife to convert her to Islam and also threatened her.The high court restrained the state police from taking coercive action against Nadeem on December 18, and tagged his plea to petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the ordinance, colloquially known as the “love jihad” law in reference to a term used by right wingers to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.The state government affidavit said the police investigation did not produce any evidence that Nadeem had “any illicit relation with the woman” or that he was trying to convert her religion.“The investigating officer has recorded the statement of victim, who in her statement informed that she is only known to Nadeem, but having no relation,” the affidavit, a copy of which is with HT, read. But the police found evidence from call records that Nadeem threatened Kumar, the 13-page document added.The HC bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice SS Shamshery, fixed January 15 as the next date of hearing in the case. Nadeem was the first petitioner to approach the high court to challenge a police complaint under the new law.Muzaffarnagar police also confirmed that charges of forced conversion were found false. “No evidence of forced conversion was found, therefore, Section 3/5 of the new law (UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 )has been dropped in the case,” said K P Singh, the station house officer of Mansoorpur police station.Section 3 of the ordinance prohibits a person from converting the religion of another person by marriage. Section 5 outlaws conversion by any allurement or presents.Circle officer, Khatauli, Ashish Pratap Singh said the case against Nadeem and Salman now was under sections 504 (insult intended to provoke breach of peace) and section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and both were bailable.The police charge sheet dated December 31 alleged that Nadeem called the woman and threatened to kill her.But in court, Nadeem had denied all allegations and said he was a poor labourer who had been falsely implicated in the case by the complainant Kumar to avoid payment of some dues.Senior advocate SFA Naqvi, representing Nadeem, also argued that the ordinance violated constitutional rights, and criminal proceeding initiated under the provisions of the law should be quashed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-of-forced-conversion-in-arrest-made-under-new-law-up-to-hc/story-0Cb8uI7qcZk4gQGGf7rhML.html
08-01-2021||India||Decoding the nature of economic recovery||According to the first advanced estimate by National Statistical Office (NSO), the Indian economy is expected to contract by 7.7% in fiscal 2020-21 – 20 basis points more than the 7.5% contraction projected by the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India. High frequency indicators suggest greater optimism than the MPC’s forecast of 0.1% growth in the December quarter. At the same time, there are other statistics that suggest a more sober approach. Here are four charts put these mutually conflicting trends in context.NIBRI, PMI, GST collections suggest a robust ongoing recoveryThe two earliest high-frequency economic indicators – Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing and the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) – for the period ending Dec 2020 were released on Jan 4. Both of them suggest an upbeat economic environment. For the week ending January 3, NIBRI reached its highest ever value of 94.5 (100 is the pre-lockdown base). PMI manufacturing was at 56.4 in Dec 2020, making it the fifth consecutive month when it was above the critical threshold of 50, which signifies an expansion in economic activity compared to previous month. PMI Services, while it was above the threshold of 50 for the third consecutive month in Dec, has been losing momentum since Oct. Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections in Dec – they are supposed to capture transactions carried out in Nov – reached ?1.15 lakh crore, the highest ever nominal monthly collection. In an interview to HT, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey attributed the increase in December GST collections to “greater economic activities and better compliance with targeted approach to curb evasion”.However, both NIBRI and PMI note continuing job lossesMany economists have pointed out that the ongoing economic recovery is being led by profits and therefore has a smaller base. The latest NIBRI and PMI releases underline this trend. “Employment decreased in December, thereby stretching the current sequence of job shedding to nine months. Companies stated that government guidelines to have employees working only on shifts and difficulties in finding suitable staff were the key factors causing the latest fall in payroll numbers,” said a statement from IHS Markit, the agency which releases the PMI numbers. To be sure, “the pace of (employment) contraction was moderate and the weakest in the current downturn period”, the statement added. A research note by Nomura economists also noted a worsening on the employment front. “The labour participation rate eased to 40.3% in early January from 40.9% in December”, it said. These observations are in sync with the unemployment trends from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database, the only high-frequency source of employment statistics in India.“Employment has been falling month-after-month since September 2020 when it was estimated at 397.6 million. As a result, employment has not only remained consistently below year-ago levels, it has also fallen far short of the two-years ago levels. Employment in November and December 2020 was lower than it was in November and December 2019 and was also lower than it was in November and December 2018, respectively” Mahesh Vyas, CMIE’s managing director and chief executive officer, said in a note published on its website.October-November revenues have increased for the Centre, but states have not gainedData from the Controller General of Accounts, which works under the ministry of finance, shows that gross tax revenues on October and November (latest available data) were greater than last year’s levels. To be sure, overall Gross Tax Revenue (GTR) up to November for fiscal year 2020-21 was still lower than 2019-20 levels. Even the monthly improvement seen in October-November GTR collections is driven by higher union excise duty collections, which are on account of increased taxes on petrol and diesel. Because the additional taxes on petrol and diesel and not a part of divisible pool of taxes, states have not seen an improvement in tax devolutions from the centre. In fact, year on year shortfall, both on a monthly and cumulative basis, in centre’s tax devolution to the states has been the highest in October and November in the current fiscal year.The Centre-state asymmetry in tax collections has also translated into spendingCentral taxes were meant to provide for 31% of states’ total receipts in the current fiscal year. As this shortfall increases, state finances are bound to come under greater strain, especially given the fact that state governments have done most of the heavy lifting in dealing with the pandemic. CMIE had cumulative spending data for 13 states up to November 2020. A comparison with cumulative spending for these states up to November 2019 shows a 6.5% reduction. For the 19 states for which cumulative spending figures are available up to Oct 2020, there was a 4.8% shortfall compared to Oct 2019 levels. The shortfall in capital expenditure for these states was even greater: 28.3% on an annual basis up to Oct 2020 and 27.9% up to Nov 2020. States incur a bigger spending than the Centre in India, especially when it comes to capital expenditure, which is crucial for future growth. Budget estimates for 2020-21 put the Centre’s total spending and capital spending at 72.2% and 46.6% of the total spending by states on these heads. Given the shortfall in states’ spending and their precarious revenue situation, the fiscal year is likely to end with a pro-cyclical cut in government spending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-the-nature-of-economic-recovery/story-wttarS2jRJYPEFglgzSiWP.html
08-01-2021||India||Train on high-speed trial run crushes four people near Haridwar||Four people were crushed to death by a speeding train which was on trial run on the Laksar-Haridwar route on Thursday evening, police said. The accident occurred around 6.30 pm near Jamalpur railway crossing in the rural segment of Haridwar. An investigation has been ordered by Tarun Prakash, Divisional Regional Manager (DRM), Northern Railways into this accident. Prakash said that the accident took place near Jamalpur village. Railway officials pointed that the train was on a trial run at 100 kmph to test the newly laid Haridwar-Laksar double line track. A team of technical and safety wing of railways had arrived for this trial run on Laksar-Haridwar track. According to Haridwar rural legislator Swami Yatishwaranand who arrived at the accident spot immediately after the tragedy said that eyewitnesses told him that the four men who were strolling on the railway track could not gauge the speed of the train and were unable to get off the track.“It’s a sad and shocking incident and administration, police, railways officials and local people arrived at the spot immediately after the incident,” Yatishwaranand said. Kamlesh Upadhyay, superintendent of city police, Haridwar, said that police was also carrying out a combing operation to check if there has been any other damage. Station house officer Jwalapur Praveen Koshyari said that the bodies of the victims were sent for post-mortem. The four youths were identified as Vishal and Golu . Locals said they used to stroll on the tracks in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-on-high-speed-trial-run-crushes-four-people-near-haridwar/story-RRsgVQdm9QSS7PpeuPCGoL.html
08-01-2021||India||‘Will walk to gallows’: Mamata Banerjee’s nephew on ‘tolabaj’ taunt||Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee hit back Thursday at extortion allegations leveled against him by the BJP, saying if charges against him are proved the opposition party will not have to do much as he will “walk to the gallows”. Since October last year, BJP state and national leaders, including the Union home minister Amit Shah, have been singling out Banerjee in their speeches, calling him “tolabaaj bhaipo” (extortionist nephew in Bengali) and accusing him of amassing wealth through unfair means. “Let the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate conduct a probe. If it is proved that I have made even a penny through corruption you won’t have to do anything. I will voluntarily walk to the gallows and hang myself,” said Banerjee amid loud applause at a well-attended TMC rally at Gangarampur in South Dinajpur district in north Bengal. After defecting from the Trinamool last month, former minister Suvendu Adhikari has intensified the attack on Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. “You do not have the courage to take my name and always refer to me as bhaipo so that I cannot sue you in court. You call me tolabaaj but you are the one who was seen in the (Narada sting operation) video accepting money,” Banerjee said without naming Adhikari. Reacting to Banerjee’s remarks, Adhikari, while addressing a rally at Tamluk in East Midnapore later in the afternoon, said, “The tolabaaj bhaipo has to tell the people why all government contracts are given to some specific people in Kolkata and what is the source of his prosperity. Even school bags and bicycles given to students are so sub-standard that these have to be repaired before use.” “Despite all the criticism they face, CPI(M) and Left leaders did a lot of good work. The TMC ruined everything. In the education sector, for example, appointment of teachers has stopped and corruption has crept in,” said Adhikari. Making a radical statement, Adhikari said not all leaders from the TMC-run civic bodies in East Midnapore should be inducted into the BJP. “I personally know that some of them have made millions through corruption.”Branding the BJP’s national leaders as “outsiders”, Banerjee said, “they neither speak or understand Bengali nor know the history and culture of Bengal. “Bengal will not bow before Gujarat. Nobody can teach us (Bengalis) patriotism,” said Banerjee.The leader targeted the BJP on a host of issues, ranging from the Doklam standoff and demonetisation to corruption. “It has been four years since we had demonetisation. India’s GDP has gone down from 8% to minus 4%. Who will answer for that?” he said. “Before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, PM Modi said he will not spare any criminal and corrupt person and now the BJP is inducting all the thieves. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Modi made a long speech on Pulwama. We also want the Centre to crush the threats posed by Pakistan. But why are Modi and Amit Shah silent on China?” Banerjee said. “Mamata Banerjee used to live in a house with tiled roof and wear white saree and hawai chappal (sandals) before coming to power in 2011. She still lives the same life. On the other hand, Modi, who used to ride a car worth Rs 10 lakh before 2014, now goes around in a bullet-proof car worth Rs 6 crore,” said Banerjee. He also called BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s son Akash and BJP state president Dilip Ghosh “goonda” (ruffian) by taking their names. Banerjee is on a five-day tour of the north Bengal districts where the BJP won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and now poses a challenge to the ruling party. He is visiting the area to address infighting and organizational issues plaguing the TMC. In 2019, the TMC’s tally in the Lok Sabha came down from 34 seats to 22. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, the BJP was ahead of the TMC in 35. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, spent three days in north Bengal in mid-December. BJP leaders of both state and national level, including national president JP Nadda, are also frequently camping in north Bengal. The West Bengal assembly has 294 seats and Amit Shah has declared that BJP will oust the TMC government by winning more than 200 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-walk-to-gallows-mamata-banerjee-s-nephew-on-tolabaj-taunt/story-6TcPLtqFta800mJcyI8lDP.html
08-01-2021||India||Tractor march, ‘healthy discussion’: Where farmers’ protest stands ahead of 8th meeting||After seven rounds of talks over three agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September 2020, farmers’ union leaders and Union ministers will sit for the eighth consultation on Friday. Both the sides have made two things clear: the laws won’t be repealed and farmers won’t reconsider their demand for a complete withdrawal of the laws. While farmers are intensifying their protest braving the cold and rain of Delhi, the Centre is hopeful that a conclusion will be reached soon. Punjab BJP leaders met Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday and said the farmers are being stubborn. “Govt is ready to listen but farmers are being stubborn. Law & order in Punjab is ruined. Sit-in protests are being done outside houses of our workers. The language being used & the kind of hooliganism in Punjab - we talked about it,” Harjit Singh Grewal said.“The government is ready to fulfil all the demands of farmers. But farmers are now saying that the laws be repealed. Why are they saying that? I think farmer unions don’t want a solution. I think their plan is something else,” he said.Supreme Court hearingThe Supreme Court on January 11 will hear a batch of pleas challenging the farm laws and also pleas which raised issues related to the ongoing protests. The Supreme Court bench on Wednesday was informed by the Centre that healthy discussions were going on between the government and farmers. Attorney General K K Venugopal said there is a good chance that parties may come to a conclusion in the near future. “We understand the situation and encourage the consultation,” the bench said.On Thursday, the apex court was hearing a plea seeking various reliefs including that of CBI probe into the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz etc. During the hearing, it asked the Centre whether farmers protesting against the farm laws are protected against the spread of Covid-19. Protests to intensifyOn January 7, the protesters took out tractor march from four different points — Singhu to Tikri border, Tikri to Kundlim Ghazipur to Palwal and Rewasan to Palwal. Terming the tractor march as a trailer of what will happen on January 26, Republic Day, protesters on Friday said when their leaders decide to enter the capital, protesters will enter Delhi. Thursday’s tractor march was only at the border points.What happened at earlier meetingsSeveral thousands of farmers started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march on November 26. Consultation with the Centre, however, began in September soon after the bills were passed. Farmers’ leaders walked out of the first meeting as no minister was present. In the consequent meetings, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways and food minister Piyush Goyal, minister of state for commerce and industry Som Prakash are generally present. They explain to the union leaders the benefits of the laws. There was agreement between the two parties on stubble burning and electricity, but on MSP and on the issue of withdrawing the laws completely, there has been no headway yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tractor-march-healthy-discussion-where-farmers-protest-stand-ahead-of-8th-meeting/story-mPjt1LiBt8xidQyBpyfWZO.html
