15-01-2021||India||Assam village sets example, holds fake buffalo fight to uphold SC ban||For centuries, buffalo fights have been an integral part of the post-harvest Magh Bihu celebrations across Assam. But a 2016 Supreme Court ban on animal fights during religious and cultural festivals affected this traditional sport.However, residents of Japisojia village in Sivasagar district of Assam devised a way to preserve tradition while upholding the apex court’s ban by holding fake buffalo fights with men wearing a costume and headgear representing the animal.Two men covered themselves with a piece of black cloth with the one in front wearing a head gear shaped like a buffalo’s head and indulged in a mock fight with another fake buffalo.Like in traditional buffalo fights, the fake buffaloes were egged on by their handlers to fight well amid cheers from hundreds of villagers who had gathered at the paddy fields on Friday to witness the sport.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesUnlike the village in Sivasagar, buffalo fights were held at several places in Assam on Friday - the first day of Magh month - despite the SC ban. However, the events were held unofficially.The biggest event in the state was held at Lakshmi Nath Bezbaruah Kshetra in Ahatguri of Morigaon district where thousands of people gathered to witness over hundred buffaloes take part in fights.“Buffalo fights on Magh Bihu are part of Assam’s tradition for centuries. We will keep holding this event every year to carry forward that tradition,” one of the organizers of the Ahutguri event told a local television channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-village-sets-example-holds-fake-buffalo-fight-to-uphold-sc-ban-101610734544591.html
15-01-2021||India||After protests, Goa CM announces relocation of IIT project from Melaulim||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday announced that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Goa campus that was to be set up at Melaulim village would be shifted to another place in the state. The decision caps more than six months of protests largely by the residents of Melaulim village who had refused to concede land and had set up a blockade at the entrance to the site refusing to allow government surveyors to enter the village to demarcate the land. On January 6, at least 12 policemen and several villagers were injured when both the groups had clashed as the police attempted to clear the blockade set up by the villagers. “We wanted the IIT project in Sattari so that the region is developed. (Health minister and MLA from Valpoi in Sattari Vishwajit) Rane also tried to explain (to the villagers). We had also invited the villagers for discussion, but they wouldn’t relent,” Sawant told reporters. On Friday, elected representatives from the neighbouring villages in Sattari submitted a formal request to the CM asking him to shift the project elsewhere. “The whole idea to bring the IIT to Sattari was for the development of Sattari and the development of the whole taluka and the neighbouring talukas. But if the people do not want the IIT in Sattari, I would like to make a humble request to please take a decision to shift the IIT out of Sattari and from Shel Melaulim,” the representation signed by around half a dozen district panchayat members, said. Bowing to the request of the elected representatives of the villages, Sawant said, “This government listens to the people. The government has decided to shift the project from Sattari to another place in Goa. We will be informing the IIT officials and a future decision will be taken to honour requests made by the elected representatives. Both me and health Minister had no personal interest in going ahead with the project.”Notably, on Tuesday, in a letter to CM, Rane had urged him to drop the proposal for an IIT campus at the village.“I want to assure the people of Sattari that for as long as I’m in politics and the representative of this area, we will not allow anyone to even put a single stone in place for the IIT because the people don’t want it,” Rane had said. In May last year, the Goa government had formally transferred around 10 lakh sq. mts land in Melaulim village in North Goa, for setting up of IIT-Goa. Functional since 2014, the IIT Goa has been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College.Melaulim village falls in an eco-sensitive zone but hasn’t been formally declared so with notifications not being formally issued. The land on which the IIT is scheduled to come up is revenue land belonging to the government, but the villagers have said that situation has persisted only because they did not have the required documentation to prove that they have rights over it.Two sites previously identified by the state government, in Canacona and Sanguem sub districts, for setting up of a permanent campus for IIT were scrapped, in face of protests from local residents.Villagers have opposed the project claiming that they are dependent on the land for their sustenance including cashews, betel nut and other agricultural produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-protests-goa-cm-announces-relocation-of-iit-project-from-melaulim-101610734662888.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI ‘bribe-for-relief’ racket was running since 2018, finds probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has found that a “bribe-for-relief” racket was being run in the agency since 2018 by leaking confidential case related information to some companies being investigated for bank fraud, people familiar with the development said. The agency has identified bribes worth ₹55 lakh paid to two of its officers– Deputy Superintendent of Police , R K Rishi ( ₹30 lakh) and Inspector Kapil Dhankad ( ₹25 lakh) – in lieu of favours extended to at least three companies. In all, nine persons have been named in a First Information Report, including four CBI officers: Rishi (deployed at CBI academy); Dhankad (who is posted in Bank Securities and Fraud Cell BS&FC of CBI); DSP R K Sangwan (posted in Special Crimes Unit) and Stenographer in BS&FC , Sameer Kumar Singh. Two advocates, Arvind Kumar Gupta and Manohar Malik have also been named along with Mandeep Kaur Dhillon (additional director of a company, Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd); and Sujai Desai and Udai Desai of Mumbai based company Frost International Pvt Ltd. According to the FIR, reviewed by HT, the four CBI officers, along with the two advocates, and certain other accused have been “compromising the integrity of investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”. Both Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd (SSPBML) and Frost International are being investigated by CBI for defrauding banks. The case against Frost International was registered in August 2020 for cheating 14 banks of over ₹3500 crore. The CBI FIR states that “in the case of SSPNML, R K Sangwan, who was previous investigating officer of the case, offered and paid a bribe of ₹10 lakh in cash on behalf of Mandeep Kaur to Inspector Kapil Dhankad”. “On his part, Dhankad conveyed confidential information relating to the investigation of this case to R K Sangwan, with an intention to favour the accused”. It adds that R K Rishi paid ₹10 lakh bribe to Dhankad on behalf of Desais of Frost International. Rishi himself received ₹15 lakh twice through advocates Malik and Gupta (having their offices in Defence Colony, Delhi), to extend favours to a Chandigarh based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by CBI, the FIR said. “In this matter, Dhankad twice received ₹2.5 lakh from Gupta for having brokered the deal through Rishi.” The agency FIR says that “details of investigation of many other cases including confidential notes and directions have been communicated by (Sameer Kumar) Singh to Sangwan and Rishi on pecuniary considerations to protect the interests of the accused”. The two DSPs , R K Rishi and R K Sangwan, facilitated the bribes by leaking the information to the companies, said an officer, speaking on condition of anonymity. “The leak of sensitive case related information like raids, status of investigation, filing of charge sheet etc helps accused persons in destroying the evidence. There is a possibility that more officers are involved in the scandal as CBI investigations are monitored at various levels and documents are usually kept in respective branches. It is to be seen how Singh was leaking the documents without anyone’s knowledge,” said another CBI officer who didn’t want to be named. CBI is investigating the magnitude of the racket, as it could be much bigger considering large number of bank fraud cases are under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-bribe-for-relief-racket-was-running-since-2018-finds-probe-101610734662302.html
15-01-2021||India||Mumbai logs AQI of 190, breathes cleanest air so far this year||Mumbai inhaled its cleanest air this year on Friday as westerly winds blowing from the north west of India cleared pollutants dispersed in the air. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator— of 190 was measured today, which was in the moderate category for the first time in 2021.Air quality had remained in the poor to very poor category since the beginning of January owing to low temperatures. On January 8, the AQI was the worst at 317 (very poor) for this year. However, with the onset of westerly winds, the air has cleared up.AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.“Winds blowing from the north and west have cleared the air of pollutants. If the wind continues, air quality will remain moderate for the next couple of days, despite a drop in temperatures. However, without the winds, air quality may become worse,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR. Navi Mumbai, however, recorded very poor air with the AQI being measured at 350. Along the western suburbs, Malad had the worst air with an AQI of 211 (poor).Both day and night also turned pleasant on Friday as temperatures dropped significantly in the city providing relief from week-long heat conditions. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature dropped to 19.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. The Colaba observatory of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius. While this was 2 degrees above normal, the minimum temperature was much lower than Monday’s minimum temperature of 23.5, the highest in a decade.Maximum temperatures remained below normal in the city. Santacruz reported a maximum temperature of 31 degrees Celsius, which was 0.8 degrees below normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature dropped a degree below 30 degrees Celsius and was 1.1 degrees below normal.“IMD had forecast that temperatures would drop from Friday for the next few days as westerly winds have started blowing over parts of the state. Since, parts of north west India are under the influence of a cold wave, north-westerly winds from these parts are colder,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-logs-aqi-of-190-breathes-cleanest-air-so-far-this-year-101610733998885.html
15-01-2021||India||Woman sanitation worker to get first vaccine jab in Chhattisgarh||A 53-year-old woman sanitation worker will be the first person to receive a COVID-19 vaccine shot in Chhattisgarh as the inoculation drive will start at 97 centres in the state on Saturday.The vaccination drive will cover over 2.67 lakh healthcare personnel and frontline workers in its first phase, state's mission director for the National Health Mission Priyanka Shukla said.Tulsa Tandi, a sanitation worker at Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital in Raipur, will be the first person to get vaccinated here, said Shukla.A total of 2,67,399 healthcare and Women and Child Development department personnel will be vaccinated in the first phase at 1,349 centres, she said.As many as 97 vaccination centres have been set up for the launch on Saturday.The centres have been set up in medical colleges, district hospitals, primary and community health centres, private hospitals and other government facilities.As many as 100 beneficiaries are expected to get inoculated at each centre in a day, Shukla said.The state has received 3.23 lakh doses of Serum Institute of India-manufactured Covishield vaccine.At least 7,116 vaccinators have been trained for the initial phase of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-sanitation-worker-to-get-first-vaccine-jab-in-chhattisgarh-101610733116966.html
15-01-2021||India||Is Covid-19 vaccine mandatory?: All your FAQs about vaccination drive answered||India on Saturday will begin the vaccination drive, to be launched virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to first inoculate millions of healthcare and frontline workers. The government has said more than 3,000 sites have been set up across all states and Union territories (UTs) for vaccination drive. Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated Saturday at each of the session sites, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has said.The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors including Integrated Child Development Services(ICDS) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase, the health ministry said in a statement. It will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, except on the days earmarked for routine immunisation programmes.Earlier in the day, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed preparations for the launch of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive as he visited the dedicated Covid control room set up at the Nirman Bhawan premises of the health ministry. He termed the drive as the "largest" and urged people to trust the indigenously manufactured vaccine, saying the government has given emergency use approval after proper scientific scrutiny.Here are the FAQs on the coronavirus vaccination drive:What vaccines will be used?Currently, the drugs regulator body of India has approved two vaccines--Covidshield and Covaxin. Pune-based Serum Institute of India has developed the Covishield vaccine. While the Coaxin has been developed by Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Medical Council of research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology.Is it free?Yes. Earlier this month, Union health minister Vardhan stated that Covid-19 vaccine will be provided free of cost across the country.What is the eligibility?For now, only people aged 18 or above will be vaccinated.When do you get the second shot?Both vaccines are a two-dose regimen. The second shot will be administered 28 days after the first one.Is it mandatory?It will be a voluntary exercise. People will need to register themselves for at the government portal only then will be administered with the vaccine.Who will be vaccinated first?As per the government figures, as many as 30 million people will be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive. This will only include people working in the healthcare and frontline workers who are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic.When will it be available to the general public?The general public will get the vaccine once healthcare and frontline workers, people above 50 years and those below 50 years with comorbidities are covered which would take a few months.Can pregnant women or lactating mothers get vaccinated?The government has advised that pregnant women or who are not sure of their pregnancy and lactating mothers shouldn't receive the vaccine. Pregnant and lactating women have not been part of any Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial so far.What is CoWIN?Co-WIN is an online digital platform developed by the Union health ministry, which will be used by the government to facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries. Co-WIN will assist programme managers across all levels while conducting vaccination sessions, the PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-covid-19-vaccine-mandatory-all-your-faqs-about-vaccination-drive-answered-101610731129340.html
15-01-2021||India||Bengal BJP leaders meet Amit Shah in Delhi, discuss poll preparedness||Union home minister Amit Shah and senior central leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held a meeting with leaders from Bengal at Shah’s residence in Delhi on Friday evening to review the ongoing poll preparations in Bengal and plan outreach programmes for the next one month.Shah is scheduled to attend programmes in Bengal on January 30 and 31. The party also wants to plan a rally to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the coming weeks.“This is a monthly review meeting. The Union home minister and BJP national president JP Nadda are visiting Bengal every month. Their activities are going to increase in the coming days. We will review the result of the programmes held so far,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said before the meeting.Ghosh attended the meeting along with national vice-president Mukul Roy and Bengal general secretary (organization) Amitava Chakraborty. The meeting started around 7 pm.To meet Shah’s target of winning more than 200 of Bengal’s 294 assembly seats in 2021, the BJP has put together its biggest election machinery in the eastern state. Since November 26, Union ministers, central BJP leaders from Delhi and leaders and ministers from other states are taking part in outreach programmes in Bengal.Bengal BJP leaders said that Friday’s meeting was held to review the state BJP unit’s poll preparedness against the backdrop of the report five central leaders prepared for Shah.These leaders, Sunil Deodhar, Dushyant Gautam, Vinod Tawde, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar interviewed the presidents and secretaries of the district units in November and December for a comprehensive report. State leaders were not allowed to attend the interviews. The five BJP leaders have been put in charge of different organizational zones.Induction of leaders from the Trinamool Congress and other parties was also discussed at Friday’s meeting, said a BJP leader. A BJP leader said that the central leadership wants checks and balances to be put in place during inductions.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, who is the observer for Bengal, recently hinted at this, saying image of leaders being inducted would be reviewed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-leaders-meet-amit-shah-in-delhi-discuss-poll-preparedness-101610730404558.html
15-01-2021||India||Ladakh soldiers among first set of army personnel to get Covid-19 vaccine||Military doctors, paramedics and front-line soldiers deployed in eastern Ladakh, where India and China are locked in a tense border standoff, will be among the first set of armed forces personnel to be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease, with India all set to kick off an elaborate vaccination campaign on Saturday, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.More than 12,000 doses of the vaccine have reached Ladakh of which around 4,000 have been earmarked for armed forces personnel to protect them from Covid-19, the officials said speaking on condition of anonymity.“Top priority is being given to military doctors and medical staff who have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Front-line soldiers have also been identified for vaccination,” the officials said.The armed forces have been able to keep a check on the spread of the disease within its ranks by adhering to strict protocols, even as army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane described the pandemic and the situation on the northern borders as the main challenges the army confronted last year.Experts said it was critical to protect frontline military personnel from the disease.“It is absolutely critical to vaccinate the military medical staff and front-line soldiers against Covid-19, given the crucial role being discharged by them in harsh conditions. Others who are not directly part of the military set up but play a key role in keeping the system in forward areas up and running should also get the vaccine on priority,” said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former director general of the Armed Forces Medical Services.He said the armed forces would have prioritised the list of personnel who have to be vaccinated ahead of others keeping their roles and service conditions in mind. “I am sure all drills are in place to ensure that people are vaccinated on priority according to the government’s guidelines,” Chopra added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on January 16 to start Covid-19 vaccination in India. As many as 3,006 vaccination centres will be part of this drive.The vaccination campaign, marking the final phase in India’s long battle against the pandemic, will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, barring the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme.Officials involved in the preparations said that all pallets of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccines have reached all state capitals and their distribution to the districts and blocks is on. Similarly, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, a backup to Covishield, has also arrived in some states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-soldiers-among-first-set-of-army-personnel-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-101610727102207.html
15-01-2021||India||Thousands of Odisha's healthcare workers say no to Covid-19 vaccine, here's why||Ahead of the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive, about 15,000 multipurpose health workers have said they will not take Covid-19 vaccine in protest against state government's callousness in cadre restructuring and designation change.The health workers, under the banner of Odisha State Male and Female Multipurpose Health Workers'/Health Supervisors’ United Association, started wearing black badges on Friday as a symbolic protest and refused to take the vaccination if their demands are not met.The Multipurpose Health Workers (Male and Female) work in preventive and promotive healthcare sector starting at village sub-health centres for control of communicable diseases, including Malaria, TB, Leprosy, waterborne diseases, as well as environmental sanitation.“Our members have played a significant role in village and primary health centre (PHC) level during the Covid-19 pandemic. We have motivated people to go for testing and have created awareness among people about the disease. Our members collected swabs from people during Covid. But we did not get our dues from the government,” said Rabindranath Pradhan, general secretary of State Multipurpose Health Workers (Male) Association.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesPradhan said many MPW workers do not even get a single promotion despite working hard throughout their lives and that's why cadre-restructuring was needed. "However, we would assist the government in vaccination drive from January 16," he said.Mamata Nayak of the association said the government should decide quickly on the designation of the workers as many of them are treated poorly despite having professional degrees. "For a long time we have been demanding to be designated as Upakendra Janaswasthya Aadhikari which would be acceptable at the community level and the health workers would be more inspired," said Nayak.Odisha would administer Covid-19 vaccine shots to about 1.92 lakh healthcare workers during the first phase of the nationwide vaccination programme. The state has already received 4.08 lakh Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin doses for the first phase of vaccination to be held across 160 session sites across. Dr BK Panigrahi, state nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination said all the 160 session sites have been duly provisioned with at least three rooms each for vaccination, waiting, and observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-of-odisha-s-healthcare-workers-say-no-to-covid-19-vaccine-here-s-why-101610727463060.html
15-01-2021||India||Join Congress to defeat BJP: Adhir Ranjan repeats invite to Mamata Banerjee||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Choudhury on Friday once again asked Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress to form an alliance with his party to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming elections in West Bengal."She (Mamata Banerjee) should join Congress because it's not possible to stop the BJP from coming to power in West Bengal without Congress. Congress had single-handedly kept a secular atmosphere in India by combating parties like the BJP for nearly 100 years in India. History is proof as well," Choudhury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Choudhury's comments came after the TMC had on Wednesday said the Congress and the Left should support Banerjee in her fight against the BJP, a suggestion rejected by the two parties. "If the Left Front and the Congress are genuinely anti-BJP, they should rally behind Mamata Banerjee in her fight against the communal and divisive politics of the saffron party," senior TMC leader Sougata Roy had said while speaking to reporters.Choudhury, who is the Congress' West Bengal unit president, had then proposed that the TMC should merge with it instead and put up a united fight against the BJP. Banerjee had floated the Trinamool Congress in 1998 after breaking away from the Congress.On Friday, he said despite forming an alliance with the Congress in the assembly elections in 2011, the TMC has worked towards weakening the strength of secular parties in West Bengal. The alliance had won 226 seats in the assembly elections that year, ending the 10-year tenure of then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. Choudhury also blamed the Trinamool Congress for allowing the BJP to strengthen its base in the state.“They felt it will be difficult for them to survive without Congress. They came to power with Congress' help but then left no stone unturned to finish Congress. They weakened secular parties like Congress and Left in West Bengal which made a communal party like BJP rise,” Choudhury said.Banerjee has faced stiff opposition not only from the BJP but also from the Congress and the Left Front in the run-up to the state’s assembly elections. Congress leader Abdul Mannan in January had demanded that the chief minister prove majority in the state assembly after rumours of several TMC leaders leaving the party to join the BJP surfaced as Suvendu Adhikari joined BJP. “If your claim is true, please appear for a floor test in assembly,” the Congress leader had said.CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakrabarty had also expressed similar sentiments after rumours of discontent among TMC leaders surfaced. The CPI(M) leader said he feels that the chief minister does not have the support of an adequate number of legislators.Defections of several high-profile leaders from the Trinamool Congress has forced the party to go back to the drawing board as it trying to stop the BJP from mounting a serious competition in the upcoming elections. In December last year, TMC rebel leader Suvendu Adhikari along with five other leaders had joined the BJP in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah.Congress and CPI(M) held seat-sharing discussions earlier in January and leaders from both parties denied forming an alliance with the TMC as they feared that it would result in massive electoral losses. Leaders from both the parties claimed that an anti-incumbency sentiment against the TMC government is prevalent in the state.Sitaram Yechury, the CPI(M) general secretary, had said before the seat-sharing meeting that since the TMC is a former ally of the BJP, the party is reluctant to fight the polls alongside TMC. He said, “The anti-incumbency sentiment against the TMC government runs so deep and so large that any unity of all the anti-BJP forces will only help the BJP more. It will be counterproductive. People have great anger against the TMC. Aligning with Trinamool will therefore only turn people against us and help the BJP.”West Bengal is scheduled to hold assembly elections this year for 290 seats as the tenure of the current Trinamool Congress-led government is set to end on May 30. Officials of the Election Commission of India, who visited the state on Thursday, highlighted major issues with the state’s law and order situation. The BJP and Trinamool Congress workers have been involved in several incidents of political violence in the state over the last couple of years which has led to the loss of lives and injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/join-congress-to-defeat-bjp-adhir-ranjan-repeats-invite-to-mamata-banerjee-101610725369864.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India-Japan to work together in field of 5G, smart cities and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India-Japan to work on bolstering cooperation in field of 5G, smart citiesThe Ministry of Telecommunication on Friday said that India and Japan will work together in the field of information and communication technology to enhance cooperation in the field of 5G technology and smart cities. Read moreChinese authorities ask people to cut down on travel as Covid rises againChina reported the highest daily tally of Covid-19 cases in 10 months for Thursday, official data showed on Friday as authorities appealed to citizens to cut down on non-essential travel during the upcoming Chinese New Year (CNY) holidays when hundreds of millions visit their home towns. Read moreRead your 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto: Tomar reminds Rahul Gandhi over farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for criticising the government over the new farm laws. Read moreCalled me a slut: 69-yr-old Rajini Chandy on being trolled for 'sexy' photosWhile she may not be a household name, actor and former Bigg Boss Malayalam contestant, Rajini Chandy is a trailblazer in her own right. Read more‘Get in loser, we're going stargazing’: NASA uses Mean Girls reference while sharing pic of Cigar galaxy"Get in loser, we're going shopping," many may remember this iconic dialogue delivered by queen bee Regina George, played by Rachel McAdams, from the beloved film Mean Girls. Read moreArjun Tendulkar, Sachin's son, gets maiden wicket on Mumbai debut in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, video goes viralTwitter was abuzz after Arjun Tendulkar, son of Sachin Tendulkar got his maiden T20 wicket on his debut for the senior Mumbai side in an Elite E League group match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy against Haryana on Friday. Read moreInside Kareena-Saif's new home: Swimming pool, Taimur's space, room for new baby; designer gives all the deetsActors Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan are all set to move into their new house, across the street from their current residence. Read moreWhatsApp Vs Signal: What you should do to keep your data safeThere is outrage in the country over WhatsApp’s revised privacy policy. The messaging app also issued a clarification over the issue but has not been successful in putting a halt to concerns about users’ data & personal chats being shared with Facebook. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-japan-to-work-on-bolstering-cooperation-in-field-of-5g-smart-cities-and-all-the-latest-news-101610723233924.html
15-01-2021||India||When 4 CBI officers turned 'bribe facilitators' for bank fraud accused||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has found that a bribe-for-relief racket was being run in the agency since 2018 by leaking confidential case related information to some accused companies under bank fraud investigation, people familiar with the development said.The agency has identified that bribes worth ₹55 lakh were paid to two of its officers – ₹30 lakh to deputy superintendent of police RK Rishi and ₹25 lakh to inspector Kapil Dhankad – in lieu of favours extended to at least three companies.In all, nine persons have been named in the First Information Report – including four CBI officers: RK Rishi (deployed at CBI academy), Kapil Dhankad (who is posted in Bank Securities and Fraud Cell BS&FC of CBI), DSP RK Sangwan (posted in Special Crimes Unit) and Stenographer in BS&FC Sameer Kumar Singh.According to the FIR, reviewed by HT, the four CBI officers, along with two advocates, and certain other accused have been “compromising the integrity of investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”.“The leak of sensitive case related information like raids, status of investigation, filing of chargesheet, etc helps accused persons in destroying the evidence. There is a possibility that more officers are involved in the scandal as CBI investigations are monitored at various levels and documents are usually kept in respective branches. It is to be seen how Singh was leaking the documents without anyone’s knowledge,” said an officer who didn’t want to be named.The CBI is verifying the nature of the racket as this could be much bigger considering a large number of bank fraud cases are under investigation.Two advocates – Arvind Kumar Gupta and Manohar Malik - have also been named as accused along with Mandeep Kaur Dhillon (additional director of a company – Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd) and Sujai Desai and Udai Desai of Mumbai based company Frost International Pvt Ltd.Both Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd (SSPBML) and Frost International are being investigated by the premier investigating agency for defrauding banks. The case against Frost International was registered in August 2020 for cheating 14 banks of over ₹3,500 crore.CBI FIR states that “in the case of SSPNML, RK Sangwan, who was the previous investigating officer in the case, offered and paid a bribe of ₹10 lakh in cash on behalf of Mandeep Kaur to Inspector Kapil Dhankad”. “On his part, Dhankad conveyed confidential information relating to the investigation of this case to RK Sangwan, with an intention to favour the accused,” FIR states.It is further alleged that RK Rishi paid ₹10 lakh bribe to Dhankad on behalf of Desais of Frost International.For facilitating the bribe, Rishi received ₹15 lakh twice through advocates Malik and Gupta to extend favours to a Chandigarh based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by CBI, the FIR adds. “In this matter, Dhankad twice received ₹2.5 lakh from Gupta for having brokered the deal through Rishi,” read the CBI FIR.The agency FIR says about Sameer Kumar Singh that “details of investigation of many other cases, including confidential notes and directions, have been communicated by Singh to Sangwan and Rishi on pecuniary considerations to protect the interests of the accused”.The two DSPs - RK Rishi and RK Sangwan – mainly played the role of bribe facilitators leaking the information to the companies, said an officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-4-cbi-officers-turned-bribe-facilitators-for-bank-fraud-accused-101610723637852.html
15-01-2021||India||Rajnath Singh unveils India's first indigenously developed driverless metro car||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday unveiled the country's first indigenously designed and developed Driverless Metro Car at the BEML manufacturing facility here. The Minister, who visited the facility, said he was proud of the good work the team of engineers and technicians are doing at Bengaluru-headquartered BEML. "They are the real warriors of Atmanirbhar Bharat, taking India ahead", he said. According to BEML, state-of-the-art driverless metro cars, being manufactured at the company's Bangalore Complex, are made up of stainless-steel body with a capacity of carrying 2280 passengers in six-cars Metro train-set. BEML bagged a total order of 576 cars for Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA)'s MRS1 project and the supply is scheduled progressively up to January 2024. BEML recently opened its Depot office at Charkop Metro Depot, MMRDA, Mumbai for commissioning, testing and round-the- clock services for Driverless Metro cars. Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar IAS, Secretary (Defence Production) and BEML Limited Chairman and Managing Director, Deepak Kumar Hota, were among those present on the occasion. Hota said, "BEMLs foray into metro manufacturing has been a defining moment in the urban transportation scenario in India".Singh virtually launched the Aerospace Assembly Hangar, situated within BEMLs Bangalore Complex, and unveiled first indigenously manufactured Tatra Cabin by BEML. At the BEMLs Bangalore Complex, Singh inspected the Rail Hangars, the array of BEML equipment on display (from its Defence & Aerospace, Mining & Construction and Rail & Metro Divisions) and the newly launched Industrial Design Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-unveils-india-s-first-indigenously-developed-driverless-metro-car-101610723220414.html
15-01-2021||India||'No room for doubt on Covid vaccine, ready to take the shot': Sharad Pawar||A day ahead of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said that there is no need to cast doubts on Covid-19 vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI). He said that both the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are world class institutions, and if given a chance he would immediately take a vaccine shot.“There is no need to cast doubt on vaccines as Pune’s Serum of Institute of India is a world class organization and so is Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech. In a way, they have also shown a path to the world hence I will not cast any doubt on them. In fact, I will immediately get a shot of Covid vaccine if given a chance,” said Pawar while speaking to reporters in South Mumbai.The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive is beginning from January 16.Pawar’s statement is at variance with what party spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik has said a few ago. Malik had said that the people have some doubts on the Covid-19 vaccine thus Prime Minister Narendra Modi should get himself inoculated first to allay their concerns.On Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Bhupinder Singh Mann’s decision to recuse himself from the four-member committee appointed by the Supreme Court to discuss the contentious farm laws, Pawar said,“The decision made by the BKU chief indicates that complaints of the farmers are based on facts. However, a decision needs to be made over their agitation as farmer brothers are not willing to withdraw the protest despite the severe cold wave in Delhi.”On Thursday, the NCP chief had questioned the composition of the committee appointed by the apex court on farm laws saying that the members of the committee have supported the three farm laws in the past and thus they do not have faith in the committee. He has also said that the committee should have been independent in a true sense.The veteran leader also expressed surprise at governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari participating in a donation collection drive for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on Friday.“Organizing a donation drive is the right of an organization so I will not comment on that part but I read somewhere that the Governor (Bhagat Singh Koshyari) is also participating in a donation drive, which is strange, if true,” Pawar said.“Governor is the head of a state and expected to work for everyone. It would be a wise decision, if he can avoid participating in events which could lead to the possibility of unnecessary debate or argument,” he explained, when asked further.Earlier today, Koshyari attended Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan (donation collection drive) at the Poddareshwar Ram Mandir in Nagpur.The donation collection drive for the Ram temple at Ayodhya began simultaneously all over the country on January 15 and it will run till February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-room-for-doubt-on-covid-vaccine-ready-to-take-the-shot-sharad-pawar-101610723235605.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with health workers of Kerala’s Ernakulam hospital tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with health workers of Ernakulam district hospital after inaugurating the nationwide rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, a statement from the health ministry said adding the state is prepared for the vaccine drive.State health minister K K Shailaja will take part in the vaccination drive in Kannur. The state government has asked political leaders and others not to crowd hospitals.In the first phase, the state has got 0.435 million (4.35 lakh) vials of Covishield. Besides hospital employees, ambulance drivers, Asha workers and employees of the social security mission will also be administered the vaccine in 133 centres. The health minister has allayed apprehensions about the new vaccine.“Experts have told us it is like any other vaccine. For those who take the first shot, they should take the second without fail. Beneficiaries should report side-effects, if any. There is no need of any apprehension in this regard,” she said after reviewing arrangements.In view of high active caseload the state had sought more vials in the first stage but it was told that in the second stage more vials will be given. Once lauded for its Covid-19 management, now Kerala is the virus hotspot of the country. When the country’s test positivity rate since January 1 was between 4 and 5 per cent in Kerala it was between 9 and 10 per cent, statistics show.On Friday it reported 5624 new Covid-19 cases and TPR was 8.94% and active cases 67,496. Kerala and Maharashtra have reported one third of the total cases in the country, Union health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-health-workers-of-kerala-s-ernakulam-hospital-tomorrow-101610717671374.html
15-01-2021||India||Arunachal Pradesh to build memorial to honour hero who won Tawang for India||Seventy years after he brought Tawang under Indian rule by reaching the area located near McMahon Line and unfurling the tricolour there, the Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to honour Major Ralengnao Khathing with a memorial.The memorial will be constructed at a site decided by the Tawang district administration and besides highlighting Khathing’s life it will also showcase traditions of the Monpa tribe.The foundation stone of the memorial will be laid on February 14, the day when Khathing is believed to have hoisted the Indian flag in Tawang in 1951.Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu announced this on Friday while speaking at a function in Tawang to felicitate newly elected gram panchayat and zila parishad chairpersons.Khathing, who was more popular as Bob, is relatively an unknown figure for most of India and even in parts of Arunachal Pradesh. But people in Tawang still remember him with respect for establishing Indian control over the area when the threat of China loomed.“Not many of us are aware of Maj Khathing and his contribution to Arunachal Pradesh. Once the memorial is constructed, visitors will come to know about him and his contributions,” Khandu said.Born at Ukhrul in Manipur in 1912, Khathing had served the British Army in the Second World War. He was awarded the Military Cross and received the Member of British Empire (MBE) as well.After Independence, he was appointed as an assistant political officer in November 1950 in Tirap division and was posted in Pasighat in Arunachal Pradesh (known earlier as North East Frontier Agency-NEFA).It is believed that he started an arduous journey on foot from Charduar on January 17, 1951 with a team of soldiers from 5 Assam Rifles traversing difficult and inhospitable terrain to reach Tawang on February 6.“To establish Indian presence up to the extent of the McMahon Line, which was demarcated as the border between India and Tibet in 1914, under the terms of the Shimla Treaty, required covering the area by foot over very difficult terrain,” said an Arunachal Pradesh government release.“Khathing and his troops of 5 Assam Rifles successfully accomplished this. He then met and interacted with a number of ‘gaonburhas’ (village headmen) and quickly and effectively established authority over Tawang. Indian administrative presence was thus established in this remote part of the country,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-builds-memorial-to-honour-hero-who-won-tawang-for-india-101610722820165.html
15-01-2021||India||India-Japan to work on bolstering cooperation in field of 5G, smart cities||The Ministry of Telecommunication on Friday said that India and Japan will work together in the field of information and communication technology to enhance cooperation in the field of 5G technology and smart cities.While the government is yet to roll out the tender for 5G, smart cities has been one of its flagship schemes. The two countries will also work together in the field of telecom security, submarine optical fibre cable system to islands of India, spectrum management, high altitude platform for broadband in unconnected areas, disaster management and public safety.Announcing the decision, minister for telecommunications Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “The timely execution of connecting Andaman & Nicobar Islands with submarine optical fibre cable as a great example of cooperation between India and Japan"Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesSigned MoU for cooperation in the field of Information and Communication Technologies with Government of Japan in presence of Mr. Takeda Ryota, Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications, Govt. Japan. pic.twitter.com/SJGAvZZplVPrasad further highlighted that during Covid-19 crisis, a large number of investments had come to India in the field of electronics manufacturing due to attractive policies such as the production-linked investment scheme.“He urged the Japanese electronics industry to invest in India and avail the benefits of the new technologies. The minister further highlighted the great potential India holds for Japanese investors in the field of 5G and 5G based services, Internet of Things, digital health technologies etc,” the ministry said in a statement.The government has already rolled out its first PLI scheme for manufacturing of mobile phones, with incentives up to 6 per cent, and is in the works to announce others for laptops, tablets, hearables, wearables, drones and robots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiajapan-to-work-on-bolstering-cooperation-in-field-of-5g-smart-cities-101610721968796.html
15-01-2021||India||At bilateral meet with India, Nepal’s foreign minister Gyawali raises border row||Nepal on Friday requested the early provision of Covid-19 vaccines by India even as Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali raised an ongoing border row during a one-on-one meeting with his counterpart S Jaishankar to push for an early resolution.Gyawali, in India with a delegation that includes Nepal’s foreign and health secretaries, co-chaired a meeting of the bilateral joint commission with Jaishankar and reviewed all aspects of cooperation, ranging from connectivity and trade to water resources and border management.Both sides have worked closely to combat the pandemic, and the Nepalese side lauded India on its success in the production of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and “requested for early provision of vaccines to Nepal”, the external affairs ministry said.Nepal is looking to India to provide vaccines as grant assistance for the first phase of its vaccination programme, which requires 12 million doses to cover 20% of its population. Nepal also plans to buy millions of doses from foreign suppliers, including Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that decisions on exports will be made after meeting the needs of India’s vaccination programme, to be rolled out on January 16. After assessing domestic production and delivery, preference will be given to supplying doses to friendly countries in the immediate neighbourhood, including Nepal, the people said.During his one-on-one meeting with Jaishankar, Gyawali raised the border row that took ties to a low last year, people familiar with the discussions said. Gyawali pressed for speedy steps, including meetings of bilateral mechanisms that handle the boundary issue, to facilitate a resolution.There was no official word from both sides on these discussions, though Gyawali referred to the border issue during a speech at the Indian Council of World Affairs. He said both sides have shown wisdom by continuing overall engagements despite differences on this issue. “We are also mindful that we should not let any outstanding issue...become [an] irritant in an otherwise friendly relationship,” he said.Gyawali sought steps to address the two remaining disputed sections of the 1,800-km border at Kalapani and Susta. “Building and nurturing trust is absolutely essential for the health and harmony of the relations. In this spirit, we desire to start the conversation with a view to resolving the question of boundary alignment in the remaining segments,” he said.“Finding an agreeable boundary alignment in these segments may not only take us to the stage of fully settled international boundary but may also help generate positive vibe in public sentiment as well as help instil greater degree of trust and confidence in bilateral relations.”The row erupted after Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli issued a new political map that included Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh, which are part of Indian territory. The map was published in response to India’s opening of a strategic road to Lipulekh, located on the border with China.Recent visits to Nepal by spy chief Samant Goel, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla helped bring ties to an even keel.In an apparent nod to concerns in India about perceived Chinese meddling in Nepal’s politics, Gyawali said his country pursues an “independent foreign policy and our conduct of external relations is based on a balanced outlook”. He added, “We do not harbour ill-will against anyone...Guided by the same principles, we seek to foster relations with neighbours and all friendly countries...”Gyawali raised the “alarmingly high trade imbalance” with India and said Nepal had proposed measures to expand its export base. He highlighted the need to revise the Peace and Friendship Treaty of 1950 on the basis of recommendations of the Eminent Persons’ Group created in 2016.The two sides also discussed steps to expedite work on joint hydropower projects, including the proposed Pancheshwar multipurpose project.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said India needs to stick to its current approach of not allowing irritants to affect the overall relationship. Referring to turmoil caused by Oli’s recent dissolution of Parliament, Prakash said: “We handled it well with our hands-off approach, and we should play to our strengths instead of trying to out-do China.”He added: “This relationship is difficult and sensitive and no political party in Nepal is above playing the China card. Things will get smoother so long as we are not seen to be interfering in their internal politics. As for vaccines, there is a lot of history and proximity in this relationship and I’m sure India will take care of Nepal’s needs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-bilateral-meet-with-india-nepal-s-foreign-minister-gyawali-raises-border-row-101610720443578.html
15-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu warms up for Covid-19 vaccination, over 150 sites to be in operation||In Tamil Nadu, as many as 4.8 lakh healthcare workers from government and private are registered with the Co-WIN app for the vaccination drive, as per the official details available on January 14.166 vaccination sites, including hospitals and primary healthcare centres, will function on January 16, where pre-registered candidates will receive an SMS with their allotted location. A vaccination officer will check their identity, ensure that the person doesn’t have Covid-like symptoms. They will be observed for 30 minutes after receiving the vaccine jab. A committee including a cardiologist and a neurologist has been formed to monitor cases of adverse effects. A candidate must strictly be administered the same vaccine for both liquid doses, said Vinay.Tamil Nadu has identified ten prominent personalities in the medical field to take the vaccine to allay fears. “This will prevent rumours,” health minister C Vijayabhaskar told reporters in Pudukkottai on Saturday.Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami will participate in the vaccination drive tomorrow in Madurai where a sanitary worker of a hospital is expected to receive the first shot.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesTamil Nadu has received a total of 556,550 vaccine doses, of which 536,550 is Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, Pune and 20,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine from Bharath Biotech.The vaccines have been distributed from Chennai to ten regional vaccine storage facilities and down to 45 district-level vaccine stores. “From here the vaccines have reached cold chain points and will be delivered across 166 locations tomorrow,” said Vinay. The state has 2,704 cold chain points and has established 50 walk-in coolers as additional storage points.The state government aims to vaccinate 20 per cent of the population (1.6 crore) between January and December 2021. About 16,846 vaccinators have been trained for the exercise.Dr Melvin George, co-investigator in Covaxin trials at SRM Medical College Hospital in the outskirts of Chennai, said that the side-effects were minor such as injection site reaction, fever or body pain. He also added that it wasn’t known how long the effects of the vaccine will last. “Based on other vaccines, we can say that the vaccine’s protection will last for six months or a year,” said George. “We have short-term data but we do not have answers on long-term data now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-warms-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-over-150-sites-to-be-in-operation-101610721361559.html
15-01-2021||India||Patna IndiGo station manager murder: Family demands CBI probe||The family of the IndiGo station manager, who was shot dead on Tuesday evening in one of Patna’s high-security areas, said on Friday Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar should hand over the probe into his death to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Nandeshwar Singh, Rupesh Singh’s brother, expressed his dissatisfaction with the state police as he said no one has been arrested even though three days have passed since Rupesh was shot dead by unidentified gunmen outside his house.“The chief minister had given an ultimatum that the culprit will be arrested within 48 hours. But there's been no arrest. We feel that the Patna administration is unable to make the arrest. So, the CM should hand over the probe to CBI,” Nandeshwar Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Kumar had highlighted how his government has been able to curb crimes when compared to Bihar’s previous governments. “I spoke with the DGP, a special team has been formed. Don't demoralise the police. If someone doesn't carry out their duty, the action is taken. What used to happen before 2005? There was a lot of crime. Is it the same today?” the chief minister said on Tuesday.The Bihar chief minister reassured that the state’s law and order situation is stable and promised a speedy trial. “Bihar ranks at 23 in the country as far as incidents of crime are concerned. Law is in place. Police are gathering more information. A speedy trial will be done, so that stringent action is taken against the culprit on time. I have been assured by the DGP,” he said.Rupesh Singh’s death has also caused a war of words between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) over the state of law and order in Bihar. The RJD's leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday targeted chief minister Nitish Kumar and alleged that Kumar’s government is protecting criminals.“Power-protected criminals killed airport manager Rupesh Kumar Singh outside his residence in Patna. He was affable and friendly. I am deeply saddened by his untimely death. May his soul rest in peace. Now criminals are running the government in Bihar,” Tejashwi Yadav had tweeted.The JD(U)’s ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also pointed out that there were lapses in implementing law and order in the state. The BJP's Rajya Sabha lawmaker Gopal Narayan Singh said that the state’s future is in danger as the administration has shown laxity in curbing incidents of crime. “Our expectations were that when the fourth time Nitish Kumar becomes Chief Minister of state, he will work strictly on law and order situation and rise above politics and think for the people of Bihar. But the laxity is seen, it looks like that the future is not looking bright,” Singh said.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-indigo-station-manager-murder-family-demands-cbi-probe-101610720956158.html
15-01-2021||India||6.3 crore domestic air passengers in 2020, 56 pc lower than 2019: DGCA||A total of 6.3 crore domestic passengers travelled by air last year, 56.29 per cent lower than 2019, Indian aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday.The impact of the coronavirus pandemic continues to be felt on the Indian aviation sector as the regulator said that only 73.27 lakh people travelled by air domestically in December last year, which was 43.72 per cent lower than in the corresponding period of 2019.While IndiGo carried 3.25 crore passengers last year, a 51.7 per cent share of the total domestic market, SpiceJet flew 93.9 lakh passengers, which is 14.9 per cent share of the market, according to data shared by the DGCA.Air India, GoAir, AirAsia India and Vistara carried 69.32 lakh, 54.38 lakh, 43.87 lakh and 39.39 lakh passengers, respectively, in 2020, the data showed.The occupancy rate or load factor of six major Indian airlines was between 65.1 per cent and 78 per cent in December 2020, it stated."The passenger load factor in the month of December 2020 has shown declining trend compared to the previous month primarily due to the end of tourist season," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.The occupancy rate at SpiceJet was 78 per cent last month, highest among the six major Indian carriers.India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic.Indian airlines are allowed to operate a maximum of 80 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights.The DGCA data mentioned that in December, IndiGo had the best on-time performance of 94.9 per cent at four metro airports - Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai.In a statement, Ronojoy Dutta, CEO, IndiGo, said, "On-time performance is one of the most critical aspects of customer service. But it is not possible to deliver a high OTP without a fully engaged employee workforce. I am delighted everytime I see a winning OTP number, it signifies we are pleasing the customer and it signifies our employee culture is strong."AirAsia India and Vistara were at number two and three at these four airports in November with 89.9 per cent and 88.4 per cent on-time performance, respectively, the DGCA said.The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic.All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to tide over the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63-crore-domestic-air-passengers-in-2020-56-pc-lower-than-2019-dgca-101610720906404.html
15-01-2021||India||Read your 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto: Tomar reminds Rahul Gandhi over farm laws||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for criticising the government over the new farm laws. Tomar also questioned the Congress Lok Sabha member’s stance over the farm reforms, saying that Gandhi had forgotten that even his party had promised the same reforms in its manifesto for the general elections in 2019.“The Congress party laughs at statements and actions of Rahul Gandhi. The party mocks him. I would like to remind him that in their 2019 election manifesto Congress promised that they will bring these reforms. If he doesn't remember, he should once again read the manifesto,” the agriculture minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.In its plan for reforms in the agricultural sector, Congress’ election manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had said that if the party forms the government it would “repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-state trade — free from all restrictions.” The party manifesto had also said it maintains that the “Essential Commodities Act, 1955 belongs to the age of controls. Congress promises to replace the Act by an enabling law that can be invoked only in the case of emergencies.”Tomar also attacked Congress president Sonia Gandhi over her party’s stand on the laws. He said that both leaders should clarify if they were lying about these reforms in their election manifesto. “If it is mentioned in the manifesto, then Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi should appear before the media and accept that they were either lying at that time or are lying now,” Tomar said.Congress party workers observed Kisan Adhikar Divas on Friday to protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and gheraoed Raj Bhawans across the country. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi also joined Congress workers and leader at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on Friday morning to protest against the laws.Rahul Gandhi during the protests alleged Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to tire out the farmers. “The talks are being held only to delay. PM Modi thinks he has the power and will tire the farmers out, but he is mistaken. Narendra Modi does not have basic respect for farmers. He does not even care if over 100 farmers die. He thinks he has the power and the protesting farmers will tire out after some days, but they will not relent,” the former Congress president was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Tomar also said that discussions with farmers’ unions' representatives can solve the deadlock between the farmers and the government. Farmers’ unions' representatives and Union ministers could not reach a resolution on the farm laws, which were passed during the monsoon session of Parliament last year, after the ninth round of discussions concluded on Friday. The farmers' union representatives and the Centre will sit for another round of discussions on the farm laws on January 19.Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Tomar had previously claimed that Congress was protesting against the farm laws because they lacked the willpower to implement them. Tomar in an interview with HT in December last year said that Congress could not implement these laws because of influence from allies.“They spoke about these reforms in their election manifesto; when the UPA {United Progressive Alliance} was in power they made attempts to introduce these reforms, but could not because of dabav and prabhav (pressure and influence) (of allies). PM [Narendra] Modi Ji does not give in to pressure or influence,” Tomar had said.Sithraman had also pointed out that the party had mentioned these reforms in their manifesto. “I want to ask Rahul Gandhi (that) were these pro-farmers policies not mentioned in the 2019 election manifesto of Congress? They are protesting just because those reforms are being implemented by PM Modi, and not them,” the Union finance minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/read-your-2019-lok-sabha-manifesto-tomar-reminds-rahul-gandhi-over-farm-laws-101610720165863.html
15-01-2021||India||'Beginning of end of Covid-19 pandemic': Health minister Harsh Vardhan on vaccination drive||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday described the beginning of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the end of the pandemic as authorities across the country are all set to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase from Saturday. Vardhan also asked people to trust the indigenously manufactured vaccine as the government has "given emergency use approval after scientific scrutiny.""India is set to begin the world's biggest vaccination drive tomorrow. This is the beginning of the end of Covid. Both indigenously manufactured vaccines given emergency use approval after scientific scrutiny," he said, according to news agency ANI.Vardhan will participate in the vaccine rollout at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). He will visit the new outpatient department (OPD) wing of the hospital to join the doctors and potential vaccine beneficiaries. The drive will be virtually launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 10:30am.In a statement on Thursday, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that more than 3,000 sites across all states and Union territories (UTs) will be virtually connected when Prime Minister Modi launches the drive.In the coming phases, people above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 270 million will be inoculated. The central government has introduced an application named Co-WIN, short for Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work, to monitor the entire vaccination process.Two vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield, have received the emergency use authorisation (EAU) after going through established safety and immunogenicity in a well-prescribed regulatory process and these will be administered during the vaccination drive.Meanwhile, the coronavirus infections continued to drop in India as the daily number of cases remained under 20,000. At the peak of the outbreak, the number of daily infections had surpassed 95,000. As of Friday morning, the country has 10.52 million confirmed cases of Covid-19. The death toll stood at 151,198.India is the second worst-hit country by the Covid-19 after the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beginning-of-end-of-covid-19-pandemic-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-on-vaccination-drive-101610719839295.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI seeks to expedite process to prosecute ex-IAS, 4 IAF officers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked the ministry of defence (MoD) to speed up the sanction it needs to give to prosecute former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma and four Indian Air Force (IAF) officers in the case related to alleged irregularities in the purchase of AgustaWestland helicopters, people familiar with the development said.MoD is learnt to have informed the central agency that the request is under consideration and will be processed soon, the people added on condition of anonymity.After completing its investigation against Sharma and four IAF officers – former air vice marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar, deputy chief test pilot S A Kunte, wing commander Thomas Mathew and former group captain N Santosh -- a Special Investigation Team handling the probe sought sanction for their prosecution because it wanted to file a supplementary charge-sheet in the case.The agency recently decided to send a reminder to the MoD asking it to expedite the sanction so that the supplementary charge-sheet, which is almost ready, can be filed at the earliest, said a CBI officer who didn’t want to be named.In the case, bribes were allegedly paid to middlemen when India agreed to buy 12 AgustaWestland helicopters at an estimated cost of Rs3,600 crore.The purchase, cleared in 2010 by the previous United Progressive Alliance government, envisaged replacing ageing Mi-8 choppers to ferry VVIPs such as the President, vice-president, Prime Minister and the other dignitaries.The deal was eventually cancelled in January 2014.Pending sanctions of prosecution is a key reason the CBI is often not able to file charge-sheets in such cases on time.In fact, the anti-corruption agency has been waiting for sanction from the Centre and several state governments to prosecute at least 110 politicians and government officials for over four months in at least 73 cases.Prominent cases in which the concerned department is yet to decide on sanction include the Narada sting case against four Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders -- Sougata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee and former TMC leader Suvendu Adhikar -- and the case of alleged irregularities in coal block allocations against former Jharkhand chief minister Madhu Koda.In its probe against Shashi Kant Sharma, CBI has found that the retired Indian Administrative Service officer, as joint secretary (air) in MoD, played a key role in most of the decisions taken since 2005 until 2010 that skewed the selection in favour of AgustaWestland .The agency has alleged that Sharma, who had become director general (acquisition) by September 2006, approved the request for proposal (RFP) document for the contract as well as the technical evaluation committee (TEC) report for the field trials.Sharma didn’t respond to an email query . He had defended himself against the allegations last year, saying: “I had a long unblemished service record of over 40 years and nobody can blame me for any malafide action or decision. I strongly and firmly deny any such frivolous allegation”.The four former IAF officers could not be located for comment.Retired IPS officer Neeraj Kumar, who probed 1993 Mumbai serial blasts in CBI, said, “By delaying prosecution sanctions, what are ministries/department trying to prove? That they condone the corruption? Delays not only affect the trial in corruption cases but also help the accused officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-seeks-to-expedite-process-to-prosecute-ex-ias-4-iaf-officers-101610718087372.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi lauds India's Aatmanirbhar Mission in Manorama Year Book||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said India is a nation "ready for an ambitious marathon on the road to development in the coming decade'' as he praised Indians for showing discipline, focus and composure during the coronavirus pandemic."Some may call the year 2020 as a year of external disruptions due to the pandemic. But I firmly believe that 2020 will be known, not as a year of external disruption, but as a year of internal discovery, for our citizens, for our society and for our nation," PM Modi wrote in an article in the Manorama Year Book for 2020. ''Our nation’s resilient spirit was complemented by our robust systems and institutions. Our physical infrastructure held together by the fabric of our society formed the foundation of our determined response," he said.''Across the world, people have expressed wonder at the way in which Indians, whether poor or rich, young or old, rural or urban, have shown the ability to be responsible, disciplined, focused, law-abiding, patient and composed during a crisis of unprecedented proportions," PM Modi said.Talking about the country's self-reliant movement, PM Modi has written, "India is progressing rapidly towards the goal of an #AatmaNirbharBharat. An Aatmanirbhar Bharat means an India which is more competitive, an India which is more productive and an India which celebrates local talent." ''In the coming year, there will be an even greater focus on self-reliance and resilience in technology. In the movement for an #AatmaNirbharBharat, technology - both as a domain and as an enabler - plays an important role," he said.The reforms in the fields of education, agriculture and labour laws will immensely help the country's students, farmers and youth. "They will empower them with more choices and unlock their full potential while maintaining adequate safeguards for the vulnerable," he said.The Prime Minister also spoke about frontline workers, battling the pandemic, which has affected xxx people even as xxx have died across the country. "Countless unsung heroes, from ambulance drivers to pharmacists, from security personnel to small neighbourhood vendors, kept our lives going even during difficult circumstances," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-india-s-self-reliant-mission-in-manorama-year-book-101610709640894.html
15-01-2021||India||‘Don’t test our patience’: Gen Naravane’s blunt message to China on LAC row||In a blunt message to China in the midst of a lingering border standoff in eastern Ladakh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said India was committed to resolving the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) through talks but no one should test India’s patience.“We are committed to resolving disputes through talks and political efforts. However, no one should make the mistake of testing India’s patience,” Naravane said during his customary Army Day address at a parade in Delhi Cantt where the force put up a display of its military might including the maiden demonstration of an under-development drone swarming capability.The border standoff in the Ladakh theatre is in its ninth month, with multiple rounds on military and diplomatic talks failing to break the deadlock.The army chief has conveyed to China in unequivocal terms that India is prepared for any eventuality, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). “The message is clear --- if push comes to shove, India will take the necessary actions in the Ladakh sector,” Jaswal added.The army chief said India had given a fitting response to the (Chinese) conspiracy to unilaterally change the status quo in the Ladakh theatre where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have deployed more than 100,000 combat-ready soldiers and advanced weaponry.Naravane assured the country that the sacrifice of the Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley on June 15, 2020 would not go in vain --- the Chinese PLA also suffered heavy casualties in the brawl but Beijing has kept the figures under wraps.The army chief said the morale of soldiers deployed in forward areas in the Ladakh sector was higher than the mountains they were defending despite the extreme weather conditions. He said India will continue with its efforts to resolve the prevailing situation on the basis of principles of “mutual and equal security.”In a separate message published on Army Day, Naravane said the Indian Army has been “swift and decisive” in its response to counter the PLA’s attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the LAC.On January 12, Naravane said the army was prepared to hold ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China to reduce tensions are “prolonged,” even as he described a joint threat from China and Pakistan as “very potent.”On the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, the army chief said in his address that 300 to 400 terrorists were present in terror training camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and waiting to sneak into India.He said ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army along the LoC increased by 44% in 2020 compared to the previous year, exposing the neighbour’s attempts to help terrorists infiltrate into the country. Ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army are usually a cover to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir.He said the army’s operations along the LoC not only caused heavy losses to the enemy but also thwarted a large number of infiltration attempts. He said the army killed a total of 200 terrorists at the LoC and in counter-terror operations in the hinterland.Speaking about capability building at a time when India faces challenges from China and Pakistan, Naravane said the army invoked emergency and fast-track procedures in 38 cases to buy weapons and systems last year to sharpen its combat edge. Apart from this, the army also concluded capital procurements worth ₹13,000 crore last year, he said.In his January 12 media briefing, the army chief said that there was no doubt that India faced a collusive threat from China and Pakistan.“This is not just something that was part of some strategic paper or loud thought process. It is very much manifesting itself on the ground. There is indeed increased cooperation between China and Pakistan in both military and non-military fields. And a two-front threat is very much something that we have to be prepared for,” he had then said.Army displays Drone Swarming capabilityThe Indian Army on Friday demonstrated its new drone swarming capability at the Army Day-2021 parade at Delhi Cantt, with 75 locally-designed and developed drones buzzing in the skies and simulating a raft of missions including offensive operations.“The drones executed an array of artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled simulated offensive missions and close support tasks during the parade,” the army said in a statement on the technology demonstration.Drones within a swarm can carry out a wide range of missions including strikes against tanks, infantry combat vehicles, ammunition holding areas, fuel dumps and terror launch pads, officials said.The army’s drone swarming capability is under development, though it has been tested for HADR (humanitarian assistance and disaster relief) roles --- dropping medicines and essential items. The technology is being developed by the army in partnership with a Bengaluru-based start-up NewSpace Research and Technologies.“This demonstration is a recognition of the Indian Army’s steady embrace of emerging and disruptive technologies to transform itself from a manpower- intensive to a technology-enabled force to meet future security challenges,” army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said.These autonomous drones can enter 50 km inside enemy territory and strike targets with high-impact warheads, officials said. “In a kamikaze mission, the drones can strike at a range of 100 km,” the officials added.The Indian Army is investing heavily into AI, autonomous weapon systems, quantum technologies and robotics to achieve a convergence between its war-fighting philosophies and military attributes of these technologies, the statement said.“One such project is the AI offensive drone operations, which has been incubated with an Indian start-up. This project symbolises the beginning of the Indian Army's tryst with autonomy in weapon platforms and showcases the army's commitment towards merging the cutting-edge of digital technologies with its human resource,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-test-our-patience-gen-naravane-s-blunt-message-to-china-on-lac-row-101610714568980.html
15-01-2021||India||'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials': EC tells states||The Election Commission on Friday said that states and union territories will need its approval before initiating disciplinary action against poll officials to ensure free, fair, impartial and fearless elections.The Commission, in a statement marked to the cabinet secretary, chief secretaries, secretary of department of personnel and training and chief electoral officials, said that election officials faced motivated harassment and victimisation post the elections.“The Commission has noted some instances of victimisation of chief electoral officers (CEOs), additional/joint/deputy/assistant CEOs in the post-election period,” the statement said. “Many a time, they are targeted for political vendetta by charging them with disciplinary cases on flimsy grounds for their earlier tenures in the state government after the completion of their tenure.”The Commission added that the victimisation creates an atmosphere of fear that conveys to the upright, steadfast and sincere officers that they can be “taken to task anytime”.Also read: Talks between govt, farmers' unions over farm laws end; next round on Jan 19“In such a scenario, these officers are not only demotivated but also their morale is greatly reduced, which severely affects their effort to ensure free and fair elections,” the statement said. “Left to go unfettered, it causes a situation where officials are reluctant to join as CEOs and those inducted face the uncertainty of fair treatment in the post-election phase.”It added that the Supreme Court has upheld that while action cannot be initiated by the state/UT governments on election duty, the government cannot ignore the advice to act against errant officials. The disciplinary authority for the officials is the Commission, as per the DoPT's instructions.“The Election Commission is of the view that positive protection to officials from motivated harassment, to enable the conduct of free, fair, impartial and fearless elections is necessary,” it said.It has directed the governments to obtain prior approval before initiating any disciplinary action against chief electoral officers (CEO) and other officers unto the joint chief electoral officer during their tenure and up to one year from its expiry.“The government shall also not reduce the facilities, such as vehicle, security and other facilities and amenities, provided to the CEO for proper discharge of duties,” the Commission stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seek-approval-before-initiating-action-against-poll-officials-ec-tells-states-101610715668806.html
15-01-2021||India||114 people test positive for UK variant of coronavirus||The number of people who have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has climbed to 114, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.The ministry said the situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to states."The total number of persons found infected with the new UK variant genome is 114," the ministry said.Earlier, the ministry had said all these people have been kept in single room isolation at designated Health Care facilities by respective state governments.The close contacts of these people have also been put under quarantine and comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others, it said, adding that genome sequencing on other specimens is going on.The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs.The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/114-people-test-positive-for-uk-variant-of-coronavirus-101610715958051.html
15-01-2021||India||Farm laws stir: 'Will not talk to SC-appointed committee,' reiterates farmers' union||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday reiterated its stand on the committee constituted by the Supreme Court to resolve the standoff between the farmers and the government over the three farm laws. Speaking after the ninth round of talks with the government, BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, "We will not go to the committee constituted by the Supreme Court. We will talk to the central government only". "Our demands of repealing of the three farm laws and MSP guarantee remain," Tikait added.Farmers, who are agitating against the farm laws for more than 50 days now, met the government for the ninth time on Friday to discuss the farm laws. However, both sides failed to reach a resolution as farmers remained firm on their demands. The next round of talks will take place on January 19 at 12pm, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed the media after the talks.The government also suggested farmers form an informal group to finalise proposals detailing their expectations, which can later be discussed further at the formal talks. "We suggested they can form an informal group of people who can understand the laws better and prepare some concrete proposals, detailing what are farmers' expectations and what clauses are problematic for them, which the government can consider with an open mind," the Union agriculture minister said.Tens of thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of Delhi against the farm legislation enacted by Parliament in September last year. They are demanding a complete withdrawal of the laws which has been refused by the government. Instead, it has offered to make amendments. They are also demanding a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) system for the procurement of their crops.Farmers are protesting against Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-stir-will-not-talk-to-sc-appointed-committee-reiterates-farmers-union-101610715403556.html
15-01-2021||India||Won't go to Committee constituted by SC, will only talk to Centre: Rakesh Tikait||As the ninth round of talks between farmers and the Central government over farm laws remained inconclusive on Friday, national spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Tikait said the farmers will not go to the Committee constituted by the Supreme Court, they will talk to Centre only."Our demands of repealing of the three farm laws and MSP (minimum support price) guarantee remain. We will not go to the Committee constituted by the Supreme Court. We'll talk to Central government only," said Tikait after the meeting ended.The Supreme Court had on Tuesday stayed the implementation of three farm laws until further orders and formed a four-member committee.Harpal Singh Sangha, Azad Kissan Committee, told reporters, "Not even a single issue was resolved in today's talk as well. The Centre said it will talk about MSP later on."The next round of talks will be held on January 19.Meanwhile, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre is positive to reach a solution through talks."Today's talks with farmers' unions were not decisive. We will hold talks again on 19th January. We are positive to reach a solution through talks. The government is concerned about the farmers protesting in cold conditions," he added.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-go-to-committee-constituted-by-sc-will-only-talk-to-centre-rakesh-tikait-101610714018558.html
15-01-2021||India||Air quality remains 'severe' in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad||The air quality remained "severe" in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad and "very poor" in Gurgaon for the second day in a row, according to data issued by a government agency on Friday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Friday was 458 in Ghaziabad, 464 in Greater Noida, 475 in Noida, 467 in Faridabad and 367 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Thursday it was 429 in Ghaziabad, 410 in Greater Noida, 412 in Noida, 447 in Faridabad and 364 in Gurgaon. On Wednesday it was 388 in Ghaziabad, 398 in Greater Noida, 348 in Noida, 367 in Faridabad and 276 in Gurgaon.On Tuesday it was 324 in Ghaziabad, 312 in Greater Noida, 278 in Noida, 260 in Faridabad and 213 in Gurgaon. On Monday it was 283 both in Ghaziabad as well as Greater Noida, 264 in Noida, 235 in Faridabad and 200 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "severe" category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases, while the air quality in the "very poor" zone may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-remains-severe-in-ghaziabad-noida-faridabad-101610713178207.html
15-01-2021||India||12 senior doctors to be the first to get Covid-19 vaccine in Assam||Twelve senior doctors of the state will be the first in Assam to get the initial doses of the Covid-19 vaccine that would begin on Saturday morning as part of the nationwide vaccination drive.“We have invited 12 people to get the first doses of the vaccine. The first among them is Dr Umesh Chandra Sarma, retired vice-chancellor, Srimanta Sankardeva University of Health Sciences,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists on Friday.He will be followed by Dr Dhrubajyoti Borah, former president of the Assam Sahitya Sabha--the state’s biggest literary body and former principal of Barpeta Medical College and Hospital. The third would be Dr Ilias Ali, Padmashri recipient and former head of the department of surgery at Guwahati Medical College Hospital.“The first doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be given to frontline health warriors who have to deal with patients physically and have the highest risk of contracting the disease,” said Sarma.“The next category would be police, paramilitary personnel etc. This will be followed by people above 50 years of age and then by people with co-morbid conditions,” he added.In Assam, around 9 million or nearly 3% of the total population would be covered in the first phase. Around 190,000 doctors, nurses, hospital staff, lab technicians and ambulance drivers will get vaccinated in the first stage followed by nearly 100,000 police and paramilitary personnel.A total of 8651 vaccinators have been trained from among auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) staff in the state and they would be supervised by 1300 doctors. Vaccination would be carried out in 65 different sites in 33 districts across the state from Saturday.On the first day, 100 people would be vaccinated at each of the 65 vaccination sites taking the total to 6500 people. Vaccines would be administered based on consent and would be voluntary.Three places in Assam, Guwahati Medical College Hospital, Nagaon civil hospital and Tezpur Medical College and Hospital, would have two-way links with the official ceremony in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take part.As of now Assam has 221,500 doses of vaccines-201,500 of them Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin-of the total 380,000 doses needed to vaccinate 190,000 health workers in the first stage.Assam has at present 1656 active Covid-19 cases with a recovery rate of 98.10% and death rate at 0.49%. The number of new cases detected daily has remained below 50 on an average since December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-senior-doctors-to-be-the-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-assam-101610713111350.html
15-01-2021||India||NGT forms committee to look into plea alleging illegal mining in Odisha||The National Green Tribunal has formed a committee to look into a plea alleging illegal mining and stone crushing in Odisha.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted a committee comprising officials from the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), District Collector, State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Central Pollution Control Board and the Ministry of Environment and Forests."The joint Committee may ascertain facts and also consider the view point of the affected parties. Based on facts found, the concerned statutory authority may take appropriate action, following due process of law."The nodal agency will be the State PCB for coordination and compliance. A factual and action taken report may be furnished within three months by e-mail," said the bench, also comprising Justice S K Singh and expert member Nagin Nanda.The tribunal directed the petitioner to serve set of papers to the parties and file an affidavit of service within one week.The NGT was hearing a plea filed by Odisha resident Sukanti Pradhan and others against illegal mining by Chinmay Kumar Nayak and operation of illegal stone crushers by Kunal Structure (I) Pvt Ltd at Jhilli Mouza in Dhenkanal.According to the applicant, mining is far in excess of the permit.The plea said: "In the process of mining, there is felling of trees, illegal blasting and damage to the houses. Stone crushers do not have any statutory consent and do not meet the siting criteria. No green belt has been developed."There is no demarcation of the leased area and mining is taking place beyond the leased area. Overloaded vehicles are being plied on rural roads, without the approval from the Rural Development Department, which is resulting in air pollution".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-forms-committee-to-look-into-plea-alleging-illegal-mining-in-odisha-101610712817221.html
15-01-2021||India||Talks between govt, farmers' unions over farm laws end; next round on Jan 19||The ninth round of talks between farmers and the Union government over the three farm laws on Friday ended without a breakthrough and the next meeting between the two sides will be held on January 19, officials familiar with the development said. Farmers insisted on complete repeal but the government wanted them to come up with specific objections, they added."Today's talks with farmers' unions were not decisive. We will hold talks again on January 19. We are positive about reaching a solution through talks. The government is concerned about the farmers protesting in cold conditions," Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, according to news agency ANI."The government will present its side before the committee constituted by the Supreme Court when asked," Tomar also said.Tomar was referring to the four-member committee proposed by the top court to resolve the issue between the farmers and the Centre. The Supreme Court has also stayed the implementation of the three farm laws till further notice.The last round of talks on January 8 failed to end the impasse as the Centre has refused to roll back the laws, which the farmers say will hurt their incomes. The farmers' unions have decided not to participate in consultations with the committee proposed by the Supreme Court on January 12 to examine three laws. They have alleged that the panel was “pro-government” since the members had endorsed the laws in the past.On Friday, they reiterated their stance.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), one of the 40 farmers' unions representing the protesting agriculturists, said their demands of repealing of the three farm laws and a guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) remain. "We will not go to the committee constituted by the Supreme Court. We will talk to central government only," Rakesh Tikait, BKU spokesperson, was quoted as saying by ANI.Thousands of farmers are protesting against the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act on the borders of the national Capital since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-between-govt-farmers-unions-over-farm-laws-end-next-round-on-jan-19-101610710998736.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine drive to be held at 10 centres in Maharashtra's Aurangabad||The administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district is all set for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which will take place at 10 centres in the region on January 16, a health official said on Friday.As many as 100 healthcare workers will be inoculated at each of these 10 centres, the official said.While four centres have been earmarked for Aurangabad rural in Vaijapur, Paithan and Sillod talukas, six are in Aurangabad city, including the Government Medical College, civil surgeon Dr Sundar Kulkarni said."As many as 100 healthcare workers will be inoculated at each centre from Saturday onwards," he said.As on Thursday, Aurangabad's Covid-19 tally stood at 46,398, including 44,823 recoveries and 1,222 casualties.The district currently has 353 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-drive-to-be-held-at-10-centres-in-maharashtra-s-aurangabad-101610710633365.html
15-01-2021||India||New weather radars set up in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh||Two new doppler radar weather stations were on Friday set up at Mukteshwar in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh’s Kufri to improve the localised forecasting and help avert devastation due to natural disasters such as landslides, floods, and cloud bursts by issuing advance warnings about them, officials said. The forecasts are expected to provide critical information to tourists and pilgrims before they plan visits to remote and vulnerable locations in the Himalayas.The launch of the stations coincided with India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s 146th Foundation Day.Officials said the Mukteshwar station is expected to provide weather information particularly to pilgrims of the Chardham Yatra and Kailash Mansarovar and the one in Kufri to tourists visiting popular tourist destinations there.Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said his state is vulnerable to natural disasters and advance information on extreme weather will be very valuable. “Another doppler radar will come up at Surkanda which is very remote... a ropeway is being constructed there and officials can approach the place in a more effective manner. Another doppler radar station will also come up at Lansdowne which is more accessible.” Rawat said Uttarakhand requires scientific information in dealing with the impacts of the climate crisis.More doppler radars will come up in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi and Dalhousie. “Cloud bursts have increased in both Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. This [radars] can go a long way in averting disasters,” said Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-weather-radars-set-up-in-uttarakhand-himachal-pradesh-101610710719819.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nitish upset with questions on Indigo manager's murder and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Upset with questions on Indigo manager murder case, Nitish tears into OppositionBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday morning appeared to be upset when questioned about the sensational murder of Indigo’s station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh. Read moreOver 3 lakh beneficiaries, 3,000 session sites on Day 1: India's Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually launch India's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday as around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at over 3,000 session sites across the country, the government has said. Read moreKitchen loans, sops for startups, welfare pensions hiked in Kerala budgetThree industrial corridors, a hike in welfare pension, free ration and several programmes for ailing tourism sector were some of the measures announced by Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac in the state budget for 2021-22 on Friday. Read moreMP CM contributes Rs1 lakh for Ram Temple constructionMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan donated Rs1 lakh for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Friday during a nationwide campaign of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. Read more'It has been happening since 1932': Sunil Gavaskar highlights problem of India bowlers after Day 1 in BrisbaneAgreeing that the inexperienced India bowling unit did a commendable job on Day 1 of the fourth Test against Australia, former India captain Sunil Gavaskar on Friday highlighted the age-old issue of India’s bowlers. Read moreTribhanga review: Noble intentions come to naught in Kajol, Renuka Shahane filmAfter watching Tribhanga, one thing is for certain: you may be able to take Kajol out of Bollywood, but you can never take the Bollywood out of her. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor aces winter layering, shows how to stay cosy while looking greatWinter season calls for layering. The more sweaters you wear, the cosier you feel but if you don't do it the right way, it can easily turn into a fashion faux pas. Read moreProud dad shares post on 10-year-old son’s act of kindness. It’s heartwarming“We can’t help everyone, but everyone can help someone,” these words by former US President Ronald Reagan perfectly capture the essence of a post which is now winning people’s hearts on Twitter. Read moreWatch: ‘Around 400 terrorists waiting to infiltrate’: Army Chief slams Pakistan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nitish-upset-with-questions-on-indigo-manager-and-all-the-latest-news-101610707543569.html
15-01-2021||India||Mumbai businessman arrested for GST fraud worth Rs31 crore||The Maharashtra Goods and Services Tax (GST) department on Friday arrested a Vile Parle-based businessman for allegedly causing revenue loss of ₹31 crore to the state government by fraudulently claiming input tax credit.The joint commissioner of Maharashtra GST, Sampada Mehta, confirmed the development. As per the department, accused Anuj Gupta, who has five firms registered under Maharashtra Goods and Service Tax Act 2017, and other two firms registered in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, had shown estimated bogus purchases for over Rs272 crore and had availed bogus input tax credit of more than Rs31 crore without actually buying any goods or services.Input tax credit is an option that allows taxpayers to claim credit for taxes paid on purchase. Issuance of an invoice or bill without supply of goods or services and wrongful availing or utilisation of input tax credit on a bill or invoice, without any supply of goods or services, is a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The two firms at Dadra Nagar Haveli have even received a refund of more than Rs11 crore from the government. “With the help of the Dadra Nagar Haveli GST officers, it was found that these companies physically possess only 20% of the total stock value that is claimed to be in their possession,” stated a GST officer.Gupta was produced before a magistrate and has been sent to 14 days of judicial custody. His offences attract imprisonment of up to 5 years with fine as per the Goods and Services Act , 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-businessman-arrested-for-gst-fraud-worth-rs31-crore-101610708199547.html
15-01-2021||India||Wild buffalo that killed two persons shot dead in Assam||A wild buffalo that killed two persons has been shot dead in Biswanath district of Assam on Friday.The adult buffalo, which strayed from the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, was killed at Kumoliya by forest personnel during an attempt to tranquilize it.On Thursday, an irate mob had torched a forest range office and an official vehicle after a person named Jayanta Das was killed by the buffalo. The animal attacked and killed another person named Sukur Ali on Friday morning.“Forest personnel were trying to tranquilize the buffalo or push it back into the park when it attacked them. They had to fire in self-defence which resulted in the death of the animal,” Mukut Chandra Das, divisional forest officer, Biswanath Wildlife Division, said.According to him, the buffalo could have strayed out of the park on Wednesday when locals in large numbers gathered in the KNPTR water bodies for community fishing ahead of the annual Magh Bihu festivities.“Loud noise from the crowd busy community fishing could have scared the buffalo and prompted it to move out of its habitat. There could be other buffaloes as well that may have moved out of KNPTR,” said Das.Though human deaths due to attacks from wild elephants are common and there are reports of human deaths due to attacks by rhinos as well, a death due to attacks by wild buffaloes is rare in Assam.“An angry mob torched some sheds that we had constructed at our forest range office after the death of Jayanta Das and also burnt a forest department vehicle. They snatched a mobile phone and ₹20,000 from a forest employee. They are demanding compensation of ₹50 lakh for the deaths,” said Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wild-buffalo-that-killed-two-persons-shot-dead-in-assam-101610707863489.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid in Gujarat: Night curfew to continue for 15 more days in four cities||Even as fresh cases of coronavirus are on decline in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday asserted that night curfew will remain in place in four major cities of the state for the next 15 days as a precautionary measure.While urging people to be patient and cooperate with the authorities for some more days, Rupani said the viral infection has come under control due to the night curfew imposed in November, 2020 in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot."The night curfew after 10 pm will continue for 15 more days in all four cities. There will be no relaxation for now, as there is a drastic decrease in new cases (because of curfew). People need to have patience and cooperate with the authorities," he told reporters in Jamnagar.A decision about lifting the curfew will be taken at an appropriate juncture, he said.Following a sudden spike in fresh coronavirus cases after Diwali last year, the state government had imposed a night curfew in four major cities of Gujarat in November, 2020.Earlier, people were barred from venturing out between 9 pm till 6 am every day in these cities.However, in a minor respite, the timing was recently revised to 10 pm till 6 am.Notably, when the curfew was imposed, 1,500 to 1,600 fresh cases of coronavirus were emerging every day in Gujarat and the majority of these infections were from the four cities.As on Thursday, Gujarat's Covid-19 tally stood at 2,54,314 cases, including 4,357 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-in-gujarat-night-curfew-to-continue-for-15-more-days-in-four-cities-101610707395294.html
15-01-2021||India||Magh Mela pilgrims told not to feed migratory birds keeping Bird flu in mind||Following the outbreak of Bird Flu in various parts of the country, including the nearby district of Kanpur, the forest department officials in Prayagraj district have issued an appeal to devotees coming to the Magh Mela-2021 to refrain from feeding the migratory birds flocking the Sangam area.The Indian skimmer and various varieties of gulls are the centre of attraction at the Sangam area and pilgrims feed these birds with locally made ‘sev’ (a snack) sold by local sellers.Often these birds can be seen sitting on the palms of visitors and eating Sev. The feed is so popular among these birds that they can be seen hovering over every boat and the banks of rivers Ganga and Yamuna while fighting among themselves for the feed.“In view of Bird Flu, we want that the visitors, coming to Magh Mela, to refrain from feeding these birds so that if there is any case of flu in these birds, it does not get transferred to humans while feeding,” said divisional forest officer (DFO), YP Shukla.Three dedicated teams of experts are constantly monitoring the mela area and patrolling the habitat of these birds so that their health can be continuously monitored, said Shukla.“Till the time the birds are swimming in the water, are active and feeding with fellow birds in groups, we know they are healthy, but if a bird is seen sitting at one place for a long time, is sluggish in movement, we keep a close vigil on such birds,” said the DFO.Meanwhile, in an effort to protect migratory birds—predominantly Indian skimmers and gulls that arrive in Prayagraj, especially at the Sangam and surrounding areas— the forest department has decided to keep a watch on them through specially formed nine teams throughout the district.The department has also decided to undertake a special campaign to protect these birds in areas like Phaphamau, Shringverpur, Daraganj and Sangam by making locals aware of the need to protect these feathery visitors and keeping tight surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magh-mela-pilgrims-told-not-to-feed-migratory-birds-keeping-bird-flu-in-mind-101610707054387.html
15-01-2021||India||MP CM contributes Rs1 lakh for Ram Temple construction||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan donated Rs1 lakh for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Friday during a nationwide campaign of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. President Ramnath Kovind was among the first to donate money for Ram Temple in Delhi.Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) began the campaign on Friday for collecting funds on behalf of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. Handing over the cheque to VHP wleader Vinayakrao Deshpande, Chouhan said he felt fortunate to have got a chance to contribute for the construction of Ram Temple. Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur also contributed Rs1.11 lakh. VHP regional head Jitendra Chauhan said, “As many as 20,000 VHP workers will hold a door-to-door campaign to collect funds. The drive will continue till February 27. Our target is to collect at least Rs5 crore from MP.” Meanwhile, Congress initiated an awareness campaign to request people to donate the fund directly in the account of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. Former minister and Congress MLA PC Sharma said, “We are holding a campaign to educate people to donate the fund directly in the account of the Trust. They should avoid cash donation through middlemen like VHP leaders, who are creating nuisance in the name of the collection drive.” “Ram Mandir is a matter of faith for us but we don’t want to create any rift in the society. VHP leaders organised rallies and shouted slogans to instigate people which resulted in communal tension in four districts of MP,” he added. Responding to the allegations, BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “It is sad that Congress leaders are blaming rallies for communal tension, not miscreants who pelted stones and created ruckus. But we welcome them for joining the collection drive for the construction of Ram Temple.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-contributes-rs1-lakh-for-ram-temple-construction-101610706399474.html
15-01-2021||India||Covishield will be administered at 75 hospitals, COVAXIN at 6||As India awaits the vaccine roll-out anxiously, the Delhi government on Friday announced that the Serum Institute of India (SII)-manufactured Covishield vaccine will be administered at 75 Delhi government and private hospitals while Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN will be given at six hospitals run by the Central government in the national capital."Such a clear classification has been made so that the two vaccines do not mix-up," said the Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain."A particular vaccine will be given at a particular centre because if a beneficiary receives a vaccine, they would need the second dose of that vaccine only," he further added.In the first phase, Covid-19 vaccination will begin at 81 sites in Delhi from tomorrow. Around 100 people will be vaccinated at each of these locations in a day."Vaccination will be done on four days a week - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday & Saturday," Jain said.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during a press conference on Thursday said, "So far, we have received 2,74,000 doses of vaccine from the Centre. Each person will be administered two doses and the Centre provides 10 per cent extra vaccine, taking damage into account. So the 2,74,000 doses will be sufficient for around 1,20,000 health workers.""We will begin with 81 centres, it will then be increased to 175 in a few days & then to 1,000 centres across Delhi," he added.Regarding serosurvey in Delhi, Jain said under the fifth round of serosurvey 28,000 people will be surveyed."The fifth survey will continue till January 25," Jain said."Delhi recorded 340 fresh Covid positive cases, while four succumbed to the virus in last 24-hours," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-will-be-administered-at-75-hospitals-covaxin-at-6-101610705661828.html
15-01-2021||India||Over 3 lakh beneficiaries, 3,000 session sites on Day 1: India's Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually launch India's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday as around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at over 3,000 session sites across the country, the government has said. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said that adequate doses of the two made-in-India shots have been delivered to all states and Union territories for the world's largest vaccination programme."This vaccination programme is based on the principles of priority groups to be vaccinated and Health Care workers, both in government and private sectors including ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase," the PMO said in a statement on Thursday.Also read | EC allows govt to use data for vaccination, wants data deleted after exerciseThe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had approved the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, which has been manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and marketed as Covishield, and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country earlier this month.Here's what you need to know about India's vaccination drive:1. Prime Minister Modi will launch the pan-India rollout of the Covid-19 vaccination drive at 10:30am through video conferencing, the PMO said.2. There are 3,006 session sites across all states and UTs and they will be virtually connected during the launch. At least 60 hospitals across the country, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, have been directed to prepare for video conferencing facility.Also read | India Covid-19 vaccination: FAQs on schedule, precautions, side effects3. Reports said that PM Modi is likely to interact with some healthcare workers from across the country who will be receiving the Covid-19 shots on the first day. The Centre will bear the cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers. 4. Vaccination of health care and frontline workers will be held at a wide range of public health care facilities, from hospitals to primary health centres in rural India and large private hospitals.5. Healthcare will include doctors, nurses, technicians, lab workers, including ICDS workers. Frontline workers will be personnel from state and central police department, armed forces, home guard, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and civil defence organisation, municipal workers and revenue officials engaged in Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities.6. The Centre has said that the shots will be offered first to an estimated 10 million healthcare workers, and around 20 million frontline workers, and then to those above 50 years of age, followed by those younger than 50 years of age with comorbidities.7. The full initial procurement of 16.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has said.Also read | India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 10.52 million, day before vaccination starts 8. States and UTs have been advised to utilise a maximum of 10 days in a fortnight for the Covid-19 vaccination, the Union health ministry said.9. They have also have been advised by the Union health ministry to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10% reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day.10. Any undue haste on the parts of the states to organise unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised, the ministry had said on Wednesday.11. The states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilises and moves forward.Also read | India to start vaccine for Covid-19 supply with 20 million doses to neighbours12. The vaccination programme will use Co-WIN, an online digital platform developed by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, which will facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries.13. Co-WIN will assist programme managers across all levels while conducting vaccination sessions, the PMO said.14. A dedicated 24x7 call centre – 1075 – has also been established for addressing the queries related to the coronavirus pandemic, vaccine rollout and the Co-WIN software.15. The vaccination drive will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, except on the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-to-begin-tomorrow-101610704006840.html
15-01-2021||India||Disability rights groups say disability studies university promotes segregation||Disability rights groups have sought withdrawal of a government proposal to set up a university for disability studies and rehabilitation sciences, saying it will take them backwards by promoting exclusion and segregation instead of inclusion.Different disability rights groups including National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People and National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled have written to Shakuntala D Gamlin, secretary of Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, opposing the move.In December 2020, the government had proposed to set up a "first of its kind" university covering the entire gamut of disability studies and rehabilitation sciences in an accessible environment.In a public notice issued on December 24, 2020, the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, had invited comments from stakeholders on a draft bill to set up the university."At the outset, we would like to highlight that while the proposed University is one of its kind, it takes the disability sector backwards by promoting exclusion/ segregation rather than inclusion," the letter said."It goes against the progressive nature of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016 as also the concept of inclusion advocated by the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020," it said."Much emphasis needs to be given on setting up centres/departments of disability studies in existing universities and higher education institutions on the lines of cross-disability and cross-gender approaches," it added.The rights groups said the focus needs to be laid on increasing the number of trained human resources by offering courses which are in line with that of NIMHANS/IISC/IITs including doctoral degrees.These also need to have on-line alternatives for delivery of courses based on Universal Design of Learning and Reasonable Accommodation as per the RPWD Act, NEP 2020, and Government of India and international guidelines for digital platforms, they said."Disability studies should be made part of the mainstream academic endeavours which the proposed university through its exclusionary approach fails to do," the letter said.It said the draft bill lacks clarity on the actual disability studies by focusing more on the governance aspect of it and also deviates from the norms and practices of the higher education system."We are also not in agreement with the proposal for running the university in a 'self-sustaining' model. To conclude, we would request to kindly withdraw the said Draft Bill," it said.The proposed university will be a unique multidisciplinary academic institution conducting research, programmes and courses from the bachelor's level onwards to cater to various disciplines covering the entire gamut of disability studies and rehabilitation sciences in an accessible environment, the DEPwD had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disability-rights-groups-say-disability-studies-university-promotes-segregation-101610704859203.html
15-01-2021||India||Minimum temperature to fall by 2-4 degree Celsius in northwest India: IMD||The minimum temperature is very likely to fall by two to four degrees Celsius in most parts of northwest India during the next two days, informed the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday."Due to the prevalence of dry north/north-westerly winds, minimum temperatures very likely to fall by two-four degree Celsius over most parts of northwest India during next 2 days," it said.Due to the influence of dry north/north-westerly winds in northwest India, a dense to very dense fog at isolated/few pockets are very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar during next three days."Cold wave or severe cold wave conditions at isolated pockets also very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and East Madhya Pradesh during next 2 days. Cold Day conditions at isolated pockets also very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next two-three days," IMD said.The weather forecasting agency further said a cyclonic circulation is hovering over southwest Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu coast in mid-tropospheric levels and a trough runs from cyclonic circulation over central parts of South Arabian Sea and adjoining Equatorial Indian Ocean to Comorin area in lower tropospheric levels.IMD predicted that under its influence scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area during next two days and reduction in rainfall activities over these regions thereafter."Conditions are becoming favourable for the cessation of Northeast monsoon rains over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, adjoining areas of coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalaseema and South Interior Karnataka around January 19, 2021," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperature-to-fall-by-2-4-degree-celsius-in-northwest-india-imd-101610705133467.html
15-01-2021||India||L-G Sinha inaugurates round the clock call centre for devotees at Vaishno Devi shrine||Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha inaugurated around the clock call centre for devotees at the Mata Vaishno Devi’s shrine in Katra near Jammu on Thursday. He called the centre another initiative of the Shrine Board towards optimum utilisation of available technologies for larger facilitation of the pilgrims. Sinha added it is the first such facility put in place by the Board that will be of help to the devotees worldwide. He added the queries and grievances of the pilgrims regarding the pilgrimage will be addressed on a real-time basis through the system. He said the initiative is aimed at providing assistance to the pilgrims in planning their visits to the shrine keeping in view the weather conditions, yatra status, availability of helicopter services, battery-operated vehicles, accommodation and other facilities at any given point of time. He added it will make their yatra experience more pleasant and memorable. “The devotees can inquire about the booking and other facilities made available by the Shrine Board and can also contact in case of any emergency or for any medical help during the Yatra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-sinha-inaugurates-round-the-clock-call-centre-for-devotees-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-101610704599404.html
15-01-2021||India||Rape charges: NCP decides to wait for probe; Dhananjay Munde not to step down yet||Maharashtra social justice minister and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde will not have to resign from his post for now. The party has decided that he should be allowed to continue until the police investigation is completed. The decision was taken considering revelations by leaders from other parties that the complainant, the woman who levelled rape charges against Munde, was in relationship with others and also blackmailed people, party chief Sharad Pawar said on Friday.Pawar said he also suggested that the police appoint an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) level woman officer to investigate the allegations against Munde as well as against the woman.“As I had said yesterday, we have taken the allegations against Munde seriously and were discussing our next course of action. A few people have also made allegations against the same woman. We have come to the conclusion that there is a need for an in-depth investigation and so, we will be waiting for the police investigation to be completed,” he said.The woman, who is accusing Munde of sexual exploitation, is now facing allegations of blackmail by three other people, Pawar said. “Anyone can make allegations on someone else (other ministers) and then demands will be raised to remove him from the government. Hence, we will take the next step only after verifying the facts,” the NCP chief said. Also read | ‘Fight from front’: BJP leader to Sharad Pawar after Dhananjay Munde ‘exposed’Munde has found himself in the centre of a controversy after a woman accused him of rape on the pretext of marriage and other favours. The woman alleged that the police are not accepting her written complaint against the minister and her life is under threat. Munde, however, claimed that the woman is trying to defame and blackmail him. She is the sister of a woman with whom Munde reportedly had a relationship earlier.Among the men who have made allegations against the woman is BJP leader and former MLA Krishna Hegde who accused her of harassment for years. He filed a police complaint against the woman, saying she used to call him, claiming that they were in a relationship. This went on for over five years. He said he realised that she was a serial offender which led him to file an official complaint with the Amboli police on Thursday. The woman had dismissed Hegde’s allegations on her social media handle and alleged that Munde is behind the same. Another leader, Manish Dhuri from Maharashtra Navnirman Sena in Mumbai, also alleged that the woman tried to honey trap him by inviting him to her flat in Andheri a few years ago. However, he sensed the presence of someone else there and left immediately. Dhuri also filed a complaint with the Amboli police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-charges-ncp-decides-to-wait-for-probe-minister-munde-not-to-step-down-yet-101610703999311.html
15-01-2021||India||BSP to fight 2022 UP Assembly polls alone, Mayawati announces on her birthday||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati has announced on Friday that BSP will fight the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh alone, according to news agency ANI. The announcement was made on the occasion of her birthday."BSP will not forge any alliance with any political party for the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The party will contest the elections in all Assembly constituencies on its own," Mayawati told ANI.She asserted that just like 2007, the BSP will form a government in Uttar Pradesh on its own next year."I have never compromised with principles for the sake of getting power. All our party workers must unitedly start preparing for these elections," she said.The BSP won no seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. It bagged 19 seats in the 2017 UP assembly polls and 10 in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, when it fought in an alliance with the Samajwadi Party. It parted ways with the SP soon after the results were declared.Mayawati is camping in Delhi, where she is holding regular review meetings for the 2022 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. She has directed the party office bearers to strengthen the organisation at the booth level. To regain lost ground, the BSP plans to win back the support of Brahmins, backward classes and Muslims, the party leader said.Yesterday she had called upon party workers to celebrate her 65th birthday on Friday as Jankalyankari Diwas or people’s welfare day.“The birthday should be celebrated in a simple manner following the Covid-19 guidelines,” she said.In a series of tweets, Mayawati said the party workers should assist the poor and impoverished people who have had to suffer due to the pandemic.In Uttar Pradesh, the party’s state unit had directed party leaders to celebrate her birthday in all the 75 districts by assisting migrants, farmers, labourers and poor people impacted by the economic slowdown, he said.In Lucknow, the birthday programme would be organised at the divisional office located near the Pasi Qila.“We will visit hamlets or hospitals to distribute sweets and fruits,” the BSP leader said.The BSP used to celebrate the occasion in a grand manner when the party was in power in Uttar Pradesh. It began the practice of observing Jan Kalyankari Diwas after being voted out of office in the 2012 assembly elections.After Mayawati became UP chief minister for the fourth time in 2007, there was a grand celebration across the state on January 15, 2009. The display of opulence was quite palpable, the state capital was draped in blue and a massive stage was set up near the chief minister’s residence. The BSP supporters were transported from all the districts and neighbouring states to participate in the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-to-fight-2022-up-assembly-polls-alone-mayawati-announces-on-her-birthday-101610703278311.html
15-01-2021||India||Kitchen loans, sops for startups, industrial corridors in Kerala budget||Three industrial corridors, a hike in welfare pension, free ration and several programmes for ailing tourism sector were some of the measures announced by Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac in the state budget for 2021-22 on Friday.Presenting the last budget of the Pinarayi Vijayan government, the state is set to go to polls in the next few months, he said money won’t be a constraint for welfare measures and some of the new measures will inject fresh blood into the state’s consumerist economy reeling under the impact of Covid-19. The minister said free food kits being distributed in the wake of the pandemic will continue for some more time and 50 lakh families will get additional rice for ₹15 and 10 a kg, respectively.Though the minister announced three industrial corridors worth ₹5,000 crore he did not specify how funds will be met for this. In the budget speech, he also criticised the Centre’s move to put severe restrictions on states for borrowing.All welfare pensions will be hiked from ₹1,500 to ₹1,600 and the elderly will get free medicines at their doorsteps without any hassle, he said. Similarly, he introduced a ‘smart kitchen’ scheme in which women will be given loan to refurbish their kitchen with low interest rate in instalment schemes. The government-run bodies like Kerala Financial Corporation, Kerala State Financial Enterprises and Kerala Bank will disburse loans for this, he saidThe government has also decided to withdraw one per cent flood cess on goods and transactions imposed two years ago. Many trade bodies and others have been demanding this for quite some time. Many sops were also announced for startup companies. In government tenders they will be given preference and the government will bear at least 50 per cent loss of the firms to encourage them for innovations, the minister said.A package was announced for the ailing hospitality sector and interest-free loans will be disbursed to operators. Pension for those expats who have returned to the state was hiked to ₹3,000 a month.The minister said two consecutive floods and pandemic have left a big hole in the state’s economy but the government will ensure nobody will go hungry in the state. He said the state suffered ₹1.56 trillion revenue loss due to the pandemic and natural calamities.The Congress said the budget lacked substance.“It is a futile exercise eying the election. There is no dearth of announcements but there is no fund. In the ease of doing business, the state is now ranked at 28th position,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kitchen-loans-sops-for-startups-welfare-pensions-hiked-in-kerala-budget-101610703178731.html
15-01-2021||India||Bowing to protests, Goa CM announces IIT campus will come up elsewhere||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant Friday announced the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Goa campus proposed to be set up at Melaulim, around 50 km from the state capital Panaji, will be built elsewhere amid protests against the move. Villagers have been protesting against the move for six months. They refused to provide land for the campus and put up a blockade at the village entrance to prevent surveyors from demarcating the land for the campus.“We wanted the IIT project... so that the region is developed. We tried to explain it to the people. [Minister and local lawmaker Vishwajit] Rane also tried to explain. We had also invited the villagers for discussion, but they would not relent,” Sawant said. “This government listens to the people... [We] had no personal interest in going ahead with the project. It was purely in the interest of the state.”Over a dozen policemen and villagers were injured in violent clashes in early January amid attempts to clear the blockade.Also read | SC relief for student who lost IIT-B seatA representation signed by around half-a-dozen district panchayat members said if the people do not want the IIT campus, the government should build it elsewhere.Rane, once a staunch proponent of the project, later wrote to Sawant saying he no longer wanted it there. He assured the villagers that as long as he is in politics and the representative of the area, he will not allow anyone to even put a single stone there.Rane changed his stance after villagers from neighbouring areas backed the opposition to the building of the campus.In May, the Goa government transferred around 10 lakh square metres of land in Melaulim for setting up of IIT-Goa, which has since 2014 been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College.Two sites previously identified in Canacona and Sanguem for setting up the permanent campus were scrapped in face of protests from local residents. The land identified for the campus has cashew trees that villagers claim has sustained them for generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bowing-to-protests-goa-cm-announces-iit-campus-will-come-up-elsewhere-101610702439543.html
15-01-2021||India||EC allows govt to use data for vaccination, wants data deleted after exercise||The Election Commission will extend "full assistance" to the government in identifying targeted beneficiaries at the polling station level for the COVID-19 vaccination drive, but wants health authorities to delete the data once the inoculation exercise is over, sources privy to the development said on Friday.On December 31 last year, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora requesting the commission's help in identifying people above 50 years of age at the polling station level, the sources said.On the issue of data security, the home secretary wrote that the government is complying with the current best practices for ensuring cyber security.He has assured the poll panel that the data will be used only for the purpose of vaccination, the sources said.The Election Commission (EC), after detailed deliberations, wrote back to the home secretary on January 4, saying it has decided to render "full assistance" in the vaccination drive. But asked the government to ensure that the data is strictly used for the limited purpose for which it has been sought, the sources said.The commission also said that the data should be deleted by health authorities once the vaccination exercise concludes, they said.Some senior EC officials will be in touch with nodal officers of the Union home ministry and the Union health ministry to settle day-to-day issues, the sources said.Last month, officials of the Union health ministry and the Niti Aayog had met the EC top brass seeking their help in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccine given the poll panel's robust network at the booth level.The letter by the home secretary is a follow up to the meeting, the sources said.According to guidelines for the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and assembly elections will be used to identify the priority population over the age of 50 years.Twelve identity documents, such as Voter ID, Aadhaar card, driving licence, passport and pension document, will be required for beneficiary identification.According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities.Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch India's COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 via video conference.The Drugs Controller General of India had recently approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-allows-govt-to-use-data-for-vaccination-wants-data-deleted-after-exercise-101610701432025.html
15-01-2021||India||Bihar: Darbhanga hospital likely to miss completion deadline again||The work on the super specialty hospital on the premises of Darbhanga Medical College in Bihar is unlikely to be finished by the January 15 deadline fixed for the opening of neurosurgery, neurology, and cardiology out-patients’ departments. Union minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey, who had said the hospital will be completed by December 2018, had set the revised deadline. The project worth Rs150 crore is being implemented under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Surkshya Yojana (PMSSY) with funding from both the central and state governments.Dr HN Jha, the college principal, said, “Out of total 382 posts recently sanctioned, only five doctors have been appointed.”The project was started in September 2016 and it was due to be completed in 18 months. As per the PMSSY dashboard, the expected date of its completion is March 31.“It is unfortunate to see so much infrastructure lying unused for so long. The warranty for medical equipment begins with installation. I am afraid that it would lapse even before patients benefit,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihardarbhanga-hospital-likely-to-miss-completion-deadline-again-101610701299161.html
15-01-2021||India||TRP manipulation case: HC extends relief to Republic TV||In a relief for Republic TV and its employees currently being investigated by Mumbai Police in the TRP manipulation case, the Bombay high court on Friday extended their interim protection from coercive action till January 29.The order came after the state sought time to file a reply to the amendment made to the channel’s petition, impleading the Enforcement Directorate as a party respondent in the case. A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik was hearing petitions filed by ARG Outlier Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic TV and R Bharat news channels, and their editor-in-chief Arab Goswami, questioning the investigation being carried out by Mumbai Police in the case.Their counsel, senior advocate Harish Salve, submitted that the police action was politically motivated.“Some nonsensical story has been made that we (the channel) have paid to somebody. None of the allegations make an offence even remotely. Assuming some TV channel has paid money to rig TRP, where is the crime of cheating? Has any of the advertisers claimed they have been cheated? It is abuse of power,” Salve argued. Salve then submitted that his client had filed an application to make ED, which is probing a TRP case in Lucknow, to be made party to the case. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh for ED submitted that the plea was served and the Central agency has filed a two-page affidavit in reply. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing Mumbai Police and the state government, refuted allegations by the channel against Mumbai Police and said that cheating had taken place, arrests were made and the police found serious evidence.After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from the state government whether they wanted to file a reply to the amended plea which impleaded ED to which the state replied in the affirmative and sought time till Monday. Salve informed the court that the channel would respond to the reply by the state government till Thursday. The court has now posted hearing of the petitions by ARG Outlier, Goswami and also Hansa Research on January 29. After Republic TV sought directions to the state government and Mumbai Police not to take any coercive action, Sibal assured the court that it would continue its statement of no coercive action till the next hearing which the court accepted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-manipulation-case-hc-extends-relief-to-republic-tv-101610700999192.html
15-01-2021||India||Cold day condition, dense fog likely for three days in Bihar: IMD||Patna recorded a minimum temperature of 7°C as dense fog engulfed several areas of Bihar with visibility reducing to as low as 200 meters at 6am. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said icy winds from the Himalayas continued to sweep the region and plunged the mercury.Gaya recorded a minimum temperature of 5.2°C, 3°C below the normal and Bhagalpur 9.4°C, Muzaffarpur 9.9°C, and Purnea 9.4°C.There is unlikely to be any respite from the cold weather as meteorological conditions will remain unchanged for the next two days. “Cold day/severe cold day conditions are very likely at isolated pockets over Bihar during the next three days. High humidity at lower levels and other favourable meteorological conditions will result in dense to very dense fog at several places of Bihar,” said Krishna Mishra, an IMD official.Dinesh Kumar Bharti, another IMD official, said a cyclonic trough is lying over north Bihar that will result in a partly cloudy sky for the next two days. “Maximum and minimum temperature is likely to hover around 18°C to 8°C respectively in the state for the next four days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-day-condition-dense-fog-likely-for-three-days-in-bihar-imd-101610700099089.html
15-01-2021||India||Baghpat village bans entry of leaders not backing farmers’ protest||The villagers of Saroorpur Kala in western Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district have banned the entry of leaders who are not supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws. The decision was taken at a panchayat of 36 ‘biradris’ or caste groups, held in the village on Wednesday.Subhash Nain, a farmer who attended the panchayat, said, “Entire panchayat unanimously condemned those leaders (of political parties or farmers' organisations) who are not extending their support to the ongoing movement and unanimously decided to ban their entry in the village.”“What's their relevance if they can't stand with the farmers during their battle for survival?” asked Nain, quoting the panchayat's views. Saroorpur Kala has a population of about 25,000.The panchayat also decided to take ration and other essential items required by protesting farmers in Delhi on January 16 to the protest venue.It was decided to collect donations--monetary or otherwise-- from each family of the village, irrespective of their caste and community, in support of the movement.“Villagers have so far donated ₹4.5 lakh and spared at least nine tractors to take ration and other commodities including firewood for the farmers protesting at Delhi borders in the bitter cold season,” said Nain.The villagers claimed that they had nothing to do with any party, he added.The villagers are reported to be questioning why the government wasn’t listening to even their ‘genuine’ demands.Meanwhile, the farmers’ indefinite sit-in protest at Baraut town of Baghpat district, continued for the 28th day. Earlier, farmers led by khap chaudharies or clan leaders sat on a dharna on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway on December 17 in order to extend their support to the ongoing protest.Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tomar), led by their divisional president Padam Singh, had staged a day-long protest at the Meerut Cantt railway station on Tuesday to show their solidarity with the farmers' movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghpat-village-bans-entry-of-leaders-not-backing-farmers-protest-101610699617109.html
15-01-2021||India||Over 100 dead birds found in Thane amid bird flu outbreak||Thane Municipal Corporation has found over 120 dead birds, including pigeons and crows, over the last week in the city amid the bird flu outbreak in the country. This has prompted residential societies to issue advisories to residents to stay away from and to immediately alert the civic body about dead birds.Harshada Sandhan, a resident of the Hiranandani Estate, said he saw a pigeon lying dead right at the doorstep of his neighbour’s home. “My two kids usually play in the lobby during the day. So, I was worried. We rarely find pigeons or birds in the lobby. This was an unexpected sight. I have not opened the door since and have been waiting for the officials to come and clear the bird. We have been told to not come in close contact with dead birds but if they continue to be found like this, it is quite scary to let our children play outside.”Also read | Domestic demand for soybean meal hit due to bird flu scareResidents said there were two birds in the society. A complaint was made around midnight and one of the birds died. The second bird was spotted on Friday morning on the seventh floor.Some residents said they have seen dead birds in parks and the premises of the housing society.Deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvis said they have formed a special cell to handle any bird deaths. “We are also sending samples for testing... there have been more than 120 bird death instances across the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-dead-birds-found-in-thane-amid-bird-flu-outbreak-101610699318779.html
15-01-2021||India||NCP leader Khadse joins ED’s probe in Pune land deal case||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse on Friday morning joined the Enforcement Directorate (ED)’s probe into a Pune land deal after missing questioning in the case earlier because of health reasons. ED officials have sought to question Khadse over alleged money laundering in the three-acre land deal.The ED’s probe is based on a First Information Report filed by the state Anti-Corruption Bureau in April 2017 against Khadse, who quit the Bharatiya Janata Party to join NCP last year, his wife, Mandakini, and son-in-law, Girish Choudhary.Pune businessman Hemant Gawande filed a complaint accusing Khadse of defrauding the public exchequer in the deal. Khadse allegedly purchased the land in his wife and son-in-law’s names for Rs3.75 crore, much lower than its estimated market price of Rs40 crore.The Income Tax Department and a state government-appointed commission have also inquired into the deal. “That time also, we had submitted the documents. The land was bought by my wife and son-in-law, not by me. The land was purchased as per the prevailing ready reckoner rate, therefore, there was nothing to hide there. I am ready to cooperate with ED and provide the documents as well,” said Khadse earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-leader-khadse-joins-ed-s-probe-in-pune-land-deal-case-101610698958996.html
15-01-2021||India||'Congress will not relent till farm laws are repealed', says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday reiterated his stand on the three controversial farm laws introduced by the Centre in September last year and said they were "not to help farmers, but to finish them".Leading a protest outside Delhi's Raj Niwas, Gandhi said the Congress will fight for the rights of farmers and will not give up till the farm laws are scrapped.Also Read: SC stays farm laws, sets up committee to hear all sides"BJP government will have to withdraw the laws. Congress will not relent till these laws are repealed," he said.In an attempt to resolve the standoff between the Centre and farmers, Supreme Court on January 12 stayed the implementation of laws until further notice and appointed a four-member committee to examine them. However, farmers' unions said they would not accept the committee's report as its members were "pro-government".Meanwhile, the ninth round of talks between the Centre and farmers' leaders to end the impasse over the laws are underway. Eight rounds held earlier failed to bring the two parties on the same page as the government ruled out repealing the laws while the farmer leaders said their 'ghar wapsi' will happen only after 'law wapsi'.Also Read: 'Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation', says agriculture minister TomarThe three contentious farm laws are- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Thousands of farmers are protesting against them on the borders of the national Capital since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-will-not-relent-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-rahul-gandhi-101610698430457.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid-19 deaths in West Bengal cross 10,000-mark||The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal crossed the 10,000-mark on Thursday night. With 17 more deaths on Thursday, the toll mounted to 10,010. Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu have reported also reported over 10,000 deaths.Maharashtra, with more than 50,200 deaths, tops the list followed by Tamil Nadu with over 12,200 deaths.West Bengal has to date registered 563,475 Covid-19 cases. It has around 7,200 active cases compared to more than 36,000 on November 1. The death toll has also dropped. In October, the state was registered over 60 deaths daily. The number has come down to less than 20 now.“The cases had shot up in October and November last year soon after the festive season. The Calcutta High Court’s order banning the entry of visitors in pandals and putting a series of restrictions helped to keep the situation under control. The festive season was a muted one,” said a health department official.Daily cases that shot up to over 4,000 soon after the festive season in October-November last year have come down to less than 1,000. On Thursday, the state registered 680 new cases.At least eight of the 23 districts are now reporting under 10 cases daily.Kolkata has reported 126,250 cases to date which is the highest among the 23 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-deaths-in-west-bengal-cross-10000mark-101610698058897.html
15-01-2021||India||US adds Xiaomi to its list of ‘Communist Chinese military companies’||The outgoing Trump administration continues to pressure China in its final days, adding Chinese smartphone giant Xiaomi, whose handsets account for almost a quarter of India’s market, to a list of “Communist Chinese military companies”. The Pentagon on Thursday added Xiaomi Corporation – which recently surpassed Apple to become the world’s third largest smartphone maker – and eight other firms to the list of companies with alleged ties to the Chinese military in line with an executive order signed by President Donald Trump. The other firms included aviation major Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, China National Aviation Holding Co Ltd and Global Tone Communication Technology Co Ltd. “The Department [of Defense] is determined to highlight and counter the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) Military-Civil Fusion development strategy, which supports the modernisation goals of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) by ensuring its access to advanced technologies and expertise acquired and developed by even those PRC companies, universities, and research programs that appear to be civilian entities,” the Pentagon said in a brief statement. Since the Pentagon first released the names of Chinese firms with alleged ties to the military in June 2020, a total of 44 companies have been added to the list. The executive order signed by Trump bars fresh American investments in the companies on the list, and existing US investors will have to divest their stakes in these firms by November this year. The US had earlier blacklisted Huawei and pressured partners, including India, to keep the Chinese telecommunications giant out of their plans to develop 5G networks. Prior to the military standoff along the Line of Actual Control, the US focus on Huawei had become an irritant in India-China relations, and the Chinese side had pushed India to act independently on the issue of including Huawei in trials. The listing of the companies by the Pentagon was part of a flurry of activity by the Trump administration in its dying days to keep up the pressure on China and was in line with President Trump’s personal push against China, especially in trade issues. On Thursday, the US commerce department also added state-run China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) to its “entity list”, effectively limiting the export of American technology to the company. The department said CNOOC had helped China intimidate its neighbours in the troubled South China Sea. “China’s reckless and belligerent actions in the South China Sea and its aggressive push to acquire sensitive intellectual property and technology for its militarisation efforts are a threat to US national security and the security of the international community,” US commerce secretary Wilbur Ross said in a statement. Some experts have suggested that the Trump administration’s actions are aimed at forcing the incoming Biden administration to keep up the pressure on China. While most observers believe president-elect Joe Biden will opt for a less confrontational approach, his decision to appoint veteran diplomat Kurt Campbell to the new post of “Indo-Pacific coordinator” has been seen as a signal that the focus will remain on China and its assertive actions across the region. The growth in Xiaomi’s global market share has been facilitated by a decline in Huawei’s sales after the giant was blacklisted by the Trump administration and its smartphones were cut off from essential services provided by Google. Sales in India’s booming handsets market has accounted for a substantial chunk of Xiaomi’s success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-adds-xiaomi-to-its-list-of-communist-chinese-military-companies-101610697938828.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation', says agriculture minister TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the government welcomed the Supreme Court decision to stay the implementation of the three farm laws till further notice and to form a four-member committee to resolve the issue between farmers and the Centre.Read more.Don’t test our patience: Army chief to China on LAC rowIn a strong message to China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said while India was committed to resolving the row through military and diplomatic talks, “no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience.”Read more. Covid-19 vaccination drive: PM Modi to address the nation on SaturdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on January 16 morning to start Covid-19 vaccination in India. The vaccination campaign, marking the final phase in India’s long battle against the pandemic, will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, barring the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme.Read more. President Kovind donates ₹5 lakh for Ram Temple construction in AyodhyaVHP’s international working president Alok Kumar, Govind Dev Giri, the treasure of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust, and former bureaucrat Nripendra Misra, who heads the temple construction committee, were part of the delegation that met the President.Read more. WHO-led team in China will start meetings online from quarantineTheir arrival at the city in central China on Thursday was disrupted by the absence of two members who failed coronovirus antibody tests in Singapore.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-welcomes-sc-order-on-farmers-agitation-101610695552127.html
15-01-2021||India||Farmers involved in opium cultivation in Bihar’s Gaya to get help to grown legal crops||Authorities plan to help farmers involved in opium cultivation on forest land to grow alternative crops in the Maoist-hit Barachatti area in Bihar’s Gaya, officials said. The drug mafia is involved in the illegal cultivation near the Grand Trunk Road, they added.“Last year, we destroyed opium crop on 467 acres. Following a drone survey, we found that this year also opium is being grown in the same area by the drug mafia,” said divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar, the nodal officer for the rehabilitation of the opium cultivators.“The farmers said they grew opium because they did not have an alternative for a livelihood. We have offered them to grow lemongrass and do honeybee farming. We have also tagged them with buyers,” he said. “The opium crop is funded by drug mafia...the farmers earn less. However, in the lemongrass and other produce, they will get a full share,” he said. “On a pilot basis, free sewing machines have been distributed... we are going to scale up the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-involved-in-opium-cultivation-in-bihar-s-gaya-to-get-help-to-grown-legal-crops-101610696799125.html
15-01-2021||India||'Saddened by loss of lives in Karnataka road mishap': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed his sadness over the death of eleven people who died in a road accident in Karnataka's Dharwad."Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident in Karnataka’s Dharwad district. In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I pray for a quick recovery of those injured," PM Modi said.At least 11 people were killed in a road accident on National Highway-4 near Itigatti village in Dharwad district of Karnataka.The incident took place when a tempo traveller, carrying members of a women's club, en route to Goa for a holiday, had a head-on collision with a tipper truck.10 women, belonging to the club based in Davangere, died in the accident, apart from the driver of the tipper truck. Five women passengers from the club are said to be seriously injured apart from minor injuries suffered by two others, who were travelling in the tipper truck.The injured have been shifted to Hubli's KIMS hospital.A case has been registered at Dharwad Rural Police station and investigations into the cause of the accident is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-by-loss-of-lives-in-karnataka-road-mishap-pm-modi-101610696287297.html
15-01-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh corporation allows pork sale: Hindus, Muslims cite hurt sentiments||Madhya Pradesh State Livestock and Poultry Development Corporation’s approval for a kiosk to sell pork in Bhopal has both Hindus and Muslims up in arms, saying the move hurts their religious sentiments. Hindu religious leaders say the move amounts to the promotion of meat-eating that they oppose while their Muslim counterparts cited prohibition of pork eating in Islam to oppose it.Pandit Surendra Tiwari of Pipleshwar Mahadev Temple said the move is against Sanatan Dharma as they oppose the sale of all types of meats. He added the government is introducing one more type of meat. “This move is against Hindu sentiments. We will request the government to withdraw this anti-Hindu decision.” He noted the road on which the corporation has started the pork kiosk has many temples and religious places.Sanskriti Bachao Manch convener Chandrashekhar Tiwari questioned how could the corporation that sells milk and cow products sell pork and called the move an insult to the holy cow. “By promoting the sale of pork, the government wants to promote meat consumption.”Mushtaq Ali Nadvi, a local Muslim religious leader, said Islam strictly prohibits pork consumption. “If people eat pork, they will spread filth in our society. The government should not promote bad things. Just to make a section of people happy, the government should not hurt the sentiments of many people.”Anas Ali, the head of a local organisation, said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government believes in publicity but started the kiosk without making much noise as it knew its intention is bad. “...the government opposed the distribution of eggs in schools which is necessary for the nourishment of malnourished kids because it will hurt sentiments of a religion.... the same government has started the sale of pork in the name of nourishment. We are opposing the intention and double standards of the government.”Youth Congress leader Vivek Tripathi questioned the requirement for selling pork. “This is a deliberate attempt of the state government to hurt the religious sentiments of a particular community. We will not allow this project of the government.” He added they will expose the BJP’s duality. “In 2019, when then Congress-led state government started the sale of chicken near a milk parlour, the BJP leaders staged a sit-in protest saying it hurts religious sentiments... but now the same party is in power and started selling of pork without thinking of religious sentiments.”Kedar Singh Tomar, the corporation’s executive director, said they issued a tender for the pork sale and an ex-army man won the bid. He justified the move for allowing it, saying pork is not only full of nutrients but its sale will also boost the economy of the community that rears pigs. “The kiosk will give them a respectful way to sell pork.”Animal husbandry principal secretary JN Kansotia said their department is mandated to promote the sale of pork, chicken, and eggs. “The government is giving subsidy for pigs rearing. We are not selling pork of normal street pigs but of farm pigs. The scheme has nothing wrong with it. We are not compelling anyone to eat pork and many people are rearing pigs and under this project, we will provide the marketing support. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-corporation-allows-pork-sale-hindus-muslims-cite-hurt-sentiments-101610696498718.html
15-01-2021||India||Centra Vista: Construction work of new Parliament building begins||The construction work of the new Parliament building started on Friday, over a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project under the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan.The new Parliament building will have a triangular shape and is expected to be completed by the 75th anniversary of India's independence in 2022. The government plans to hold the monsoon session of Parliament in 2022 in the new building."The construction work of the Parliament building has started," an official said.PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10 last year.Earlier this week, a 14-member heritage panel gave its approval to the new Parliament building while also giving the go-ahead to the Central Vista redevelopment project.The Supreme Court had asked the Centre to seek prior approval from the panel and other relevant authorities before starting the construction of the new building.The construction work could not start earlier as the government had assured the Supreme Court that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decided the pending pleas on the issue.The new building is being constructed by Tata Projects Ltd. The project is estimated to cost ₹971 crore.Tata Projects Ltd. said despite the 35-day delay in the commencement of the construction work, it is confident that it will be able to deliver the project on or before time."Our plans of action are already in place to accelerate the schedule by augmenting resources like skilled manpower and formwork etc," said Sandeep Navlakhe, vice president and business unit head of Tata Projects Ltd."Our reinforcement required to be placed in the raft and walls are already made ready. Other off-site activities like procurement of stone for external cladding, MEP LLEs, carpets, etc. happened during these 35 days. We are more than confident that we will be able to deliver this building to the nation on or before time," he said.The new structure will come up in front of the existing Parliament that was built nearly 94 years ago at a cost of ₹83 lakh at that time and would eventually be turned into a museum.The new Parliament building will house larger Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha halls with capacities of 888 seats and 384 seats to accommodate an expanded Parliament after the freeze on its expansion lifts in 2026. The Lok Sabha Hall will also have an additional capacity, up to 1,272 seats, to host joint sessions.According to the plan, provisions will be made in furniture for smart displays and biometrics for ease of voting with an intuitive and graphical interface, digital language interpretation and recording infrastructure to produce real-time metadata, programmable microphones that put the control of managing the house with the Speaker.Besides the new Parliament building, the redevelopment of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3-km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new Prime Minister's Residence and Prime Minister's Office, and a new Vice-President Enclave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centra-vista-construction-work-of-new-parliament-building-begins-101610695836506.html
15-01-2021||India||NGT directs govt to finalise EPR regime within 3 months, says plastic waste serious hazard||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to finalise the "Extended Producer Responsibility" (EPR) regime for plastic waste within three months saying that steps taken by it were "too slow".A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said unscientific management of plastic waste is a serious hazard for the environment and public health.EPR (Under Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016) puts the onus on the manufacturers for the treatment, recycling, reuse or disposal of products after a consumer has used and disposed them."Regretfully, steps taken by the MoEF for finalising EPR regime are too slow. We note that the PWM Rules were framed in the year 2016 in place of 2011 Rules. There is no justification for long delay in finalisation of EPR models even after more than four years of the publication of the Rules. The same may now be finalised at the earliest, preferably within three months," the bench said.The NGT said that state level authorities also need to take necessary effective steps for enforcement, including coercive measures.Environmental compensation and penal action regime proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) may be duly implemented by state PCBs, State Level Monitoring Committees and all other concerned authorities, the tribunal said."CPCB may continue to coordinate with the State Level Monitoring Committees, the State PCBs/PCCs or any other authorities with reference to the steps taken by the State Level Monitoring Committees in coordinating with the concerned Local Bodies, Gram Panchayats, Waste Generators, Producers, Importers, Brand Owners, Recyclers, Manufactures, Retailers and Street Vendors in accordance with the rules."Whenever, necessary CPCB may issue further directions from time to time in the light of experiences gained considering different suggestions and viewpoints, including the suggestions of the Oversight Committee for State of UP," the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by CPCB alleging that states were not paying heed to the seriousness and ill effects caused by plastic.Referring to its 2013-14 annual report, the CPCB had said there were a total of 689 unregistered plastic manufacturing units running in the various states and UTs including Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Puducherry, Punjab and Telangana.As per 2014-15 there were 217 such units in Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana, it had said.The CPCB had said it had issued directions under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 on June 30, 2016 to various municipal bodies but they paid no heed till date.The apex pollution monitoring body has sought directions to states and UTs to prepare a plan of action for implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016 and its effective execution of such plan of action within the stipulated time frame as envisaged in the law.It has sought imposition of penalty on the respondents as per "Polluter Pays Principle" for their non-cooperation and inaction which has resulted in huge loss of "health, soil, animal, crops and groundwater etc apart from exemplary damages."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-directs-govt-to-finalise-epr-regime-within-3-months-says-plastic-waste-serious-hazard-101610695358805.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: PM Modi to address the nation on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on January 16 morning to start Covid-19 vaccination in India. The vaccination campaign, marking the final phase in India’s long battle against the pandemic, will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, barring the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme. Vaccination of health care and frontline workers will be held at a wide range of public health care facilities, from hospitals to primary health centres in rural India and large private hospitals. This would be the PM’s second address to the nation in the recent months. His last one was on October when he reminded people on the continued fight against the pandemic after the federal lockdown was lifted to rejuvenate the economy. Also read | Key things to know about India’s Covid-19 vaccination driveOfficials involved in the preparations said that all pallets of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccines have reached all state capitals and their distribution to the districts and blocks is on. Similarly, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, a backup to Covishield, has also arrived in some states. The funding of the first two groups of beneficiaries—the healthcare and frontline workers—will be done entirely by the Centre, the PM had announced earlier this week. On Monday, he spoke to all CMs as the countdown started for the much-awaited inoculation drive. In his speech on Saturday morning, the Prime Minister is expected to assure the nation that the vaccines have gone through rigorous process of testing before scientists gave approval for their emergency use. According to an official, Modi is also expected to talk about the need to fight against malicious rumours and deliberate misinformation campaign by vested interest groups in a bid to dampen the vaccine campaign and create fear among the people. Officials, however, also added that the standard safety protocols including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing will continue even after one gets a vaccine. In many states, the chief ministers are expected to hold one last preparatory meeting on Friday to take stock of the situation before the vaccination drive starts. The officials have defined health care providers and workers in health care settings, like doctors, nurses, technicians, lab workers including ICDS workers. Frontline workers include personnel from state and Central Police department, armed forces, home guard, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and civil defence organisation, municipal workers and revenue officials engaged in Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-pm-modi-to-address-nation-on-saturday-101610695598656.html
15-01-2021||India||'Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation', says agriculture minister Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the government welcomed the Supreme Court decision to stay the implementation of the three farm laws till further notice and to form a four-member committee to resolve the issue between farmers and the Centre.  "Government welcomes the Supreme Court order regarding the farmers' agitation. The government will put forth its views before the committee (appointed by the court). We are trying to resolve the issue through dialogue," Tomar told news agency ANI.Also Read: SC stays farm laws, sets up committee to hear all sidesOn Tuesday, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, justice AS Bopanna and justice V Ramasubramanian, said that it will pass an order on the several petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the laws later and directed the committee to hold its first sitting within 10 days. The next hearing in the case will take place after eight weeks, it said.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers have said they will not accept the top court-formed committee's report as each one of its members in the past has given statements in favour of the laws.The panel, which is being criticised for being 'pro-government', consists of Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi (agricultural economist, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute), Ashok Gulati (agriculture economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices), Bhupinder Singh Mann (national president, Bhartiya Kisan Union and All India Kisan Coordination Committee), and Anil Ghanwat (president, Shetkari Sanghatana).Also Read: Farmers reiterate they won't accept any committee formed by Supreme Court on farm laws, say its members are pro-govtTo overcome this deadlock over the contentious laws, a ninth round of talks has been scheduled between the Centre and farmers' unions on Friday. The eight rounds held earlier failed to end the impasse as the government ruled out repealing the laws while the farmer leaders said their 'ghar wapsi' will happen only after 'law wapsi'.Thousands of farmers are protesting against Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act on the borders of the national Capital since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-welcomes-sc-order-on-farmers-agitation-says-agriculture-minister-tomar-101610695256180.html
15-01-2021||India||Former Gujarat IAS officer who joined BJP will fight Uttar Pradesh MLC elections||Former Gujarat bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) just a day earlier, has been named as a candidate for the upcoming MLC elections in Uttar Pradesh on Friday.Deputy chief Minister Dinesh Sharma and party state president Swatantra Dev Singh are also on the list of candidates that was announced on Friday.Sharma sparked a flurry of speculations prior to joining the BJP, when he sought voluntary retirement last week, which then led to a buzz in the BJP circles that the former IAS officer may be sent to the Legislative Council. His resignation had led to speculations on a possible role he may secure in Uttar Pradesh politics as the state heads towards the 2022 Assembly elections.The central government accepted his voluntary retirement plea on Monday, when the BJP state unit was busy finalising names of candidates for the biennial election to 12 seats in the UP Legislative Council.There is also speculation that Sharma may be inducted in the UP cabinet as he will be considered as a candidate for an important position in the central government, the senior leader said.A 1988-batch IAS officer, Sharma hails from the Mau district in eastern UP. Sharma had worked with PM Modi from 2001 to 2020. He initially worked in the Gujarat chief minister's office and later in the PMO.Sharma held top positions in the Gujarat government when Narendra Modi was the state’s chief minister. Later, he moved to the Prime Minister’s Office after Modi became the Prime Minister in 2014, a BJP leader said.Before taking voluntary retirement, he was handling affairs in MSME (micro small and medium enterprises), a crucial department that was working on PM Modi’s plan for revival of the economy post Covid lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-gujarat-ias-officer-who-joined-bjp-will-fight-uttar-pradesh-mlc-elections-101610692816161.html
15-01-2021||India||India took 'very decisive' steps to deal with coronavirus pandemic, its economic consequences: IMF chief||IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva has praised India for taking "very decisive" steps to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and its economic consequences and asked the country to do more this year to support an accelerated transformation of the economy.The IMF Managing Director during a global media roundtable on Thursday predicted a less bad outlook for India in the upcoming World Economic Update due to the steps taken by it.“When I called on everybody to stay tuned for January 26, that applies very much to India. You would see a picture in our update that is less bad. Why? Because the country actually has taken very decisive action, very decisive steps to deal with the pandemic and to deal with the economic consequences of it,” Georgieva said.The International Monetary Fund is scheduled to release its World Economic Update on January 26.Talking about India, she said it was a very dramatic lockdown for a country of this size of the population with people clustered so closely together."Then India moved to more targeted restrictions and lockdowns. What we see is that that transition, combined with policy support, seems to have worked well. Why? Because if you look at mobility indicators, we are almost where we were before Covid in India, meaning that economic activities have been revitalised quite significantly,” she said.“What the government has done on the monetary policy and the fiscal policy side is commendable. It is actually slightly above the average for emerging markets. Emerging markets on average have provided six per cent of the GDP. In India, this is slightly above that. Good for India is that there is still space to do more….. If you can do more, please do,” Georgieva said.According to the IMF Managing Director, 2021 is the year to use that space.“But use it wisely in a more targeted manner and to support an accelerated transformation of the economy. Because what we see is amazing how much faster structural change takes place. And policymakers ought to be leaning forward in this environment to support this structural transformation and to cushion the impact it has on those that are on the losing side of it,” she said.Georgieva said that she is impressed by the appetite for structural reforms that India is retaining.“We welcome that. No question those reforms, and actually that applies very much to South Africa... will determine competitiveness in the future. We need higher productivity. We need more vibrant and inclusive economies. And they are not going to fall from the sky. There have to be reforms that support them,” she said.Welcoming the fact that India does not give up on structural reforms, she said: “And I'm saying, yes, do it! Because the world change is accelerating and economies have to be agile and adaptable to change... We have to be constantly leaning forward.”At the same time, she said that one of the aspects of India's reforms that are still lagging is on gender equality.“I want to just stress it is scary to see how we are losing ground on gender equality over these months so fast. Women are front line workers...They are often in the informal economy, help cannot easily reach them, so they are hit,” she said. “....once people start losing jobs, who is to lose jobs first? [Again] women are on the front line. Labour market participation in India for women has been low. It is shrinking...I know the government is paying attention, it is moving in that [direction], but there is so much space to tap into the productive potential of women and the entrepreneurial potential of women,” Georgieva said.The IMF in its October outlook projected India to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent in 2020.However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-took-very-decisive-steps-to-deal-with-coronavirus-pandemic-its-economic-consequences-imf-chief-101610693903465.html
15-01-2021||India||‘Veshti or jeans’: Debate erupts as Gandhi, Nadda visit poll-bound Tamil Nadu||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s appearance at a Pongal event in poll-bound Tamil Nadu on Thursday wearing jeans and a T-shirt triggered a debate on the traditional and western clothing of Indian politicians. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief J P Nadda, who was also in Tamil Nadu, wore traditional Tamil veshti.“Pic1: @RahulGandhi in TamilNadu Pic2: @JPNadda in TamilNadu. Now decide who holds the culture and tradition of TamilNadu...,” tweeted Nadda’s secretary, Aditya Trivedi.Trivedi’s tweet came in response to Congress’s statement that Gandhi was in Tamil Nadu on Pongal to understand the Tamil Nadu culture better.Gandhi said he also had a nice time watching Jallikattu and he got a sense of why Tamil People appreciate the bull-taming sport. “...many people had mentioned to me that Jallikattu is harmful to the bulls. I witnessed it today and I must say that the way it was done today, there was absolutely no chance of... bull getting injured. In fact, if anyone was likely to get injured, it was the young men, who were doing Jallikattu. So, I am happy to say that there have been some changes to make it safer for everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veshti-or-jeans-debate-erupts-as-gandhi-nadda-visit-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-101610694038721.html
15-01-2021||India||MP Satabdi Roy’s cryptic message triggers speculation amid defections from TMC||Actor-turned-politician Satabdi Roy’s cryptic message on social media has triggered fresh speculation amid a series of defections from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections due later this year.“My regular intimate communication with the area. But nowadays many people have been asking me why I am not seen in many programs. I tell them I wanna go everywhere. I love being with you guys. But I guess some people don’t want me to go to you. I don’t get many program news. How can I go if I don’t know? I also feel mental pain with this,” Roy wrote on Thursday. “If I take any decision, I will inform you on Saturday, 16 January 2021 at 2021 pm.” Roy told a vernacular media channel that she would be going to Delhi today. Asked whether she is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, she said, “I am a three-time MP. I have a house there, friends. I frequently go there to attend meetings, work and other purposes. Coming across or meeting someone is nothing unusual. But I am not saying that I would meet someone. Nothing is scheduled.”Roy could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.TMC leader Saugata Roy downplayed the message calling the three-term Parliament member a nice person. “The party would speak to her to find out if she has any problems or grievances. Also, the party has been talking to Banerjee and trying to assuage his grievances,” he said, referring to state minister Rajib Banerjee.Banerjee, who has been voicing his disgruntlement against the party leadership, said he would go live on social media to connect with his supporters and followers.Former minister Suvendu Adhikari is among the TMC leaders who have defected to the BJP. Laxmi Ratan Shukla, another minister, has also resigned.BJP is hoping to wrest power from the TMC after emerging as the second-biggest party in the state after the 2019 national polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-satabdi-roy-s-cryptic-message-triggers-speculation-amid-defection-from-tmc-101610693498417.html
15-01-2021||India||Don't mix Covishield and Covaxin: Centre sends comparative factsheet to states||As both Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech, will be administered to beneficiaries from January 16 onwards, the Centre has sent all states a comparative factsheet urging the authorities to be alert to not interchange between the two vaccines. Both vaccines require two doses and thee should be no mix-up between the two vaccines. If a beneficiary is given the first dose of Covishield, then the second dose will also be of Covishield. The same applies to beneficiaries receiving Covaxin, the Centre has clarified.Also Read: Both doses should be of same vaccine; pregnant, lactating women must avoidCovishield is colourless to slightly brown while Covaxin is whitish translucent, the factsheet mentions.Both the vaccines may lead to mild effects like injection site tenderness, pain, headache, fatigue, fever etc.For Covishield, the Centre has mentioned of very rare events of demyelinating disorders "without the casual relationship establishment".Also Read: 'Can Covid-19 vaccine cause infertility?' On Twitter, health minister Harsh Vardhan dispels mythsVaccination of pregnant and lactating beneficiaries is not recommended. Also, people below the age of 18 years will not be administered the vaccines, the Centre has said.Both the vaccines are freeze sensitive and the vaccine vial is to be discarded if found frozen or frozen and thawed. Persons having active symptoms of Covid-19, or persons acutely unwell should also be not administered any of the vaccines."Vaccine should be administered with caution in persons with a history of any bleeding or coagulation disorder," the ministry has said.Persons with a past history of SARS-CoV-2 infection, or history of chronic diseases, HIV, immuno-deficiency, however, can be given the vaccines as these conditions are not contraindicated for Covid-19 vaccines, though the response may be less in individuals suffering from any immuno-deficiency condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-mix-covishield-and-covaxin-centre-sends-comparative-factsheet-to-states-101610693174687.html
15-01-2021||India||Court asks for Railways reply to PIL alleging exorbitant fares during pandemic||Chhattisgarh high court has issued a notice to the Railway Board, asking for a response on a public interest litigation (PIL) claiming ‘exorbitant fares’ were being charged by the railways for running ‘Special Trains’, which were actually routine train services being run on identical routes with same rake, timing and stoppages.The HC issued the notice on Wednesday and asked the Railways to file a reply in the next hearing on the matter. The PIL was filed in October last year by an activist of the state.“A notice has been issued to the Railway Board on the grievance that despite the discontinuation of food and catering services in Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Duronto class trains, the charges have not been reduced. In violation of the coronavirus-containment guidelines issued by the Railways, unauthorised vendors are allowed to sell food items at higher prices,” said petitioner Sudiep Shrivastava, also an activist and a lawyer.He further alleged that the fare in ‘special trains’, being run by the railways on different routes during the pandemic, is more than double of the routine service.“The operation of passenger and local trains has been started only in certain states like West Bengal, where elections are due, whereas, no passenger or local train service is being operated in Chhattisgarh,” Shrivastva said alleging discrimination.Earlier in October, during the first hearing on the PIL, Ramakant Mishra, the assistant solicitor general had said in the court that the restrictions have been imposed pursuant to the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry and the respondent was giving effect to the same.“Such guidelines and restrictions have been imposed based on the opinion of the experts in the field and considering the relevant circumstances in connection with the control of the Covid-19 pandemic so as to break the chain and also to contain the disease in the most effective manner…The rigor of unlock as it was prevailing months ago is not existing now and it is being relaxed step by step; which is applicable also in the case of 'concessions' and running of regular trains," he added.The next hearing on the PIL is scheduled for February 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-for-railways-reply-to-pil-alleging-exorbitant-fares-during-pandemic-101610692853304.html
15-01-2021||India||Bird flu: Water samples from Kanpur zoo test positive||Eight water samples taken from water bodies inside the Kanpur zoo tested positive for avian influenza or bird flu virus, said the report of the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, where all the samples were tested as one.The institute, which had on January 9 confirmed that the samples taken from two of the 10 red jungle fowls found dead in Kanpur zoo earlier this month had tested positive for bird flu, sent the report of the water sample testing to the authorities concerned on Wednesday night. Meanwhile, seven more birds -- five crows and two pigeons -- were found dead in the zoo on Thursday. The deaths, which have alarmed the authorities, have been attributed to contaminated water at the zoo. Kanpur zoo assistant director Arvind Kumar Singh said the report from Bhopal confirmed bird flu virus in water but not in the soil.A team led by chief veterinary officer, Kanpur, Dr RP Mishra visited the zoo and held meetings with officials apart from examining the entire area and animals on Thursday. Dr Mishra said his team was looking into the deaths and helping the zoo with sanitisation.The artificial lake inside the zoo, that is spread across 18 hectares, attracts thousands of migratory birds during the winter season. Apart from the lake, the zoo has eight small and big ponds.The source of water to the zoo is Ganga barrage and rain. It is believed the virus arrived with the migratory birds. However, zoo officials are not forthcoming about whether there has been death of any migratory birds or if any samples of them have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-water-samples-from-kanpur-zoo-test-positive-101610693078657.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi calls Shripad Naik, enquires about his health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called Union minister Shripad Naik who is currently recuperating at Goa Medical College and Hospital and enquired about his health."PM Narendra Modi called Union Minister Shripad Naik who is currently recuperating at Goa Medical College and Hospital today morning and enquired about his health," said Suraj Naik, OSD to the union minister, according to news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu visited Naik on at the hospital, where he is undergoing treatment after getting injured in a road accident.Naidu arrived at the GMCH near here at 10.20 am and met Naik. He also held an informal meeting with GMCH dean Shivanand Bandekar and other doctors treating the 68-year-old minister for AYUSH and defence."Doctors also informed that Naik was out of danger and that his vital parameters were normal," Naidu tweeted.Naik was admitted to the GMCH on Monday night after he was seriously injured in the road accident in adjoining Karnataka. His wife and a close aide died in the car accident.The GMCH on Thursday eveninghad said the health condition of Naik has been improving.A team of of the New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has been monitoring the treatment given to Naik.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-shripad-naik-enquires-about-his-health-101610691890923.html
15-01-2021||India||Don’t test our patience: Army chief to China on LAC row||In a strong message to China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said while India was committed to resolving the row through military and diplomatic talks, “no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience.” In his customary Army Day address at the Parade Ground in Delhi Cantt, Naravane said India had given a fitting response to the (Chinese) conspiracy of attempting to unilaterally change the status quo along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) where India and China have been locked in a standoff for over eight months. “I want to assure the country that the sacrifice of the Galwan braves will not go in vain,” he said. The army chief said the morale of the soldiers deployed in forward areas in the Ladakh sector was higher than the mountains they were defending. On the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, the army chief said 300 to 400 terrorists are present in camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and waiting to sneak into India. Earlier this week, Naravane said the army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China to reduce tensions in the sensitive sector are “prolonged,” even as he described a joint threat from China and Pakistan as “very potent.” He said India should not read too much into the recent withdrawal of Chinese troops from depth areas on the Tibetan plateau as there has been absolutely no reduction of troops by either side at friction points in the Ladakh sector. Hindustan Times reported on Monday that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas in the Ladakh theatre to rear positions but the PLA’s frontline deployments remain unchanged. Speaking to reporters at his customary annual press conference on January 12, Naravane said he was hopeful that the ongoing dialogue with China would yield an “amicable solution” but stressed that the operational preparedness of the army was of high order and the force was ready to deal with any eventuality. The two armies are due to hold the ninth round of military talks between their senior commanders to resolve the lingering border dispute that has brought chill to ties between India and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-test-our-patience-army-chief-to-china-on-lac-row-101610691698229.html
15-01-2021||India||Indian Army chief warns, says 'don't commit the mistake of testing our patience'||In a stern message, Indian army chief general Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said that while India believes in finding the resolution of disputes through discussions and political efforts, no one should commit the mistake of testing the country's patience. "We are committed to finding the resolution of our disputes through discussions and political efforts but no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience," Indian Army chief general MM Naravane said.The Army chief was talking at the 73rd Army Day at the National War Memorial in Delhi where Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat also paid tributes.Along with the CDS and army chief general, Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, also paid tribute at the memorial.Naravane also said that the sacrifice of the "Galwan braves will not go in vain.""You all are aware of ongoing tension with China on northern borders. Regarding conspiracy to unilaterally change status quo on borders, a befitting reply was given. I want to assure the country that sacrifice of bravehearts of Galwan would not go in vain," Army Chief MM Naravane said. The India Army also paid homage to the 100 battle casualties in the year 2020 on the Army Day today."Army pays homage to the 100 battle casualties in the year 2020 on the Army Day today. These officers and jawans lost their lives in different operations including the Galwan valley clash in Eastern Ladakh on June 15," Army said in a tweet.On this occasion, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also extended his greetings to the Indian Army personnel."Greetings to Indian Army personnel and their families on the occasion of Army Day. The nation salutes the Indian Army's indomitable courage, valour and sacrifices. India is proud of their selfless service to the nation." Singh tweeted.Army Day is observed every year on January 15 to celebrate the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army - Field Marshal Kodandera M Cariappa. The position was taken over on January 15, 1949, from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-warns-says-don-t-commit-mistake-of-testing-our-patience-101610689854020.html
15-01-2021||India||'No chance of further improvement on farm laws', says farmer unions||Ahead of the ninth round of farm talks, farmer unions on Friday said there is no chance of further improvement on the laws and they don't have much expectation."We don't expect much. Last round of talks with govt failed & now they've got the opportunity to get help from court. I think govt is not going to advance the discussions. There is no chance of further improvement on 3 farm laws, said Hannah Mollah, General Secretary, All India Kisan Sabha, according to news agency ANI.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) Joginder Singh Ugrahan told PTI, "We are going to hold talks with the government tomorrow. We don't have much hope from the Friday meeting as the government will cite the SC-appointed panel. The government doesn't have good intention to resolve our issues."Singh said that the unions do not want any committee, adding "we just want a complete repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee on minimum support price for our crops."He said that farmers will not call off their protest until their demands are met.Another farmer leader, Abhimanyu Kohar said that government knows that the court cannot repeal the laws and added that the Centre should stop playing with the sentiments of farmers who have been camping at several Delhi borders since November 28.He said that forming a committee is not a solution, adding that the new farm laws have been enacted by Parliament and the court cannot do much.While the previous eight rounds of negotiations have failed to end the protests continuing for several weeks on various borders of the national capital, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said yesterday that the government is hopeful of positive discussions at Friday's scheduled meeting.The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition.The top court has also kept the farm laws in abeyance to “assuage the hurt feelings of farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-chance-of-further-improvement-on-farm-laws-says-farmer-unions-101610690541861.html
15-01-2021||India||Cold wave continues; Srinagar records -7.6°C||Srinagar and other parts of other Kashmir witnessed another cold night with temperature going down to minus 7.6 degrees Celsius (°C). Friday morning saw Srinagar enveloped in dense fog.For the past three days, Srinagar is witnessing cold wave which has forced people to stay indoors. Most of the water bodies and Dal lake are frozen. The government has deputed SDRF teams around the lake to discourage people from walking on Dal. While India Meteorological Department officials have ruled out snowfall for another week, they said the cold wave will continue. This winter, the cold has broken a 26-year record with the temperature plunging to -8.4°C on Thursday.Kashmir has already witnessed four to five spells of snow with some places recording over six feet of snow.Tourist resort of Gulmarg recorded -7.9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-continues-srinagar-records-76c-101610691038274.html
15-01-2021||India||India Covid-19 vaccination: FAQs on schedule, precautions, side effects||India is launching the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday with 300,00 health care workers set to be inoculated on the first day itself. Here’s all there’s to know about the Covid-19 vaccination drive being launched on January 16:Will the Covid-19 vaccine be given to everyone simultaneously?No. Government of India has selected priority groups who will be vaccinated based on risk factors.What are the priority groups?The first group is of country’s health care workers and frontline workers. The second group is of people over the age of 50 years, and the third will be of people under 50 with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney diseases, etc.Who will be vaccinated on Saturday?Health care workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. There are an estimated 10 million health care workers, of which around 300,000 are likely to get vaccinated on Day 1.How will I know if I am eligible to get the vaccine?Eligible individuals will be registered by the government as beneficiaries. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile number through an SMS, regarding the health facility where their vaccination will happen, and the time of vaccination.Can we get vaccinated without registration?No. Only registered beneficiaries will get the vaccine at the session site on the day of the vaccination. What documents are required for registration?One of the 12 government photo IDs: Aadhaar card, voter ID, driving license, PAN card, service ID card with photo issued to employees by the Central, state govts, public sector undertakings, public limited companies, MNREGA job card, passport, smart card issued under NPR, pension document with photo, official IDs issued to MPs, MLAs, MLCs, passbook with photo issued by bank or post office, and health insurance smart card under the scheme of labour ministry.Do I need to carry a photo ID along to the vaccination centre?Yes. The same photo ID that was used for registration will be needed for verification of registration at the vaccination site. Will vaccinated beneficiaries receive information after vaccination?Yes, on getting due dose of vaccine, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number. After all the doses are administered, a QR-code based certificate will also be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary.How many Covid-19 vaccines are approved for use in India?Two vaccines have been granted restricted emergency use approval by India’s drugs controller early this year. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India under the name of Covishield.Will there be a choice between the vaccines?No. It is at the discretion of the government authorities which one of the two vaccines you get.Will the vaccine be safe if it is tested and introduced in a short span of time?The vaccines have been approved by the national drugs regulator only after looking at the clinical trials data both from animals and humans. The safety and immunogenicity of both the vaccines has been well established.Are there any precautions needed to be taken after vaccination?Take rest for at least 30 minutes after vaccination to check if there are any symptoms or any discomforts. If there are, inform the vaccination team at the site for medical attentionIf one is taking medicines for cancer, diabetes, hypertension or any other chronic condition, can the vaccine still be taken?Yes. These people should take the vaccine as they are actually high-risk groups.Can pregnant women and children take the vaccine?No, the vaccine is not meant for pregnant and lactating women. It is also currently meant to be given to people above 18 years of age.Can those with active Covid-19 disease take the vaccine?No. They should wait 4-8 weeks after recovery before taking the shot.Are there any side effects of Covid-19 vaccines?There are largely minor side effects observed, such as mild fever, pain at the site of infection, head and body ache, nausea, weakness, etc. Is it mandatory to take the vaccine?Vaccine for Covid-19 is voluntary. Experts, however, advise people to take the vaccine to protect themselves and their family members and close contacts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-vaccination-faqs-on-schedule-precautions-side-effects-101610689958226.html
15-01-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 10.52 million, day before vaccination starts||India’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 10.52 million on Friday, a day before pan-nation vaccination drive against the disease is scheduled to commence, the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said. The country recorded a total of 15,590 new infections in the preceding 24 hours taking the national tally to 10,527,683, the ministry’s dashboard showed.Click here for Covid-19 coverageA total of 15,975 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, the dashboard showed, taking the total number of recovered cases to 10,162,738 or 96.52% of the national tally. In the same duration, the infection claimed 191 more lives taking the death toll to 151,198 or 1.44% of total cases. Active cases, meanwhile, dipped further, falling by 576 to 213,027 or 2.03% of the total tally.The government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the new positive cases were from 730,096 samples tested for Covid-19 in the previous 24 hours. The body further said it had tested total 184,962,401 samples thus far.Prime Minister Narendra will virtually launch the country’s vaccination drive, set to be the largest in the world. On day 1 of the vaccination drive, 3,006 session sites across all states and Union territories will be virtually connected during the launch with around 100 beneficiaries to be vaccinated at each site, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had said in a statement on Thursday. In the first phase of the vaccination drive, 30 million frontline workers will be inoculated.Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covishield, and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin have been granted emergency use authorisation in India. While Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) will manufacture Covishield in the country, Covaxin is the country’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19. India has the second-highest Covid-19 caseload in the world behind the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-reaches-10-52-million-day-before-vaccination-starts-101610689609461.html
15-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi backs farmers' 'satyagraha against govt', plugs freedom struggle||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday launched another attack against the government over the ongoing farmers' stir against the three contentious agricultural laws and said that the food-providers of the country are holding a Satyagraha against the arrogant Modi government for their rights."Today, the entire country is raising its voice against the atrocities on farmers and rise in prices of petrol and diesel. You too join and become a part of this Satyagraha," Gandhi said in a tweet and shared a video.The Wayanad MP has drawn a parallel between the current protests by thousands of farmers and India's freedom struggle in the years leading to 1947.देश के अन्नदाता अपने अधिकार के लिए अहंकारी मोदी सरकार के ख़िलाफ़ सत्याग्रह कर रहे हैं।आज पूरा भारत किसानों पर अत्याचार व पेट्रोल-डीज़ल के बढ़ते दामों के विरुद्ध आवाज़ बुलंद कर रहा है।आप भी जुड़िये और इस सत्याग्रह का हिस्सा बनिये।#SpeakUpForKisanAdhikar pic.twitter.com/3EG34bUQxmThousands of farmers are camping on Delhi's borders since November last year demanding the rollback of three laws, which they allege will directly strike a blow on their earnings by reducing them significantly and give leverage to corporations in the market.The video shared by Gandhi plugs the Indian freedom struggle and says that Independent India is an outcome of years of sacrifice and valour by country's ancestors and revered freedom fighters. "Their commitment to free, sovereign plural and egalitarian India was absolute. Now it is your chance to support those values by supporting 62,000 farmers," the video states, adding that the laws have been bulldozed by the 'autocratic Modi government'."Farmers are upholding our freedom by ensuring food security and nutrition for our children," the video shared by Gandhi mentions.The video also pans the fuel prices under the current government and state that the prices have hit a 73-year-high.The Congress leader's swipe at the government comes on the day farmers are slated to attend the ninth round of talks with the government amid indication that it may be last such meeting with the Centre. The farm union leaders have said that they don't have much hope as they will not settle for anything less than the repeal of the contentious farm laws.In a symbolic statement of disagreement with the laws, the farmers have given a clarion call to carry out a march on Republic Day. "Our plan for January 26 is that we will take out a procession from Red Fort to India Gate. We will hoist the flag where we meet at the Amar Jawan Jyoti. It will be a historic scene where from one side we will have 'kisan' and the other side 'jawan'," Rakesh Tikait, BKU spokesperson told news agency ANI.Since a Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws is likely to hold its first meeting on January 19, the meeting on Friday between with the government and the unions may be the last one.The three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-backs-farmers-satyagraha-against-govt-plugs-freedom-struggle-101610686535940.html
15-01-2021||India||80% Indians ready to take vaccines, says Harsh Vardhan, praises PM, scientists||About 80 per cent Indians are willing to take Covid-19 vaccines, which is a statement of trust on the Modi government and the scientists of the country, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said, quoting the survey figures of Edelman PR's Trust Barometer Survey 2021, carried out in 28 countries.A day ahead of the beginning of India's emergency vaccination drive, starting with only healthcare workers, preparations across the country reached the final stage on Friday.#CovidVaccination में पीछे नहीं रहना चाहते भारतीय!दुनिया के 28 देशों में कराये गए @EdelmanPR Trust Barometer Survey 2021 के अनुसार वैक्सीन पर सबसे अधिक भरोसा भारतीयों को है। देश के 80% लोग #vaccine लगाने को तैयार हैं।यह भरोसा है मोदी सरकार और देश के वैज्ञानिकों पर!@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/FxnkyOC8YWThe Centre has prepared a detailed plan on how to counter vaccine eagerness and vaccine hesitancy. Vaccine eagerness is a situation when people are overenthusiastic to get the shots while vaccine hesitance is just the opposite situation. Several European countries have reported a high rate of vaccine hesitancy.Though getting vaccinated is voluntary, the Centre has advised healthcare workers to get the two doses as recommended as healthcare professional taking vaccines will also instil confidence among rest.Questions have been raised over the efficacy of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin as its phase 3 trial is still going on but the ministry and other experts have repeatedly confirmed its effectiveness and allayed fears.The Union minister himself took to Twitter on Thursday and dispelled rumours like vaccines may cause infertility, other side effects in men and women. The minister also busted myths like Indian vaccines are lesser effective than foreign vaccines or Indian vaccines are not effective to fight the new variant.In the next steps, India will inoculate frontline workers and people who are at a greater risk of contracting the disease — above 50 years or suffering from other diseases. After that, vaccines will be made available for common people, the details of which will be decided later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-indians-ready-to-take-vaccines-says-harsh-vardhan-congratulates-pm-scientists-101610688061966.html
15-01-2021||India||Student files PIL against Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversion ordinance||A law student has filed public interest litigation (PIL) in the high court challenging the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance saying its provisions violate “constitutional provisions” and is “a blatant attack on the religious autonomy of individuals”.“The ordinance has been promulgated in utmost haste and autocratic manner without following a proper consultative process, which is the violation of the due process of law and is the reflection of abuse of legislative powers,” said Amratansh Nema in his petition filed in the Madhya Pradesh high court. Nema is from Bhopal and studies in Delhi.The state cabinet approved the ordinance on December 26 before Madhya Pradesh Anandiben Patel promulgated it on January 9. The ordinance provides for up to 10 years of imprisonment for religious conversion “by way of allurement, fraud, threat or marriage”.Nema has urged the high court to declare the ordinance as ultra vires of the Constitution. “...[the ordinance makes] the conversion of religion more stringent, arbitrary, and unjust by imposing such compliances and punishments which do not have a rational nexus between the purpose and object sought to be achieved and is consequently violative of Article 14, 19, 21 and 25-28 of the Constitution.”Also read | No evidence found, UP Police drop charges of ‘religious conversion for marriage’Nema cited section 2(1)(c) of the ordinance, which defines conversion as renouncing one’s religion and adopting another. “...but the return of any person already converted to the fold of his parental religion shall not be deemed conversion…. The definition has wrongly been expanded and is highly subjective, lacking the legislative reasonableness. Interpretation of said definition would result in severe religious discrimination which is violative of constitutional spirit,” the petition said. “Section 4 of the ordinance states that ‘no police officer shall inquire or investigate except upon a written complaint of a person converted in contravention of section 3 or his parents, siblings or with the leave of the court by any other person who is related by blood, marriage or adoption, guardianship or custodianship, as may be applicable’.” It added the Section 4 gives “an unrestricted opportunity to the family members of a converted person to harass him by filing frivolous complaints...”It cited the Allahabad high court’s judgment in the Salamat Ansari vs state of UP case. It added the court upheld the right of personal liberty and choice of consenting couples by allowing protection to the inter-faith marriage.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader Hitesh Bajpai insisted the ordinance was drafted and approved after considering all the aspects of the issue. “As chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan stated there were reports about girls being forced to convert for marriages and being subjected to harassment later. Any individual is free to approach the court to seek a remedy if he thinks there is any flaw in the ordinance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/student-files-pil-against-madhya-pradesh-s-anti-conversion-ordinance-101610688397957.html
15-01-2021||India||Farm laws can be a 'significant step', but protect those adversely impacted: IMF||The IMF believes the farm bills passed by the Indian government have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms, but a social safety net is needed to protect those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to the new system, a spokesperson of the global lender said here.Gerry Rice, Director of Communications at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), said the new measures will reduce the role of the middlemen and enhance efficiency.Also Read | Farm laws: What India can learn from Kenya’s agri experiment"We believe the farm bills do have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms in India," Rice said at a news conference in Washington on Thursday."The measures will enable farmers to directly contract with sellers, allow farmers to retain a greater share of the surplus by reducing the role of middlemen, enhance efficiency and support rural growth," he said."However, it is crucial that the social safety net adequately protects those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to this new system," the spokesperson said responding to a question on the ongoing protests by farmers against the laws in India.This can be done by ensuring that the job market accommodates those that are impacted by the reforms, he said.And of course, the growth benefits of these reforms will depend, critically, on the effectiveness and the timing of their implementation, so need to pay attention to those issues as well with the reform," Rice said.Also Read | All eyes on 9th round of farm talks today: Here’s what you need to knowThousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops.Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-significant-step-but-protect-those-who-may-be-adversely-impacted-imf-101610686985870.html
15-01-2021||India||Lucknow’s KGMU begins genome sequencing of new Covid-19 strain||Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has started the genome sequencing of Covid-19 to detect its new and more infectious strain found in the UK and for better treatment and management of the disease.“We have tested 10 samples of patients suffering from coronavirus. Fortunately, not a single sample was detected with the new strain. After the purchase of the reagent kits required to analyse the genetic material of ... [the] virus, we will be able to test more samples every day,” said KGMU’s microbiology head Dr Amita Jain.Earlier, the samples for genome sequencing were sent to Pune. Apart from KGMU, the genome sequencing study will also start at Bananas Hindu University, Central Drug Research Institute, and National Botanical Research Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknows-kgmu-begins-genome-sequencing-of-new-covid-19-strain-101610687798333.html
15-01-2021||India||31,700 health workers to be vaccinated across Uttar Pradesh on Saturday||As many as 31,700 health workers across Uttar Pradesh’s 75 districts will get Covid-19 vaccination on the first day of the inoculation campaign on Saturday when 317 sessions of the immunisation will be held at 311 centres, officials said. The state has so far received over one million vaccine doses against 1.1 million sought for the first phase.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the drive will start at 9am and will continue till 5pm. “A maximum of 100 people will be vaccinated in each session.”Also read | PM Modi set to launch world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive: Key things to knowChief secretary RK Tiwari said in the first phase, two vaccination sessions would be organised each week and the plan should be chalked out in a manner that all the health workers get covered in three days.Prasad said frontline workers chiefly from the state and central police departments, paramilitary forces, home guards, civic bodies, etc will be on the priority list for the second phase. He added people above 50 and those with co-morbidities such as diabetes, respiratory diseases, cancer, high blood pressure, etc will be vaccinated in the third phase.“The first phase activities are to be largely organised in government hospitals, health centres, block-level primary health centres, district hospitals, district women’s hospitals, urban health centres, railway hospitals, government and private medical colleges,” he said. “Also, big private hospitals in urban areas having more than a hundred workers too are likely to have vaccination sessions as per need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/31700-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-across-uttar-pradesh-on-saturday-101610687497956.html
15-01-2021||India||11 people killed in road accident near Karnataka's Dharwad||At least 11 people died in a road accident on National Highway-4 near Itigatti village in Dharwad district of Karnataka, when a tempo traveller, carrying members of a women's club, en route to Goa for a holiday, had a head-on collision with a tipper truck on Friday morning.10 women, belonging to the club based in Davangere, died in the crash apart from the driver of the tipper truck. Five women passengers from the club are said to be seriously injured apart from minor injuries suffered by two others, who were travelling in the tipper truck.The injured have been shifted to Hubli's KIMS hospital.District superintendent of police Krishna Kant was supervising the rescue and relief operation at the site. A case has been registered at Dharwad Rural Police station and investigations into the cause of the accident has begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-people-killed-in-a-road-accident-near-karnataka-s-dharwad-101610686590358.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi set to launch world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive: Key things to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday launch the world’s largest coronavirus immunisation drive with a record 300,000 health care workers across India scheduled to get vaccinated on the first day. Here is all you need to know about the campaign in Delhi and nationally: Vaccination drive in Delhi• Around 8,100 frontline medical workers will receive the vaccination when the campaign kicks off at 175 centres that will be increased to 1,000 subsequently. • Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi chief minister, will oversee the inoculation drive at Lok Nayak Hospital. • Delhi has received 274,500 doses of Covishield (Serum Institute of India) vaccine and 20,000 doses of Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). • Of the 274,500 vaccines, each health care worker will get two shots. Also,10% of the 274,500 vaccines are to be kept for exigencies such as breakage.  • 240,000 health care workers have registered for the vaccination as of now. Those who get vaccinated in the first week will be eligible for their second dose. • Of the 81 vaccination centres in Delhi, 75 will be for the Covishield vaccine, while six will be for Covaxin. Also read | India to start vaccine for Covid-19 supply with 20 million doses to neighbours• North-west Delhi and west Delhi will have 11 of the 81 vaccination centres – the highest of all the districts in the city. Central, south-west and south Delhi districts will have nine centres each. South-east Delhi will have eight centres, New Delhi seven, Shahdara six, east Delhi five, north Delhi four, and north-east Delhi two centres. • The vaccines arrived at the district storage units from the Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital in Tahirpur on Thursday. All vaccines are being transported to designated cold chain points on Friday from the district storage units. Campaign across the nation• The beneficiaries will receive a message on Friday with the allotted site and time. • The average number of inoculations for each site across India will be capped at 100 for the first day. The vaccination will be scaled up gradually. • The initial 16.5 million doses have been shipped across the country.• 3,006 vaccination sites have been set up nationally for the Saturday launch that will begin with the Prime Minister’s address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-set-to-launch-world-s-largest-covid-19-vaccination-drive-key-things-to-know-101610685457793.html
15-01-2021||India||Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah salute soldiers on Army Day||On the occasion of 73rd Army Day, Union Ministers Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah on Friday extended greetings to Indian Army personnel, stating that all the countrymen are proud of their selfless service and dedication towards the nation.In a tweet, Defence Minister Singh said: "Greetings to Indian Army personnel and their families on the occasion of Army Day. The nation salutes the Indian Army's indomitable courage, valour and sacrifices. India is proud of their selfless service to the nation."Hailing the brave soldiers for their selfless service and dedication towards the nation, Shah said the Indian Army is a symbol of gallantry and courage."I salute the indomitable courage and sacrifice of the brave soldiers of the country. All the countrymen are proud of their selfless service and dedication towards the nation. Heartfelt greetings to our brave soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families on 'Army Day'," the Union Home Minister tweeted in Hindi.Army Day is observed every year on January 15 to celebrate the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army - Field Marshal Kodandera M Cariappa.The position was taken over on January 15, 1949 from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-amit-shah-salute-soldiers-on-army-day-101610685056679.html
15-01-2021||India||Delhi: Six rescued from fire in Rohini multi-storey building||A woman and a fire fighter were injured, while five other civilians were safely rescued from a six-storey building in outer Delhi’s Rohini that caught fire in the early hours of Friday, the fire department said. The fire broke out in a store on the ground floor which served as a godown, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services.Also read | Delhi: Late night fire at Kirti Nagar godown leaves 2 deadGarg said when the fire department sent four fire tenders to the spot after receiving the call for help at 5.35 am, they found six persons trapped on the roof of the burning building. “We rescued them, but a woman sustained minor burns to her hand and leg. She has been moved to Ambedkar Hospital,” said Garg. In the operation, fire fighter Sunil also sustained injuries on his leg. The trigger for the blaze is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-six-rescued-from-fire-in-rohini-multi-storey-building-101610684977739.html
15-01-2021||India||'Trying to make some decisions ...': Satabdi Roy's post amid exodus from TMC||Amid the exodus of party bigwigs ahead of the West Bengal Assembly Election 2021, a post apparently written by Trinamool's Birbhum MP Satabdi Roy has triggered speculation whether the actor-turned-politician who has been with the party since her political debut is all set to bid adieu to Mamata Banerjee's party.The message has been posted on the page of Satabdi Roy's fan club and claims to be a statement of the MP.Addressed to her constituency people, the message in Bengali reads: "Good wishes for 2021. Be safe and healthy. I have a close and continuous connection with this constituency. But recently many people have been asking me why I am missing from several party programmes. I want to tell them that I want to attend all programmes. I like to be among you people. But I don't get to know about many programmes and if I am not even informed about events in my constituency, then how can I go. This saddens me as well. For the last 10 years, I have spent more time with you than with my families. Even my enemies won't be able to discredit me. So this year I am trying to make some decisions so that I can spend the entire time with you. I am grateful to you. You have been supporting me since 2009. Hope you will support me in the coming days too. Not only after I became an MP, but I have also always received immense love from the people of Bengal just as Satabdi Roy. I will try to stick to my commitment. If I take any decision, will let you know on January 16m Saturday at 2pm."Last year on December 28, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited Birbhum where Satabdi Roy was seen with her.In the run-up to the polls in West Bengal, a number of TMC leaders have crossed the side and joined the BJP — the exit of former minister Suvendu Adhikari being the most noteworthy among them. Along with Suvendu, 35 TMC leaders, including five MLAs and an MP, joined the BJP. The Trinamool, however, is shrugging off the issue of the exits and said several BJP leaders of the state have expressed interest in switching over to TMC as well. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijavargiya has recently claimed in Indore that 41 TMC MLAs are in touch with the party."But we are looking at who should be admitted to the party and who should not be. We have decided that among these legislators, we will not take those whose image is not good," Vijayvargiya said.Countering this claim, Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said seven BJP MPs will join the TMC soon.Satabdi Roy's name cropped up in the ₹10,000 crore Saradha chit fund scam, as she was one of the brand ambassadors of the group. But Satabdi later returned the money that she received from Saradha to the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trying-to-make-some-decisions-in-new-year-facebook-post-triggers-speculation-over-trinamool-mp-satabdi-roy-s-exit-101610683746883.html
15-01-2021||India||Delhi: Late night fire at Kirti Nagar godown leaves 3 dead||Three men were killed in a fire that broke out in a scrap godown in West Delhi’s Kirti Nagar on Thursday night. While two men were charred to death, trapped underneath the collapsed roof, another body was recovered from a drain behind the godown. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said that it appeared the third man died while trying to rescue the trapped men.The fire department received a call at 10.50pm on Thursday about a fire breaking out in a furniture shop in Kirti Nagar.It turned out to be a scrap godown which had three-four huts erected on the roof, said the Delhi Fire Services director, Atul Garg. The godown was constructed over a 100 square yard plot which collapsed, trapping two men inside and killing them. The dead were aged 23 and 18 respectively. The police are investigating the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-late-night-fire-at-kirti-nagar-godown-leaves-2-dead-101610683719448.html
15-01-2021||India||Magh Mela begins as lakhs of devotees take holy dip, faith trumps Covid fear||The 57-day-long Magh Mela commenced at Prayagraj with the first official bathing on the occasion of Makar Sankranti festival at the ‘Sangam’ on Thursday amid a rush of devotees and traffic diversions at all entry points of the city.Devotees, who had started arriving in large numbers from Wednesday itself, continued to arrive all through the day on Thursday, defying the winter chill and overcoming the fear of Covid-19.Magh Mela Adhikari Vivek Chaturvedi said about 4.5 lakh people took the holy dip on Thursday.Despite appeals that the pilgrims observe social distancing and wear facemasks to prevent the spread of Covid, most devotees were seen violating the norms. However, less than expected rush this time ensured that pilgrims were not found taking the dip, shoulder-to-shoulder, at the bathing ghats.Early morning fog prevented many from reaching the bathing ghats, yet thousands of devotees braved the chill to take a holy dip in the Sangam. The rush increased after the sun warmed up the day a little bit more.Hundreds of pilgrims sang devotional songs to traditional music played on harmonium, cymbals, ‘chimtas’ etc in the camps after midnight while waiting for the holy bath in the morning.“It is the best way to beat the cold and spend the night by reciting the name of god. Within a few hours, it will be dawn and the pilgrims will be ready to take a holy dip in the river,” said Sharad Mishra, a purohit.On Makar Sankranti, the sun transits into Capricorn, marking the beginning of its northward journey (uttarayan), ushering in the auspicious period for Hindus. Makar Sankranti bathing is the second important ‘snan’ during Magh Mela after Mauni Amavasya, which falls on February 11 this year.Camps remained abuzz with activity as seers performed special rituals to celebrate Makar Sankranti. However, this time, announcements for following Covid protocols dominated the sounds of prayers and devotional songs emanating from the camps. At a dozen entry points, pilgrims were allowed to pass only after scanning their body temperatures.IG KP Singh and district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami appealed to pilgrims to vacate ghats immediately after taking a dip to prevent crowding.Magh Mela Adhikari, Vivek Chaturvedi, said the first official bathing passed off smoothly without any untoward incident.The first bathing also marked the commencement of the month-long kalpwas in the mela area for Dandi Swamis and those coming from Mithila region, as per the tradition. Nearly 50,000 kalpwasis began their month-long rigorous schedule of meditation and religious discourse. Remaining kalpwasis will begin their kalpwas from Paush Purnima falling on January 28.Besides Uttar Pradesh, devotees from other states including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Chhattisgarh, etc are camping in Magh Mela area for the month-long religious practice, unique to Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magh-mela-begins-as-lakhs-of-devotees-take-holy-dip-faith-trumps-covid-fear-101610682917382.html
15-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders continue to be closed at multiple points||As farmers continue to camp at Delhi’s borders demanding a repeal of the three new farm laws, the Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at multiple points on Friday, ahead of the ninth round of negotiations scheduled later in the day.The borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur remained closed on Friday for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad.Commuters coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh were advised to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected.Traffic at these borders is also slow as police continue to check these points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to enter the Capital.For borders shared between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli and Mangesh continue to remain closed.Traffic police said they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states.Meanwhile, the farmers’ protest entered Day 52 on Friday. So far, farmers have refused to participate in talks with the four-member committee proposed by the Supreme Court to look into the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-delhi-borders-continue-to-be-closed-at-multiple-points-101610682218095.html
15-01-2021||India||'Held our heads high with pride': PM Modi extends wishes on Army Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended greetings to the Indian army and their family members on the occasion of 73rd Army Day on Friday, saying that the courageous Army always held the head of nation high with pride. "Congratulations to the mighty soldiers of the country who stand in defence of Mother Bharati and their family members on Army Day. Our army is strong, courageous and determined, and has always made the country proud. I salute the Indian Army on behalf of all the countrymen," he tweeted.Also Read | Army Day 2021: A look at some key dates in Indian defence historyPresident Ram Nath Kovind also marked the occasion with his tweet remembering the soldiers who laid their lives in service to the nation."On Army Day, greetings to the valiant men and women of the Indian Army. We remember the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in service to the nation. India will remain forever grateful to courageous and committed soldiers, veterans and their families. Jai Hind!" the official account of Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat also extended his wishes and said the soldiers' valour and sacrifices are an inspiration to many. "On the historic Army Day, we pay homage and express our gratitude to those brave soldiers, whose valour and Supreme sacrifice in line of duty inspires us to rededicate ourselves with renewed vigour," Rawat said in a message.Also Read | 'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army Day"Your dauntless courage, indomitable spirit and unparalleled devotion to duty in the true traditions and ethos of the Indian army will continue to inspire future generations. Jai Hind!" he added.Army Day is observed on January 15 every year since 1950 to mark the taking over of the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army, Field Marshal KM Cariappa, from the last British Commander-in-Chief of India, General Sir Francis Butcher.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/held-our-heads-high-with-pride-pm-modi-extends-wishes-on-army-day-101610681849825.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Report even minor effects after 1st dose, says KK Shailaja||As all states are gearing up to start the first phase of vaccination drive from January 16, Kerala health minister KK Shailaja has said that even minor effects after receiving one dose should be reported. Amid apprehension over side effects of vaccines, the Centre and the states have amped up their battles against misinformation.Allaying fears, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said that the vaccines may come with some side effects including mild fever, pain at the injection site and body ache, but only some individuals may experience them. "This is similar to the side effects that occur after some other vaccines. They are expected to go away on their own after some time," he said.Instead of spreading fears, beneficiaries should report all side-effects, Kerala health minister Dr Shailaja has said. Kerala, the first state to have reported the Covid-19 case in India on January 30, is still reporting a high number of daily infections, though the state's recovery rate is high. The state's healthcare infrastructure faced several challenges amid the Covid-19 crisis and the state reported outbreaks of Shigella infection.On Saturday, the vaccination drive will begin in India with PM Modi virtually addressing the country. About one crore healthcare workers will be inoculated at first following which other frontline workers will be vaccinated. The Centre procured 1.65 crore doses of vaccines — both from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — and all these doses have been dispatched to the centres. Those who will be inoculated tomorrow will have to produce their identity cards at the centre for verification. During the dry run, their details have been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-report-even-minor-effects-after-first-dose-says-kerala-health-minister-kk-shailaja-101610681377967.html
15-01-2021||India||All eyes on 9th round of farm talks today: Here’s what you need to know||The terms of the government’s engagement with tens of thousands of farmers protesting three contentious agricultural laws are in the spotlight again. Farm unions will hold their ninth round of negotiations with the Union government on Friday. Here are 10 key things to know: 1. As far as Friday’s negotiations are concerned, the agenda of the farmers is to focus the discussions only on ways in which the new laws can be scrapped. 2. The government has refused to roll back the pro-reform laws farmers say will hurt their livelihoods. 3. The government is unlikely to commit to a repeal. It has, instead, insisted on knowing specific objections to the Acts. Farmers and the government are therefore not on the same page still. 4. The protesting farm unions have decided not to participate in consultations to be held by a committee proposed by the Supreme Court on January 12 to examine three pro-reform agricultural laws. 5. The top court has also kept the farm laws in abeyance to “assuage the hurt feelings of farmers”. 6. The top court’s intervention has backfired. Farm unions have alleged that the SC-appointed committee is “pro-government” since its members have already publicly praised the laws farmers want repealed. 7. The contentious laws remove restrictions in farm trade, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements. 8. Farmers say these changes will leave them at the mercy of big corporations. 9. The Supreme Court’s decision to keep the laws in abeyance appears to have given the government a breather: the laws are now suspended without the government having to act according to terms dictated by farm unions. 10. The farm unions, however, have craftily dodged the Supreme Court’s intervention by declaring that they would only talk to the government. This helps them to press on with their core demand of repealing the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-eyes-on-9th-round-of-farm-talks-today-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-101610681497481.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Air quality 'severe' in NW India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air quality continues to remain in severe category in NW IndiaThe air quality continued to remain in the severe category at several places in North-Western India including Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida. Read more'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army DayOn the occasion of the 73rd Army Day on January 15, Army chief MM Naravane on Friday lauded the "supreme sacrifice" of the bravehearts in the line of duty. Read more'Enriched passenger experience': Piyush Goyal on future of New Delhi stationThe Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) plans to bid 62 stations, including the New Delhi Railway Station, for redevelopment. Read moreIndia vs Australia: T Natarajan, Washington Sundar make debuts, earn India’s 300th and 301st Test capsThe Indian cricket team sprung a few surprises when they announced the Playing XI for the fourth Test match against Australia in Brisbane. Read moreAdnan Sami slams person who said Lata Mangeshkar doesn't have a good voice: 'Bandar kya jaane...'Singer Adnan Sami jumped to the defence of legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar after someone on Twitter called her overrated. Adnan advised the person to stay silent rather than letting the world know of their stupidity. Read morePictures of crocodile couple swimming together prompt people to say ‘true love’If you’re someone who loves seeing various images and videos which showcase love, especially between animals, then this post by Bindi Irwin will speak to your soul. Read more‘LCA Tejas well ahead of Pakistan-China’s JF-17 aircraft’: IAF chief BhadauriaAir Force chief RKS Bhadauria on Thursday said the latest Indian jet, Tejas, would be better equipped to carry out Balakot-type airstrikes. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-quality-severe-in-nw-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101610679939525.html
15-01-2021||India||BJP out to wrest Sonia Gandhi’s Rae Bareli seat after dethroning Rahul in Amethi||After Amethi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is now eyeing to wrest Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s Parliamentary constituency of Rae Bareli, the last stronghold of the grand old party in Uttar Pradesh.If senior BJP leaders were to be believed, efforts to reach out to people in Rae Bareli have been stepped up further and more senior leaders, including union ministers, are expected to visit the constituency in the coming months.“Rae Bareli is important for the BJP. The party works 24x7 for the people and does not indulge in part-time politics. The BJP works on seats where it loses any election. We did so after the 2014 and 2019 polls too. We won Amethi in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. We will surely win Rae Bareli in the next polls” said Vijay Pathak, Uttar Pradesh BJP vice president.Pathak’s assertions are not unfounded. After winning Amethi---- the other bastion of the Nehru-Gandhi family-- the BJP has been focusing on Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat. Union minister Smriti Irani has been visiting Rae Bareli too, besides Amethi. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma was made the minister in charge of Rae Bareli and party men have intensified their campaign to take ‘achievements’ of Narendrea Modi and Yogi governments to the people.“Yes, we are taking the achievements of Modi and Yogi governments to the people. We have a strong party structure up to booth level. The Congress may have won Rae Bareli in 2019 polls but the party’s victory margin came down considerably. The BJP is bound to win all the Assembly seats in Rae Bareli in 2022 state assembly elections and surely win the Lok Sabha seat in 2024 polls,” said Rae Bareli BJP president, Ramdev Pal.The BJP efforts to win Rae Bareli and Amethi intensified after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections after the installation of Yogi Adityanath government in 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.As BJP president, Amit Shah, addressed a mega party rally in Rae Bareli in April 2018 and inducted Congress MLC Dinesh Singh into the BJP. After 2019 Lok Sabha elections, both the Congress MLAs from Rae Bareli, Rakesh Singh (Dinesh Singh’s brother) and Aditi Singh have turned rebels. Both of them though remain Congress MLAs while continuing to maintain distance from the party leadership and are considered close to the BJP.While senior Congress leaders publicly exude confidence and assert that the BJP would not be able to replicate their performance in Amethi in Rae Bareli, the BJP’s consistent attempts to make deep forays in the constituency remains an area of concern for them.“Rae Bareli is the bastion of the Congress. Whatever development has taken place in Rae Bareli is because of the Congress. The people of Rae Bareli are aware of this fact. Amethi is a neighbouring constituency and the people there are realising that the promises made to them have not been fulfilled. Amethi has been deprived of projects after the BJP’s victory there in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. No one wants to repeat what has been done in Amethi and the BJP will never be successful in Rae Bareli,” said Rae Bareli Congress president Pankaj Tiwari.Tiwari said both Sonia Gandhi and Congress general secretary in charge for UP, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, have remained in touch with the people of the constituency despite the restrictions due to Covid-19. He said both of them had visited the constituency early in 2020 but were unable to revisit due to the pandemic.“We are not allowed (by the state administration) to reach out to people, hold protests or political programmes in Rae Bareli on the pretext of Covid-19 restrictions. Such restrictions are not applied to the BJP workers,” said Tiwari.“Both Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra however have remained in touch with the people here. We had a video conferencing with Soniaji only about two weeks ago. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra keeps in touch with the party men here. She is expected to visit the constituency and meet the people soon,” Tiwari added.Sonia has consistently won the seat after shifting from Amethi, bequeathing her husband and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s political legacy to son Rahul Gandhi in 2004. Rahul Gandhi won Amethi in 2004, 2009 and 2014 polls but lost to Union minister Smriti Irani in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“Yes, the people of Rae Bareli voted for Congress president Sonia Gandhi in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sonia Gandhi has not been in good health for some time and has not been able to visit the constituency as frequently as she used to do. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra can work as her substitute but has to decide on contesting election from the constituency. The BJP is a rising sun while the Congress has not been able to resolve the leadership issue. The BJP may capture the Rae Bareli seat too in such a situation,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-out-to-wrest-sonia-gandhi-s-rae-bareli-seat-after-dethroning-rahul-in-amethi-101610680527158.html
15-01-2021||India||President Kovind donates Rs5 lakh for Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya||President Ramnath Kovind on Friday contributed Rs500,100 for the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya. A delegation of VHP’s international working president Alok Kumar, treasure of the Ram Janmabhoomi teerath Kshetra trust, Govind Dev Giri and former bureaucrat Nripendra Misra, who is the head of the temple construction committee, were part of the delegation that called on President Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan. The VHP, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s ideological fountainhead, was at the forefront of the Ram Mandir construction movement. The trust has mandated it to collect funds for the temple’s construction.The meeting with Kovind is part of VHP’s campaign to seek contribution cutting across class and communities, said a VHP functionary.Kumar earlier told HT that to ensure transparency, funds above Rs20,000 will be collected through cheques.The fund collection campaign will be carried out across 525,000 villages and the monies collected will have to be deposited within 48 hours in banks.The collection drive began on January 15 and will conclude by February 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-delegation-to-meet-president-kovind-today-seek-donation-for-ram-temple-101610680536777.html
15-01-2021||India||Air quality continues to remain in severe category in NW India||The air quality continued to remain in the severe category at several places in North-Western India including Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida. Delhi’s average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 459 was in the same category on Friday morning.“Wind speed has reduced across the plains of Northwest India. In Delhi, it is only around 6 mph and the wind direction is south-westerly. So, the air quality has deteriorated and there is little possibility of pollutants dispersing,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.Minimum temperatures are also likely to remain below normal in northwest India during the next three days, according to the India Meteorological Department. Dense to very dense fog and cold as well as severe cold conditions are likely in Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar over the next three days.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the Southeast Arabian Sea and the adjoining Maldives. A trough runs from this cyclonic circulation to the Comorin area. Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with moderate thunderstorms and lightning is likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, and Lakshadweep over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-continues-to-remain-in-severe-category-in-nw-india-101610679756725.html
15-01-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality remains in severe category; AQI reaches 459||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the severe category at 7am on Friday, with the hourly average air quality index clocking 459.On Thursday, the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi touched 429, in the severe zone, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A day before that, the 24-hour average AQI was 354, in the very poor category. IMD scientists said the air quality in Delhi is also expected to get worse till January 18. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), warned that the coming week could be the “first extended extreme air pollution event for 2021”.“The AQI is forecast to deteriorate rapidly in next three days. The combination of dense fog formation leading to secondary particulate formation under congenial conditions of high humidity, extremely low ventilation and shallow boundary layer height is a major reason for the predicted smog episode in the coming days,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-remains-severe-aqi-reaches-459-101610679037336.html
15-01-2021||India||Army Day 2021: A look at some key dates in Indian defence history||India is observing its 73rd Army Day on Friday. On the occasion, Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and chief of army staff (COAS) General Manoj Mukund Naravane extended their warm wishes to all army personnel and paid homage to soldiers who have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty.Also Read | 'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army DayIndia celebrates its military achievements and foundation days of its forces on various dates. Here’s a list of some such days:1. Army Day (Jan15): This day commemorates General (later Field Marshal) KM Cariappa taking over as the first Commander-in-chief of the Indian Army from General Francis Butcher, in 1949. The Army Day parade takes places at the Cariappa parade ground in Delhi. Gallantry awards are also given on the day.2. Coast Guard Day (Feb 1): The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) was established on February 1, 1977 on an “interim” basis. The force formally came into being on August 18, 1978. It is tasked with protecting India’s maritime interests and enforcing maritime law.3. Kargil Vijay Diwas (July 26): On this day in 1999, the Indian Army recaptured all its outposts taken over by Pakistani intruders. The fourth of four wars between the two neighbours, it began in May of that year and ended with a decisive Indian win.4. Air Force Day (Oct 8): The Indian Air Force (IAF) was established on October 8, 1932 as an auxiliary air force of the Royal Air Force (RAF). After partition of India into India and Pakistan, the Indian side retained the name of the Royal Indian Air Force (RIAF). The prefix “Royal” was removed in 1950 and the force was renamed as the present IAF.5. Navy Day (Dec 4): The day commemorates the Indian Navy’s daring assault on its Pakistani counterpart during the 1971 war between the two nations. Called Operation Trident, the assault saw the Navy sink several Pakistani vessels and kill scores of Pakistan Navy personnel.6. Armed Forces Flag Day (Dec 7): Celebrated on this date annually since 1949, the day is dedicated to collection of funds from the people of India for the welfare of the personnel of the Indian Armed Forces.7. Vijay Diwas (Dec 16): On this day in 1971, the India-Pakistan war came to an end in less than two weeks, with over 93,000 soldiers of the Pakistan Army surrendering to India. The independent state of Bangladesh was born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-day-2021-a-look-at-some-key-dates-in-indian-defence-history-101610678345296.html
15-01-2021||India||No hike in train tickets, festival specials still running, clarifies railways||Amid reports that Indian Railways has hiked ticket prices in 2021, the ministry has clarified that ticket prices remain the same. Terming the reports misleading, the ministry said that there has been no change in ticket fares.But then why passengers are also seeing a difference in the fare? The ministry clarified that festival special trains which were introduced in October to clear the rush of passengers are still running as the ministry has not gone back to its pre-Covid status of services. Starting with Shramik specials and a handful of special passengers trains in April-May, services have gone up offering connectivity across the country but has not yet achieved pre-March status.The fares of festival special trains have always been slightly higher than normal fares, the railways said adding that it has been a practice since 2015. Since those trains are still running owing to high demand, fares may seem higher but no change in ticket prices has brought in effect."It may be noted that Passenger operations have always been subsidized by railways. Railways bears loss for travel by passenger. Railways has been running trains in covid times in most challenging circumstances. Running in low occupancy in many sections and still operating in public welfare," the statement issued by the ministry said."Not only this, Railways has taken special care about the Travel by those travelling by lowest fare in trains so that even in Covid times they bear the least burden. In all the trains that are being run, besides other classes, the trains have large number of 2S class coaches which has the lowest fare in the reserved category," it said.As per the policy, 2S passengers, even in special fare case have not been charged more than additional ₹15."Indian Railways has operationalised almost 60% of the Mail/Express trains as compared to the pre lock down times. 77% of these special trains have fares of regular trains. Around 250 trains daily are running as trains with special fares," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hike-in-train-tickets-festival-specials-still-running-clarifies-railways-101610677946785.html
15-01-2021||India||'Enriched passenger experience': Piyush Goyal on future of New Delhi station||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) plans to bid 62 stations, including the New Delhi Railway Station, for redevelopment. The authority would conduct virtual roadshows for investors from various countries between January 14 and January 19, news agency PTI reported."These roadshows will be organised online from January 14 to 19 with investors and developers from countries like Singapore, Australia, Dubai and Spain, to discuss the project concept and the proposed transaction structure," a press release issued by RLDA said.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal shared images of the revamped design of New Delhi Railway Station on Thursday and tweeted, "Envisaging an enriched passenger experience with complete integration of different modes of transport, take a look at the future of New Delhi Railway Station." Envisaging an enriched passenger experience with complete integration of different modes of transport, take a look at the future of New Delhi Railway Stationhttps://t.co/QSX4m9LKpy pic.twitter.com/cbr2AtxZaYThe Ministry of Railways too tweeted the images and said, "Offering a glimpse of future of New Delhi Railway Station. An enriched passenger experience with complete integration of different modes of transport is being planned for New Delhi Railway station."The station is going to be developed on a Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer (DBFOT) model for a concession period of 60 years, the RLDA release said. The project, which is expected to cost around USD 680 million, saw participation from Adani, GMR, JKB Infra, Arabian Construction Company and Anchorage in its pre-bid meeting in September last year, the release added.According to RLDA vice chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja, virtual roadshows were a way to attract stakeholders for the project. "The project is attracting interest from various stakeholders, and we intend to sustain the momentum through virtual roadshows. The initiative will enlighten them about the various aspects of the project," he told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enriched-passenger-experience-piyush-goyal-on-future-of-new-delhi-station-101610678206245.html
15-01-2021||India||How new study raises immunity hope: In graphics||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-new-study-raises-immunity-hope-in-graphics-101610675546352.html
15-01-2021||India||'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army Day||On the occasion of the 73rd Army Day on January 15, Army chief MM Naravane on Friday lauded the "supreme sacrifice" of the bravehearts in the line of duty. Terming 2020 as a year full of challenges and opportunities, the chief said that the Indian Army stood steadfast on safeguarding the security and territorial integrity of the nation.Referring to India-China LAC (Line of Actual Control) standoff, the army chief said, "Our brave officers, JCOs, and soldiers have given a befitting reply to our adversaries, many laying down their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army."General MM Naravane #COAS conveys felicitations and warm wishes to All Ranks of the #IndianArmy, Civilians, #Veterans and their Families on the occasion of 73rd #ArmyDay. #StrongAndCapable pic.twitter.com/B7IlbUY1nGPraising the Army's swift action on LAC row, the chief said, "While remaining committed to resolving disputes through dialogue and diplomacy, the Indian Army has been swift and decisive in its response to counter any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control."The Army chief also mentioned the continuous operations against terrorism and Indian Army's services during Covid-19 crisis.General Bipin Rawat #CDS message on #ArmyDay pic.twitter.com/mqIKki3kwFIn his message, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat paid homage to soldiers who have sacrificed their lives. "Your dauntless courage, indomitable spirit and unparalleled devotion to duty in the true traditions and ethos of the Indian Army will continue to inspire future generations," he said.Army day is celebrated every year on January 15 to commemorate the day when the first Indian general KM Cariappa took over as the first commander-in-chief of the Indian Army in 1949 from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British commander-in-chief in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swift-and-decisive-action-on-lac-general-navarne-s-message-on-army-day-101610674286883.html
15-01-2021||India||Air pollution spiked in small towns during lockdown: CSE||Air pollution increased in small towns and cities outside Delhi and NCR in the Indo-Gangetic Plain region last year, an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment(CSE) shows, highlighting the poor state of air in India’s urban areas in a year when normal activity was disrupted for at least some time on account of the coronavirus disease pandemic and the 68-day-long lockdown imposed to slow its spread.Even though average PM 2.5 levels for summer and monsoon months last year were considerably lower than in 2019, winter pollution levels increased in Punjab and Haryana , leading to an increase in the annual average PM 2.5 levels. PM 2.5 refers to particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 microns or smaller still.Bigger cities and towns including Delhi recorded a significant reduction in annual PM 2.5 concentrations during the year. Delhi, for example recorded an almost 13% improvement in 2020 compared to 2019.The analysis by CSE shows that air pollution levels spiked in certain parts of the Indo-Gangetic plains Fatehabad in northern Haryana is the worst performer with 35% increase from 2019 levels. It is followed by Bhatinda at 14%; Agra 9%; Khanna 7%; Mandi Gobindgarh 6%; Moradabad 5.5% and Kurukshetra 1% .But in other parts, the levels decreased. Sirsa recorded a 44% decrease in PM 2.5 levels; Varanasi 31%; Gaya 27%; Muzaffarpur 13%; Delhi 13% and Hisar 12% .The findings suggest that the variation may have been on account of adverse local weather conditions, but that some of the spike can only be explained by the burst of activity after the economy opened up after the lockdown. CSE used real-time data (15-minute averages) for 26 cities in the Gangetic plains from the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Central Control Room for Air Quality Management for the analysis.The analysis highlights that Fatehabad which recorded the highest increase in PM 2.5 concentrations last year and Sirsa which recorded the highest improvement are only 40 kms apart.“Therefore, this massive variation cannot be attributed to meteorology and has to do with local factors. The annual average of these towns along with other smaller towns such as Hisar and Jind in the north-west are heavily influenced by episodic pollution caused by burning of crop stubble. The influence is so strong that it can elevate their monthly PM2.5 levels for November to that of Delhi’s, but unlike Delhi, these towns are directly exposed to the smoke.The elevated November levels do not linger on for the rest of the winter in these towns (as is the case in Delhi),” said Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s Urban Lab team of the Sustainable Cities programme.“This brings out the impact of the extraordinary disruption that 2020 has caused. Despite the dramatic reduction in air pollution during the lockdown, pollution has bounced back across the region post-lockdown unmasking the high impacts of local and regional pollution. This demands quicker regional reforms and action to curb pollution from vehicles, industry, power plants and waste burning to further bend the air pollution curve on a regional scale,” explained Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, CSE.“We haven’t studied CSE’s analysis yet. There may be local factors which determine these trends. We will correlate the data with ours. But we have no doubt that Delhi’s air quality had improved in 2020 compared to 2019,” a CPCB official said on condition of anonymity.Air quality index was in “severe” category for many towns and cities in northwest India on Thursday including Delhi with air quality index (AQI) of 429; Faridabad 447; Ghaziabad 429; Greater Noida 410; and Noida 412 -- all in “severe” category which is associated with health impacts even among the healthy.“Wind speed has reduced across the plains of northwest India. In Delhi it is only around 6 kmph and wind direction is south-westerly so air quality has deteriorated and there is little possibility of pollutants dispersing,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-spiked-in-small-towns-during-lockdown-cse-101610673102034.html
15-01-2021||India||Experts slam ‘irresponsible’ remarks on Covid vaccines||Nearly 50 eminent scientists and doctors in India on Thursday collectively assured in a written statement that the two vaccines against coronavirus (Covid-19) that were approved by the national drugs controller were safe, dispelling concerns raised by a section of the population in the past few days.Issuing a statement in this regard, the group slammed the “irresponsible statements by vested interests” for “defaming Indian scientific community”.“We are a group of doctors, scientists, and medical professionals, who are devoted to promotion of scientific research in India. Due to our untiring efforts, India has emerged a global leader in supply of vaccines to the world. Vaccine is exported from India to over 188 countries,” the statement read.“We are, however, shocked to notice the irresponsible statements by vested interests in print, electronic and social media, who are defaming Indian scientific community and casting aspersions upon its integrity by making politicized statements doubting the recent research in the field of Covid-19 vaccines. Such reprehensible utterances are causing huge credibility crisis for the Indian scientific community who have devoted their lifetimes to make India a name to reckon with in export of vaccines all over the world,” it added.The signatories included former directors of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, TD Dogra and MC Misra among others.“We urge upon our fellow countrymen to reject the manipulations of vested interests aimed at politicization and defamation of our nation’s scientists, doctors and scientific community for their narrow vested interests,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-slam-irresponsible-remarks-on-covid-vaccines-101610672508825.html
15-01-2021||India||Retired UP official sexually abused kids for 4 yrs: Police||A retired revenue official arrested on Wednesday had been sexually exploiting children in Konch town of Jalaun district in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region for the past four years, the police said on Thursday.In recent days, the 60-year-old Ram Bihari Rathore has been on a spree of buying medicines that claim to improve sexual stamina. A search late on Wednesday night by Jalaun police yielded two bags full of such medicines, the police said. The police, who have identified a total of 36 victims of Rathore through CCTV footage and 320 videos saved on his mobile phone, laptop and two pen drives, have spoken to eight of them.Rathore, a well-connected man in Konch and a former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary, targeted children in his neighbourhood, using cold drinks, chips and candy to gain their trust. He would then invite children to his house where he would mildly sedate them and sexually abuse them, said an official.“The children and their family members are being counselled. We want to build a foolproof case against Rathore,” Jalaun’s senior superintendent of police Dr Yashveer Singh said.The children have told the police that Rathore blackmailed them with the videos.They were also forced to do menial jobs at his house besides being sexually abused, the police said.“One child said that Rathore called them to his house in the morning and only allowed them to leave in the night,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. Scared of Rathore, the children never spoke to their family about the abuse.“We cried when he called us but we had to go to his house,” one child told the police, who now plan to seek Rathore’s remand in custody.A forensic team from Jhansi travelled to Konch and took his mobile phone, laptops, pen drives with them to glean forensic examination.The experts would also look at the videos and gather voice samples of the accused, who is heard in the videos. Rathore had made several videos of one child.“We are filling in the gaps before we question Rathore. We may seek the help of psychologists to prepare a list of questions for him,” said the official cited above, adding that Rathore’s brother and sister, who were living in the same house but claimed they were unaware of his activities, would also be questioned.Rathore’s arrest came two months after the detention of a suspended junior engineer with the irrigation department in Chitrakoot district in a mass child sexual abuse case.The engineer, Ram Bhavan Singh, allegedly sold sexually explicit content on the dark web.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-up-official-sexually-abused-kids-for-4-yrs-police-101610672210549.html
15-01-2021||India||VHP nationwide fund drive for Ram temple construction begins today||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) will launch on Friday a 44-day, nationwide campaign, spread over two phases, to connect with the people and raise funds for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.In the first phase from January 15 to 31, the VHP, which has been at the vanguard of a campaign for the construction of a Ram temple in the holy town, will call only on eminent people who have been identified by its local cadre. Most such calls will not be made public.The second phase of the campaign, which will involve reaching out to ordinary people, will start on February 1 and end on February 27.The Supreme Court in November 2019 ruled on the long-running Hindu-Muslim dispute over the Ayodhya site, which it awarded to the Hindus; it directed the government to provide an alternative five-acre site to the Muslims to construct a mosque as a replacement for the 16th century Babri mosque that stood on the site and was demolished on December 6, 1992, by Hindu activists.Hindus believe the site marks the birthplace of the lord Ram and that a temple which stood at the site had been demolished and the Babri mosque constructed on its ruins.At the village, block, town and district levels, the VHP has identified people who will be contacted by its cadre in the first phase. A list of all such people has been prepared.“Eminent people in government jobs, the corporate world and other personalities have been identified for the first phase of the campaign,” said a senior VHP leader, who requested anonymity.“If anyone wants to avoid the public glare, the visit to his residence will not be made public,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-nationwide-fund-drive-for-ram-temple-construction-begins-today-101610671727972.html
15-01-2021||India||Repeal of laws only way out of crisis: Punjab cabinet||The Punjab council of ministers on Thursday said nothing short of a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre would resolve the crisis posed by a 50-day-old farmers’ protest against the legislation, which it described as anti-farmers, anti-nation and anti-food security.Declaring unequivocally that a repeal of the farm laws was the only way out of the current imbroglio, the state cabinet, at a meeting presided over by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, also demanded that the Centre declare minimum support prices ( MSPs) for their produce a statutory right of farmers. The cabinet passed a resolution to the effect and issued a statement.Farmers have been getting extremely low prices for their produce despite being responsible for feeding the nation, the cabinet said. “The central government is out of touch with the ground realities,” Singh said.Farmers are demanding a repeal of three laws, whose implementation has been put on hold by the Supreme Court, as well as a legal guarantee for federally fixed MSPs. The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements.Farmers say the laws will hurt their livelihoods, erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses. Tens of thousands of famers have massed at the borders of Delhi since November 26 in the bitter winter chill to protest against the legislation passed in September.The Punjab cabinet asserted that the state government would take measures to protect its and its farmers’ interests. At the start of the meeting, the council of ministers observed two minutes’ silence in memory of farmers who have died during the protest. An estimated 78 farmers have so far lost their lives.Stressing the need for an early resolution of the protest to prevent the loss of more lives, the cabinet pointed out that the matter had already been debated and discussed in eight rounds of negotiations between the farmers’ unions and the Centre.Pointing out that even the Supreme Court had acknowledged the concerns of the protesting farmers, and had recognised their pain and anguish, the cabinet said the Centre should not stand on prestige and ego on the matter, which, if unresolved, could lead to devastating repercussions for the country for decades to come. “If the Centre can make sweeping amendments to the laws, then this adamancy about not revoking the legislations is inexplicable,” said the ministers said.The cabinet reiterated its commitment to the resolutions passed by the Punjab assembly on August 28 and October 20 stressing that all the genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted. Urging the central government to “repeal the farm laws as agriculture is a state subject under the Constitution of India, and to make MSP a statutory right.” It welcomed the Supreme Court’s stay on the contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-laws-only-way-out-of-crisis-punjab-cabinet-101610671491747.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI books its officers for accepting bribes||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday conducted searches at 14 places belonging to four of its officers along with several other people for allegedly accepting bribes to compromise investigation in bank fraud cases against some companies, people familiar with the matter said.The four officers were identified as deputy superintendents RK Rishi, posted at the agency’s academy in Ghaziabad, and RK Sangwan, posted in the Special Crimes unit; inspector Kapil Dhankad from Bank Securities & Fraud Cell of the agency; and Samir Kumar Singh, a stenographer in BS&FC unit.Confirming the development, CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said a case was registered against the officers “under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act on the allegations of compromising the investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”.The searches were conducted in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurgaon, Meerut and Kanpur on Thursday.Searches were also being carried out inside the CBI headquarters, officials said late on Thursday. The officials under scanner have been accused of accepting bribes at the CBI headquarters, they said.While the agency did not formally divulge details about the allegations against the officials, an official speaking on condition of anonymity said the four officers, in connivance with some advocates and other private persons, were taking periodic bribes from companies under bank fraud investigations.One of the companies from where the bribe was allegedly accepted is under CBI investigation for defrauding banks of ₹3,500 crore, the official said. The officers face temporary suspension till the charges are investigated, another official familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-its-officers-for-accepting-bribes-101610671257735.html
15-01-2021||India||Farmers remain firm as govt hopes for positive outcome in talks today||Farmers protesting against the three central farm laws will hold their ninth round of negotiations with the Union government on Friday.The last round of talks on January 8 failed to end the impasse as the Centre has refused to rollback the laws farmers say will hurt their incomes. The farm unions have decided not to participate in consultations with the four-member committee proposed by the Supreme Court on January 12 to examine three laws. The unions have alleged that the committee was “pro-government” since the members had endorsed the laws in the past. The top court kept the farm laws in abeyance on Tuesday.“We will hold talks with the government. We don’t want to hold talks with an external committee, which is a ploy to divert attention from our main demand, which is a repeal of the laws,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of protesting farm unions.Meanwhile, the Centre said it is hopeful of positive discussions on Friday. “The government will hold talks with an open mind with the farmers’ union. We are sensitive to all problems of the farmers,” agriculture minister Narendra Tomar said.The farm unions said they would go ahead with a planned tractor march in the national capital in a peaceful way on Republic Day. “There are lot of lies being spread that farmers will occupy Red Fort and Parliament on Republic Day. These are completely false and are being mischievously spread. Our tractor parade will be completely peaceful and disciplined. We will spell out the details after Jan 15,” Rajewal said.Farmers are demanding a repeal of the three laws as well as a legal guarantee for minimum support prices. The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements.“We are again reminding the government that these laws should be completely repealed and remunerative MSP should be made into a legal right of all farmers,” Darshan Pal, a farm leader said.The eighth round of talks held on January 8 had ended in a stalemate. While the farmers pressed the government to repeal the laws approved by Parliament in September, Tomar said it was not possible to commit to a repeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-remain-firm-as-govt-hopes-for-positive-outcome-in-talks-today-101610671063581.html
15-01-2021||India||Constructive critique is our role, says CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), Girish Chandra Murmu, says the government auditor is adopting a policy of “constructive criticism” so that it can help the Centre and states in enhancing the quality of public services and improve management of national assets.“Purpose of the CAG audit is to point out shortcomings in execution of schemes so that the delivery mechanism could be improved further,” Murmu said. “ Our approach is constructive criticism. We also recommend how the system could be improved and made efficient because we are also expected to contribute in the national development.”The CAG is now consulting technical experts and the auditor allows ministries and departments to explain their view in the exit interview, people aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity.“All these factors are considered without any fear or favour and then we conclude our reports,” said one of the people cited above, who is aware of the CAG audit exercise.The CAG has lately been taking help of domain experts from various institutions like the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) as well as ministries on technical matters so that its reports should not only point out errors in the implementation of policies and schemes but also suggest better alternatives, he said.Even the government departments are increasingly becoming more transparent in providing unhindered access to their data repository to the CAG officials, the second person said. “Thus, the auditor has access to a wealth of data related to social security programmes and tax administration such as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), Ayushmaan Bharat, income-tax and Goods and Services Tax (GST),” he said.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former central council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said: “The change in CAG’s approach is good as the role of the supreme auditor of the country is not to create controversies, but to provide a correct picture to the Parliament. Independence, objectivity, integrity, reliability, professional excellence, transparency and positive approach are the key values of CAG and it must also have a positive approach to the national development.”“CAG is an independent constitutional body and it must have a constructive approach,” he added.The Constitution enables the CAG to undertake an independent and unbiased audit; the auditor then submits its reports to the President in case of the Union government and to the governor in case of a state; The reports are then tabled in Parliament and state assemblies.Asked about the areas where the CAG is likely to expand its reach, Murmu said the auditor was looking at several areas that are critical for development. but have not been audited properly.For example, he said, the CAG is working towards auditing even small public sector units (PSUs), particularly state PSUs, that have annual revenue of less than Rs500 crore. Typically, the CAG focuses on the commercial audit of PSUs that have a turnover in the range of Rs500 crore to Rs5,000 crore.Murmu added that the federal auditor also plans to help improve the accounting and auditing of local bodies in the states so that government schemes are implemented more efficiently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constructive-critique-is-our-role-says-cag-101610669809623.html
15-01-2021||India||India’s LCA jets better than China-Pak’s JF-17: IAF chief||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Thursday said that the soon-to-be ordered LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jets would be way ahead of the JF-17 fighter planes operated by the Pakistan Air Force. The JF-17 has been jointly developed by China and Pakistan.With its advanced weapons and sensors, the LCA Mk-1A jets will have good strike capability, he told news channels a day after India’s Cabinet Committee on Security, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved a ₹48,000-crore proposal to buy 83 advanced jets to bolster the IAF’s combat potential,“There is no comparison with the JF-17,” he said.The air chief added that even the existing final operational clearance (FOC) variant of the LCA was superior to the JF-17. He said the LCA Mk-1 jets would be equipped with the indigenous Astra beyond-visual-range missiles.The CCS approval came 10 months after the ministry gave the green light to the purchase of 83 Mk-1A jets from state-owned plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL).The aircraft to be ordered include 73 Mk-1A fighter jets and 10 LCA Mk-1 trainer aircraft. HAL is expected to deliver the first Mk-1A jet to the IAF three years after the deal is signed, with all the aircraft likely to be delivered by 2028-29.The Mk-1A programme is expected to generate thousands of jobs and will involve the participation of more than 500 Indian companies.The deal for the 83 Mk-1A jets will take the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by the IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced FOC configurations.The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.Meanwhile, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chief Dr G Satheesh Reddy said that the deal would pave the way for developing various advanced aircraft systems in India. “Getting approval for the order of the largest quantity of aircraft ever is a big achievement and is the culmination of hard work of three decades. It paves way for the development of various advanced aircraft systems in the country,” he told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-lca-jets-better-than-china-pak-s-jf-17-iaf-chief-101610664833506.html
15-01-2021||India||Even woman officers want adultery law in army||As the ministry of defence presses its case in the top court on the importance of retaining the criminality of adultery in the armed forces — the apex court decriminalised it in 2018 — it emerges that, at least in some cases, what’s sauce for the goose may not be sauce for the gander.Hindustan Times has accessed two written accounts from women officers who complained about their husbands’ affairs with other enlisted women, but had to eventually withdraw their complaints.The defence ministry’s application before the court emphasised that the army didn’t discriminate between male and female officers, and punished them for “unbecoming conduct” regardless of gender, but the two women and a cross-section of defence counsellors and lawyers admitted that, perhaps inadvertently, women officers may not have received the traditional support that was provided by commanding officers or their wives.The armed forces see adultery — “stealing the affections of a brother officer’s wife” — as an offence that is just a notch below the worst offence enlisted personnel can be accused of, cowardice. The provision to deal with this, drawn from section 497 of the Indian Penal Code, exists in all three services, and the punishment is usually dismissal. Section 45 (conduct unbecoming) or section 63 (violation of good order and discipline) are both offences that are gender-neutral and hence applicable to both men and women in the military.Section 497 of the IPC didn’t enable women to press charges against their husbands in case of adultery. Proceedings could only be started by men and it was only men who could be punished under the law. But under military law, a woman officer can complain if she suspects her husband of having a relationship with another woman officer.Just as attorney general KK Venugopal pointed out how decriminalisation can cause “instability” for personnel posted in border or far-flung locations, the two cases accessed by HT are both of women army officers who were posted in Kashmir. As they are both serving officers, they requested that their identities not be disclosed.Also Watch |‘Women to be inducted as pilots in Army’s aviation wing’: Gen MM NaravaneThe first case dates back to 2018, when one of the woman officers and her two children were posted in a different location from her husband of 14 years. Her husband ended up having an affair with a single, much younger woman officer who was posted along with him. In her statement, the wife said her husband felt she was too busy with her own life when in reality, she was trying to juggle a full-time job and two children, aged 12 and 10.The woman officer said “the organisation acted blind in our case”. “No action was taken against them and that made both of them even more courageous,” she wrote. Two years later, she divorced her husband but she claims this was well after she was forced to withdraw her complaint after other officers refused to testify about the affair.“He was a commanding officer of a unit; no one wanted to object to him. A wife will always be under mental pressure but is it OK for organisation to let such an officer serve?” she asked. Her counsellor, who is associated with the forces (and who is not authorised to speak to the media), told HT that this was a problem specific to women officers. “Wives of officers can always complain to their commanding officer’s wife who then asks the CO to put pressure on the cheating husband.They use various means to help the couple reconcile.’’“As far as law is concerned, it equally applies to both. Practical realities may vary per various factors. But it’ll be hypothetical to comment unless any such situation is laid in front of us,” said Major Navdeep Singh, advocate, Punjab & Haryana high court, who served in the Territorial Army.The second case refers to two officers who separated two years ago and have a young son. The husband was posted in Jammu & Kashmir and had an affair with a medical officer when his wife was pregnant. In her complaint, the officer writes about the husband not visiting her after the baby was born and being inaccessible on the phone. The commanding officer finally convinced him to visit but things only got worse. Finally, the woman officer filed a complaint with the local police and the army, but said she was forced to withdraw that too.“There is a clear policy in place and the act is the same for both men and women, but it is twisted and manipulated in the case of women officers. Senior officers choose to react selectively and promote out-of-court settlement rather than a departmental enquiry,” said the first woman complainant.While an army spokesperson declined to comment, an officer said on condition of anonymity that in some cases, women officers have been reluctant to seek a superior officer’s intervention. “I have called in male officers and their wives and do the same for women officers too,” he said.Additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan, who argued the defence ministry’s case in court, said: “I can only say that the armed forces require their own code of conduct in order to maintain discipline in the forces. The judgment striking down adultery is being applied to quash disciplinary proceedings in some cases. The provisions of the statutes which govern the armed forces permit disciplinary action in a manner different from the civilian population. That should be left intact and untouched.’’Lawyer Chitrangada Rastravara pointed out that there were several actions which did not constitute an offence under the penal laws of India, but are punishable offences under the Army Act. “For example, desertion has no consequences under penal law; however it is a very serious offence, punishable by death, under military law,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-woman-officers-want-adultery-law-in-army-101610657198828.html
15-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand working at putting Harsil valley on global tourism map||Looking at reducing migration from areas along the Indo-China border, the Uttarakhand government is now working towards putting Harsil valley on the global tourism map.Harsil valley, which has around eight villages, is located in Uttarkashi district near the Indo-China border. The district administration is preparing a detailed plan which will soon be submitted to the state tourism department. The valley has potential for wildlife and adventure tourism.Mayur Dixit, district magistrate of Uttarkashi said, “Harsil valley has a lot of potential for tourism, but due to poor connectivity not many tourists are able to reach there. Being a border area, tourism will help reduce migration and we are working to develop roads using local stones which will work throughout the year compared to blacktop roads. We have also planned to set up public toilets along with strictly ensuring that tourists do not litter in the area.”He added that officials are also preparing a waste management plan for the area, to properly handle the waste generated when tourists arrive during the peak season. The district administration has also planned to set up homestays in higher reaches like Nelong Valley for paths leading to Gartang Gali, which is open during summer months.“With tourism, employment opportunities develop naturally. We have nature and adventure guides in the valley who are knowledgeable. We will be installing lights like Nainital and Mussoorie to beautify the area. We have also planned to set up telescopes at different places for astrophiles as stars are visible clearly from the valley,” added the district magistrate.The official further said that work on developing roads will start from the summer months as the whole area is snow-covered at present.The Uttarakhand government is also working to develop the country’s first Snow Leopard Conservation Centre in the region, with the aim of engaging the local Himalayan community in conservation along with employment generation.Locals from the bordering villages like Sukki, Mukhba, Harsil, Bagori, Dharali, Jhala, Jaspur and Purali will be trained as conservation guides for trekking, bird-watching as they are accustomed to the local climate and know the flora-fauna well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-working-at-putting-harsil-valley-on-global-tourism-map-101610655490257.html
15-01-2021||India||Cop thrashed in Bengal district, BJP and TMC trade barbs for spike in violence||At a time when deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain is taking stock of the poll preparedness in West Bengal, including the state’s law and order situation, a video surfaced on Thursday in which a police officer could be seen being thrashed by a group of villagers.Top police officers confirmed the incident and said that it took place at Jhalda in Purulia district, around 350 km northwest of Kolkata, on Tuesday.“We have already arrested two people. The victim is still in the hospital undergoing treatment,” said S Selvamurugan, Superintendent of police of Purulia district.The victim, Hemanta Saha said that he went to the spot with a court order along with some other police personnel.“Some trouble was going on over a disputed piece of land. We had gone there with a court order when we were attacked,” Saha told the media at the hospital.Back in Kolkata, Jain held a meeting with some of the state’s top bureaucrats. On Wednesday, he held meetings with the district magistrates, superintendents of police and police commissioners.Soon after the video surfaced the Bharatiya Janata Party’s unit in Bengal upped its ante against the ruling Trinamool Congress.“There is no peace and law and order in the state. This is the only contribution of Mamata Banerjee. We are now in a state of anarchy which can only go when BJP comes to power,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of Bengal BJP.The TMC, however, hit back saying that it was under the BJP’s provocations that people have started attacking the police.“The BJP’s state head Dilip Ghosh has been inciting people against the police. This is leading to such violence against the police,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-thrashed-in-bengal-district-bjp-and-tmc-trade-barbs-for-spike-in-violence-101610654815936.html
15-01-2021||India||India, US can jointly tackle regional and global challenges: MEA||India on Thursday responded to a declassified US Indo-Pacific strategy that envisages accelerating the country’s rise and ability to address challenges from China by saying that New Delhi and Washington can jointly tackle regional and global challenges.On Wednesday, the outgoing Trump administration declassified the “US strategic framework for the Indo-Pacific” of 2018 that committed the US to accelerate India’s rise and capacity to serve as a net provider of security and “major defence partner”, and to bolster India’s capacities to counter challenges from China such as “border provocations”.Asked about the previously secret document at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava initially said the matter should be referred to a US government spokesperson as it pertained to an official American report.“However, I’ll state that India and the US share a comprehensive strategic global partnership, and given our substantial bilateral agenda, our growing economic engagement and a convergence on strategic and security interests, both countries have a common interest in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond,” Srivastava said.“Our ability to work together has a positive impact in effectively addressing regional and global challenges,” he added.The strategy document, which experts believe was declassified by the US to signal a continuing commitment to the Indo-Pacific region, also envisages bolstering India’s capacities so that it can work with other like-minded countries to act as “a counterbalance to China”.The document also commits the US to providing support to India through diplomatic, military and intelligence channels to help address challenges “such as the border dispute with China and access to water, including the Brahmaputra and other rivers facing diversion by China”.The strategy, framed more than two years before the India-China military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that erupted in 2020, makes more than 20 mentions of India and sees the country as “preeminent in South Asia” and taking on “the leading role in maintaining Indian Ocean security”.On the other hand, the document sees China as a strategic competitor to the US intent on dissolving American alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific and circumventing “international rules and norms to gain an advantage”. It also states that China will use its dominance in cutting edge technologies to “pose profound challenges to free societies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-can-jointly-tackle-regional-and-global-challenges-mea-101610653513708.html
15-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh registers bird flu cases in Balod district||Chhattisgarh recorded its first confirmed cases of bird flu in Balod district on Thursday after samples of chickens that were recently found dead at a poultry farm tested positive for the disease.According to a release issued by the Chhattisgarh government, samples of five of over 150 chickens found dead at GS Poultry Farm in Gidhali village were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal on January 11, which were found positive.As per the guidelines of the Government of India, the area within a radius of one-kilometre from the poultry farm has been declared as an “infected zone” and Rapid Response Teams (RRT) have launched necessary action.“In the infected zone, transportation of poultry birds will be completely prohibited while limitations will also be put on the movement of people and vehicles. Besides, the area from 1 km to 10 km of the poultry farm has been declared as a “Surveillance Zone” where monitoring of poultry birds will be carried out,” the release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-registers-bird-flu-cases-in-balod-district-101610653096071.html
15-01-2021||India||In 2 Bihar villages, over 35 birds found dead, no samples taken before burial||Panic prevailed in more than five villages on Thursday after crows and pigeons were found dead, lying scattered in large numbers in two villages under the Saraiya police station in Muzaffarpur. However, animal husbandry officials ruled out any possibility of the spread of bird flu before burying the dead birds.This is the second incident in the last one week of birds being found dead in the area.Earlier, more than 125 chickens were found dead in an agricultural field near Patedhi Tilak village under the same police station of the district, sparking panic among villagers.In the latest incident, more than two dozen pigeons were found dead in a mango orchard adjacent to Jaitpur and Basara village. “We counted more than 28 dead pigeons and informed local animal husbandry officials. They later buried the birds in a ditch,” said Shankar Rai, a local resident.Over 10 crows were found dead near Raghwa Chapra under the same police station.Dr Punita Kumari, in-charge of the Jaitpur animal husbandry hospital, said all the birds had died naturally. “There were no symptoms of bird flu in them. So, no samples were taken from them before disposing the carcasses,” she said, adding that senior officials in the district had been informed about it.“We are waiting for their directions. If any test is required, the carcasses will be dug out and samples sent to a lab,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2-bihar-villages-over-35-birds-found-dead-no-samples-taken-before-burial-101610650187146.html
15-01-2021||India||Plea in HC says new WhatsApp policy violates right to privacy||New Delhi: A Delhi-based advocate has filed a petition in the Delhi high court, challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy and arguing that it violates the right to privacy and jeopardises national security. The plea is scheduled to be head by the court on Friday.The new privacy policy, which was rolled out by WhatsApp, owned by Facebook Inc, on January 4, includes mandatory sharing of data with the parent company. The decision to share data was first floated in 2016, post WhatsApp’s acquisition by Facebook, but until last week, users already on the platform before the acquisition had the choice of not sharing that data. That choice no longer exists.The move has faced massive backlash globally -- especially in WhatsApp’s biggest market India where it has 400 million users -- with people en masse defecting to other messaging applications such as Signal and Telegram.In his petition, advocate Chaitanya Rohilla alleged that WhatsApp hangs a “damocles sword” over its users by asking them to accept the policy by February 8. He also says that the norms hurt national security by sharing, transmitting and storing user data in another country.“WhatsApp has made a mockery out of our fundamental right to privacy while discharging a public function in India, besides jeopardizing the national security of the country by sharing, transmitting and storing the users data in some another country. There remains a possibility that that foreign country might be a hostile country to India,” the petition read.“It virtually gives a 360-degree profile into a person’s online activity...WhatsApp has made a mockery out of our fundamental right to privacy,” added the petition.Rohilla, through his counsel Manohar Lal, contended that the policy took away the choice to not share data with other Facebook-owned and third-party apps.“This type of arbitrary behaviour and browbeating cannot be accepted in a democracy and is completely ‘ultra vires’ (beyond its powers) and against the fundamental rights as enshrined in the Constitution of India,” the petition read.WhatsApp has previously said the policy update did not affect privacy of messages with friends and family, as group chats are encrypted and the changes only relate to interactions with businesses||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-hc-says-new-whatsapp-policy-violates-right-to-privacy-101610649392347.html
15-01-2021||India||‘In interest of farmers’, member Mann opts out of SC committee||Bhupinder Singh Mann, a key farm union leader appointed by the Supreme Court to a panel it formed to scrutinise three contentious farms laws has declined to be on it, citing the “interests” of farmers.Mann, a former MP and the national president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a farm union, said he was “recusing” himself from a committee of four set by the Supreme Court to look into farmers’ grievances over the laws.On January 12, the court stayed the laws that have prompted tens of thousands of farmers to stage a protest on the borders of Delhi. It also set up a committee to start a dialogue with protesting farmers, naming economists Ashok Kumar Gulati and PK Joshi as well as farm union leaders Anil Ghanwat and Mann as members.The panel formed by the Supreme Court attracted public criticism because all four members had either endorsed the farm laws or suggested improvements in them previously. Protesting farm unions said such a committee was already biased in favour of the legislation.“As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farmers and public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as not to compromise the interests of Punjab and the farmers of the country,” Mann said in a press statement.The Supreme Court had said on Monday that the panel must meet within 10 days.Mann is the chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee, a platform of farm unions that has supported the farm laws. Mann met Union farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar in December, urging him not to repeal the laws. This pit him against hundreds of other farm unions demanding a repeal.An official of the agriculture ministry declined to comment on Mann’s move, saying this was a Supreme Court-monitored process.Farm unions protesting the laws to open up agricultural markets said they were indifferent to Mann’s decision.“Our stand is we will not take part in any consultations by the court-appointed committee because our only demand is the repeal of the laws,” said Darshan Pal, a senior member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the organisation leading the farmers’ protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-interest-of-farmers-member-mann-opts-out-of-sc-committee-101610649273399.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI books 4 of its own personnel for involvement in alleged bribery racket||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday booked four of its own men including two deputy superintendents of police (DSPs), an inspector and a stenographer and several private persons for allegedly taking huge bribes for compromising investigation into bank fraud against some companies, people familiar with the development said.The agency raided 14 places during the day in one of the biggest cases of internal corruption in recent times.The four CBI personnel named as accused in the case have been identified as DSPs - R K Rishi posted at agency’s academy in Ghaziabad and R K Sangwan, who is posted in Special Crimes unit that investigates heinous crimes, Inspector Kapil Dhankad from Bank Securities & Fraud Cell (BS&FC) of the agency and stenographer in BS&FC unit - Samir Kumar Singh.The agency remained tightlipped about the exact allegations against them but officials who did not want to be named said these four men, in connivance with some advocates and other private persons, were taking periodic bribes from some companies under bank fraud investigations.One of the companies from where the four personnel were accepting bribes has been under CBI investigation since August last year for defrauding 15 banks to the tune of ₹3,600 crore.After receiving information about the bribery racket, the matter was brought to the knowledge of CBI Director Rishi Kumar Shukla following which the officers were put under surveillance to verify the allegations, people cited above it.The surveillance prime facie confirmed that the CBI officers were indeed indulging in large scale corruption by offering accused persons favours in bank fraud cases.On Thursday morning, several teams of agency’s Anti-Corruption-2 unit and Anti Corruption Branch (ACB) Delhi branch fanned out to raid at least 14 locations belonging to CBI officers as well as private persons in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurgaon, Meerut and Kanpur.A search was also carried out at CBI headquarters office of a couple of officers, officials cited above said.CBI Spokesperson R C Joshi confirmed that a case was registered against the officers “under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act on the allegations of compromising the investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations.”People familiar with the proceedings in CBI said that the four officers face temporary suspension till the charges against them are being investigated.The raids come as a big embarrassment for the agency, which is investigating multi-crore rupee bank frauds and corruption cases across the country.The four CBI personnel could not be located for comments by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-4-of-its-own-personnel-for-involvement-in-alleged-bribery-racket-101610648603832.html
15-01-2021||India||‘Deep displeasure’: India sends a stinker to WHO’s Tedros over incorrect map||India has expressed its “deep displeasure” at the World Health Organisation’s maps that inaccurately depict the boundaries of the country in the map used by the organisation’s web portals and asked director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to immediately replace them with fresh maps, people familiar with the matter said.New Delhi’s strongly-worded letter to the WHO is the third in a month. The other two, on 3 and 30 December, were addressed to the WHO director general’s office. These communications pointed out that videos and maps including the coronavirus dashboard did not accurately reflect India’s boundaries.Last week, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Indra Mani Pandey escalated the request to Tedros Adhanom.“I write to express my deep displeasure at the inaccurate depiction of the boundaries of India in the maps of various web portals of WHO. In this regard, I draw your attention to our previous messages sent to WHO pointing out similar inaccuracies. I again request your immediate intervention for removal of maps inaccurately depicting the boundaries of India from various web portals of WHO and their replacement with accurate maps,” Indra Mani Pandey said in his 8 January letter to Tedros accessed by Hindustan Times.WHO maps show the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in a different shade than the rest of India. The Shaksgam Valley spread across 5,168 sq km, which was illegally ceded by Pakistan to China in 1963, is shown as part of China. The Aksai Chin region occupied by China in 1954 is shown in light blue strips, a shade similar to the colour used to depict Chinese territory.Publishing inaccurate maps of India is a criminal offence under Indian law, punishable with a six-month jail term and fine. In 2016, the government had proposed to raise the jail term to 7 years and give judges the power to impose a ₹100 crore fine. But the proposal, part of a geospatial information law proposed by the government in 2016, wasn’t pursued by the government.A senior government official said WHO’s use of distorted maps for its widely-publicised and closely-watched Covid-19 tracker is very unfortunate. “The government will follow up with WHO and all relevant authorities to get the correct maps to be used,” he said.The official added that he was confident the WHO chief, who was accused by the US of siding with China to play down the coronavirus disease that was first reported in China’s Wuhan city, would not let politics stand in the way of fixing inaccuracies in the map.The World Health Assembly had, primarily under pressure from the United States, decided in May last year to send a team of experts to China to probe the origins of the disease. The 10-member team of experts was able to land in China on Thursday, seven months after the WHO director-general had committed to the probe. The experts will, however, have to spend two weeks in quarantine before President Xi Jinping’s government will allow them to step out of their hotels to start their mission.Beijing allowed the visit days after Tedros publicly said he was disappointed with the delay, an unusual public complaint by the head of the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-displeasure-india-sends-a-stinker-to-who-s-tedros-over-india-s-map-101610604280764.html
