17-01-2021||India||MP: 8 held for rape of 13-year-old||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh police on Saturday arrested eight people on charges of abducting a 13-year-old Class 9 student and gang-raping her twice in eight days, causing her acute trauma, officials said on Sunday.The accused were arrested under section 376 (d) (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under relevant section of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Police have identified the eight accused Akash Singh, Rahul Kushwaha, Paras Soni, Manu Kewat, Onkar Rai, Eitendra Singh, Rajnish Choudhary and Rohit Yadav. All the accused are in the age group of 20 to 30 years and they will be produced in court on Monday.Umaria superintendent of police Vikas Shahwal said the girl was in trauma and was being counselled.“The girl, a Class 9 student, stays with her father in Jabalpur. She had come to Umaria from Jabalpur to meet her mother in December,” the SP said.Giving details of the sequence of events, the SP said while the girl was on her way to Jabalpur, she met a person identified as Akash Singh on January 1 in Umaria. On January 4, Akash Singh contacted her again and took her to a nearby eatery.“Akash Singh, with dhaba {eatery} owner Paras Soni, and a shopkeeper, Onkar Rai, raped the girl for the first time on January 4 at Soni’s dhaba at Umaria. Out of fear, she didn’t share her ordeal with anyone,” he said.Quoting the girl’s statement to the police, Shahwal said Akash Singh and a man identified as Rahul met her in a market in Umaria on January 11. “They asked her to join them for lunch to apologise for their act. They took the girl to a forest and raped her,” said Shahwal.Her trauma did not end there.Singh and his friend took her back to the eatery, where she was held hostage for a whole night.“Later, Paras Soni and four others raped her. The girl requested the accused to leave her. The girl was sent to her home in a truck. She shared her trauma with the truck driver, Rohit Yadav, who instead of informing the police, raped her. The truck driver left her near a toll plaza on Umaria-Katni road. She flagged down another truck and the unidentified driver too raped her. The girl somehow reached her home on January 13 and informed the police,” the SP said.A senior police officer, requesting anonymity said that although she had gone missing on January 11, her family did not register a complaint until January 12. “Her family told us that they were searching for her themselves,” the officer said.The SP said the entire family was in extreme trauma and shock. “The victim’s parents are being counselled as they are in shock and depression,” the SP said. He added that the father was a contractual employee in a government office in Jabalpur whereas the mother lived in their ancestral village in Umaria.The police are yet to identify the second truck driver.On Sunday, the police razed the eating place run by Paras Soni and the shops of all other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-8-held-for-rape-of-13yearold-101610907141256.html
17-01-2021||India||Prayagraj cops submit production warrant for comedian Munawar Faruqui||Prayagraj police have submitted a production warrant in an Indore court and jail authorities for comedian Munawar Faruqui in connection with a case registered against him at George Town police station here in April 2020, police said Sunday.The warrant, issued by a Prayagraj lower court, was submitted on Saturday before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court in Indore and Indore Central Jail, where Faruqui has been lodged for the past over two weeks, said station house officer (SHO) of George Town police station Shishupal Sharma.The case was lodged in Prayagraj on April 19, 2020 by an advocate Ashutosh Mishra under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion) and section 65 and 66 IT Act, 2008, Sharma said.The case was registered following a YouTube video, uploaded by Faruqui, wherein he was seen making derogatory remarks against Hindu deities, mocking the deaths of Hindus in the Godhra train burning case and insinuating the role of the RSS in the carnage, the SHO said.Presently investigation in the case is being carried out by the crime branch, Sharma said.The Madhya Pradesh high court on January 15 adjourned Faruqui’s bail hearing until next week. He had moved the high court after the magistrate’s court, as well as the sessions court rejected his bail plea. The chief judicial magistrate had also extended Faruqui’s judicial custody till January 27.Faruqui and four other stand-up comedians were arrested on January 1 for allegedly insulting Hindu gods and violating Covid-19 protocol at a New Year event in Indore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayagraj-cops-submit-production-warrant-for-comedian-munawar-faruqui-101610906700494.html
17-01-2021||India||On which days are people being vaccinated against Covid-19? Check full schedule of states, UTs here||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday shared the details of the Covid-19 vaccination drive being conducted across all states and Union territories. The bigger states will hold inoculations on any four days of the week while smaller ones have been asked to conduct immunisation campaign on any two days.As many as 224,301 people have been given the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said on Sunday, the second day of the countrywide drive. In the first phase of the vaccination drive, nearly 30 million health and frontline workers are being given the dose and in the second phase, those above 50 years of age, and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities or with a high risk of infection, will be vaccinated.Here’s the full schedule for states to conduct the vaccination drive:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-which-days-are-people-being-vaccinated-against-covid-19-check-full-schedule-of-states-uts-here-101610905621380.html
17-01-2021||India||Oppn seeks probe into Goswami chats||New Delhi: Opposition politicians on Sunday demanded a probe of purported WhatsApp chats of Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, and Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the TV audience measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), in which the former makes remarks that his critics say show he may have had advance knowledge of the Indian Air Force strike on a terrorist camp in Pakistan’s Balakot.The latest salvo against Goswami came from Congress party MP Manish Tewari, who said a joint parliamentary committee should take up the issue as the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) remained silent.  “If what sections of Media is reporting is correct then it points towards a direct linkage between Balakot air strikes and 2019 General elections. Was National Security milked for electoral purposes ? Needs a JPC investigation,” Tewari wrote on Twitter.The chats form part of Mumbai police’s 3,600-page supplementary charge sheet in a recent scandal over alleged manipulation of TV ratings.The over 500-page transcript of WhatsApp conversations between Goswami and Dasgupta sparked allegations of collusion and alleged access the TV news anchor had to classified information. Three days before the February 26, 2019 IAF strike on a Jaish-e-Mohammed camp in Balakot, in reprisal for the February 14, 2019, Pulwama terrorist attack that left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers dead, Goswami allegedly said in one of the chats that “something big will happen”, indicating he knew about the military action before it took place.Even Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra raised the issue. “Nation Needs to Know: Transcript of WhatsApp chats shows clearly Government gave prior information about both Balakot strikes & abolishing Article 370 to TV anchor,” she tweeted. “What is going on? Am I the only one who thinks ModiShah owe us answers?”There is a growing clamour among Congress leaders to take up the issue. Party leaders, on condition of anonymity, told Hindustan Times that the issue had been discussed by Congress Lok Sabha MPs. Leaders familiar with the matter said the issue was raised by Congress Lok Sabha MP Karti Chidambaram. “The party must demand answers from the BJP,” a party leader said on the condition of anonymity. “This is not the time to soft-pedal the issue.”Congress functionaries say they are studying the documents closely and will respond to the issue later. Senior party leader such as Jairam Ramesh, Jitendra Singh, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Karti Chidambaram posted public comments on the issue on Saturday.“Does the @BJP4India have any comments on the #ArnabGate chat details, or is it too trivial to merit a response?,” Karti wrote on Twitter.“Arnab’s chats dated 23.02.2019 refer to sharing of Intel reaction along the Pak border. It means someone very senior in Govt is leaking highly confidential info which may endanger the lives of our soldiers & so that mercenary considerations can add to TRPs {television rating points},” Singhvi said.  Ramesh added that BARC was aiding “weapons of mass disinformation”.“Since 1967 BARC has stood for Bhabha Atomic Research Centre. Thanks to Arnab Goswami another self-styled BARC —Broadcast Audience Research Council -- is in news now. The first BARC built a strong & scientific India. The other BARC is aiding & abetting weapons of mass disinformation,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-seeks-probe-into-goswami-chats-101610906524707.html
17-01-2021||India||Hooch bust in Datia district of Madhya Pradesh ends in death of 5 cows||An operation to bust an illegal liquor den in Datia district of Madhya Pradesh ended bizarrely with five stray cows dying after drinking the alcohol that had collected in pits when the containers were destroyed, a district official said Sunday.The district collector ordered a probe into the matter.“A joint team of police and excise department on Friday raided Kanjar Basti in Indergarh area of the district. The team recovered hundreds of litres of illicit liquor and destroyed it on the spot. About 20 cows drank the liquor and fell ill. Three cows died on Saturday while the two died on Sunday. The carcasses were buried after post mortem. The remaining 15 cows are being treated in a camp of the veterinary department,” said G Das, deputy director animal husbandry department.However, the locals claimed that as many as nine cows died after drinking the illicit liquor. Gau Samvardhan Board, Datia, vice president and a local resident, Shishupal Singh Chauhan said, “Nine cows died but the district administration is trying to hide the matter. The cows died due to negligence of authorities. They destroyed the drums having illicit liquor in the open. The liquor collected in small pits from where it was consumed by cows. The district administration should take action against the officials responsible.”Datia district collector Sanjay Kumar refuted the claims of locals of higher bovine casualties.“The locals are exaggerating the number of deaths. Only five cows died after consuming illicit liquor. I ordered an inquiry in the matter and further action will be taken after the inquiry,” Kumar said.Earlier this week, 24 people were killed in a hooch tragedy in Morena. Last October, 14 people died after drinking illicit liquor in Ujjain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hooch-bust-in-datia-district-of-madhya-pradesh-ends-in-death-of-5-cows-101610905064910.html
17-01-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah says 'can't even kiss my wife' because of pandemic||The audience at a book-release function here on Sunday burst into laughter when National Conference president Farooq Abdullah said he had not kissed his wife since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.The octogenarian leader, who was candid and witty in his nearly-35-minute speech, said one is even afraid of a handshake or a hug in the current situation."I can't even kiss my wife. Who knows (what will happen). There is no question of a hug, though the heart wants it. I am sincere in my words," he said, leaving the audience in splits.A short video clip of his remarks has gone viral on social media.Abdullah, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, said that when his daughter sees photos of him not wearing a mask, she takes him to task on his return home.People today are afraid of handshakes and hugging each other as thousands are still dying on a daily basis in various parts of the world, Abdullah said.He said COVID-19 vaccines are now available and only time will tell about their efficacy, "but I am praying for their success so that the situation gets normal".On Sunday, India had rolled out the world's largest vaccination drive against COVID-19, which has so far infected 1,05,57,985 people in the country and killed 1,52,274 of them.Abdullah's remarks that he is 25 per cent Gujjar also triggered a bout of laughter among the audience, mostly belonging to the nomadic community. Abdullah's mother was from a Gujjar tribe.The well-attended function was organised by Gurjar Desh Charitable Trust to release the biography of its patron-in-chief Masud Ahmad Choudhary, a retired Additional Director General of Police and ex-vice chancellor of Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University (Rajouri).The book explores the life of Chaudhary, who is widely known as "Sir Syed" of Gujjar Community for his untiring efforts in areas of social and educational awakening, his contributions in the police department, in service of the Gujjar community and as an institution builder. PTI TAS SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-says-can-t-even-kiss-my-wife-because-of-pandemic-101610903605148.html
17-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena gets ambitious, to contest 100 seats in Bengal assembly polls||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena, a party Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee often describes as her national ally against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), announced on Sunday evening that it will contest the coming assembly polls in West Bengal.“So, here is the much awaited update. After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shivsena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections. We are reaching Kolkata soon...!! Jai Hind, Jai Bangla!” Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut tweeted Sunday evening.Incidentally, the two slogans at the end of the tweet are used by Banerjee at every rally.Though a marginal force in Bengal politics, the Shiv Sena has an organisation in the state and it contested local elections several times in the past but did not see much success. This time around, the party’s main focus will be to contest at least 100 seats in north, south and the western districts where the BJP has made inroads, said Shiv Sena’s Bengal leaders.“Our party has decided to contest at least 100 of the 294 seats. Uddhav Thackeray, Aditya Thackeray, Anil Desai and Sanjay Raut will come to Bengal and campaign. The details of their public meetings are yet to be worked out. Leaders from Bengal have been summoned to Delhi for a meeting on February 1,” Ashoke Sarkar, the Shiv Sena general secretary in Bengal, told HT.“I am camping in Malda right now. From here I will travel to Alipurduar and other north Bengal districts. In the next two weeks, around 12,000 BJP supporters will join the Shiv Sena in Malda district,” said Sarkar.The Shiv Sena will contest seats in Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Jhargram, Purulia, Midnapore, Nadia, Malda, Murshidabad, Alipurduar and some other districts, said Sarkar.Reacting to this, Bengal BJP said the Sena is in fray at the behest of Banerjee.“Shiv Sena has virtually no presence in Bengal. Its only agenda is to help the TMC against the BJP but the strategy will not work. It is an irony that the CPI(M), which always called the Congress a party of the bourgeois, and the Shiv Sena, which was born to counter the Congress, are all set to present before Bengal’s voters a conflict of ideology,” said Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.Bengal’s deputy parliamentary affairs minister and TMC spokesperson Tapas Roy said, “How the BJP perceives the Shiv Sena is entirely its business. In a democracy, all recognized parties have the right to contest elections in any state. We cannot stop anyone.”Political analyst and columnist Suvashis Maitra said Shiv Sena’s entry in the contest can only be described as “good news for Mamata Banerjee.”“Bengal never witnessed the politics of electoral engineering where a party contests not to win but to help another. We saw this in Hindi heartland so far. Shiv Sena never won any seat in Bengal and this time too, it will not contest to win. One may say it will play the same role that the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) headed by Asaduddin Owaisi plans to play by splitting Muslim votes. If the Sena gets even one vote it will be at the cost of the BJP’s vote bank,” said Maitra.The AIMIM recently announced that it will contest the Bengal polls from several districts and countered allegations that it helped the BJP win the polls in Bihar by splitting Muslim votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-gets-ambitious-to-contest-100-seats-in-bengal-assembly-polls-101610900828285.html
17-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine drive: Health Ministry instructs states to identify bottlenecks||The Union Health Ministry held a meeting with all States and UTs on Sunday for a review of progress on the second day of the nationwide vaccination drive and asked them to "identify bottlenecks and plan corrective actions."In a press conference today, the Union Health Ministry has informed that across the country, as many as 2,24,301 beneficiaries were vaccinated.The Union Health Ministry also revealed that 447 adverse effect cases were reported from the COVID vaccination drive in the last two days out of which 3 beneficiaries were hospitalized."447 cases of AEFI (Adverse event following immunization) reported on 16th and 17th January, only three required hospitalizations," Dr Agnani said.The additional secretary also said that majority of the AEFIs are minor in nature like pain, mild swelling at the injection site, mild fever, body ache, nausea, giddiness, and mild allergic reactions like rashes, etc.On the conditions of three beneficiaries who were hospitalized, the ministry representative said two of these three have been discharged after treatment from Delhi's AIIMS and northern Railway Hospital, while the third was under observation at the AIIMS Rishikesh.According to the additional secretary, only six states conducted COVID-19 vaccination sessions. The health ministry official also informed that the inaugural inoculation drive in India is the highest day one vaccination number in the world."2,07,229 people were vaccinated on day one- the highest day one vaccination number in the world; Higher than the US, UK, and France on day one," he added.States/UTs have been advised to plan COVID19 vaccination sessions four days in a week to minimize disruption of the Routine Health Services. Some States have already publicized their weekly vaccination days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-drive-health-ministry-instructs-states-to-identify-bottlenecks-101610899871557.html
17-01-2021||India||I&B ministry summons Amazon Prime India officials after controversy over Tandav||The information and broadcasting ministry has summoned Amazon Prime’s India officials after a controversy erupted over the recently-launched web series Tandav, news agency ANI reported on Sunday, after several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders criticised it for hurting Hindu religious sentiments.ALSO WATCH | Tandav controversy: Police outside Saif Ali Khan's home; BJP leaders seek actionBJP leader Ram Kadam on Sunday lodged a police complaint against the makers and actors of the web series featuring actors Saif Ali Khan and Dimple Kapadia among others. Kadam alleged that there were dialogues between the characters in the web series where Hindu deity Lord Shiva has been ridiculed. The West Ghatkopar MLA demanded that the series should remove the part as it hurts the sentiments of people. “Filed complaint against Tandav Web Series at Ghatkopar police station. Police has assured quick investigation, FIR under Sec 295A of IPC, Section 67A of IT Act & Atrocities Act. Producer, Director, Writer, Actors & Amazon to be summoned soon,” Kadam tweeted.BJP parliamentarian from Maharashtra Manoj Kotak also said that the creators of the web series must apologise for hurting sentiments of the people. He also claimed that there were ‘concerted efforts’ to portray Hindu deities ‘in poor light’. Demanding a ban on the web series, the Mumbai Northeast MP also wrote to the information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar.“We have made a demand to Javadekar ji and have written to him to ban the web series immediately. The actors, producers and directors should apologise for hurting sentiments. Different organisations and individuals have complained that Hindu Gods and Goddesses have been ridiculed in 'Tandav' web series. Comments have been passed about them,” the lawmaker was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Kotak also blamed the platforms for encouraging ‘violence, drugs, abuse, hate and vulgarity’ while highlighting that the content in these platforms is ‘full of sex’.Tandav is a political drama written by Gaurav Solanki and is directed, written and created by Ali Abbas Zafar and Himanshu Kishan Mehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-ministry-summons-amazon-prime-officials-in-india-over-controversy-around-web-101610900965076.html
17-01-2021||India||Facebook, Twitter representatives to appear before IT parliamentary panel||The Parliamentary Panel on Information Technology has called the representatives of Facebook and Twitter on January 21 on the issue of "safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space,” according to the Lok Sabha website.The panel will also hear from the officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on the same issue. HT had reported on Wednesday that the panel was mulling the decision in the wake of the privacy concerns surrounding WhatsApp’s new policy.The new privacy policy, which was rolled out by WhatsApp, owned by Facebook Inc, last week, includes mandatory sharing of data with the parent company. The decision to share data was first floated in 2016, post WhatsApp’s acquisition by Facebook, but until last week, application users before the acquisition had the choice of not sharing that data. That choice no longer exists.Also read: India inoculates close to 225k in first two days of Covid-19 vaccination driveThe move has faced massive backlash globally, with users en masse deflecting to other messaging applications such as Signal and Telegram. The issue of data privacy had been raised by Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra and supported by other MPs, a person familiar with the matter had said."If WhatsApp says its data is end-to-end encrypted, how can it be shared with someone else? This raises serious concerns about data privacy. Moreover, in this case, why can't they share the data with the government of India," the person added.The person mentioned above had added that issue of Twitter’s "arbitrary" ban of US President Donal Trump, in the aftermath of an armed insurrection by his supporters on the Capitol building in Washington, was raised by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Nishikant Dubey and Congress MP Karti Chidambaram. "If they are intermediaries, how can they ban someone. Today, its Donald Trump, tomorrow it will be someone else," said the third person.“The companies will have to come in and clarify whether they are intermediaries or publishers,” a second person familiar with the matter had said. “The issue of taking down of people’s accounts arbitrarily may also be raised. The exact date of the meeting has not yet been set, but it will happen in the coming weeks.”Being intermediaries provides the social media platforms freedom from persecution as they are not considered publishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-twitter-representatives-to-appear-before-it-parliamentary-panel-101610900560892.html
17-01-2021||India||IRCTC to resume cooked food supply to passengers in trains soon: Eastern Railway||Cooked food supply to passengers in trains under e-catering services, which were suspended as a measure to contain the spread of Covid-19, will resume soon in the Eastern Railway zone, an official said here on Sunday.The e-catering services will be restarted soon at Howrah, Sealdah, Kolkata, Durgapur, Asansol, Malda and Bhagalpur stations under the jurisdiction of the ER, he said.There are plans to add Barddhaman, Bolpur and Jamalpur in the list of stations from where the e-catering services are provided, the ER spokesperson said.With the resumption of several long-distance and special trains, there was a growing demand to resume the services for supplying "hot, healthy and hygienic food to the passengers in the trains by nominated vendors of IRCTC", he said.The Railway Board has allowed IRCTC to resume the services at selected stations, he said, adding that this will be provided in strict adherence to the Covid protocols.Under e-catering, services are provided by a large number of food aggregators empanelled by the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) Ltd, he said.The food supply services are also made available from outlets at selected stations, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-resume-cooked-food-supply-to-passengers-in-trains-soon-eastern-railway-101610899072489.html
17-01-2021||India||Govt procures paddy worth ₹1.06 lakh crore so far this kharif season||The government has procured 25 per cent more paddy so far in this kharif marketing season at 564.17 lakh tonnes for ₹1,06,516 crore amid farmers' protest against three new farm laws.Kharif marketing season runs from October."In the ongoing Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21, government continues to procure Kharif 2020-21 crops at MSP from farmers as per existing MSP schemes," an official statement said.The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has procured 564.17 lakh tonnes of paddy till January 16, an increase of 25.25 per cent from 450.42 lakh tonnes in the corresponding period of the previous year."About 79.24 lakh farmers have already been benefitted from the ongoing KMS procurement operations with MSP value of ₹1,06,516.31 crore," the statement said.Out of the total purchase of 564.17 lakh tonnes, Punjab has contributed 202.77 lakh tonnes. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various Delhi borders, seeking repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP).The government is maintaining that the MSP procurement system will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-procures-paddy-worth-rs-1-06-lakh-crore-so-far-this-kharif-season-101610897480605.html
17-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC to hear on Monday plea to stay farmers R-Day tractor rally and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.SC to hear plea of Delhi Police to stay tractor rally by farmers on Republic DayThe Supreme Court will take up on Monday an application by the Delhi Police seeking injunction against farmers’ unions from causing any disruption to the Republic Day celebrations in the national capital. Read moreThousands of tractors will enter Delhi for disciplined Kisan Republic Day paradeProtesting farmers will enter Delhi on thousands of tractors for a ‘disciplined’ Kisan Republic Day parade, farm unions leaders said on Sunday. They will cover around 50km and pass through the national capital’s Outer Ring Road, they added. Read more'Reaching Kolkata soon': Shiv Sena will contest in West Bengal electionShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday formally announced the decision of contesting in the upcoming election battle of West Bengal, scheduled to be held in April-May this year. "After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shivsena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections," Sanjay Raut tweeted, adding a portion in Bengali as well. Read more1 Covid-19 patient getting admitted to hospital every 30 seconds: NHS chiefThe chief of the National Health Service (NHS) England said on Sunday that hospitals are under tremendous pressure since someone with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is getting admitted every 30 seconds. Read more'Ravi Shastri gets trolled just for the heck of it sometimes': WV Raman, Michael Vaughan back India head coachIndia head coach Ravi Shastri received a pat on the back from former India opener WV Raman and former England captain Michael Vaughan for helping a young and inexperienced Indian side rally against Australia in their own backyard. Read moreWhatsApp this week: It’s all about privacyWhatsApp is constantly upgrading its platform. Every week we get to know about the new and upcoming features of the messaging app. This week was a bit different. This week news focused more on the company’s new privacy policy and its reaction by people and experts at large. Read morePolice seen stationed outside Saif Ali Khan's home amid Tandav row, actor's family continues moving out to new housePolice personnel were spotted stationed outside Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor's home in Mumbai on Sunday. Saif appears to have been given additional security amid mounting controversy around his show, Tandav. Read moreKamala Harris’ husband Doug Emhoff gets first ‘second gentleman’ Twitter handle, tweeple reactKamala Harris made history by becoming the first female, first Indian American and first Black vice president-elect of the US. Her husband, Douglas Emhoff, has also made history by becoming the first-ever second gentleman of the US. Read moreWatch: Tandav controversy: Police outside Saif Ali Khan's home; BJP leaders seek actionA controversy has erupted just days after 'Tandav' was released on Amazon Prime Video. Police was deployed outside actor Saif Ali Khan's Mumbai house after multiple Bharatiya Janata Party leaders levelled accusations against the show. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-to-hear-on-monday-plea-to-stay-farmers-r-day-tractor-rally-and-all-the-latest-news-101610895490666.html
17-01-2021||India||Record construction of 534 km of national highways in one week, says govt||The road ministry on Sunday said that a record 534 km of national highways was constructed in one week, beginning January 8, 2020.In a statement, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said that it has "created a record by constructing 534 km of National Highways (NHs) in the last week commencing 8 January".The ministry has constructed 8,169 km of NHs from April 2020 to January 15, 2021 in the current financial year 2020-21, i.e. with a speed of about 28.16 km per day.During the same period in the last fiscal, 7,573 km roads were constructed, with a speed of 26.11 km per day.The ministry is hopeful that with such pace it should be able to cross construction target of 11,000 km by March 31.The road ministry also awarded NH projects of 7,597 km during this period (April 2020 to January 15, 2021). In 2019-20, projects of 3,474 km were awarded during the same period. Thus, the pace of award has also more than doubled this fiscal.In total, projects of 8,948 km of roads were awarded in 2019-20 while 10,237 km of roads were constructed.The achievement assumes significance given the fact that the first two months of the current fiscal were lost due to nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The ministry has taken several initiatives to increase the pace of construction. The pace of construction is expected to increase further in the remaining months of the current financial year, which are conducive for construction activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-construction-of-534-km-of-national-highways-in-one-week-govt-101610895893748.html
17-01-2021||India||Rajinikanth's 'Makkal Mandram' office-bearers join DMK||Three district secretaries of Rajini Makkal Mandram joined the DMK in the presence of party president M K Stalin here on Sunday. The development is following actor Rajinikanth's recent abandonment of his plan to enter politics and face the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, due during April-May this year.District secretaries of Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram A Joseph Stalin and K Senthil Selvanand respectively and Theni district secretary, R Ganesan joined the DMK at its headquarters 'Anna Arivalayam' here. Besides the district level office-bearers, three more functionaries joined the party, a DMK release in Chennai said. They joined the party in the presence of M K Stalin, party deputy general secretary A Raja, organising secretary R S Bharati and other senior leaders. The Rajini Makkal Mandram, (Rajini People's Forum) was previously considered the political launch vehicle of the top actor. On December 29 last year, Rajinikanth, citing his health condition vis-a-vis the coronavirus pandemic announced that he would not join politics. He had undergone renal transplant in 2016 and is on immuno-suppressants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanths-makkal-mandram-office-bearers-join-dmk-101610895346688.html
17-01-2021||India||Farmers stage protest rally against new farm laws in Jammu||Hundreds of farmers on Sunday staged a rally in support of the revocation of the new agriculture laws even as police briefly detained the main organiser along with nearly half a dozen of his supporters here.The tractor rally was led by District Development Council (DDC) member Taranjit Singh Tony who defeated senior BJP leader and former minister Sham Choudhary in the recently held elections, officials said.As the rally started from Bana Singh stadium at Mia Sahib, police blocked the main road and later detained Tony and some of his supporters when they insisted to move towards Satwari along Jammu Airport road as per their programme, the officials said.However, they were later released and the rally ended peacefully.“We have organised this rally in support of the ongoing farmers protest for revocation of the new farm laws. The police initially created a hurdle and detained us briefly,” Tony told reporters.He regretted the inconvenience caused to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stage-protest-rally-against-new-farm-laws-in-jammu-101610895063238.html
17-01-2021||India||At 103, India's first voter casts vote in Himachal Pradesh panchayat polls||Despite his failing vision and aching knees, India's first voter Shyam Saran Negi reached his polling booth in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur to exercise his franchise in the state's panchayat elections, for which over 70 per cent turnout was recorded on Sunday.In the first round of the three-phase elections, 1,227 panchayats went to the polls on Sunday. The remaining two phases are slated to be held on January 19 and 21. The state has 3,615 gram panchayats.At 103, Negi cast his vote at the Kalpa polling booth, where he was given a warm welcome by laying a red carpet by the district administration.Deputy Commissioner Hemraj Bairwa honoured Negi with a Kinnauri 'topi' and shawl. The DC said young voters should get inspiration from Negi, who turned up to cast his vote despite bad health.In his message to people, Negi said voters should participate in the election process to elect honest and capable candidates.Negi, who had made a special appearance in a Hindi film, “Sanam Re”, said he never missed casting his vote, be it panchayat, assembly or the Lok Sabha polls.Believed to the first voter in the 1952 General Election, Negi was born on July 1, 1917 and retired as a schoolteacher, as per official records.Remembering how he became the country's first voter, Negi had earlier said the India's first General Election was held in February 1952 but in tribal areas of the state, the voting took place five months in advance on October 23, 1951 due to fears of inclement weather rendering the exercise impossible during winter.“I was a schoolteacher then and had been put on election duty. Due to it, I reached my polling booth at the Kalpa primary school in Kinnaur at 7 am to cast my vote. I was the first one to reach there and vote,” he had said.Meanwhile, Electoral Officer Sanjeev Mahajan said a voter turnout of over 70 per cent was recorded in the first round.Over 63 per cent voters of two panchayats in Kaza block in Lahaul-Spiti braved extreme cold weather conditions at a temperature of minus seven degrees Celsius to cast their vote, a district official said.A voter turnout of 76 per cent was recorded in Hamirpur district.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and his family members cast their votes at Government Primary School at Kurani in Murhag panchayat of Mandi district.State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathour and his wife Tripta Rathour voted at Medhavani village in Kumarsain tehsil of Shimla.The Himachal Pradesh Election Commission also wrote to the Kangra administration, ordering an inquiry into the omission of former state minister Sudhir Sharma’s name from the electoral rolls for the panchayat polls.In a letter to the Kangra deputy commissioner, the election commission secretary sought to know how the Congress leader’s name was omitted from the electoral rolls of Rakkar panchayat falling under the Dharamshala development block.Last week, the former state urban development minister had alleged that names of hundreds of voters are missing from the electoral rolls in almost every panchayat in the state.He termed it a "well thought-out conspiracy", claiming most voters whose names are missing believe in the Congress ideology.The counting of votes for ward members, deputy village heads and village heads will take place soon after voting. However, the counting for members of panchayat samitis and zila parishads will be conducted on January 22.The candidates are contesting elections as independents and not on a party symbol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-103-india-s-first-voter-casts-vote-in-himachal-pradesh-panchayat-polls-101610894640361.html
17-01-2021||India||Farmers' union seeks Delhi police commissioner's nod to hold protest at Ramlila Maidan||A farmers' union has written to the Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava seeking permission to hold the farmers' agitation at Ramlila Maidan in the national capital.The application was filed by Dr AP Singh, a lawyer on behalf of the farmer union--Bhartiya Kisan Union Lokshakti (BKUL)--before the Delhi Police commissioner for immediate direction to hold or continue agitation in Ramlila Maidan in Delhi.The lawyer, Dr Singh had filed the application before the Delhi Police commissioner, after the Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde asked farmer unions to write to Delhi Police seeking permission to hold or continue, if any, agitation on the farmers' issue.On January 12, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Centre's three farm laws and asked the committee formed by it concerning the laws to submit its report within two months.The committee has been directed to hold a dialogue with farmers and submit its recommendations pertaining to the farm laws within two months from the date of its first sitting.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws-- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-union-seeks-delhi-police-commissioner-s-nod-to-hold-protest-at-ramlila-maidan-101610893998301.html
17-01-2021||India||Surgical strikes in Pak gave public confidence borders are safe under Modi led-BJP govt: Amit Shah||The surgical strikes carried out by India inside Pakistan after the terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama had given public the confidence that the nation's borders are safe under the Narendra Modi led BJP government, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said here on Sunday. A determined government had responded fiercely to the terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama in Kashmir between 2014 and 2019, he said. "The BJP government carried out surgical strikes inside Pakistan twice and eliminated terrorists there," Shah said. These strikes gave confidence to the public that the nation's borders are safe because Modi is the Prime Minister and the country is ruled by the BJP, he said, speaking at the Janasevak Samavesha, a public meeting to greet BJP backed candidates who won the recent Panchayat polls in Karnataka. Out of a total of 5,470 villages, party backed candidates won in 3,142 villages, he said. Referring to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, launched nationwide on Saturday, he said both vaccines are safe and the exercise was being monitored personally by the Prime Minister himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surgical-strikes-in-pak-gave-public-confidence-borders-are-safe-under-modi-led-bjp-govt-amit-shah-101610893436080.html
17-01-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah asks PM to restore 4G internet in J&K; prays for vaccine success||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir as he highlighted various problems due to lack of the facility and the harsh winter in the Union Territory.He prayed for the success of the Covid-19 vaccine and urged people to maintain communal harmony and brotherhood at all costs for overall prosperity and development.“The prime minister is saying 5G is coming in India while we are deprived of 4G (mobile internet service). May he come and live here after leaving the chair and see how we are living under 2G (service),” Abdullah, the former chief minister of the erstwhile state, said at a book release function here.The 4G mobile internet service was snapped across Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 following revocation of special status and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories.While the service was restored in two districts, Udhampur in Jammu and Ganderbal in Kashmir, after over a year, it is still suspended in rest of the 18 districts.The well-attended function was organised by Gurjar Desh Charitable Trust to release the biography of its patron-in-chief Masud Ahmad Choudhary, a retired Additional Director General of Police and ex-vice chancellor of Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University (Rajouri).“Students are sitting in their homes and getting education through internet and the businessmen are also dependent on internet connectivity. My request to the prime minister is that if you are saying this place is on the path of development, give us 4G for the sake of god so that we too can benefit and our children move forward,” Abdullah said.He said attention is required to be given towards it.“There is a talk of ₹28,000 crore package. First, let us know what happened to the earlier ₹80,000 crore package and where the money had gone. See our condition and had there been no army, the Srinagar-Jammu national highway would have remained closed for one year,” the NC leader said referring to the restoration of the highway by Border Roads Organsiation (BRO), which constructed a bailey bridge near Kela Morh to restore traffic on the strategic highway after a portion of the road caved-in on January 10.Earlier this month, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had announced a new industrial development scheme (IDS) with a total outlay of ₹28,400 crore to encourage new investment and to take industrial development to the block level.Abdullah said people in Kashmir are faced with a lot of problems amid sub-zero temperature.“What can I say about the problems we are facing in Kashmir where there is no electricity, petrol, diesel, kerosene oil and shortage of daily use food items. Jammu is the door to Kashmir and it is pathetic that former prime minister A B Vajpayee promised a rail link (between Kashmir and rest of the country) by 2007, which was revised to 2022 by this regime. Hope it would not extend to 2040 when I will be no more,” he said.Abdullah said he is advising his brother Mustafa Kamal not to travel by Jammu-Srinagar national highway in view of the lurking threat of shooting stones from the hillocks overlooking the highway from Udhampur onwards.“I am not doing any politics. This is the present day condition in J&K. Yesterday, I received the New Year greeting card from Delhi Chief Minister and five days back a friend's letter from abroad dispatched in November last year. I telephoned him and requested him not to post any letter in future,” he said.He said the situation is no different in Jammu even as the present regime promised 24x7 electricity to consumers.“This is the condition of capital cities, god knows the condition of the people in village and far flung areas.”Referring to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the virus has brought the world to its knees and showed people power of the almighty.“People today are afraid of handshakes and hugging each other as thousands are still dying on a daily basis in various parts of the world. Vaccine has been found and only time will tell about its efficacy but I am praying for its success so that the situation gets normal,” he said.He, however, expressed surprise that some people were not adhering to the SOPs and moving around without masks, urging them not to lower their guard.Urging people to be courageous and never deviate from truth, Abdullah said education has the power to empower the people and make them distinguish between right and wrong.“Make yourself courageous which is possible when you receive education, both religious as well as worldly knowledge. Nothing will happen if you get only one of the two… innocents are being put inside jails and criminals are roaming freely. Why because we lack boldness?” he said.Abdullah said people must introspect and try to understand the religion that they practice.“No religion teaches hatred. The religion is not bad but it is the human who is bad,” he said, adding every religion teaches brotherhood and to live in harmony.“When we do not respect our religion, how will we respect the religion of others? He (god) is everywhere and in every shape. We are Muslims for namesake and are practically far away (from Islam). Till we become practical, we cannot change our destiny,” he said.Hailing the contribution of Choudhary for the upliftment of his community, he said Gujjars are still facing poverty and disease and need to be empowered economically and educationally.He urged the trust to translate the released Urdu biography of Choudhary into other languages, especially Hindi and said “they think Urdu is a language of Muslims but do not know this is not the Muslim's language alone. This is one of the languages in the country.”                “We will die but the language (Urdu) will remain. It is the identity of India,” Abdullah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-asks-pm-to-restore-4g-internet-in-j-k-prays-for-vaccine-success-101610891578821.html
17-01-2021||India||Will hold peaceful Republic Day parade in Delhi, say farm unions||Tens of thousands of farmers will take out a colourful Kisan Republic Day parade (farmers’ Republic Day parade) in a “disciplined and peaceful” way in the national capital on January 26, leaders of farm unions protesting three pro-reform agricultural laws said on Sunday.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the ongoing farmers’ agitation, said farmers all over the country would also take out similar parades in state capitals and district headquarters.The farm unions’ said their parade on tractors would cover a 60-km stretch and pass through New Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, covering areas as Peeragarhi, Janakpuri and Munirka etc.The farm unions also said their march would commence only after the official military parade on Rajpath ends so that official celebrations to mark Republic Day are not disrupted.“Farmers on hundreds of tractors decorated beautifully, along with tableau, will take out an eye-catching parade,” said Darshan Pal, a senior farm leader.The Union government had earlier asked the Supreme Court not to allow the farmers’ procession, citing security concerns, but the court had said farmers had the right to protest peacefully.“This is not a preparation for any attack. Nor are we going to go to Rajpath or Red Fort. We will be disciplined and peaceful. We will maintain honour and dignity that the occasion deserves,” senior farm leader Yogendra Yadav said.Yadav also said that the farmers’ tractors on parade would display only the national flag with appropriate respect and flags of farm unions.In what has been a tough political challenge for the Modi government, tens of thousands of protesting farmers have encircled the national capital for over a month, demanding the government scrap the three laws approved by Parliament in September last year.The laws essentially ease restrictions on farm trade, which farmers have alleged will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.“The decision to hold a peaceful tractor rally with the national flag on Outer Ring Road is a befitting reply to those who were alleging farmers are anti-national and would allegedly disrupt Republic Day parade,” said Sudhir Panwar, a farm leader and former member of Uttar Pradesh Planning Commission.The ninth round of discussions between the Union government and farm unions failed to make any progress on Friday, but both sides agreed to meet again on January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-peaceful-republic-day-parade-in-delhi-say-farm-unions-101610891950638.html
17-01-2021||India||Tripura Congress calls for dawn-to-dusk strike to protest attack on party chief||The Congress unit in Tripura has called for a dawn-to-dusk strike in the state on Monday in protest against an attack on the party's state unit president allegedly by cadres of the ruling BJP.Congress president Pijush Kanti Biswas and some other party workers were allegedly attacked by BJP supporters while they were on way to attend a meeting at Bishalgarh in Sepahijala district, nearly 30 kilometres from Agartala on Sunday."We had a scheduled meeting. As we reached there, some BJP cadres attacked us with the intention of murdering us. They have injured me, my driver and some party activists and also vandalised my car. Though the incident happened in front of police, they didn't intervene, " Biswas told the reporters.Accusing the BJP of being undemocratic and barbaric, Biswas appealed to the people to remove the government from power." This is an undemocratic and barbaric government. This government deserves to be removed from power. We have witnessed misrule of the CPI(M) in the past and they were ejected from power," said BiswasPolice said that a case was registered and they would start investigation in this matter to find out the culprits behind the incident.The BJP has refuted the Congress’ allegation. "We don't believe in violence. No one from our party has any kind of involvement in the incident," said a BJP leader who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-congress-calls-for-dawn-to-dusk-strike-to-protest-attack-on-party-chief-101610890595897.html
17-01-2021||India||'Leaves our cultural world poorer': PM Modi condoles Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday mourned the demise of legendary classical musician Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan, who died earlier in the day at his Mumbai residence, as he remembered him as "a doyen of music, a stalwart of creativity"."The passing away of Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan Sahab leaves our cultural world poorer. He was a doyen of music, a stalwart of creativity whose works endeared him to people across generations. I have fond memories of interacting with him. Condolences to his family and admirers," PM Modi tweeted.The sudden demise of Khan has left many, including his family, in shock as the musician was keeping well and was about to turn 90 on March 3. Condolences poured in from the entire nation as Union ministers and people from the music and film industry mourned the death of the celebrated classical musician.Also Read | Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan dies: AR Rahman, Lata Mangeshkar pay tributes"I got to know the news of passing away of Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan Saheb. I am deeply saddened. He was not only a very good singer but also a very good human being," Lata Mangeshkar said. "My teacher. Guru to a student who just wouldn’t stay on. Great teacher. Great artist. Hindustani Classical Music has been bereaved. His students have been orphaned. I have been orphaned. RIP Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan Saab. Stay strong brothers Murtuza, Qadir and Rabbani," film director, Hansal Mehta tweeted.My teacher. Guru to a student who just wouldn’t stay on. Great teacher. Great artist. Hindustani Classical Music has been bereaved. His students have been orphaned. I have been orphaned. RIP Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan Saab. Stay strong brothers Murtuza, Qadir and Rabbani. pic.twitter.com/Q3fyKbUmC7The son of Ustad Waris Hussain Khan and Sabri Begum and the grandson of renowned musician Ustad Murred Baksh, Khan was given the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 2003. The award is the highest recognition given in India to practising artists. He was conferred with Padma Shri in 1991, Padma Bhushan in 2006 and Padma Vibhushan in 2018.The music maestro's last rites are scheduled to be performed later in the evening at a graveyard in Santacruz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaves-our-cultural-world-poorer-pm-modi-condoles-ustad-ghulam-mustafa-khans-101610889760207.html
17-01-2021||India||Farmers forced to agitate as opposition in country is weak: Tikait||If the opposition would have played its role, the farmers would not have to agitate, said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Sunday here."The opposition of this country is weak, hence the farmers are forced to agitate," said Tikait, adding that farmers' protest is an ideological revolution and it would never fail."If a few lakh farmers are camping at the borders of Delhi, why is the government not repealing the FarmLaws? I think the agitation will continue... Protesting farmers will not return to their homes till the new farm laws are repealed," he said adding that more than 550 farmers unions of the nation have joined the movement.In response to the Agriculture Minister's request to have a clause-wise discussion, the farmer leader said that the farmers would not have a clause-wise discussion. The next meeting between farmers demanding the repealing of the farm laws and representatives of the government is scheduled for January 19.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-forced-to-agitate-as-opposition-in-country-is-weak-tikait-101610889935423.html
17-01-2021||India||'Reaching Kolkata soon': Shiv Sena will contest in West Bengal election||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday formally announced the decision of contesting in the upcoming election battle of West Bengal, scheduled to be held in April-May this year. "After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shivsena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections," Sanjay Raut tweeted, adding a portion in Bengali as well.So, here is the much awaited update. After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shivsena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections. We are reaching Kolkata soon...!!Jai Hind, জয় বাংলা !This will not be Shiv Sena's debut in West Bengal as the party had contested in the Lok Sabha elections from the state in 2019 and assembly election in 2016.In 2019 Lok Sabha election, Shiv Sena had contested from 15 seats in West Bengal, including Tamluk, Contai, Midnapur, North Kolkata, Purulia, Barrackpore, Bankura, Barasat, Bishnupur, North Malda, Jadavpur etc. In 2016 assembly election, Shiv Sena contested from 18 seats but did not win any.Shiv Sena's entry in West Bengal Assembly election this year was being speculated as the party has dropped such hints after it contested in Bihar Assembly elections 2020.With the BJP exuding confidence of wresting Bengal from the Trinamool Congress, the assembly election will witness a tooth-and-nail fight. What adds to these are the entries of Shiv Sena, AIMIM etc while Congress and the Left have decided to join hands.Asaduddin Owaisi has already visited West Bengal for AIMIM's poll preparations and has met Abbasuddin Siddiqui, a popular Muslim leader.The Left Front and the Congress on Sunday said that their seat-sharing arrangement will be finalised by the end of this month. Congress state chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said that his party and the Left Front will hold further parleys to finalise the nitty-gritty of the deal.Left Front chairman Biman Bose said that though the BJP is the "biggest enemy of the country", but given the situation in West Bengal, the fight is against both the TMC and the saffron party to save the state from communal strife and the "binary" that is being created among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reaching-kolkata-soon-shiv-sena-will-contest-in-west-bengal-election-101610889523685.html
17-01-2021||India||Why many in Delhi skipped 1st-day vaccine, explains Satyendar Jain||A day after India began its emergency vaccination drive against Covid-19, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said at least 47 per cent of those who were registered for day one vaccination stayed away. Attributing this to personal choice, the minister said that the trend was similar across the country. Since getting vaccinated is optional, no one can be forced to take the jab, he said.In Delhi, a total of 4,319 healthcare workers — 53.3 per cent of those registered — got the vaccine shots on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday. The vaccine drive in the city will be held four times a week."Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it," he said.Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital's medical director BL Sherwal said people are taking a 'wait and watch' approach. "There is a little bit of apprehension (about the vaccine). Also, people in India adopt a 'wait and watch' approach in important matters, be it purchasing a new car or an appliance. People consider the experiences of others before taking a call," he said."There is a need for creating more awareness and building confidence among people. No major vaccine-related side effects were reported on Saturday, which is going to encourage others to take the shots," he said.Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, said technical glitches in Co-Win app could be a reason why many people could not take the shots on the launch day. Maharashtra stalled vaccination for two days owing to the technical glitch, which the health ministry has also admitted.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-many-in-delhi-skipped-1st-day-vaccine-satyendar-jain-explains-101610887986387.html
17-01-2021||India||AAP’s selfie campaign to ‘expose’ bad condition of govt schools in Uttarakhand||The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Uttarakhand unit has begun a "selfie with school" campaign in a fresh attack on the BJP government in the state ahead of 2022 state assembly polls.Under the campaign, the party has asked the people of the state to send them photographs of the government schools in dilapidated condition in their respective areas. The party then organizes an exhibition of such photographs in their district offices with the first such exhibition held on January 15.The AAP state leaders have been attacking the BJP led state government alleging it of "doing nothing on the educational system" in the state but "misleading" people.Earlier this month, the two parties had sparred over a live debate challenge by senior AAP leader and deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia in Dehradun in which Uttarakhand minister Madan Kaushik did not show up.Sanjay Bhatt, AAP’s spokesperson in Uttarakhand said, "We decided to launch the campaign after BJP attacked Sisodia when he returned to Delhi after completing his Dehradun visit in January first week. Minister Kaushik didn't accept his debate challenge on the development issue but attacked him after he returned.""The BJP leaders in their attack on the AAP government in Delhi had claimed that Uttarakhand has better schools than Delhi. With this campaign of ours, we have exposed them as people have sent hundreds of photographs showing schools in very bad condition," said Bhatt.The AAP leader while citing the photographs received under the campaign alleged the BJP government of making "hollow claims and misleading the people.""The government had claimed that the state has better schools than Delhi but the photographs have totally exposed them. They have done nothing to improve the condition of schools where learning is no less than a survival test for both children and teachers," said Bhatt.He added, "We will continue the campaign and hold more exhibitions like this to further expose the BJP government."The BJP termed the AAP's campaign as a political "gimmick" to grab attention in the state's political scenario where they have "no presence.""AAP has absolutely no ideology of its own and just misleads the people with lies and hollow claims. People of Uttarakhand will not fall for their lies as they know that our government has done a lot of development works after coming to power in 2017," said Manveer Singh Chauhan, BJP media in-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aaps-selfie-campaign-to-expose-bad-condition-of-govt-schools-in-uttarakhand-101610888163419.html
17-01-2021||India||No new UK strain of Covid-19 cases, tally remains at 116||There is no change in the total number of persons found positive with the new UK strain of Covid-19 since yesterday (Saturday), the number of infected persons remains at 116, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday.Meanwhile, India continues on its steady trajectory of reporting a sustained downfall in the daily new cases of Covid-19 and a consequential decline in the active cases.For the first time, India's share of active cases within the total positive cases has shrunk below 2 per cent.In the last 24 hours, 15,144 daily cases have been recorded. The Active Caseload of the country has fallen to 2,08,826. The daily new cases have been below 20,000 for the past 10 days.17,170 new recoveries were registered during the last 24 hours. The share of recovered cases stands at 96.58 per cent. The total recovered cases are 10,196,885. They exceed the active cases by 99,88,059 (48.83 times more).80.53 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed from 10 States/UTs.Kerala has reported the highest number of recoveries with 5,011 newly recovered cases in a single day. 3,039 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 930 in Uttar Pradesh.Daily fatalities in India are also registering a consistent decline. India has recorded less than 300 daily deaths for the last 23 days.Six states and UTs have reported 66.30 per cent of the 181 case fatalities in the past 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported 52 deaths. Kerala saw a fatality count of 27 while West Bengal reported 15 new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-uk-strain-of-covid-19-cases-tally-remains-at-116-101610885966038.html
17-01-2021||India||14-year-old boy shot dead in Bihar’s Supaul during robbery bid||Motorcycle-borne criminals shot dead a 14-year-old boy and injured his relative after they resisted a robbery bid in Bihar’s Supaul late Saturday evening, police said Sunday.The criminals waylaid the duo near Bagahi Chowk on Supaul-Pipra road. The victim was returning with one of his relatives on a motorcycle after admitting his pregnant sister to a hospital.The boy identified as Pintu Kumar Mandal was shot after he shouted for help. “Seven criminals stopped us when we were returning to our home from hospital. The boy was shot when he cried for help while they hit me with the butt of a pistol,” Laltu Kumar said.“After the criminals failed to snatch my motorcycle they looted cash and my mobile phone and escaped,” he said.Pintu was rushed to a hospital where he died during treatment.The father of the victim Shiv Narayan Mandal is a resident of Satyanarayanpur village in neighbouring Madhepura district.Police have lodged an FIR on the basis of Laltu Kumar’s statement and have detained five persons.“We have lodged an FIR on the statement of Laltu Kumar and five persons have been detained for interrogation. We will be able to say something about the motive behind the incident only after investigation,” police inspector Dina Nath Mandal said.This is the third crime in the locality this week. Earlier, criminals had looted a pick up van of a businessman of Madhubani while armed criminals committed dacoity into the house of a businessman.Although the police have started patrolling, the crimes have continued unabated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14yearold-boy-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-supaul-during-robbery-bid-101610885692857.html
17-01-2021||India||Apex Court appointed panel on farm laws to meet on Jan 19 for first meeting||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the three new farm laws is scheduled to hold its first meeting on January 19 at Pusa campus here, its member Anil Ghanwat said on Sunday.The Supreme Court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for over 50 days now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse.Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, however, recused himself from the committee last week.Apart from Ghanwat, agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the other panel members."We are meeting on January 19 at the Pusa campus. Only members will meet to decide the future course of action," Ghanwat, President of Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra), told PTI."One of the four members has backed out of the committee. If the apex court does not appoint a new member, the existing members will continue," he said.The Supreme Court may take into account the matter of recusal of the member from the panel on Monday when it is scheduled to hear the pleas relating to the controversial farm laws and the farmers protests.Ghanwat said the committee has received the terms of reference and will begin its work from January 21.Asked about the government holding parallel talks with protesting farmer unions after the setting up of the SC panel, he said, "We have no issue if a solution is found and the protests end from either (efforts of) our panel or from the government's separate talks with the protesting farmer unions.""Let (Government) them continue the discussion, we have been given a duty and we will focus on that," he added.So far, the government has held nine rounds of formal talks with 41 farmer unions but has failed to break the logjam as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts.In the last meeting, the Centre had suggested that the unions constitute their own informal group to prepare a concrete proposal on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting on January 19 to end the long-running protest at various Delhi borders.The top court would also hear on Monday the plea of the central government, filed though the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against a proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers that may disrupt the Republic Day celebrations on January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-appointed-panel-on-farm-laws-to-meet-on-jan-19-for-first-meeting-101610885652620.html
17-01-2021||India||Thousands of tractors will enter Delhi for disciplined Kisan Republic Day parade, say farm union leaders||Protesting farmers will enter Delhi on thousands of tractors for a ‘disciplined’ Kisan Republic Day parade, farm unions leaders said on Sunday. They will cover around 50km and pass through the national capital’s Outer Ring Road, they added. “No disruption will be caused to the official Republic Day ceremony,” Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmers from Punjab have left from Ludhiana for Delhi to participate in the tractor parade on Republic Day as a mark of protest against the three contentious farm laws, ANI reported. "We are leaving for Delhi with our tractors and will continue to do so till January 24. Around 11 thousand tractors will be making a move to Delhi from Ludhiana itself. In total, one lakh tractors will participate in the Republic Day tractor parade from Ludhiana, Amritsar, Faridkot, and Bhatinda districts," a farmer was quoted as saying by the news agency.Farmers’ leaders had earlier said that they will hold their tractor march on January 26 on one side while the Republic Day parade is underway. However, they later said they won't march to the Red Fort and will only take out tractor marches at Delhi's borders with Haryana where they have been camping since November last year.Meanwhile, the Centre has moved the Supreme Court through Delhi Police against the proposed tractor march by farmers. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde will on Monday hear the plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally. This is a separate plea than the one which the top court was hearing regarding farmers' protests.Earlier in the day, farmers' unions said notices are being served by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on supporters of their ongoing agitation, which they say could be a hurdle in ongoing talks. Labelling it as “harassment” by the government, the unions have decided that no farmer who has received such notices will appear before the agency as a mark of protest, Balbir Singh Rajewal, a senior leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of unions, told HT.Parallel to this, consultation between farmers and the Centre is going on with the 10th meeting scheduled on January 19.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against three farm laws—Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020— enacted by the Centre in September last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-union-leaders-say-thousands-of-tractors-will-enter-delhi-for-disciplined-kisan-republic-day-parade-101610885855649.html
17-01-2021||India||CBI arrests senior railway official in ₹1 crore bribery case, raids 20 sites||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a senior official of the Indian Railways in connection with a ₹1 crore bribery case and raids were conducted at 20 locations in Assam, Delhi, Tripura, Uttarakhand and Sikkim, officials said.Mahender Singh Chauhan, a 1985 batch officer of Indian Railways Engineering Service, allegedly took a bribe from private companies for extending favours in contracts at Northeast Frontier Railways (NFR), they said.The official is posted at the NFR headquarters in Maligaon in Assam, according to news agency PTI. The federal agency has recovered the bribe money, PTI quoted officials as saying.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-senior-railway-official-in-rs-1-crore-bribery-case-raids-20-sites-101610883956710.html
17-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena and Congress in war of words over renaming of Aurangabad||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition partners Shiv Sena and Congress clashed again on Sunday over the renaming of Aurangabad city as Sambhaji NagarShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column in Saamana, stated that a ‘secular’ party like Congress is not in favour of renaming because minorities would get upset, and will affect their vote bank.It drew a sharp retort from Maharashtra Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat who said that the Sena is worried about their votes and raked the issue ahead of civic polls in the city. The senior Congress minister also asked why the Sena did not rename the city in the last five years when they were in power.The two allies have been at loggerhead over the issue for the last two weeks after the Sena raised thedecade-old issue to rename Aurangabad city as Sambhaji Nagar. The Congress has opposed the move with its leaders calling it an issue outside the purview of the common minimum programme (CMP) and that renaming cities will not ensure development.On Sunday, the Sena said that if Mughal ruler Aurangzeb is dear to somebody then it's not secular behavior. Raut wrote that though Congress is against the renaming, a large section of people are of view that there should not be any sign or mark of Aurangzeb. He said that renaming is not fanaticism but can be called "Shiv Bhakti" or "pride of Maharashtra" or "sense of history"."A 'secular' party like Congress is of the opinion that Aurangabad should not become Sambhaji Nagar. If it is renamed the Muslims, that is the minorities, will be upset and have a resultant impact on the vote bank. [Ultimately], it will create a question mark on their secular image. The ones who are opposing the renaming also raised the issue if rechristening will solve the issues of the people and development [there]. Whatever it may be, but there is a large section of people, in Maharashtra at least, who do not want to keep any corner [named] after Aurangzeb," Raut wrote.Thorat tweeted a statement asking why the Sena and BJP which enjoyed power at the Centre and the state for five years did not remember the issue of renaming Aurangabad then. Without naming the two parties, Thorat wrote, "The two [parties] who are in power in Aurangabad for years now should speak about development. The people of Aurangabad want this, but they both have disappointed them and therefore they have to take support of the issue of renaming ahead of the municipal corporation election.""Our ally in the state Shiv Sena is worried about their votes therefore they have started this 'Saamana' (war) of renaming cities. About BJP, hypocrisy is their character trait, therefore people view their words and actions as entertainment," Thorat said.The Congress leader also made it clear that the renaming row will not affect the stability of the three-party government.Raut in his column targeted the Congress party over their reservations to support the renaming. The Sena leader wrote about the history of the "aggressive" Mughal emperor Aurangzeb “on whose order Sambhaji Raje was tortured and killed by Mughal chieftains and his dismembered body was thrown on the road near Pune”.Raut added that the political leaders should revisit history books to know about the rule of Aurangzeb. "Aurangzeb was never 'secular'. He wanted to expand the empire based on Islam... There cannot be a single city in Maharashtra in the name of such an Aurangzeb. This is not fanaticism, but can call it Shiv Bhakti, or pride of Maharashtra, or call it sense of history; but if such an Aurangzeb is dear to someone, then prostration to them from the corner! This behaviour is not 'secular'!".Raut later reporters that the issue of renaming is "over" for Maharashtra after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray referred to the city as Sambhaji Nagar."I have written [the column] on what Aurangzeb was. No one should fall in love with Aurangzeb. Those who have the slightest of affection for Aurangzeb will not have it after reading today's Saamana. Aurangzeb was a cruel ruler, a fanatic, and he had no love for other religions. The Shiv Sena's stand is clear that nobody should be insistent on keeping any monument or any city named after Aurangzeb," Raut said.He also added that there is no question of "Hindu or Muslim vote bank" on the issue, but called it a question of "pride of the country", and a matter of "good and evil".BJP leader Ashish Shelar, meanwhile, cornered the Shiv Sena on the issue and said that the party is treating Congress with kid gloves on the matter. Shelar, in a video statement on his Twitter handle said the Sena is helpless in its quest for power."The sentiment of the people over the renaming is clear and strong. Today, we saw how the language of Saamana changed for the sake of power. When it comes to the ego of their leaders, they use the language of 'Ukhaad dia' (referring to Saamana headline for BMC action against actor Kangana Ranaut). In a matter of pride of Chhatrapati, they say "prostration to them from the corner'. We ask the Shiv Sena why they are not using 'ukhaad dia'-tone with those opposing the renaming?" he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-and-congress-in-war-of-words-over-renaming-of-aurangabad-101610883515663.html
17-01-2021||India||Cong accuses BJP workers of attacking Tripura party president's vehicle||Tripura Congress president Pijush Kanti Biswas admitted to hospital after his vehicle was attacked on Sunday morning.Congress leader Ripun Bora accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers of the attack. "BJP unleashes its goons to carry out a murderous attack on Tripura Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) President Pijush Biswas. Around 100 goons attacked his car with iron rods in presence of police. He was rushed to the hospital," he tweeted."Can opposition not even walk safely in the country now?" he added.Congress has called for a 12-hour Bandh in the state on Monday to protest against the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-accuses-bjp-workers-of-attacking-tripura-party-president-s-vehicle-101610883483335.html
17-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tejashwi Yadav visits murdered IndiGo manager's family and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'If cops behave like this…': Tejashwi Yadav visits murdered IndiGo manager's familyIndiGo’s Patna station manager Rupesh Singh family members have been demanding a probe by the CBI alleging that the Patna Police had failed to make any breakthrough. Read moreIndia gives Nepal 'iron clad' commitment on vaccine, supply schedule coming weekWhile Nepal PM Oli’s political detractors has painted foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali’s visit to India a damp squib, New Delhi found the visitor committed to cementing bilateral ties. Read moreGovt using NIA to harass us with notices, farm unions sayFarm unions protesting a set of agricultural laws have said notices being served by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on supporters of their ongoing agitation could be a hurdle in ongoing talks, labelling it as “harassment” by the government. Read moreQuake death toll at 73 as Indonesia struggles with string of disastersDwikorita Karnawati, the head of Indonesia's meteorological, climatology and geophysical agency (BMKG), has said that another quake in the region could potentially trigger a tsunami. Read moreIndia vs Australia: 'They were trying to have a conversation with me,' Thakur reveals how he tackled Australia's chatterIndia vs Australia: Shardul Thakur's innings, on expected lines, seemingly got under the skin of Australia, with the fast bowler explaining that the opposition reacted by chirping away a few words at him. Read moreAkshay Kumar asks fans to make contributions to Ram Temple construction, shares videoActor Akshay Kumar has shared a video on Twitter, asking his fans and followers to make contributions to the Ram Mandir construction in Ayodhya. Read moreTaapsee Pannu's healthy laddoos will give any dessert a run for its moneyTaapsee Pannu has been following a diet for the preparation of her film Rashmi Rocket. However, her diet is not as boring as one would imagine. It even includes laddoos. Yes, you can read that again. Read moreWatch: ‘It’ll boost tourism, tribal lives’: PM Modi flags off 8 trains to Gujarat’s KevPrime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off eight trains connecting different parts of the country to Kevadia in Gujarat. The prime minister said that connectivity will not only boost tourism but also lives of tribal people in the region. Speaking after the event, Modi said old memories of train travel became fresh after flagging off the trains. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tejashwi-yadav-visits-murdered-indigo-manager-s-family-and-all-the-latest-news-101610882045179.html
17-01-2021||India||‘I think the agitation will continue’: Farmers' leader Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait warned the government on Sunday that farmers will continue their agitation until the three farm laws are repealed. The farmers' leader also asked the government regarding its reluctance towards a total rollback of the laws even after witnessing massive protests for the last eight weeks at Delhi’s borders. “If a few lakh farmers are camping at the borders of Delhi, why is the government not repealing the farm laws? I think the agitation will continue,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmers’ unions' representatives and the Centre had held the ninth rounds of discussions on Friday to resolve the concerns raised by farmers regarding the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Both sides failed to mitigate the issues and will once again meet on January 19 to discuss their concerns.Farmers are demanding a total repeal of the laws but the Centre has clarified its position saying that they are here to stay and the government is ready for the long haul. Farmers’ unions' representatives have also declined to take up their grievances to the Supreme Court-appointed four-member committee. The top court had on January 12 formed a panel of four members to help the Centre and the farmers’ unions representatives reach an amicable agreement concerning the farm laws. Following the meeting with Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal, who have represented the Centre in all the nine rounds of discussions, Tikait had announced that no farmers’ unions representatives shall discuss the issues with the panel.The panel consisted of Bhupinder S Mann, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, president of Maharashtra's Shetkeri Sangthana, Anil Ghanwat; Pramod Kumar Joshi, the director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati. Two days after the panel was formed Bhupinder S Mann, BKU president, recused himself from the panel citing that his duties lie with farmers of the nation and the farmers of Punjab.Agriculture minister Tomar continues to remain hopeful that only discussions can pave the way for the implementation of the laws and resolve differences. Speaking to reporters on Sunday, he said that the government is ready to bring amendments to the laws and asked farmers unions’ to take an alternative approach rather than demanding a total rollback of the laws.“We had sent a proposal to farmer unions in which we agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis and traders' registration among other things. The government has also agreed to discuss laws on stubble burning and electricity but unions only want the repeal of the laws,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmers are demanding a rollback of the farm laws passed during the monsoon session as they believe that these laws will affect the procurement of crop yields under government schemes like the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system. They also highlighted that the laws will aid corporate farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-think-the-agitation-will-continue-farmers-leader-tikait-101610882178842.html
17-01-2021||India||Will farmers be allowed to hold tractor march on January 26? SC to hear plea||A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde on Monday will hear the Centre's plea seeking an injunction against the tractor rally proposed by the protesting farmers on the Republic Day.Farmers who have been protesting against three farm laws since November 26 had earlier announced their plan of a major tractor rally at Republic Day celebrations. Farmer leaders earlier said that on January 26, there will be Republic Day parade on one side and the tractor march on the other. But later, they said they won't march to the Red Fort and will only take out tractor march at Haryana-Delhi borders where they have been camping since November last week.The Centre moved the apex court through Delhi Police against the proposed tractor march, which the Supreme Court agreed to hear on January 18.This is a separate plea than the one which the Supreme Court was hearing regarding farmers' protests. On January 12, the top court passed an interim order and stayed the implementation of the new farm laws. It has also set up a four-member panel to suggest solutions to the impasse. The committee comprised Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of Shetkari Sanghatana. The committee was given eight weeks' time for consultation. However, Bhupinder Singh Mann recused himself from the committee. It is likely that the court may take note of this and suggest another member for the panel.Parallel to this, consultation between farmers and the Centre is going on with the 10th meeting scheduled on January 19.Meanwhile, a farmer union moved the Supreme Court on Saturday requesting to remove the remaining three members of the committee.Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal has claimed that rumours are being spread about the proposed tractor march. In an open letter to farmers, he reiterated that the march will be conducted at borders, and will be a peaceful protest, though it has been rumoured that the protesters will head towards the Red Fort or Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-supreme-court-hearing-on-january-18-tractor-march-rumours-101610882100948.html
17-01-2021||India||‘Hurts Hindus, anti-Dalit’: BJP leaders want Saif Ali Khan's Tandav banned||Several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party have called for the ban of new Amazon Prime series Tandav and accused its makers and actors of hurting the religious sentiments of Hindu and also described it as anti-Dalit. The party's MLA Ram Kadam in Maharashtra on Sunday lodged a complaint against the makers of web series at Ghatkopar police station in Mumbai.ALSO WATCH | Tandav controversy: Police outside Saif Ali Khan's home; BJP leaders seek action"Strict against should be taken against the actor, director and producer of the web series," Kadam said about the series which has been named after a dance form tandav, associated especially with Shiva, according to news agency ANI.Kadam had tweeted demanding the removal of the part mocking Shiva and an apology from actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub." Tandava will be boycotted until necessary changes are made.#BanTandavNow," he had tweeted. "Just as there is a system of censors for reviewing films and serials, a similar arrangement should be made to review series on the OTT platform. Writing to @PrakashJavdekar ji," he also tweeted in Hindi.जैसे फ़िल्म और सीरियल की समीक्षा करने के लिए सेंसर बोर्ड की व्यवस्था है, वैसी ही व्यवस्था OTT प्लेटफार्म के सिरिज़ की समीक्षा के लिए बनाई जाए यह मांग करता हुआ पत्र श्री @PrakashJavdekar जी को लिख रहा हूँAlso read | Saif Ali Khan was thrown off by Ali Abbas Zafar's Salman Khan-style directionBefore Kadam, his party colleagues had also raised objections about the Saif Ali Khan starrer, asking Union minister of information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar to regulate the OTT platform.Manoj Kotak, a member of Parliament from Maharashtra, condemned the web series and said that "OTT content be regulated in the interest of integrity of India". “OTT Platforms having absolute freedom from censorship has led to repeated attacks on Hindu sentiments which I strongly condemn.spoke to hon.@PrakashJavdekar ji & requested that OTT content be regulated in the interest of integrity of India & we are fast moving in that direction," he had tweeted on Saturday.My letter to Hon.minister @PrakashJavdekar ji regarding regulation of the OTT platforms pic.twitter.com/twwI6OP4iMKotak, the lawmaker who represents Mumbai North East in the Lok Sabha, wrote to Javadekar on Sunday and released his letter to the Union minister on Twitter.BJP leader Kapil Mishra alleged that Tandav is "anti Dalit and full of communal hatred against Hindus". He also requested people in the same tweet to write to Javadekar appealing for a ban on the web series.आदरणीय @PrakashJavdekar जीTandav वेब सीरीज दलितों का अपमान करने वाली, हिन्दू मुस्लिम हिंसा भड़काने की कोशिश, धार्मिक प्रतीकों के अपमान करने की कोशिश है#BanTandavNow Friends pleased send email to minister.inb@gov.in demanding ban on Tandav pic.twitter.com/2EvPw4MvPMTandav also features Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra. The political drama has been created by Ali Abbas Zafar with Himanshu Kishan Mehra. It has been written by Gaurav Solanki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hurts-hindus-anti-dalit-bjp-leaders-want-saif-ali-khan-s-tandav-banned-101610879326208.html
17-01-2021||India||Include certain elements in vaccination drive towards CSR to encourage private cos to inoculate workforce: CII to govt||The CII Taskforce on Vaccines has recommended inclusion of certain elements in the vaccination programme as part of the 2 per cent corporate social responsibility (CSR) expenditure required to be undertaken by a class of profitable entities, saying it will encourage the private sector to inoculate its workforce and help enhance the reach of vaccines. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Taskforce has made several important submissions to V K Paul, Member, Niti Aayog and Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), sources said. Among these, the industry body has identified the elements in the vaccination programme, which if supported or undertaken by companies may be considered under the 2 per cent CSR spend. Under the Companies Act, 2013, a certain class of profitable entities are required to spend at least 2 per cent of their three-year annual average net profit towards CSR activities for social good or affirmative action. The taskforce has also recommended that the government utilise private sector capacity from phase one itself of the vaccination drive, by undertaking it in a public-private-partnership mode. It has also suggested considering certain categories of essential service providers including teachers to be enumerated with the identified priority groups for vaccination. Besides, a comprehensive legal framework document entailing certain issues related to safeguarding and limiting the liability or compensation of various stakeholders involved in vaccine distribution, delivery and administration etc, has been prepared by the taskforce, which is currently being reviewed and will be shared shortly with the NEGVAC, sources said. The CII is also working with the Healthcare Sector Skill Council (HSSC) to support the government with assessment of all trainers who are being trained in all states to administer the vaccines. These will provide certifications by providers in partnership with HSSC and help amplify the efficacy and reach of these vaccinators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/include-certain-elements-in-vaccination-programme-towards-csr-spend-to-encourage-private-cos-to-inoculate-workforce-cii-to-govt-101610879661030.html
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi condoles demise of Puducherry BJP MLA K G Shankar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday expressed condolences on the death of the BJP's Puducherry MLA K G Shankar and said he made noteworthy effort for the union territory's development and worked to strengthen the party there.Shankar, who was the BJP's Puducherry unit treasurer, died of cardiac arrest at his residence early on Sunday, his family said. The 70-year old leader, a nominated MLA of the assembly, is survived by wife, a son and a daughter.In a tweet, Modi said, "Pained by the passing away of K G Shankar, MLA in the Puducherry Assembly. He made noteworthy efforts for the development of Puducherry and also worked to strengthen the BJP there. Condolences to his family and supporters in this hour of grief. Om Shanti."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-demise-of-puducherry-bjp-mla-k-g-shankar-101610879907583.html
17-01-2021||India||Govt using NIA to harass us with notices, nobody will appear before NIA, farm unions say||Farm unions protesting a set of agricultural laws have said notices being served by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on supporters of their ongoing agitation could be a hurdle in ongoing talks, labelling it as “harassment” by the government.The unions have decided no farmer who has received such notices will appear before the agency as a mark of protest, Balbir Singh Rajewal, a senior leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of unions, told HT.The NIA, a top investigating agency of the country, has summoned over two dozen people in a case related to an organisation called Sikhs for Justice, which advocates Sikh secessionism and is allegedly aiding the protesters.Farm union leader Baldev Singh Sirsa are among those who have received notices.“There are many organisations which are helping us in so many ways…by organising langars (canteens), logistics, tents etc. The government is trying to threaten them and weaken the agitation through harassment,” Rajewal said, adding: “We have decided that no farmer who have got these notices will appear before the NIA as a mark of protest.”The farm unions had raised the issue of NIA summoning those who have supported agitation with three Union ministers — Narendra Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash — during the ninth round of talks on January 15.According to a press statement by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had “promised to look into the matter”.“Despite this, the notices given to the agitators even today is shameless, it shows insensitivity of the government. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemns act of serving these notices. In the coming days, legal action will also be taken against these notices,” the unions said in a statement.The farm unions representing tens of thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, who have launched a mass agitation around the national capital, are demanding that the government scrap three laws approved by Parliament in September.The laws are aimed at freeing agricultural markets from government restrictions, which the farmers say will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.Tomar on Sunday said most farmers are in favour of laws. “A majority of farmers in the country support the laws. We will find a solution through talks,” he told reporters.As HT had reported first, the NIA had issued summonses to over two dozen people associated with farmers’ protests on January 15, asking them to appear before it in Delhi in connecting with its probe related to funding of Khalistanis abroad for organising on-ground campaigns and demonstrations outside Indian missions in the UK, the US, Canada, Germany and other countries.The probe also focuses on use of several NGOs for funding the Khalistani campaigns, particularly spearheaded by banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).The agency officials say the persons called for examination have been issued notices as “witnesses” to clarify certain aspects regarding the probe. HT had first reported about the new case regarding Khalistani conspiracy registered on December 15, 2020 in the midst of farmers’ protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-using-nia-to-harass-us-with-notices-nobody-will-appear-before-nia-farm-unions-say-101610878603911.html
17-01-2021||India||Govt willing to address farmers' apprehensions, says agriculture minister||The government has sent a proposal to protesting farmer unions in which it has agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis, and traders' registration among other things, said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday."We had sent a proposal to farmer unions in which we agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis and traders' registration among other things. The government has also agreed to discuss laws on stubble burning and electricity but unions only want the repeal of the laws," Tomar told ANI.He reiterated that the government is ready to bring amendments in the laws, and added that laws are enacted for the whole country and many people in the country are happy with the laws."The farmer unions are not budging from their stance, they are constantly asking to repeal the laws. When the government enacts the law, it is for the whole country. Most of the farmers, scholars, scientists, and people working in the agriculture sector agree with these laws," he stated.The Minister added that with the Supreme Court's intervention there is no point in farmers' demand about repealing the laws."If the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of laws, then I think the question of repealing ends. We expect farmers to discuss the laws clause by clause on January 19 and give us options about what amendments can be brought in the laws other than repealing," he stated further.On January 12, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Centre's three farm laws and asked the committee formed by it concerning the laws to submit its report within two months.The committee has been directed to hold a dialogue with farmers and submit its recommendations pertaining to the farm laws within two months from the date of its first sitting.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-willing-to-address-farmers-apprehensions-says-agriculture-minister-101610878158422.html
17-01-2021||India||Hike StickerChat shuts down. Here's all you need to know||Indian messaging app Hike StickerChat has shut down and is not available on Google PlayStore and Apple's App Store. Hike StickerChat's chief executive officer Kavin Bharti Mittal had announced the shutdown of its operation on January 6. "Today we're announcing that we will be sunsetting StickerChat in Jan'21. We thank you all for giving us your trust. We wouldn’t be here without you. All your data will be available to download in the app," Mittal had tweeted.On January 14, the artificial intelligence-powered Indian unicorn had also tweeted about the shutdown of the app and had said, "The time has finally come for us to bid farewell to Hike Sticker Chat. Thank you for your love, trust and support. Our relationship with you means the world to us, and so we are looking forward to seeing you on our new and exciting apps."The company had also issued a statement to its users asking them to export their chats from the platform by 11:59pm on January 14, 2021. "You can continue to reach us on care@hike.in for any issues till 15th Feb 2021," the statement said.The Bharti Enterprises-owned homegrown app had been a rival of WhatsApp in the Indian messaging ecosystem. The news of its shutdown comes amidst the privacy row concerning WhatsApp that has driven users to other apps like Signal and Telegram. Mittal had also said Indian messaging apps can't compete with the likes of Telegram and Signal unless the country bans western companies.India won’t have its own messenger. Global network effects are too strong (unless India bans Western companies)@telegram UX, Groups better than @signalappBoth are very good. As entities they have the right incentives (more aligned with consumers) unlike FB products.While the reason for the shutdown is not known, Mittal has introduced Hike's new products for 2021 - Rush and Vibe (earlier known as HikeLand). Rush will be a bite-sized gaming platform that will have games like carrom and ludo, whereas HikeLand has evolved to Vibe that is now an approval only community platform, that means users will have to apply to join the service.Mittal also credited Hike StickerChat for being the launchpad of its various platforms with million users actively using the app for an average of 35 minutes per day.Also Read | WhatsApp defers new policy on info sharingThe users of the app have been upset with the latest development and expressed displeasure by writing reviews on Hike's other products on PlayStore. "I have been using Hike since its launch. I will really miss the Hike and its interface. It was very good and one of the most loved applications for chat," said one of the users, "Feeling sad for its shutdown," he added.Marquee investors like Tencent and Bharti Enterprises have infused capital in the company. Till date, Hike has raised around $261 million, as per the Crunchbase data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hike-stickerchat-shuts-down-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101610877153823.html
17-01-2021||India||Footfall to Taj Mahal dropped by 76 pc in 2020 due to Covid-19 situation||The footfall of tourists to Taj Mahal fell drastically by 76 per cent in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation.The international tourism one of the 'Wonders of the World', Taj Mahal, has dropped down to less than one per cent in the year 2020 due to worldwide Covid situation."In comparison to 2019, the tourists' footfall to Taj Mahal fell by 76 per cent in 2020. This is applicable in every sector. Around 7,37,000 foreign tourists visited the monument in 2019 while only 1,82,000 visited in 2020. In case of domestic tourists, around 48,35,000 people visited the monument in 2019 while merely 11,34,000 visited in the year 2020," told Vasant Kumar Swarnkar, Superintending Archaeologist.While explaining the reasons for a reduction in the number of tourists visiting Taj Mahal, he said: "The monument remained closed for a long time- March 17, 2020, to September 21, 2020. Later on capping and suspension of international flights due to pandemic led to a loss of tourism. However, I think that 24 per cent of tourists still visiting the place in such adverse conditions is a positive aspect."The livelihood of people who are dependent on the Taj Mahal has also hit hard."Our business which is majorly dependent on foreign tourists has been hit hard. In a way, we are unemployed now. The monument remained closed for about 6 months during 2020," Nitin Singh, a guide at Taj Mahal, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/footfall-to-taj-mahal-dropped-by-76-pc-in-2020-due-to-covid-19-situation-101610877961083.html
17-01-2021||India||Bike ambulance developed by CRPF, DRDO set to launch tomorrow||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS), DRDO, have developed 'RAKSHITA' - a bike ambulance to attend urgent evacuation needs of security force personnel in event of a medical emergency or battle injury in conflict zones. It will be launched tomorrow in Delhi.Sources claimed that these bikes will give assistance to CRPF jawans and paramedics in case of any injuries during encounters. "These bikes will be more useful in areas like Bijapur, Sukma, Dantewada etc., as it is tough for the force to take big vehicles or ambulances inside the jungle," a CRPF official said.The bike has been developed after the CRPF noticed a need for such bikes to reach fast to the narrow roads in tensed areas, especially in the Naxalite zones. There have been instances where medical facilities couldn't reach on time and a delay in medical assistance ended up making the patients' situation more critical.The INMAS works in the area of biomedical and clinical research with reference to radiation, neurocognitive imaging and research. It functions under the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), it is the Research and Development (R&D) wing of Ministry of Defence Government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bike-ambulance-developed-by-crpf-drdo-set-to-launch-tomorrow-101610876803470.html
17-01-2021||India||India gives Nepal 'iron clad' commitment on Covid-19 vaccine, supply schedule coming week||The Narendra Modi government has given iron clad assurances to Nepal that it will be among the first countries to receive India developed twin Covid-19 vaccines, supply schedule of which will be announced in the coming week. This assurance was conveyed to Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali during his visit to New Delhi for the Joint Commission Meeting with external affairs minister Subramanyam Jaishankar.While the political detractors of Nepal Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli has portrayed Gyawali’s visit as a damp squib, fact is that interlocutors of Nepalese foreign minister in New Delhi were impressed by his professionalism and sobriety with which he approached the bilateral relationship. Gyawali could not meet PM Modi as the Indian PM was totally involved in the launch of Covid-19 vaccines on January 16, according to top government sources. It was only due to PM’s prior commitments that Gyawali was received by defence minister Rajnath Singh, who is number two in the Modi government.It is understood that India will be taking care of emergency requirements of its friends by supply vaccines for restricted use to priority neighbourhood countries like Bhutan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Maldives apart from Nepal with supply schedule being worked out now.According to government interlocutors, Gyawali briefed EAM Jaishankar about the preparedness in Nepal to receive the Indian vaccine with Nepal regulator granting approval during the foreign dignitary visit. The two countries are now on way to discuss training of medical modules, who will vaccinate Nepalese front line workers during the restricted use period. Nepal has a total of 2,67,056 Covid-19 cases with as many as 1,954 persons losing their lives to the pandemic, which had origins in China.During Gyawali’s visit the two sides agreed to gradually open the air and land route connectivity, which had been hit by the pandemic. The two countries agreed to expedite the field location survey related to the Raxaul-Kathmandu railway line.While India-Nepal decided to deepen defence cooperation by closer military to military cooperation, Rajnath Singh also offered to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief training and capacity building to the Oli Government.“There were no acrimonious notes during Gyawali’s visit with the visitor taking a very responsible view of the bilateral relationship,” said one of the officials present in the bilateral meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gives-nepal-iron-clad-commitment-on-covid-19-vaccine-101610875404714.html
17-01-2021||India||With 4 queries and a jibe, Congress continues to question govt over vaccines||The Congress party on Sunday threw four questions at the government over its vaccine policy and pointed out that vaccinations are an "important public service and not a political or business opportunity". Among the four questions were issues regarding the prices of the Covishield and Covaxin doses and the Centre's decision to allow the exports of one of the vaccines before immunising everyone in the country."Vaccine Development & Mass Immunization were neither Events' or Publicity Stunts but important milestones in the service of the people'. While the country stands united in providing immunization against Corona Virus to our Frontline Corona Warriors' i.e. Doctors, Health Workers, Police Personnel & others, let remember that vaccinations are an important Public Service and not a Political or Business Opportunity," senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a statement released on Twitter.While India stands united in providing immunisation against Corona Virus to our Frontline Corona Warriors i.e. Doctors,Health Workers,Police Personnel & others, lets remember that vaccinations are an important Public Service & not a Political or Business Opportunity!Statement-: pic.twitter.com/qKnV46lHHQThe opposition party has been critical of the government with senior Congress leader Manish Tewari and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan sparring on Twitter on Saturday, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the country's mammoth inoculation drive. Tewari had raised questions over the emergency use approval given to the indigenously-developed vaccine Covaxin and Vardhan hitting back alleging that the Congress leader was only passionate about spreading rumours.Before that, senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor had also raised concerns over India's drugs regulator's nod to the restricted use of Bharat Biotech's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In response to the criticism, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had then hit out at Congress with party president JP Nadda alleging that whenever India achieves something commendable the opposition party comes up with "wild theories" to "ridicule" the accomplishments.Also read | 10 Indian states with the highest Covid-19 vaccine beneficiariesOn Sunday, Surjewala said PM Modi and the government need to answer important questions. "Who will get Free Corona Vaccine? How many people will get Free Corona Vaccine? Where will you get Free Corona Vaccine?" he asked as he pointed out the government's order for the vaccine doses will be inadequate.The Congress party's general secretary also asked why should the government pay ₹95 more to Bharat Biotech for a vaccine that has been "developed with the expertise & experience of scientists of Govt owned ICMR". "Why should Modi Govt pay more for a vaccine that has only been tested on 755 individuals & is yet to be cleared after Phase II trials. Should the price of such a vaccine not be cheaper than the AstraZeneca-Serum Institute?" he questioned.Surjewala then came to the price of Serum Institute's vaccine in the open market as he cited the chief executive of the Pune-based company Adar Poonawalla saying that they will sell Covishield for ₹1,000/dose in the open market or "2,000/dose for 2 doses required for every individual." "Isn't Modi Govt duty bound to ensure purchase of all "Covishield Doses' at 200/dose and enable the people to purchase at this price rather than 1,000/dose? When AstraZeneca has promised supply of vaccine "at no profit", why is Serum Institute being permitted to charge 1,000/dose, when they are supplying to Govt at 200/dose? he asked further.Also read | In India, the story of Covid-19 vaccinesThe last question was on the government's permission to SII to allow the export of its vaccine "without immunisation of India's population". "Corona Vaccine For All should be the stated policy of Modi Govt.However, Modi Govt's approach on Free Vaccination or alternatively Cost of Vaccination', Cost to Exchequer', Profit Margins of Companies' etc for India's remaining 135 Crore people is completely opaque and shrouded in secrecy," Surjwewala said."Time for Prime Minister. Shri Narendra Modi & his Govt to come forward and answer," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-4-queries-and-a-jibe-congress-continues-to-question-govt-over-vaccines-101610874525803.html
17-01-2021||India||Govt willing to address apprehensions of protesting farmers: Agri minister||The government has sent a proposal to protesting farmer unions in which it has agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis, and traders' registration among other things, said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday."We had sent a proposal to farmer unions in which we agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis and traders' registration among other things. The government has also agreed to discuss laws on stubble burning and electricity but unions only want the repeal of the laws," Tomar told ANI.He reiterated that the government is ready to bring amendments in the laws, and added that laws are enacted for the whole country and many people in the country are happy with the laws."The farmer unions are not budging from their stance, they are constantly asking to repeal the laws. When the government enacts the law, it is for the whole country. Most of the farmers, scholars, scientists, and people working in the agriculture sector agree with these laws," he stated.The Minister added that with the Supreme Court's intervention there is no point in farmers' demand about repealing the laws."If the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of laws, then I think the question of repealing ends. We expect farmers to discuss the laws clause by clause on January 19 and give us options about what amendments can be brought in the laws other than repealing," he stated further.On January 12, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Centre's three farm laws and asked the committee formed by it concerning the laws to submit its report within two months.The committee has been directed to hold a dialogue with farmers and submit its recommendations pertaining to the farm laws within two months from the date of its first sitting.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-willing-to-address-apprehensions-of-protesting-farmers-agri-minister-101610874048147.html
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi pays tribute to MGR, inaugurates Chennai-Kevadiya train in election year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday flagged off trains to the statue of unity in Gujarat, from eight places across the country including Chennai, and paid glowing tributes to former Tamil Nadu chief minister M G Ramachandran on his 104th birth anniversary.Modi inaugurated the Chennai-Kevadiya Superfast Weekly Special Train from the Puratchi Thailavar Dr MGR Chennai Central railway station via video-conferencing.The PM paid tributes to former Tamil Nadu chief minister and ADMK founder (later AIADMK) M G Ramachandran (MGR) on his 104th birth anniversary, which also falls on Sunday, while inaugurating the train. "It is a pleasant coincidence that today is the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna MGR. His life was dedicated to the service of the poor," Modi said. “We all are working towards fulfilling his dreams.”Modi had announced at a public meeting in Chennai in March 2019 that the Chennai Central railway station would be renamed after MGR following a request by the AIADMK-led government.Modi also tweeted his wishes in Tamil and English today, on MGR’s birth anniversary. "Bharat Ratna MGR lives in the hearts of several people. Be it the world of films or politics, he was widely respected. During his tenures as the CM, he made numerous efforts towards poverty alleviation and also emphasised on women empowerment. Tributes to MGR on his Jayanti," his tweet read.Meanwhile, political leaders in Tamil Nadu, including chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, AMMK chief TTV Dhinakaran and MNM founder Kamal Haasan paid tributes to MGR's statue in the city. Tamil Nadu goes to assembly polls in April-May this year and the AIADMK-BJP alliance, formed ahead of the 2019 parliamentary elections, will continue in the state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-mgr-inaugurates-chennai-kevadiya-train-in-election-year-101610873320854.html
17-01-2021||India||Kolkata-bound Indigo flight makes emergency landing in Bhopal||A Surat-Kolkata IndiGo airlines flight with 172 passengers on board made an emergency landing at Bhopal airport due to some technical issue, an official said on Sunday."An IndiGo flight, which was going from Surat to Kolkata, was diverted to Bhopal and made an emergency landing due to technical reason today," the Director of Bhopal Airport said.He added that no one was injured in the incident the flight landed safely at the airport with 172 passengers on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkatabound-indigo-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-bhopal-101610872986105.html
17-01-2021||India||Congress claims India is paying more for Covishield doses, opposes export plan||A day after India began its emergency vaccination drive of inoculating its frontline workers at free of cost in the first phase, the Congress accused the government of spending more for Covid-19 vaccines. Issuing a statement, the party said Covishield, as the vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India is known, costs ₹200 per dose. However, Belgium is getting the vaccine at ₹158 per dose, the party said, quoting an article of The Guardian."Astrazeneca earlier said that it would supply the vaccine at no profit. Then why is the government of India paying ₹200 for Astrazeaca vaccine to Serum Institute of India?" party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked.Will the Modi govt tell the nation why India is paying a higher price than other countries for the same vaccine? A vaccine that has been produced in India. #FreeVaccineforAll pic.twitter.com/WWY1X6S85gThe Congress has also questioned the government why it is paying more to Bharat Biotech which developed the vaccine, Covaxin, with the expertise and experience of the scientists of Indian Council of Medical Research."Why should the Modi government pay ₹95 more to Bharat Biotech for a vaccine that has only been tested on 755 individuals and is yet to be cleared after Phase III trials? Should the price of such a vaccine not be cheaper than the AstraZeneca-Serum Institute?" the party asked.Also Read: 10 Indian states with the highest Covid-19 vaccine beneficiariesOpposing the government's plan to allow the export of the vaccines, the Congress said the government should not export vaccines without immunising the entire population of the country.Congress also sought clarification on how the rest of the people would be vaccinated. Several states, including Bihar, Kerala, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, have announced free vaccines to its people, while the Centre is sponsoring the vaccination of the priority groups. The Centre is yet to spell out any modality for the procurement of vaccines for common people. Asking whether the common people will have to pay ₹2,000 for two doses of the vaccines, Randeep Surjewala said, "If 100 Crore people end up paying ₹1,600 extra for the vaccine, the cost would come to a whopping ₹1,60,000 Crores. Has the Govt even considered this as also other questions being raised in the public domain?"The Drug Controller General of India granted restricted, emergency use authorization to Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both the vaccines are at the third stage of the trial. Covishield's efficacy data is available, while Covaxin still doesn't have efficacy data, which already triggered a political battle of barbs.India is procuring 110 lakh doses of Covishield at the cost of ₹200 per dose. But this is a special price for the government, the Serum Institute of India has said. Though it has not yet declared any final price of the vaccine at which the doses will be available for common people, the price will definitely be more than ₹200, somewhere around ₹400-500, CEO Adar Poonawalla had hinted.As it comes to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the Centre is procuring 38.5 lakh doses at a rate of ₹295. But as Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh vaccines doses free, the cost per dose comes at ₹206. For common people, it is likely to cost ₹295 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-claims-india-is-paying-more-for-covishield-doses-opposes-export-plan-101610872666822.html
17-01-2021||India||Ram temple trust has received around ₹100 crore donation, says Champat Rai||Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra has received a donation around ₹100 crores, said General Secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust Champat Rai on Sunday.While speaking to ANI, Rai said, "The data has not reached to the headquarters till now but we have got a report from our karyakartas, that they have received a donation for around ₹100 crores for this noble cause."The Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust is conducting a mass contact and contribution campaign for the construction of the grand temple in Ayodhya which began on January 15 and will go on till February 27.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust was set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict on November 9, 2021, for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya.In response to the questions raised regarding the donation made by the President of India Ram Nath Kovind for the construction of Ram Temple, Rai said that there is nothing wrong with it."He is an Indian and soul of India is Ram. So anybody who is capable can make offers in this noble cause," he said.President Ramnath Kovind on Friday donated ₹5,00,100 as a contribution towards the construction of Ram Temple in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya.A Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) delegation including its International Working President Alok Kumar, RSS leader Kulbhushan Ahuja, the treasurer of Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Trust Govind Dev Giri and temple construction committee head Nripendra Mishra met President at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on January 15.Champat Rai also informed that Ram temple construction has been started and it would be finished in-around 39 months, most likely before 2024.According to the trust, the temple will be built by adhering to the country's ancient and traditional construction techniques. It will also be built in a manner to sustain earthquakes, storms, and other natural calamities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Ayodhya on August 5 to attend the 'Bhoomi pujan' at the Ram Janmbhoomi site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-trust-has-received-around-rs-100-crore-donation-says-champat-rai-101610872453419.html
17-01-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir to get more snow due to Western Disturbance, says IMD||Reeling under intense cold, Jammu and Kashmir is expected to be hit by another wet weather system from January 22, meteorological officials said.They said a Western Disturbance and the winds from the Mediterranean are most likely to affect Jammu and Kashmir and Kargil district of Ladakh between January 22nd and 25th.Director MeT, Sonam Lotus said that the disturbances will result in fairly widespread light to moderate snowfall and rains in the plains of Jammu during the period with main activity on January 24th."This system is much weaker than the previous one. So we expect precipitation of lower intensity compared to the previous one," said Lotus.Many parts of the UT received widespread and heavy snowfall from January 3 to January 8, resulting in the closing of the Srinagar-Jammu highway and affecting air traffic for days together.After the precipitation, the Kashmir valley has been reeling under intense cold, leading to the freezing of water bodies and snowed roads and fields.Lotus said that Srinagar, the summer capital of J&K, recorded a minimum temperature of -8.4 deg C on 14th January which broke the previous record of -8.3 deg C registered 25 years ago in 1995."There was complete freezing of the Dal Lake with kids playing on the frozen lake, which happened after almost three decades," he said.The weather office said that the coldest place in the valley on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday was Qazigund in south Kashmir, where the mercury plunged to minus 9 degree Celsius, around 5.7 notches below normal.The ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded minus 4. 2 degrees C while the temperature went to minus 8.7 degrees C in the tourist resort of Pahalgam.“The summer capital of Srinagar froze at minus 7.6 degree C, some 5.5 degrees lower than the normal,” said Mohammad Hussain Mir, a meteorologist of MeT centre in Srinagar.Jammu division’s Bhaderwah and Batote regions recorded temperatures of 1.5 degrees C and 4.2 degrees C, respectively.In the union territory of Ladakh, Leh registered a temperature of minus 12.1 degrees C while Kargil was even colder at minus 17.4 degrees C. The coldest place in the country, Drass, recorded a bone chilling minus 25.6 degrees C temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-to-get-more-snow-due-to-western-disturbance-says-imd-101610872255521.html
17-01-2021||India||Shah to Cong: 'Why didn't you give ₹6,000 per year to farmers when in power?'||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday continued his attack on the Congress over the farm laws and asked why didn't the party give ₹6,000 per year to farmers when it was in power."I would like to ask Congress leaders who are talking in favour of farmers, why didn't you give ₹6,000 per year to farmers or made Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana or amended ethanol policy when you were in power? Because your intention was not right," Shah said while addressing a public rally in Bagalkot district of Karnataka.Shah said the Narendra Modi government is committed to working for the welfare of the farmers."The three farm laws will help farmers' income increase manifold. Now farmers can sell agriculture produce anywhere in the country and the world," he added.The farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws for more than seven weeks, have said the government is dragging things so that they get tired and leave the protest site."For almost two months, we are suffering and dying in cold weather. The government is giving us 'tarikh pe tarikh' and are dragging things so that we get tired and leave the place. This is their conspiracy," said Hannan Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).The government has sent a proposal to protesting farmer unions in which it has agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis, and traders' registration among other things, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said earlier in the day."We had sent a proposal to farmer unions in which we agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis and traders' registration among other things. The government has also agreed to discuss laws on stubble burning and electricity but unions only want the repeal of the laws," Tomar told ANI.He reiterated that the government is ready to bring amendments in the laws, and added that laws are enacted for the whole country and many people in the country are happy with the laws."The farmer unions are not budging from their stance, they are constantly asking to repeal the laws. When the government enacts the law, it is for the whole country. Most of the farmers, scholars, scientists, and people working in the agriculture sector agree with these laws," he stated.Tomar added that with the Supreme Court's intervention there is no point in farmers' demand about repealing the laws."If the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of laws, then I think the question of repealing ends. We expect farmers to discuss the laws clause by clause on January 19 and give us options about what amendments can be brought in the laws other than repealing," he stated further.On January 12, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Centre's three farm laws and asked the committee formed by it concerning the laws to submit its report within two months.The committee has been directed to hold a dialogue with farmers and submit its recommendations pertaining to the farm laws within two months from the date of its first sitting.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-to-cong-why-didn-t-you-give-rs-6-000-per-year-to-farmers-when-in-power-101610870677717.html
17-01-2021||India||Congress, LF leaders hold seat-sharing talks in poll-bound West Bengal||Senior leaders of the Congress and the CPI(M)-led Left Front met here on Sunday and held discussions on seat sharing and other poll-related preparations, sources in two camps said.During the 2016 state elections, too, the two parties had stitched an alliance and bagged 76 of the 294 assembly seats.State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury, following the meeting, said talks on seat-sharing between the two sides are likely to conclude by the end of the month."We have agreed to contest the polls together. We had a positive discussion... and there is no disagreement..." Chowdhury, who is also the Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, said.Echoing him, Left Front chairman Biman Bose said the two parties will hold more such discussions before they arrive at a decision on seat-sharing.Among others, Left Front veteran Suryakant Mishra and Congress leader Abdul Mannan were present at the meeting.According to the sources, the parties are likely to hold a mega joint rally in the city sometime soon.Elections to the 294-member Bengal assembly are likely to be held in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-lf-leaders-hold-seat-sharing-talks-in-poll-bound-west-bengal-101610871083810.html
17-01-2021||India||Family of Hyderabad woman confined in UAE seeks Centre's help for repatriation||A woman, who has allegedly been confined in the UAE for the past several years, has sought the help from the Central government seeking her repatriation, said the nephew of the woman on Saturday evening.Speaking to ANI, Mohammed Kabeer, nephew of victim Maryam said, "My aunt Maryam Begum went missing from Hyderabad when she was working with Mohammed Hussain, a travel agent in 1983. My mother kept searching and asking about her whereabouts but the efforts went in vain. She was not in touch with the family for 27 years, but in 2010 through one of my aunts, we could trace her then. She got in touch with my mother Shajahan.""Later when we spoke to her, we found out that she was forcefully married to a UAE national in 1983 who had later disowned her and is now forced to work as a housemaid in Fujairah in the UAE. She is native to Mahbubnagar in Telangana. After marriage, she was living in Ras Al Khaimah in the UAE and later moved to Fujairah in the UAE where she is forced to work as a housemaid for her livelihood," he added."She cannot come back to India as her agent-husband did not give her passport or any other identification proofs. She tried to reach out for help many times but is not successful yet. We seek help from the Government of India for repatriation," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-of-hyderabad-woman-confined-in-uae-seeks-centre-s-help-for-repatriation-101610870306443.html
17-01-2021||India||'Strength of terrorists in Kashmir valley lowest in decade': Top army commander||Lieutenant General BS Raju, the General officer in Command of the Chinar Corps in Kashmir, said on Sunday that the present strength of terrorists in the Valley is lowest in the last decade. He also accused Pakistan of instigating the youth from Kashmir valley into terrorism by various means.ALSO WATCH | 'Terrorists' strength in Kashmir...': Army officer on Pakistan, drones, tunnelsLieutenant General BS Raju, the General officer in Command of the Chinar Corps in Kashmir, said on Sunday that the present strength of terrorists in the Valley is lowest in the last decade. He also accused Pakistan of instigating the youth from Kashmir valley into terrorism by various means."Terrorists' recruitment in 2020 was fairly in control, especially when compared to 2018. The present strength of terrorists in the Valley is 217 which is lowest in the last decade," Lt Gen Raju told news agency ANI."Pakistan remains the key instigator to push youth towards terrorism by various means. It has attracted many youths for studies. But along the way, a few have been indoctrinated. Some of them have trained and sent back through the Line of Control (LoC) as part of infiltrating columns as well as through the international border. Terrorists from Pakistan target our security forces and civilians within the Valley in crowded areas," he further said.The Army officer said that India has been able to reduced infiltration by over 70 per cent in comparison to last year. "On the LoC, we remain in full control and are prepared for all contingencies," Lt Gen Raju said.He said that the Pakistan's desire to send weapons and drugs through drones and tunnels is definitely a challenge. On Wednesday, Indian security forces discovered a tunnel built by Pakistani security officials - second such tunnel to be discovered since November - in the Kathua district near the Zero Line.The three-feet wide tunnel was constructed at a depth of 25 to 30 feet.On Army Day on January 15, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane had said that 300 to 400 terrorists were present in terror training camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and waiting to sneak into India.He said the army’s operations along the LoC not only caused heavy losses to the enemy but also thwarted a large number of infiltration attempts. He said the army killed a total of 200 terrorists at the LoC and in counter-terror operations in the hinterland.He also gave a blunt message to China, saying India was committed to resolving the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) through talks but no one should test India’s patience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strength-of-terrorists-in-kashmir-valley-lowest-in-decade-top-army-commander-101610869898580.html
17-01-2021||India||Section 144 of CrPC imposed in parts of Bhopal||Restrictions under Section 144 of CrPC have been imposed in Hanuman Ganj, Teela Jamalpura and Gautam Nagar police stations in Bhopal as district administration aims to prevent communal clash over a property dispute, Avinash Lavania, District Collector of Bhopal said on Sunday.Speaking to ANI, Lavania said, "Two families belonging to different communities were fighting a case over a property dispute for years. The verdict of the court is expected to be pronounced today and it is most likely to favour one community. So, to avoid any form of clash, we have imposed restrictions under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in Hanuman Ganj, Teela Jamalpura and Gautam Nagar areas in Bhopal."Irshad Wali, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) in Bhopal told ANI, "Hanuman Ganj, Teela Jamalpura and Gautam Nagar police stations in Bhopal have been informed about the restrictions. Section 144 will stay into place until further orders."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-144-of-crpc-imposed-in-parts-of-bhopal-101610869054920.html
17-01-2021||India||BSP welcomes Covid-19 vaccination drive, says poor should be prioritised||Welcoming nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive launched on Saturday, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) National Spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria on Sunday said poor people should be prioritised during inoculation."Corona crisis has been hitting the people of India and the world very hard. We welcome the corona vaccination drive. However, we must remember that India has a population of over 125 crores and 50 per cent of the people live around the poverty line. These are the people who deserve to be treated in priority and they should be vaccinated so that India as a nation together can march forward and progress," Bhadoria told ANI.Talking about allegations made by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee that fewer vaccines were sent to her state, the BSP leader said politics should not be done over vaccines."This kind of politics should not be done. I think all should be treated equally whether they are coming from the BJP-ruled states or Opposition-ruled states. There should be no distinction in this matter," Bhadoria stated.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday rolled out the world's largest vaccination drive against the COVID-19 pandemic that has caused 1,52,093 deaths and affected millions of lives in the country.The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said no case of post-vaccination hospitalisation has been reported so far and the drive was successful. Sanitation workers were the first to get the shots in Delhi and some other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-welcomes-covid-19-vaccination-drive-says-poor-should-be-prioritised-101610868387869.html
17-01-2021||India||EPFO settles 56.79 lakh Covid-19 advance claims, releases over ₹14,000 crore till December||Retirement fund body EPFO has settled 56.79 lakh Covid-19 non-refundable advance claims, and has disbursed ₹14,310 crore till December 31, 2020, reflecting the adverse impact of the pandemic on the formal sector workforce.When the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed in March, the central government had allowed over 6 crore subscribers of the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation's (EPFO) to withdraw an amount not exceeding their three months basic pay and dearness allowance from their EPF account, to support them during the nationwide lockdown."The EPFO has settled 56.79 lakh Covid-19 withdrawal claims and disbursed ₹14,310 crore to subscribers during the pandemic till December 31, 2020," a source said.According to the source, the EPFO has settled 197.91 lakh claims related to final settlement, death, insurance, advance claims and disbursed ₹73,288 crore till December 31, 2020.The amount of disbursals under Covid-19 claims to subscribers is a sizable amount of over one fifth of the total disbursement during the period by the EPFO.According to the source, the quantum of the disbursement amount under the Covid-19 claims reflects the stress among the formal sector workers due to the adverse impact of the pandemic, which resulted in job loss, pay cuts and forced migration etc.The Centre introduced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) on March 26, to provide aid to the economically weaker sections in view of the pandemic.The government announced a provision for withdrawal from the EPF Scheme, providing for non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of basic wages and DA for three months or up to 75 per cent of the amount standing to member's credit in the EPF account, whichever is less.Further, private EPF trusts also settled 4.19 lakh Covid-19 claims and disbursed ₹3,983 crore to the members to provide liquidity to meet the exigencies due to pandemic, the source said.Private EPF trusts manage the fund as well as EPF accounts of their members themselves. These firms are exempted from filing EPF returns to the EPFO. These are regulated by the EPFO.During the pandemic, the EPFO came out with innovative measures like auto-settlement mode and multi-location claim settlement to ensure settlement of Covid-19 claims within three days despite restrictions on full deployment of staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/epfo-settles-56-79-lakh-covid-19-advance-claims-releases-over-rs-14-000-crore-till-december-101610867531236.html
17-01-2021||India||No assembly, physical activity: Delhi schools to reopen on Monday after lockdown||After being shut for 10 months since March 19, government, government-aided/unaided schools in Delhi will reopen from tomorrow only for the students of Class 10 and 12. The decision to reopen school was taken early this month, after months of putting it off while the government consulted with guardians, school authorities etc.The Centre had allowed the reopening of schools from September 21, 2020, for the first time after lockdown. States decided whether to reopen schools or not according to their Covid-19 situation.1. Only students of class 10 and 12 are allowed to visit schools with parental consent.2. A record of the students coming to school will be maintained, but that will not be for attendance purpose as coming to school is voluntary.3. Schools inside containment zones will not be allowed to reopen and students, teachers from such areas won't be allowed to come to schools.4. There will be no assembly or physical outdoor activities.Also Read: 829 teachers, 575 students test Covid +ve after schools reopen in Andhra5. All standard social-distancing guidelines, including staggard entry and exit, are to be followed.6. As the Delhi government is reopening schools only keeping in mind the pre-board exams, teachers will guide students regarding those.7. Online classes will continue for those who are staying at home.8. There will be two shifts if required depending on the number of students attending classes.Also Read: Schools in Mumbai to remain shut for now9. There will be no transport offered by the school authorities.10. Class 10 students will have their pre-boards between March 20 and April 15. Class 12 students will have their pre-boards from April 1 to 15.CBSE Board exams will start fro, May 4 and will be over by June 10. Results will be announced by July 15.Guidelines for labs> Only 12 to 15 students will be allowed to be inside the laboratories at the same time. Lab time table has to be approved by the directorate of education, the government of NCT of Delhi.> The same set of students must be grouped together to minimise contact among students.> Hand sanitisation must in laboratories.Kerala, which is still reporting over 5,000 new Covid-19 infections daily, has reopened schools in the first week. Maharashtra, another worst-hit state, will open schools from junior classes (Classes 5 to 8) from January 27. Classes for senior students have already resumed in the state.States which have reopened physical classes have reported some infections among teachers.After schools reopened in November in Andhra Pradesh, about 575 students and 829 teachers were infected.Karnataka too has reported at least 236 infections among teaching and non-teaching staff in January.Madhya Pradesh has reported positive cases among students as at least 10 class 12 girls of a government-run school in Shahpur tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopening-delhi-schools-to-reopen-on-january-18-after-10-months-check-details-101610868203895.html
17-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: US says China 'systematically prevented' probe into Covid-19 origins||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China 'systematically prevented' probe into Covid-19 origins, says US as WHO team begins workThe United States State Department has released a fact sheet on the activity at Institute of Virology in China's Wuhan, the city where the outbreak was first reported late last year. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Washington Sundar becomes third Indian to achieve unique featAt the start of the series, it did not look like Washington Sundar will get a chance in the Test series. Read moreApple foldable iPhone: Company tests flexible Samsung screen but with its own techWe have already heard a lot about the ‘Foldable iPhone’. As per recent rumours, the firm seems to be testing two kinds of foldable designs as well. While one has a Samsung Galaxy Fold design, the other prototype has a Galaxy Z Flip folding design. Read moreFabulous Lives' Neelam Kothari, Maheep Kapoor, Seema Khan and Bhavana Pandey are in Rajasthan: 'The squad's back'The stars of Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives - Bhavana Pandey, Neelam Kothari Soni, Maheep Kapoor and Seema Khan - are in Rajasthan and in work mode. All of them shared pictures and videos from the tourist hotspot, Jodhpur. They have gathered there to shoot for the second season of their hit Netflix show. Read moreMom gets puppy as gift, her reaction is too cute to handle. WatchAn adorable video which shows the reaction of a woman after meeting her tiny new puppy for the first time has created a buzz online. Shared on Reddit, the video is all about love and happiness. Read moreNew bride Gauahar Khan slays comfy athleisure look in chic sweater and pyjamasThe newlywed couple Gauahar Khan and Zaid Darbar have been posting a lot of adorable images with each other and their families on social media since they tied the knot in December. Gauahar, who was recently seen in Tandav has been sharing about the way she is spending time after marriage with her fans, it involves a lot of shooting and family time. Read moreWatch: Rhino strays into a residential area in Assam’s NagaonA rhinoceros was spotted in a residential area in Assam on January 16. The rhinoceros had entered a residential area of Kaliabor in Nagaon district. The rhinoceros is suspected to have strayed out from Kaziranga National. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-us-says-china-systematically-prevented-probe-into-covid-19-origins-101610865551185.html
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi pays tribute to MGR on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to the former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu MG Ramachandran on his birth anniversary on Sunday.While addressing an event where he flagged off eight trains connecting different regions of the country to Kevadiya with an aim to facilitate seamless connectivity to the Statue of Unity in Gujarat, PM Modi said that one of the trains flagged off for Kevadia today originates at Puratchi Thalaivar Dr MG Ramachandran Central Railway Station in Chennai."It is a pleasant coincidence that today is the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna MGR. His life was dedicated to the service of the poor," he said."We all are working towards fulfilling his dreams," he added."I bow in front of Bharat Ratna MGR," PM Modi said paying tribute to him on his birth anniversary.The Prime Minister also took to Twitter and paid his tributes to the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister."Bharat Ratna MGR lives in the hearts of several people. Be it the world of films or politics, he was widely respected. During his CM tenures, he initiated numerous efforts towards poverty alleviation and also emphasised on women empowerment. Tributes to MGR on his Jayanti," his tweet read.MG Ramachandran was the founder of AIADMK and served as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu for ten years between 1977 and 1987. MGR was posthumously awarded the Bharat Ratna in 1988.Assembly polls are due in Tamil Nadu in April-May 2021. The ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has announced to contest the 2021 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in alliance with the BJP. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-mgr-on-his-birth-anniversary-101610867126488.html
17-01-2021||India||Use of regional languages in Rajya Sabha rises five-fold||The use of regional languages in the proceedings of Rajya Sabha has increased manifold times during 2018-2020 with Sanskrit emerging as the fifth widely used among the 22 scheduled languages after Hindi, Telugu, Urdu and Tamil.Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has been regularly urging the members of the House on use of regional languages during the proceedings.According to a research done by the Rajya Sabha secretariat, while Hindi and English are the widely used languages during the proceedings of the House, the use of 21 other scheduled Indian languages (other than Hindi) has increased to over five times (512 per cent) per sitting in 2020 over that of the 14-year period between 2004 and 2017.During this period, four languages - Dogri, Kashmiri, Konkani and Sonthali - have been used for the first time since the Rajya Sabha came into being in 1952 and another six languages - Assamese, Bodo, Gujarati, Maithili, Manipuri and Nepali - have been used after a long gap.Rajya Sabha members spoke in 10 scheduled languages (other than Hindi) in the House on 269 occasions during 923 sittings between 2004 and 2017 at the rate of 0.291 per sitting, the Rajya Sabha secretariat said.In 2020, 49 interventions in regional languages were made during 33 sittings at the rate of 1.49 per sitting, marking an increase to 512 per cent.During 2013 to 2017 spanning over 329 sittings, members spoke only in 10 regional languages (other than Hindi) on 96 times, all limited to debates. However, during 2018-20 with 163 sittings, regional languages were used 135 times including 66 interventions in debates, 62 Zero Hour and seven special mentions.After becoming the Chairman of Rajya Sabha in August 2017, Naidu has been urging the members of the House to speak in their respective mother tongue in the spirit of the federal nature of the House.While announcing the availability of simultaneous interpretation facilities in all the 22 scheduled languages in July 2018, he himself spoke in 10 languages in the House.The number of times the regional languages (other than Hindi) were used during 2013-17 (329 sittings) and 2018-20 (163 sittings) respectively were - Tamil (32 and 18), Telugu (19 and 33), Urdu (19 and 24), Bengali (6 and 17), Sanskrit (0 and 12), Marathi (3 and 6), Odiya (5 and 6), Kannada (2 and 5), Punjabi (2 and 3), Malyayalam (2 and 0) and Assamese (0 and 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-of-regional-languages-in-rajya-sabha-rises-fivefold-101610866532268.html
17-01-2021||India||Orissa HC asks woman to hand over baby to his father||The Orissa High Court has allowed a man to take custody of his 15-month-old son observing that continuance of the custody of the toddler with the mother, who is now staying separately, would be detrimental to the child's mental and physical development and may also affect his psychology negatively.The court direction came after watching a video in which it is seen that the mother was repeatedly torturing and beating the child mercilessly.A Division Bench of Justices S K Mishra and Savitri Ratho on Friday while allowing a writ of Habeas Corpus filed by one Chakradhar Nayak of Puri district directed his wife to hand over the baby boy to his father within seven days."In case of her failure to do so, the police shall take appropriate steps in taking the child from the physical custody of the mother and handover the child to the father", the high court directed."We found from the video that the mother was mercilessly beating the infant on several occasions. Finding the cruelty, torture and assault to the small boy, we directed the police to secure the attendance of the mother along with the child", the high court said.Married for over five years now, Chakradhar and Rosalin of Paika Sahi under Gop police station have a disturbed marital life and on one previous occasion, the man was imprisoned briefly after his wife brought dowry charges and domestic violence allegations. The case was, however, closed and they were reunited following a court-initiated compromise.The marital discord once again surfaced after the child was born and the woman has since been staying with her parents along with the baby.Later when Chakradhar learnt that Rosalin is torturing the baby and beating the infant with an aim to settle scores with her estranged husband, he approached the high court with a habeas corpus writ petition seeking to take possession of his son. Having a retail shop at Bhubaneswar, Chakradhar is now staying with his sister and brother-in-law in the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-hc-asks-woman-to-hand-over-baby-to-his-father-101610866236517.html
17-01-2021||India||10 Indian states with the highest Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries||India on Saturday inoculated close to two lakh people in a Covid-19 vaccination drive, touted as the world's biggest by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The outbreak of the disease has torpedoed economies and tested the mettle of the public health system globally.A total of 3,352 sessions were held and 1,91,181 beneficiaries were vaccinated as per the provisional reports. Around 3,429 beneficiaries were vaccinated in defence institutions and as many as 16,755 personnel were actively involved in organising the immunisation session sites, the Union health ministry said.Here are the top ten states and union territories which have the highest beneficiaries:Uttar PradeshA total of 21,291 healthcare workers at the frontline of India's Covid-19 battle got their first jabs in UP on Saturday. According to health officials, Covid-19 vaccination programmes were organised at 317 centres in all districts of UP.Andhra PradeshA total of 18,412 healthcare workers were administered the coronavirus vaccine on the first day in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. "Five cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported in Kurnool district. One minor AEFI was reported in Anantapuramu district and two in SPS Nellore district," the health commissioner said in a release but did not specify the nature of the after-affects.MaharashtraMore than 18,328 health workers were vaccinated at 285 centres across Maharashtra. No Covid-19 vaccination sessions were planned on January 17-18 and they will continue from the next week as per the Central government's guidelines, the state health department clarified. At present, there are 53,344 active coronavirus infections, 18,81,088 recovered and 50,336 succumbed to the disease.BiharBihar on Saturday vaccinated 18,169 people in the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The drive kicked off in the state with five staff members of a super speciality government hospital becoming the first ones to receive the shots in presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar.OdishaMore than 13,000 health care workers were vaccinated in Odisha. Around 81 per cent (13,746) of the targeted beneficiaries on Saturday turned out at designated centres across Odisha to receive the Covid-19 vaccine as the state government rolled out the inoculation drive, an official said.The exercise began at about 11 am, immediately after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the programme in New Delhi.KarnatakaNearly 62 per cent of the designated frontline workers were administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination drive in Karnataka on Saturday, informed state health minister K Sudhakar.The state government had earmarked 21,658 people for the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination programme out of which 13,594 have been successfully vaccinated.GujaratGujarat ranks as the seventh-highest in terms of beneficiaries after 10,787 people were inoculated in the state. The authorities conducted 161 sessions on Saturday.West BengalA total of 9,730 healthcare beneficiaries were vaccinated in the state on Saturday, out of which 14 cases of AEFI were reported including one serious case (condition stable) of AEFI admitted at NRS Medical College, the West Bengal Health Department said.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has requested the Centre to supply an adequate number of vaccines for not only the frontline workers but also for all people of the state.RajasthanMore than 12,000 beneficiaries registered in Rajasthan received the vaccine on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Saturday, official data showed.Against a set target of 16,613 health workers, 9,279 health workers were administered the vaccine.Madhya PradeshThe state administered the vaccine to 9,219 health care workers on Saturday. Madhya Pradesh also reported a technical glitch in the Co-WIN app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-indian-states-with-the-highest-covid-19-vaccine-beneficiaries-101610860706807.html
17-01-2021||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar seeks help from state's diaspora for industrial growth||Bihari entrepreneurs settled abroad may rest assured of a hassle-free experience if they choose to set up a venture in their home state, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has said.Kumar made an averment to this effect late on Saturday while taking part in a webinar organized by BJANA (Bihar- Jharkhand Association of North America), as part of which he interacted with US-based delegates with roots in the state.He underscored the fact that despite impressive progress registered in health, education and infrastructure, Bihar lagged behind when it came to industries."You are like members of our family. If you choose to set up an industry here, you will be provided with all necessary assistance from our government. We will facilitate availability of land. We will also ensure that all issues flagged by you are promptly resolved," he said.The chief minister sought to highlight the changes in society which have been caused by initiatives such as free bicycles to school-going girls."When we took over in 2005, a girl riding bicycle in Patna was a rare sight. Now hordes of school-going girls can be seen on the streets of virtually every village. The enrolment of female students has gone up and last year they outnumbered boys in the matric examinations," Kumar said.He also spoke about his ambitious 'Jal Jeevan Hariyali' drive aimed at combating climate change, recalling that it was appreciated by no less a luminary than Bill Gates when he visited Bihar two years ago."He (Gates) came and saw our efforts and, at a media interaction outside the state, expressed his profuse admiration. He was amazed by the zeal shown by a poor state in addressing issues which, normally, only the developed world appears to be concerned with," he said.The chief minister also told the delegates about efforts made by his government in giving a facelift to various tourist spots, especially those associated with the Buddha."Please do plan a tour. We will be delighted to host you. You will return with memories to cherish," he added.Kumar also said that he valued the interaction with members of the diaspora, since they brought with them a wealth of experience."I am instructing officials attached to the CM Secretariat to hold such sessions regularly. I would like to listen to your suggestions even when it might not be possible (for me) to take active part," he said at the interaction which lasted over an hour.The CM was accompanied by former cabinet colleague and key aide Sanjay Kumar Jha. Among others who took part in the interaction was Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-seeks-help-from-state-s-diaspora-for-industrial-growth-101610862718455.html
17-01-2021||India||'When I used to take narrow gauge line': PM Modi flags off trains to Kevadia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday flagged off new eight trains connecting Gujarat's Kevadia, which houses Statue of Unity, to several other destinations of the country and said this is a beautiful picture of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat'. "This is probably for the first time in the history of railways that so many trains from different locations of the country get flagged off to the same destination," PM Modi said."More visitors are coming to the Statue of Unity than the Statue of Liberty. Kevadia is not a small place any more. It will become one of the most attractive tourist spots of the world," the Prime Minister said. In future, over 1 lakh people will come to visit Kevadiya every day, PM Modi said quoting a survey.Also Read: PM Modi flags off 8 trains to boost connectivity to Statue of Unity. See listPaying his tributes to Bharat Ratna MGR on his birth anniversary, PM Modi said, "One of the trains flagged off for Kevadia today originates at Puratchi Thalaivar Dr MG Ramachandran Central Railway Station. His life was dedicated to the service of the poor."Taking a journey down memory lane, Modi said once he used to take a narrow-gauge train, which was so slow that one could get off the train at any time and then again ride the train. "If you walk along with the train, sometimes you will be faster. I used to enjoy this too when I was a regular passenger; I spent a lot of time at Narmada for a considerable period of my life. That line is being converted into broad gauge now," he said.Terming the railways' modernisation projects taken up in the last few years as 'significant', PM Modi said, "After Independence, the railways worked only to update the older system. Hence modernisation work was not taken up."The new trains will connect Varanasi, Dadar, Ahmedabad, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Reqa, Chennai, Pratap Nagar to Kevadiya. Apart from these, PM Modi on Sunday inaugurated several other railway projects in Kevadiya, including Dabhoi-Chandid gauge converted broad gauge rail line, Chandod-Kevadita new broad gauge rail line, Pratapnagar-Kevadiya newly electrified section, new station buildings of Dabhoi Junction, Chandod and Kevadiya.Jan Shatabdi Express between Ahmedabad and Kevadia will have Vistadome coaches.Railways minister Piyush Goyal congratulated PM Modi on the beginning of the vaccination drive and said PM Modi's leadership has added speed to India's development."For us, the Statue of Unity is not just a statue. It symbolises unity and the new trains will connect Kevadia to all corners of the country," Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said adding that the new projects will also help uplift the lives of the tribals living in Kevadia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-flags-off-new-trains-to-kevadia-mgr-statue-of-unity-101610861819192.html
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi thanks Sri Lankan counterpart for appreciation on Covid-19 vaccine drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday thanked his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa for appreciation on launching the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive."Thank you @PresRajapaksa. The tireless efforts of our scientists and frontline workers have played a crucial role in the fight against this pandemic. The fast development of vaccine and its launch is an important landmark in our joint endeavour for a healthy and disease-free world," tweeted PM Modi.Thank you @PresRajapaksa. The tireless efforts of our scientists and frontline workers have played a crucial role in the fight against this pandemic. Fast development of vaccine and its launch is an important landmark in our joint endeavour for a healthy and disease free world. https://t.co/Lj50fkPm8gThe vaccine shots of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines were administered at various medical centres all across India on Saturday.Earlier, Rajapaksa had congratulated Indian PM Modi on Saturday for the vaccine launch. "Congratulations PM @narendramodi and the Government of India on taking this very important step with this massive #COVID19Vaccination drive. We are starting to see the beginning of the end to this devastating pandemic. @IndiainSL," tweeted Rajapaksa.PM Modi launched the pan-India rollout of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday via video conferencing.The Indian Covid-19 vaccine drive is billed as the world's largest vaccination programme, covering the entire length and breadth of the country, the drive aims to first inoculate millions of its healthcare and frontline workers and reach an estimated three crores people by the end of its first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-thanks-sri-lankan-counterpart-for-appreciation-on-covid-19-vaccine-drive-101610856840248.html
17-01-2021||India||Opposition clamour to investigate Arnab Goswami’s leaked chats grows||Opposition party leaders are demanding a high-level probe into journalist Arnab Goswami’s alleged leaked chats, suggesting it pointed to collusion and leak of classified security information. The official channels of the Bharatiya Janata Party, however, have so far remained silent on the issue.The latest salvo against Goswami came on Sunday morning from former Union minister P. Chidambaram and Congress party MP Manish Tiwari, with the latter calling for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the issue. “If what a section of Media is reporting is correct then it points towards a direct linkage between Balakot air strikes and 2019 General elections. Was National Security milked for electoral purposes? Needs a JPC investigation,” Tiwari wrote on Twitter.Tiwari told Hindustan Times that while one's private chats should not be investigated, Goswami's were a matter of public record in a court of law. "If there is any linkage between the strike and the elections, it must be investigated," he said.Chidambaram tagged defence minister Rajnath Singh on the issue. "Did a journalist (and his friend) know about the retaliatory strike on Balakot camp three days before the actual strike? If yes, what is the guarantee that their ‘source’ did not share the information with others as well, including spies or informers working for Pakistan? How did a “For Your Eyes Only” decision find its way to the government-supporting journalist? @rajnathsingh," he said.Even Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra has raised the issue. “Nation Needs to Know: Transcript of WhatsApp chats shows clearly government gave prior information about both Balakot strikes & abolishing Article 370 to TV anchor,” she tweeted. “What is going on? Am I the only one who thinks ModiShah owe us answers?”An over 500-page long transcript of a purported WhatsApp conversation between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO, Partho Dasgupta, went viral earlier this week, inviting allegations of collusion and illegal access to highly classified information.Some Congress leaders are advocating that the issue is taken up in a big way. Party leaders, on the condition of anonymity, told Hindustan Times that the issue was discussed in the Congress’ Lok Sabha MP group, but generated a lukewarm response. Leaders familiar with the matter said that the issue was raised by Congress Lok Sabha MP Karti Chidambaram Friday evening.“The party must demand answers from the BJP,” a party leader said on the condition of anonymity. “This is not the time to soft-pedal the issue.”The Congress has not officially taken up the issue yet but party functionaries say they are studying the documents closely and will respond in time.Senior party leaders such as Jairam Ramesh, Jitendra Singh, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Karti Chidambaram posted publicly about the issue on Saturday.“Does the @BJP4India have any comments on the #ArnabGate chat details, or is it too trivial to merit a response?,” Karti wrote on Twitter.“Arnab's chats dated 23.02.2019 refer to sharing of Intel re: action along the Pak border. It means someone very senior in Govt is leaking highly confidential info which may endanger the lives of our soldiers & so that mercenary considerations can add to TRPs,” Singhvi said.Jairam Ramesh added that BARC was aiding “weapons of mass destruction”. “Since 1967 BARC has stood for Bhabha Atomic Research Centre. Thanks to Arnab Goswami, another self-styled BARC —Broadcast Audience Research Council is in news now. The first BARC built a strong & scientific India. The other BARC is aiding & abetting weapons of mass disinformation,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-clamour-to-investigate-arnab-goswami-s-leaked-chats-grows-101610861105800.html
17-01-2021||India||Courts must be open to public scrutiny, criticism: Harish Salve||Senior Supreme Court lawyer Harish Salve has said courts must be open to public scrutiny and criticism as "institutions of governance".Addressing a lecture organised in Ahmedabad through video-conference on Saturday, Salve said criticism of judges, judicial overreach and the manner of functioning is not scandalising courts, and the language in which such criticism is addressed should be treated with a grin."We today have accepted that judges, or rather courts, and especially constitutional courts, have become institutions of governance. As an institution of governance it must be open to public scrutiny and public criticism," he said."We have always accepted that the decisions of courts can be criticised, including in language which may be impolite. So the decisions can be criticised. Can we criticise the decision-making process? Why not?" Salve said.He was addressing the 16th Justice P D Desai Memorial Lecture on'Criticism of judiciary, contempt jurisdiction and its use in the age of social media'."Governance has to be under the sharp blaze of sunlight...in fact, I think a time may come when the Supreme Court may seriously consider a very large number of provisions of the Official Secrets Act, how far do they square with democracy," he said.Most of them have fallen into disuse, said Salve, who was last year appointed the Queen's Counsel for the courts of England and Wales.To say an institution has lost its independence, to say that an institution is acting at the behest of someone, to allege corruption--that, if it is established to be untrue, is clearly undermining public faith, Salve added."This residue of power to deal with those who are capable of influencing public opinion...you may be in public life, influencer."Those are cases where courts must retain with itself this slender jurisdiction of addressing any rupture in public faith which may be caused," he said.Salve further said "if we do need the principles of contempt, where do we draw the lines?"The lines must be drawn in a way that the overall system of governance--the institutions and the criticism of the institutions--helps everybody march forward in this march of democracy."There is one area where I think judges need to be protected. And that area is casting aspersions on an institution in consistent with its character as an independent institution," the former solicitor general of India said.He said courts need not pay heed to tweets by those who have nothing better to do but to sit with a mobile phone in their hands and pass judgments, specially on things which they do not understand.At the same time, criticism by a politician or those who can influence public opinion raises a different issue, he said.These are the cases "where the courts must retain with itself this slender jurisdiction of addressing any rupture in public faith which may be caused," he said.He also said the Bar must act against judges and courts being criticised, and must deal with ill-informed criticism as a part of the system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-must-be-open-to-public-scrutiny-criticism-harish-salve-101610861282978.html
17-01-2021||India||HC grants relief to man accused of name-calling CM||The Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest of one Neeraj Kishor Mishra, who, while taking part in a protest against Hathras gang rape case, said that "the chief minister of UP is a man of thick skin".Hearing a writ petition filed by Mishra of Kasganj district, a division bench comprising justice Anjani Kumar Mishra and justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav directed the state government to file its reply (counter affidavit) within four weeks and directed to list this case after six weeks.The allegation made in the first information report (FIR) was that the incident took place on October 1, 2020, at about 6pm, in Hathras district. It is alleged that the Balmiki Samaj created a disturbance by giving speeches saying that the police are inactive. It is further alleged that the petitioner has said that the chief minister is a "man of thick skin". The FIR further disclosed that the petitioner had a criminal history and his arms licence had already been cancelled.The FIR was lodged against the petitioner on December 11, 2020, under sections 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code at Patiyali police station of Kasganj district.During the court proceedings, the counsel for the petitioner submitted that in a democratic country, agitation against a ruling party is the constitutional right of leaders of the opposition and, therefore, agitation of the petitioner, on the issue of rape of a girl of Balmiki Samaj cannot be termed as hatred or ill-will between followers of different religions. Hence, no offence under Section 153B and Section 505 IPC is made out.While observing that “the matter requires consideration”, the court stayed the arrest of the petitioner but made it clear that it has not stayed the investigation, hence it would go on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-relief-to-man-accused-of-name-calling-cm-101610860870976.html
17-01-2021||India||'Tarikh pe tarikh': Farmer leader accuses govt of dragging things||The farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws for more than seven weeks, have said the government is dragging things so that they get tired and leave the protest site."For almost two months, we are suffering and dying in cold weather. The government is giving us 'tarikh pe tarikh' and are dragging things so that we get tired and leave the place. This is their conspiracy," said Hannan Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).Nine rounds have taken place to resolve the deadlock between the farmers and the government, but no resolution has come out yet. While the farmers want repeal of the law, the government has categorically ruled that out and want farmers to suggest amendments to the existing laws which can be discussed.Mollah had said on Saturday that the protesters have never said no to dialogue but did not have much hope as the intention of the government is "anti-farmer"."If the government wants to engage in further dialogue, we will go. But, we don't have much hope. The intention of the government is anti-farmer, negative and there is a mindset to cater to the corporates. Our issue will not be settled by amendments. We are against the objectives of the laws," he had said.Rashtriya Kisan Manch Shekhar Dixit said on Saturday that the government is giving "step-motherly treatment" to the protesting farmers."Step-motherly treatment being given to farmers may become counterproductive as the farmers know how to withdraw support to the BJP-led government," he said while talking to reporters.Thousands of farmers have been protesting near Delhi against three farm laws since late November and have held nine rounds of talks with the government so far. The next round of talks is scheduled for January 19.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tarikh-pe-tarikh-farmer-leader-accuses-govt-of-dragging-things-101610858218925.html
17-01-2021||India||52 people develop allergic reaction, one severe after receiving Covid-19 vaccine||An AIIMS worker, who was administered a shot of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' here on Saturday, was admitted to a hospital after he developed an allergic reaction."An All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi security guard has developed an allergic reaction after receiving Covid-19 vaccination here on Saturday. He is kept under observation of doctors at the hospital," an AIIMS official said.It is to mention a total of 95 healthcare beneficiaries received the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS, Delhi on Saturday, the official added.The total number of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) post-Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi stands at 52 out of which only one is severe, said the Delhi Government on Saturday. At least 4,319 healthcare workers received Covid-19 shot against the target of 8,117. The vaccination was held at 81 sites in the national capital, it said.Two healthcare workers who received the Covid-19 vaccine at NDMC's Charak Palika Hospital faced mild adverse event post-vaccination, said New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) official.They suffered mild tightness in the chest. They were kept under observation by the AEFI team and were discharged after 30 minutes when they felt normal.At least 1,91,181 healthcare beneficiaries received Covid-19 jab yesterday across India, marking it as a historic and biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Termed as the world's largest vaccination programme, covering the entire length and breadth of India, the drive aims to first vaccinate millions of its healthcare and frontline workers and then reach an estimated 3 crore people by the end of its first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/52-people-develop-allergic-reaction-one-severe-after-receiving-covid-19-vaccine-101610857371117.html
17-01-2021||India||'Attempts to intimidate': Akali Dal slams Centre after NIA summons farmer leader, actor||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal accused the Centre of intimidating the farmers through central agencies after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) summoned Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and farmers' leader Baldev Singh Sirsa among 40 others.Also Read: NIA summons farm union leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, Sikh activists for questioning in sedition case"Strongly condemn Centre's attempts to intimidate farmer leaders and supporters of Kisan Andolan by calling them for questioning by NIA and ED. They aren't anti-nationals. And after failure of talks for the 9th time, it's absolutely clear that GOI is only trying to tire out farmers," he tweeted.Strongly condemn Centre's attempts to intimidate farmer leaders & supporters of #KisanAndolan by calling them for questioning by #NIA & ED. They aren't anti-nationals. And after failure of talks for the 9th time, it's absolutely clear that GOI is only trying to tire out farmers. pic.twitter.com/3x5T8VNdphThe SAD leader had earlier backed the farmers and condemned the Centre for its alleged treatment of them as "enemies".On Saturday, the NIA issued summons to Sidhu and Sirsa in connection with a sedition case against US-based banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannu.  Also Read | Wrong to treat protesting farmers as ‘enemies’: SAD’s Sukhbir Singh Badal slams CentreWhile the actor, who has spoken in support of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by theCentre in September 2020, has been summoned to appear before the agency at its headquarters in Delhi on Sunday, Sirsa, who heads the Lok Bhalai Insaf Welfare Society that is one of the unions participating in the protests, has been called on January 17.Reacting to the summons, Sirsa said, “The government is fearing the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26 and is trying to terrorise people of Punjab by sending these notices through the NIA. The sole motive is to derail the farmer agitation. However, we will continue our struggle for the repeal of the laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempts-to-intimidate-akali-dal-slams-centre-after-nia-summons-farmer-leader-actor-101610857278570.html
17-01-2021||India||UK invites PM Modi for G7 Summit; Boris Johnson to visit India ahead of meet||The UK has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to attend the G7 Summit, which British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will use to ask world leaders to seize the opportunity to build back better from Covid-19 in order to make the future fairer, greener and more prosperous.The summit will be held in Cornwall during June 11-13, and the UK will use its G7 presidency to “unite leading democracies to help the world build back better from coronavirus and create a greener, more prosperous future”, said a statement from the British high commission.Besides India, Australia and South Korea have also been invited as guest countries to the first in-person G7 Summit in almost two years.“As ‘pharmacy of the world’, India already supplies more than 50% of the world’s vaccines, and the UK and India have worked closely together throughout the pandemic. Our prime ministers speak regularly and Prime Minister Johnson has said he will visit India ahead of the G7,” the statement said.Prime ministers and presidents from the world’s leading democracies will come together in the UK to address shared challenges, from beating Coronavirus and tackling climate change, to ensuring that people everywhere can benefit from open trade, technological change and scientific discovery.The G7 – made up of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the US and the European Union – is the only forum where the world’s most influential and open societies and advanced economies are brought together for close-knit discussions.The UK invited the leaders of India, Australia and South Korea to attend as guest countries to “deepen the expertise and experience around the table”, the statement said.The invitation to India, Australia and South Korea is also “testament to the UK’s commitment to ensuring multilateral institutions better reflect today’s world”, it said.The UK was the first P5 member to support a permanent UN Security Council seat for India and the first G7 member to invite India to a G7 Summit in 2005. As the current president of Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) forum and G20 president in 2023, “India will play a key role driving in multilateral cooperation helping to build back better around the world”, the statement said.Johnson plans to use the G7 Summit to intensify cooperation between the world’s democratic and technologically advanced nations. Between them, the 10 leaders represent more than 60% of the people living in democracies around the world.The UK will also host several meetings throughout the year between government ministers from the G7, both virtually and in different locations across Britain. These meetings will cover economic, environmental, health, trade, technology, development and foreign policy issues.Johnson said: “As the most prominent grouping of democratic countries, the G7 has long been the catalyst for decisive international action to tackle the greatest challenges we face. From cancelling developing world debt to our universal condemnation of Russia’s annexation of Crimea, the world has looked to the G7 to apply our shared values and diplomatic might to create a more open and prosperous planet.“Coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced. It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future,” he added.This is a crucial year of international leadership for the UK. In addition to the G7 Summit, during February, Britain will assume the presidency of the UN Security Council, and later this year, it will host COP26 in Glasgow and a global education conference aimed at getting children in the developing world into school.Johnson was invited as the chief to this year’s Republic Day celebrations but cancelled his visit recently in order to stay at home to oversee Britain’s response to a surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-invites-pm-narendra-modi-to-attend-g7-summit-101610857012527.html
17-01-2021||India||Congress leader P Chidambaram slams NITI Aayog for rejection of RTI on farm laws||Citing NITI Aayog's rejection of activist Anjali Bhardwaj's Right to Information Act (RTI) request regarding the information on farm laws, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday slammed the government body for the delayed actions.In a series of tweets, Chidambaram quoted Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and called government actions "curiouser and curiouser" (stranger)."NITI Aayog's Committee of Chief Minister's on Agriculture concluded its deliberations in September 2019 and gave its report After 16 months, the report has not yet been "presented" to NITI Aayog's governing council! Why, nobody knows and nobody will answer!" he tweeted."Citing this as the reason, the RTI request of Ms Anjali Bhardwaj for a copy of the report has been rejected! Alice would have said "curiouser and curiouser" I salute Ms Anjali Bhardwaj for her tenacity and single-minded pursuit of information," the Congress leader said in another tweet.Citing this as the reason, the RTI request of Ms Anjali Bhardwaj for a copy of the report has been rejected! Alice would have said “curiouser and curiouser”I salute Ms Anjali Bhardwaj for her tenacity and single-minded pursuit of informationChidambaram had criticised the Central government for its stand on protestors agitating against new farm laws.In December he tweeted, "Ministers have described the protesters against the Farm Laws as Khalistanis; agents of Pakistan and China; Maoists; and, the latest, tukde tukde gang. If you exhaust all these categories, it means there are no farmers among the thousands of protesters. If there are no farmers, why is the government talking to them?"However, he had welcomed Supreme Court's intervention in the matter and said, 'the concern expressed by the Supreme Court over the farmer's protest is justified and the decision to form Committee to help find a solution is well-intentioned.The farmer protest has been going on since August 9 between farmers and the centre regarding three farm acts that were passed in September 2020. The next round of talks is scheduled for January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-p-chidambaram-slams-niti-aayog-for-rejection-of-rti-on-farm-laws-101610856123191.html
17-01-2021||India||15,144 new cases of Covid-19 take India's tally to over 10.55 million||India recorded 15,144 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data on Sunday. With this, the nationwide tally has reached 10,557,985.The number of active cases, which have been steadily falling, stood at 2,08,826 while 10,196,885 patients have been cured/discharged from hospitals.The country recorded 181 fresh fatalities, which took the death toll to 1,52,274, according to health ministry.The first Covid-19 vaccine shots in India were given on Saturday to nearly two lakh frontline healthcare and sanitary workers as Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolled out the world’s largest inoculation drive against the pandemic.As PM Modi asserted that the two vaccines being deployed will ensure a “decisive victory” for India against the coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said no case of post-inoculation hospitalisation has been reported so far and the vaccination drive was successful. Sanitation workers were the first to get the jabs in Delhi and some states.Official figures showed that one "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of Adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were reported among health workers administered the vaccine in the national capital.A sense of joy and excitement was witnessed at medical centres across the country with the beneficiaries being administered the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines less than a year after India recorded the first coronavirus case in Kerala on January 30 last.Addressing the nation ahead of the launch of what he described as the world's largest vaccination programme, PM Modi reassured the country that emergency use authorisation was given to the two made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours.India has the second highest recorded cases of Covid-19 after the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15144-new-cases-of-covid-19-take-india-s-tally-to-over-10-55-million-101610855476500.html
17-01-2021||India||India condemns attack on UN peacekeepers in Mali||TS Tirumurti, Ambassador of India to the United Nations on Sunday condemned the attack against UN peacekeepers in Mali and the Central African Republic (CAR)."India strongly condemns attack against UN peacekeepers in two separate incidents in Mali @UN_MINUSMA and in CAR @UN_CAR yesterday," Tirumurti tweeted.India's Permanent Representative to the UN TS Tirumurti said, "We share the pain. Condolences to families of soldiers killed and to the Governments of Egypt and Burundi. @AShingiro @MfaEgypt @indembcairo @MEAIndia."#India strongly condemns attack against @UN peacekeepers in two separate incidents in Mali @UN_MINUSMA and in CAR @UN_CAR yesterday. We share the pain. Condolences to families of soldiers killed and to Govts of #Egypt and #Burundi. @AShingiro @MfaEgypt @indembcairo @MEAIndiaUnited Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres too condemned the attack against the convoy of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) on Friday near Tessalit in the Kidal region. He emphasized that attacks against United Nations peacekeepers may constitute a war crime."The Secretary-General strongly condemns the attack against a convoy of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) that took place on 15 January 2021 near Tessalit in Kidal region, which resulted in the death of an Egyptian peacekeeper and serious injuries to another," the UN statement read.Three United Nations peacekeepers were killed and six wounded in central Mali after a convoy struck an explosive device and came under fire.Meanwhile, the United Nations said that it will spare no efforts in supporting the Malian authorities in identifying and promptly bringing to justice the perpetrators of this heinous attack."The Secretary-General emphasizes that attacks against United Nations peacekeepers may constitute a war crime. The United Nations will spare no efforts in supporting the Malian authorities in identifying and promptly bringing to justice the perpetrators of this heinous attack," read the UN statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-attack-on-un-peacekeepers-in-mali-101610855562161.html
17-01-2021||India||Traffic restrictions in New Delhi for 3 hrs on 4 days from Sunday to Thursday||Traffic in parts of the New Delhi area will be affected on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Thursday to facilitate the Republic Day rehearsals, the traffic police said.The route for the rehearsals will be from Vijay Chowk to C-Hexagon via Rajpath and there will be restricted traffic crossings at Rajpath-Rafi Marg, Rajpath-Janpath, Rajpath-Mansingh Road and Rajpath-CHexagon, said Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of traffic police.He said Rajpath from Vijay Chowk to India Gate will also remain closed for traffic during this period.The traffic police will deploy a large number of its personnel to divert traffic in view of these restrictions.Agrawal said that motorists should expect congestion and restrictions on these routes between 9 am to 12 noon on these four days and should avoid taking these routes.On Sunday, slow down and congestion are expected in New Delhi, Central Delhi and West Delhi from morning to evening as a Nagar Kirtan on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji is being organised by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. "Like every year, the procession will begin at 9.30am and will culminate at Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sahib in Hari Nagar," said MS Randhawa, additional commissioner of traffic police.Buses passing through New Delhi area will be diverted from different points, the officer said, and advised motorists to avoid the route being taken by the procession.Meanwhile, the police commissioner, SN Shrivastava, on Saturday reviewed the Republic Day security preparations and arrangements at the farmers' agitation in view of the law and order situation in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-restrictions-in-new-delhi-for-three-hours-on-four-days-between-sunday-to-101610856019782.html
17-01-2021||India||Amit Shah to address public rally in Karnataka's Bagalkot today||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to address a public rally at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) ground in Bagalkot district of Karnataka during the second day of his two-day visit to the state on Sunday.Shah will inaugurate the ethanol project of Kedarnath Sugar and Agro Products Limited at 11.00 am in Karakalmatti Village of Bagalkot district.The Home Minister will inaugurate KLE Hospital's advanced simulation centre in the district at 12.45 pm.Later, at 2.30 pm the minister is scheduled to attend a public rally at JNMC ground in Belagavi.On day one of his trip on Saturday, the Union Minister laid the foundation stone of the Bhadravathi Rapid Action Force Centre in Shivamogga, Karnataka.In his address, the Home Minister lauded the contribution of RAF in the maintenance of peace and order across the country and remarked that RAF personnel have earned trust and credibility owing to expertise and excellence which became the reason for invitation from United Nations in their peacekeeping missions in 2006.Dr AP Maheswari, Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) expressed gratitude to the government for allocating land to CRPF and to the people for giving the force a place in their hearts.Rapid Action Force is the specialised force of CRPF to deal with riots and situations relating to public order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-address-public-rally-in-karnataka-s-bagalkot-today-101610853611126.html
17-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Fog layer over entire stretch of Himalayan foothills all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fog layer over entire stretch of Himalayan foothills, from Punjab to MeghalayaThere is fog and low visibility across the Indo- Gangetic plains and northeast India, stretching from Punjab to Meghalaya, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreConcerns over Covaxin as some cite ‘lack of data’Doctors from a prominent Delhi hospital and Tamil Nadu raised concerns over being administered the homegrown vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech as the nationwide vaccination programme kicked off on Saturday. Read moreFirst phase of panchayat polls in Himachal Pradesh todayHimachal Pradesh will witness panchayat polls on Sunday when first of the three-phased electoral exercise will take place. The voting will take place from 8 am to 4 pm. Read moreNo Covid vaccination sessions planned on Sunday or Monday, Maharashtra health department clarifiesThe Maharashtra health department late on Saturday, denied reports that it has cancelled the Covid-19 vaccination drive till Monday. The health authorities said no such drive was planned on Sunday or Monday. Read more"The way he batted against Wasim, Akram made us believe he is special': Inzamam-ul-Haq praises Rahul DravidFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq heaped praise on former India captain Rahul Dravid and shared his first thoughts about Dravid when the legendary cricketer had first burst onto the scenes in 1995-96. Read moreSuhana Khan wishes cousin Alia Chhiba on her birthday, shares videosActor Shah Rukh Khan's daughter Suhana took to her Instagram to share a couple of video clips and pictures to wish her cousin Alia Chhiba on her birthday. Read hereNASA shares picture of ‘5 million years young and dazzling star cluster’It isn't every day that one gets to witness ‘5 million years young and dazzling star cluster'. However, today must be a lucky day because that is exactly the sight that you're about to witness. That too all thanks to NASA. See hereWatch: BRO completes 110-feet bailey bridge in record time of 60 hoursThe Border Roads Organisation (BRO) finished the construction of a 110-feet bailey bridge at Kela Morh near Ramban on the Jammu-Srinagar highway in a record time of 60 hours on Jan 16. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fog-layer-over-entire-stretch-of-himalayan-foothills-all-the-latest-news-101610852663164.html
17-01-2021||India||Fog layer over entire stretch of Himalayan foothills, from Punjab to Meghalaya||There is fog and low visibility across the Indo- Gangetic plains and northeast India, stretching from Punjab to Meghalaya, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Dense to very dense fog was observed over Punjab, west Uttar Pradesh and moderate to dense fog was observed over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam and Meghalaya at 5.30 am on Sunday.Visibility at Patiala and Bareilly was 25 metres each; 50 meters at Chandigarh, Bahraich, Gaya, Tezpur, Agartala and Dibrugarh and 200 m each at Amritsar, Ambala, Delhi-Safdarjung and Palam, Lucknow and Guwahati.Cold day to severe cold day conditions occurred at a few places over Punjab and at isolated places over Haryana and east Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Cold wave conditions occurred at isolated places over Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The lowest minimum temperature over plains of northwest India on Saturday was 2.6°C, recorded at Churk in Uttar Pradesh.On Sunday also, cold day to severe cold day condition is likely over parts of Punjab, Chandigarh and Uttar Pradesh.According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees C and maximum temperature of 4.5 degree C or 6.4 degree C below normal, respectively.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fog-layer-over-entire-stretch-of-himalayan-foothills-from-punjab-to-meghalaya-101610852534239.html
17-01-2021||India||No Covid vaccination sessions planned on Sunday or Monday, Maharashtra health department clarifies||The Maharashtra health department late on Saturday, denied reports that it has cancelled the Covid-19 vaccination drive till Monday. The health authorities said no such drive was planned on Sunday or Monday."No Covid vaccination sessions were planned on Sunday 17th or Monday 18th January. So the question of cancellation does not arise," the Maharashtra health department said in a statement, according to news agency ANI."Covid vaccination sessions will be organised in the next week as per government of India guidelines," it further said.Earlier on Saturday, public health minister Rajesh Tope was quoted as saying by news agency PTI that the vaccination drive has been suspended due to glitches in government's CoWIN software."Not just in Maharashtra, everywhere in the country this app created problems in the execution of vaccination drive. We have decided to suspend the vaccination for the next two days," Tope had said.A senior health department official in Maharashtra had said that owing to problems in CoWIN, text messages were not sent to many persons who were supposed to get the vaccine shot on Saturday.The state vaccinated 18,338 or 64.34% of the targeted health workers on Saturday.Many districts faced technical glitches in the CoWIN app that resulted in communication lags. “The server went slow leading to difficulties in uploading the data at many centres. In Dhule district, all four centres faced the problem. We have now directed the vaccination teams to register the details offline and upload them subsequently. We had to use hard copies of data on beneficiaries,” said Dr PD Gandal, deputy director, health services, Nashik division.Barring 10 cases of mild reaction in some districts, no major side effects or Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported in the state.The state is holding four sessions a week and is expected to complete about 4.4 lakh health care workers in 15 sessions over 28 days. The stock of 963,000 vials could cover about 4.4 lakh health workers with two doses each.The next session will be held on Tuesday, according to the press release issued by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-vaccination-sessions-planned-on-sunday-or-monday-clarifies-maharashtra-101610852124390.html
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi to flag off 8 trains today to boost connectivity to Statue of Unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off eight trains connecting different regions of the country to Kevadiya in Gujarat via video conferencing at 11am on Sunday. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and Union railways minister Piyush Goyal will also take part in the online ceremony.The trains are being inaugurated to boost tourism in the tribal region and facilitate connectivity to the world's tallest statue, the Statue of Unity, which the PM inaugurated in October 2018 on the occasion of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's 143rd birth anniversary.Also Read: Statue of Unity - A rare firstThese trains will connect Kevadiya to Varanasi, Dadar, Ahmedabad, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Rewa, Chennai and Pratapnagar.The Ahmedabad-Kevadiya Jan Shatabdi Express, one of the eight trains, has been equipped with the 'Vista-dome tourist coach', the Railway ministry said. These coaches offer large viewing areas with rooftop glasses and seats for passengers. According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM Modi will also inaugurate the Dabhoi – Chandod Gauge converted Broad Gauge railway line, Chandod – Kevadiya new Broad Gauge railway line, newly electrified Pratapnagar – Kevadiya section and the new station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadiya. He will also launch a new broad-gauge line and the new station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadiya.Also Read | ‘Iron man of India’: Remembering Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his death anniversary"These buildings have been designed aesthetically incorporating local features and modern passenger amenities. Kevadiya station is India's first railway station with a Green Building Certification," the PMO said."The projects will add fillip to the development activities in the nearby tribal regions, boost connectivity to important religious and ancient pilgrim places nestled on the banks of River Narmada, increase both domestic and international tourism, act as a catalyst for overall socio-economic development of the region while also helping generate new employment and business opportunities," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-8-trains-today-to-boost-connectivity-to-statue-of-unity-101610850277809.html
17-01-2021||India||First phase on panchayat polls in Himachal Pradesh today||Himachal Pradesh will witness panchayat polls on Sunday when first of the three-phased electoral exercise will take place. The voting will take place from 8 am to 4 pm.Electoral officer Sanjeev Mahajan told news agency PTI that 1,227 panchayats will go to polls today. The polling in remaining two phases is scheduled for January 19 and 21, he further said.The counting of votes for members of the panchayat samitis and zila parishads will be conducted on January 22.As many as 7,583 polling parties have been set up to ensure smooth conduct of voting in the first phase. The candidates are contesting the elections as independents and not on party symbols this time.The panchayat elections come at a timw when a massive nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme has been launched. In Himachal Pradesh, 1,517 people were inoculated on the first day on Saturday, according to health authorities.Hardeep Singh, a sanitation worker, was the first person in the state to be administered a shot. After him, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) senior medical superintendent Janak Raj got vaccinated.A consignment of 93,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine had reached the state capital on Thursday.The consignment of Covishield vaccine, produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, had been airlifted from Pune to Chandigarh, from where it was brought to Shimla by road.The state government has constituted state-level steering committee, state task force, district task force and block task force to monitor effectively administration of vaccination against the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-phase-on-panchayat-polls-in-himachal-pradesh-today-101610849727400.html
17-01-2021||India||Vaccine tracker: How many are vaccinated in India?||As many as 200,297 people were vaccinated on Saturday, the first day of immunisation campaign against the coronavirus disease in India.According to the Union health ministry, the exercise was successful and the number of people inoculated was higher than what was recorded by any country on its first day. “We are launching the world’s biggest vaccination drive and it shows the world our capability,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation after launching the drive.He also urged citizens to keep their guard up and not believe any “rumors about the safety of the vaccines.”Covishield, the Oxford University-AstraZenexa shot being manufactured by Serum Institute of India, was supplied to all states and Union territories in preparation for the exercise and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was sent to 12 states. Around 30 million healthcare and frontline workers will be given priority in the vaccination drive, followed by those older than 50 or deemed high-risk because of pre-existing medical conditions. The drive comes at a time when India's coronavirus infection tally has crossed 10.55 million. As many as 152,274 people have lost their lives due to the disease, according to the health ministry dashboard on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-tracker-how-many-are-vaccinated-in-india-101610847752504.html
17-01-2021||India||Union education minister Pokhriyal honoured by Canada's Hindi Writers Guild||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' was honoured by the Hindi Writers Guild, Canada for his literary work on Saturday.Congratulating Nishank on getting the honour, Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya said Nishank had proven his dedication to literature by writing constantly despite being a popular political leader who has served people as an MLA, an MP, a chief minister and now as a Union minister.Nishank was conferred with the "Sahitya Gaurav Samman" in the presence of the Governor through a virtual programme, a Raj Bhawan press release here said.India's High Commissioner in Canada Ajay Bisaria was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-education-minister-pokhriyal-honoured-by-canada-s-hindi-writers-guild-101610840991157.html
17-01-2021||India||393 health workers vaccinated in Noida, Mahesh Sharma among first MPs to get jab||With a Covishield jab on his forearm, Gautam Buddh Nagar's BJP MP Mahesh Sharma got vaccinated for the coronavirus as a "healthcare worker" on Saturday, becoming one of the first parliamentarians in the country to get inoculated for the infection.A total of 393 healthcare workers -- 221 men and 172 women -- got inoculated in this Uttar Pradesh district on the first day of the nationwide vaccination drive, officials said.Healthcare workers Shamim, Ritu and Avanish were the first three in the district to get the shots of the vaccine. They were administered the vaccine at the Child PGI in Noida Sector 30 in the presence of District Magistrate (DM) Suhas L Y and Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Deepak Ohri, according to an official statement.The DM handed over a vaccination card to Shamim, who will get the follow-up dose of the vaccine after 28 days, according to the guidelines.BJP MP Sharma, who is also a doctor, got vaccinated at his Kailash Hospital in Noida Sector 27 at 11 am, hospital spokesperson V B Joshi told PTI.The 61-year-old former Union minister was kept in observation for 30 minutes at the hospital after he was inoculated, Joshi said."The beginning of the end for Covid-19 has started today with Prime Minister Narendra Modi launching the world's largest vaccination programme. As a doctor, I have also got vaccinated for the coronavirus. I am feeling absolutely fine. The vaccine is completely safe and all of you should get vaccinated," Sharma said in a tweet in Hindi.The vaccination drive started in Gautam Buddh Nagar at six centres across Noida and Greater Noida, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, District Immunisation Officer, told PTI.The centres earmarked for the purpose were the Child PGI in Sector 30, the Kailash Hospital in Sector 27, the CHCs at Bhangel and Bisrakh, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida.While the target was to inoculate 600 healthcare workers, 393 were vaccinated on the first day, the CMO said.Gautam Buddh Nagar has received 28,840 doses of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), for the first round of vaccination, according to officials.The DM said it was "a historic day" and lauded the role of the frontline workers, including health department officials, for their service on a "war-footing" over the last one year to help people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/393-health-workers-vaccinated-in-noida-mahesh-sharma-among-first-mps-to-get-jab-101610840780158.html
17-01-2021||India||Farm union asks Supreme Court to change panel members||A farmers’ union has urged the Supreme Court to remove the three members of a panel constituted by the top court to resolve the impasse between the protesting farmers and the Union government over the new farm laws.In an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court on Saturday, the Bhartiya Kisan Union, Lokshakti, said, “The principle of natural justice is going to get violated by forming these persons as members. Members appointed by the Supreme Court, how they will hear farmers on equal parameters when they have already supported these three farm Law.”The union has requested appointment of a former Supreme Court judge along with farm leaders of protesting farmer unions to the panel.The SC had on January 12 formed a four-member committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and submit a report in eight weeks. On Thursday, the All India Kisan Coordination Committee president, Bhupinder Singh Mann, had recused himself from the panel citing the “interests of farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-union-asks-supreme-court-to-change-panel-members-101610836535858.html
17-01-2021||India||Laws for self-regulation of news, OTT platforms on anvil||India is planning to draft and legislate an overarching statute for OTT (over the top) platforms and news websites that will define a framework for their self-regulation, and address the issues of sensitive content and fake news — a move that is aimed at creating a level playing field in the business.There are at least 40 OTT platforms including global ones such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and HotStar (Disney Plus) and hundreds of news content websites. While news on sensitive content on some of the larger OTT platforms makes the headlines — Netflix’s Sacred Games and A Suitable Boy have both come under fire from various groups — a bunch of home-grown platforms that largely air soft-porn have managed to stay under the radar.According to government officials familiar with the matter, the issue of self-regulation in digital media was taken up at the highest levels this month and ministry of Information and Broadcasting has decided to frame an overarching statute under which digital media can regulate itself.HT learns that this could be on two dimensions. One, the creation of a self-regulating body, such as the Press Council of India, according to one of the officials, who asked not to be named. Two, a law; “TV channels are broadly regulated under The Cable Television Networks Regulation Act, the digital media which has been unregulated till now, will soon has an overarching regulation.”OTT platforms in India reach around 40 million customers and make up a market worth around Rs.3000 crore.Conscious about not trampling on any freedoms, the I and B Ministry has been talking to the Internet and Mobile Association of India, which speaks on behalf of OTT platforms, for more than a year on self-regulation. An initial self-regulation framework suggested by the body has been rejected, government officials said, because it favoured the OTT companies.The ministry is also worried that viewers upset with content on OTT platforms do not have a body they can appeal to — much like they do with TV companies.The ministry, the officials added, has received complaints about language and nudity.As for digital news websites, the officials said the ministry has received complaints about fake news, but again, is handicapped by the absence of a body that can take these up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/laws-for-self-regulation-of-news-ott-platforms-on-anvil-101610835914795.html
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi targets Pakistan for Covid-19 crisis management||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday took a veiled dig at Pakistan as he inaugurated the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive.Recounting India’s journey through the Covid-19-induced lockdown and the process of evacuating millions of Indians stranded abroad, the PM said, “When countries left their citizens stuck in China amid the pandemic, India stepped up. We evacuated not only Indians but also people from other countries under Vande Bharat Mission.”The PM’s remark was a veiled attack on Pakistan which had initially refused to airlift its people from China’s Wuhan, the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in 2020. Authorities in Pakistan had cited “larger interests” to defend its decision to not evacuate Pakistani citizens who were working or studying in China when the Covid pandemic broke out.Reports Pakistani students appealing to Air India to evacuate them from Wuhan were widely circulated early last year.Pakistan repatriated 270 of its students from Wuhan in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-targets-pakistan-for-covid-19-crisis-management-101610835427609.html
17-01-2021||India||Over 3,000 personnel get Covid vaccine||The armed forces on Saturday kicked off the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccine drive at multiple locations across the country including Ladakh, Delhi, Mumbai and Visakhapatnam, where thousands of “Covid warriors”, including military doctors, nurses and paramedics were vaccinated against the coronavirus on a day India rolled out the biggest vaccination campaign in the world, officials familiar with the development said.No adverse events were reported on the opening day of the drive in the armed forces. In the army alone, a total of 3,129 health care workers were vaccinated on the first day, the officials said.While top priority is being given to Covid warriors who are at the at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, frontline soldiers including those deployed in the Ladakh theatre are among the military personnel who will get the vaccine ahead of others, the officials said. Other frontline soldiers, including naval personnel deployed on submarines, will also be administered the vaccine on priority.Military doctors, paramedics and frontline soldiers deployed in eastern Ladakh, where India and China are locked in a tense border standoff, will be among the set of armed forces personnel to be vaccinated against the coronavirus, Hindustan Times reported on Friday. More than 12,000 doses of the vaccine have reached Ladakh of which around 4,000 have been earmarked for armed forces personnel to protect them against Covid-19.“The vaccination drive has begun across India including Ladakh where military medical personnel were vaccinated today. Frontline soldiers will also be vaccinated soon,” one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity.All earmarked military hospitals have been supplied with the first consignment of doses and the vaccination drive will gather momentum in the coming days, said a second official. Sepoy Sunil Das from the Army Medical Corps was the first one to receive the shot in Leh, he said.In Delhi, Covid warriors, including senior military doctors, received shots at the Army’s Base Hospital, Army Hospital (Research and Referral) and the Armed Forces Clinic, the Indian Army said on Twitter. The Base Hospital is the military’s largest Covid hospital.In Mumbai, the first phase of the vaccination drive was rolled out at the naval hospital Asvini with its commandant Rear Admiral Sheila Mathai receiving the first dose of vaccine, officials said. Other healthcare workers (HCWs) were also vaccinated against the disease.“A total of 100 HCWs including Medical Officers, Nursing & paramedical staff were vaccinated on Day 1. The session was concluded without any adverse events reported. The next phase will target frontline workers & personnel deployed on operational platforms,” the chief defence PRO in Mumbai said in a statement on Twitter.In Visakhapatnam, the Eastern Naval Command chief Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain launched the vaccination drive at the naval hospital Kalyani. The vaccine was given to 40 Covid warriors at the hospital, officials said.The vaccination campaign, marking the final phase in India’s long battle against the pandemic, will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, barring the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-000-personnel-get-covid-vaccine-101610833540853.html
17-01-2021||India||‘Not the time to lower your guard’||Cardio thoracic surgeon Dr Jose Chacko Periappuram, 63, known for performing the first heart transplant surgery in Kerala, received the vaccine in an Ernakulam centre on Saturday, as India rolled out one of the world’s biggest Covid vaccination programme.At least 300 million people will receive one of two vaccines approved by the drugs regulatory authority for emergency use in India: Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech Ltd and Covishield, developed by Oxford-Astra Zeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune. Covaxin is in the third phase of the clinical trial and its efficacy results have still not been released.Periappuram, a Padma Shri recipient, received the shot at the Ernakulam government hospital, one of the 3,351 sites earmarked to vaccinate the recipients.“I am really proud of our scientists and health workers. Happy health workers were given the first preference,” he said.“It is just like any other vaccine or injection. There is no need of any apprehension or fear. I think doctors and health workers taking shot in the first phase will give confidence to others,” he said.Periappuram, who works in a private hospital in Ernakulam, heads a charitable organisation which helps heart patients who are unable to afford treatment.“It is a good beginning. But it is not the time to lower our guard,” he said. The government has warned recipients of the vaccine to continue to wear masks and practise physical distancing, as well as hand hygiene to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread before the second dose of the vaccine is given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-the-time-to-lower-your-guard-101610832678504.html
17-01-2021||India||Vaccine drive held smoothly, no serious side effects: Govt||There were no serious side effects on the first day of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Union health ministry said on Saturday, as India launched the world’s largest immunisation exercise that aims to vaccinate 30 million health care and frontline workers in the first phase.However, as opposed to the target of vaccinating about 300,000 people on the first day, according to the health ministry’s data, 191,181 health care workers were vaccinated at 3,351 centres. There were 16,755 personnel involved in the vaccination programme. Additionally, 3,429 people were vaccinated in defence institutions.Later in the day, an official at the AIIMS-Delhi said a security guard developed an allergic reaction after receiving Covid vaccine. “He is kept under observation of doctors at the hospital,” the official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Some glitches were observed in the functioning of the Co-WIN app, the digital platform deployed for the drive, which the ministry said were resolved later. “Since this was the first day of the vaccination drive and it was our first real-time experience, there were observed some minor glitches that were resolved immediately,” said Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, health ministry, who is also the nodal officer at the ministry for vaccine delivery.The Serum Institute of India’s Covishield was supplied to all states and Union territories, while Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was supplied to 12 states and Union territories.A total of 11 states received Covishield and Covaxin both. The states that got both the vaccine supplies were Assam (65), Bihar (301), Delhi (81), Haryana (77), Karnataka (242), Maharashtra (285), Odisha (161), Rajasthan (167), Tamil Nadu (160), Telangana (140), and Uttar Pradesh (317).Union health minister Harsh Vardhan interacted with officials of the states and UTs through video conferencing to review the drive. “Today is a very important day for us. The vaccination drive, for which preparations were being done from the last five months under the unwavering and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has finally started. We have got encouraging and satisfactory feedback results on the first day. This indicates that we are moving towards victory in the fight against coronavirus,” he said.“India has achieved significant progress on the COVID containment front. The cooperation of scientists, researchers, doctors and all the citizens who have volunteered for the clinical trial have ensured that we have two vaccines ready for administration in a span of 10 months,” he added.The minister also urged the states to make effective strategy to counter the myths and misinformation and use all communication channels to disseminate the right information. “We need to be vigilant against the rumours being spread on social media which are raising doubts in the mind of the public regarding the vaccine side effects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-drive-held-smoothly-no-serious-side-effects-govt-101610832304145.html
17-01-2021||India||Experts warn against partial immunity, mutation risks||As India begins its Covid-19 vaccination drive, it must protect against leaving its population with partial or subpar immunity to the coronavirus that may ultimately risk triggering mutations, experts who have tracked the launch of immunisations in the US and the UK have said, advising careful focus on speed as well as accuracy.Viruses mutate due to what is known as selection pressure and – in addition to evolution within immunocompromised people — this could also happen in case of vaccines if the doses are given in a manner does not to lead to highest efficacy, or if they offer inadequate protection. “We know that the virus mutates... A subpar immune response may give immunological advantage to the virus and it may induce more genetic diversity within the virus,” said Maria Elena Bottazzi, the associate dean, National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, in an interview to HT.Bottazzi was speaking in the context of a debate in the US and the UK on whether to delay the second doses to ensure that vaccine inventories are used up to inoculate as many people as quickly possible – a strategy that may not be scientifically sound.India has decided not to follow this model, and to give the vaccine at the 28-day intervals recommended by the manufacturers. “Scientifically, it is very clear that you need the doses at the right time to really get a robust immune response with good neutralising antibodies. So if we don’t vaccinate people on time, they might end up with a subpar level of immune response and that could be complicating because we know the virus mutates,” Botazzi said.“I understand the anxiety of trying to have as many people vaccinated but I think it should be on the basis of how much inventory we have. Yes, vaccinate as many people as possible but you have to make sure that each individual has the required second dose.”A similar threat is also posed if the vaccines are not as effective. “A partially effective vaccine could drive the evolution of new variants, which would be a serious problem,” said John P Moore, leading virologist and professor at Cornell University’s Weill Cornell Medicine in an interview over email. Concerns over efficacy have surrounded one of the vaccines that India rolled out on Saturday since Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, is yet to reach the clinical trial threshold where it can be determined if and by how much the vaccine is able to offer protection from disease.At the time of its approval, authorities said that it is likely to be a better option in fighting mutations that have been seen in several countries since it uses a whole virion to train the body to recognise the pathogen, instead of just the Spike protein that most other vaccines mimic for an immune response. “There is no reason why an inactivated virus vaccine would automatically be superior to an adenovirus vector vaccine. Only data can show which is better,” said Moore, while adding that such remarks by administration members could be “based on the national origins of the vaccines”. “That has happened in the UK too, where the British government speaks very, very highly of the Oxford vaccine,” he added.The two experts also said that it is important to ensure that immunisation programmes avoid controversy that could fuel vaccine scepticism. For instance, the approval to a vaccine without efficacy data “was not a good idea”, according to Moore. “It would not happen in the US, or in Western Europe. The Russians and Chinese have done this. I don’t think it’s a good idea, as it could harm public confidence in what they are being asked to take,” he said.The concerns surfaced on Saturday, when at least two doctors groups – the Tamil Nadu doctors’ association and a group of doctors in Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia hospital – indicated they were reluctant to take Covaxin.Like Covaxin, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (called Covishield in India), dose also elicited some controversy after its trials were found to have been conducted with unplanned dosing and threw up varying efficacy numbers. However, both vaccines have in early clinical stages have proven safety and an ability to trigger an immune response.When they cleared the Oxford-AstraZeneca dose, regulators in UK said second doses can be delayed by up to 12 weeks in order to focus on reaching as many people as possible for first shots since even those can provide some immunity. The approach, however, was not part of clinical trials.The authorities were partly driven by the fast spread of the B.1.1.7 variant of the coronavirus (also known as VOC202012/01), which has been linked to higher infectivity. Following its discovery, several other variants have been found – some of which have raised fears that vaccines may be rendered obsolete.“We are concerned with any mutation that occurs in the spike or particularly in the RBD (receptor binding domain – the portion of the virus responsible for entering a host cell). There is initial data that is giving us optimism that some of this may not alter the ability of producing neutralising antibodies with the vaccines,” said Bottazzi, whose team at Baylor is also developing a DNA recombinant vaccine with Hyderabad-based Biological E. The vaccine candidate is in Phase I/II trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-warn-against-partial-immunity-mutation-risks-101610831529993.html
17-01-2021||India||Technical glitches with Co-WIN app: Process goes manual at several locations||Health care workers administering the Covid-19 vaccine in at least five states faced minor hurdles on the first day of India’s immunisation drive while Maharashtra suspended its campaign for two days due to technical glitches with the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) app that forms the backbone of the country’s immunisation plan.Due to difficulties in uploading data on the app, which has been developed by the central government to monitor and track the inoculation process, health care workers in some districts had to put up information about the vaccine recipients on the digital platform manually, according to people aware of the developments.The world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination programme was launched on Saturday in India with the aim to cover 300,000 recipients. Of these, 191,181 recipients were administered the first shot of the two-dose vaccines.The Co-WIN app is meant to facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries, besides assisting programme managers across national, state, and district levels.Maharashtra’s state health department announced on Saturday that the vaccination campaign in the state will be temporarily suspended till Monday due to issues with the CoWIN app.The next session will be held on Tuesday, said a statement by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, after officials reported a slowdown in app functioning.In West Bengal, government officials said the app slowed down since Friday, and many health workers could not operate it or add information about vaccine recipients.“There were some technical glitches and the app had slowed since Friday. Not all messages were going to health workers who were supposed to receive the vaccine on Saturday morning. The persons concerned were individually called up and informed over phone,” said a senior official of the state health department.Issues were also reported in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. Uttarakhand’s nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination Kuldeep Singh Martoliya said slowdown in the app was reported from multiple districts in the state. “Our technical team is looking into this,” he said.Health department officials from Rajasthan said that the CoWIN app was slow in some places in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Barmer districts, and a government official in Madhya Pradesh said glitches were reported from districts such as Morena, Indore and Seoni.According to the Union health ministry, Saturday’s issues were resolved quickly. “Since this was the first day of the vaccination drive and it was our first real-time experience, there were observed some minor glitches that were resolved immediately,” said Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, health ministry, who is also the nodal officer at the ministry for vaccine delivery.On Saturday, Odisha government officials said they will pause the vaccination drive for a day to observe beneficiaries who received the first dose.(With inputs from Mumbai, Dehradun, Kolkata, Bhopal and Jaipur,)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/process-goes-manual-at-several-locationstory-101610826824371.html
17-01-2021||India||Manish Kumar first to take shot in Delhi||While 34-year-old Manish Kumar, a sanitation worker at Delhi’s AIIMS, was vying to be among the first to receive a Covid-19 vaccine, his mother, Laxmi Rani, was dead against it. She didn’t want him to even be in the first batch to receive the jab. She even offered to trade places with him, given that she is employed as a sanitation worker at the same hospital.But in the end, Rani relented. At 11.10am on Saturday, Kumar became the first resident of the national capital to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease.Kumar on Saturday emerged as the face of a months-long global effort against time to develop an inoculation against the infection that has killed over two million people. He said he always believed in the efficacy and safety of the vaccine.“I have narrated my experience to over 50 journalists so far. Do you see any adverse impact on me?”Kumar said it wasn’t a coincidence that he was a part of the first batch of frontline staffers at the premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to be vaccinated, all of whom received a jab of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.“When I found out that members of my team were to be vaccinated, I volunteered to be on that list. My immediate supervisor wasn’t very excited about my confidence, but I wanted to serve as an example to my family and colleagues,” said Kumar, who has been a machine operator in AIIMS’ sanitation department for eight years now.And when Kumar received a confirmatory text message on Friday, he approached his boss once again, with another request. “I urged my supervisor to let me be the first person from AIIMS to receive the vaccine, though I didn’t think I would be obliged,” he said.Among those he encouraged to take the vaccine shot was his childhood friend Shaukat Ali, also a sanitation worker at the hospital. “I have had three surgeries and was very scared to take the vaccine,” Ali said, even as he stood on his toes to record a video of Kumar getting the jab.In fact, like Laxmi Rani, Ali too urged him against taking the shot till as late as 9am on Saturday, for fear of any potential adverse effects. But like Laxmi Rani, Ali relented too.“I told him to watch me receive the vaccine and get inspired,” said Kumar.Early on Saturday, Ali became one of the recipients of the Covid-19 vaccine as well.Kumar said he hid the vaccination plan from his family till Wednesday, when his announcement met with mixed responses.Apart from his mother, his wife also took some cajoling to give in to his plan. “Eventually, she said she would stand on the sidelines and watch me receive the vaccine,” said Kumar. However, they changed their minds later, and decided she would worry too much if she came to the vaccination centre.Kumar’s Saturday began like any other working day over the past eight years. He caught a bus from Najafagarh, where he lives with his family, and arrived at AIIMS for the vaccination, as well as his regular duties.He didn’t know that within hours though, he would be making news and even trending on Twitter.His mother, too, was unaware of the fanfare that would eventually surround his vaccination. While Kumar was flanked by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, his mother continued with her housekeeping work at the hospital.Kumar kept himself masked while he was administered a dose of Covaxin, even as the gathering around him cheered. Soon after, he was whisked away to a room, away from the media’s glare and questions.“There were three doctors around me for 30 minutes after the injection. They kept asking me about any reactions I might have been having.”He was confident the vaccine was safe. But, he said, he knew the media’s glare would keep him in good stead.“I knew the media was there. The Prime Minister was live just minutes before my vaccination. And the health minister was by my side. Even if a problem were to occur, they would ensure I was taken care of.”He said him volunteering to be among the first to get the jab should dispel fears about the vaccine. “There are rumours on social media about the vaccine. I am fortunate to play a part in dispelling those rumours. There are no rashes on my body, no nausea, no pain, nothing.”Despite Kumar and his mother working at AIIMS, and more relatives working at different hospitals in the city, neither he, nor anyone in his family, was touched by the virus. “But the fear of the virus was always there. We had witnessed deaths by this disease,” said Kumar.Now, Kumar will go back to his daily duties at the hospital, even as several more get vaccinated there, as in the rest of the country. He will be back for the second and final dose of the vaccine 28 days later, at which point, doctors said, he can breathe easy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-kumar-first-to-take-shot-in-delhi-101610826383493.html
17-01-2021||India||Concerns over Covaxin as some cite ‘lack of data’||Doctors from a prominent Delhi hospital and Tamil Nadu raised concerns over being administered the homegrown vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech as the nationwide vaccination programme kicked off on Saturday.The Bharat Biotech vaccine, called Covaxin, is currently undergoing late-stage clinical trials, which are crucial to determining the efficacy of the shot. India’s drug regulator gave emergency authorisation to the vaccine — along with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India — on January 3The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi on Saturday requested the medical superintendent of the facility to administer SII’s coronavirus vaccine, Covishield, amid apprehensions about Covaxin.The resident doctors were “a bit apprehensive” about Covaxin and may not participate in the immunisation drive in large numbers, the association said in a letter.“We have come to know that the COVID-19 vaccination drive is being conducted by the hospital today. Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech is being preferred in our hospital over Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute.“The residents are a bit apprehensive about the lack of complete trial in case of Covaxin and might not participate in huge numbers thus defeating the purpose of vaccination. We request you to vaccinate us with Covishield, which has completed all stages of trial before its roll-out,” the letter stated.The controversy escalated during the day as reports said those receiving Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin were asked to sign consent forms before being inoculated because the jab had been allowed by the government in “clinical trial mode”.“...the clinical efficacy of COVAXIN is yet to be established and it is still being studied in phase 3 clinical trial,” said the form.Spokesperson for Bharat Biotech said the company was misquoted and that they never claimed they would compensate all Covaxin recipients for any adverse reactions.However, under the clinical trial mode condition, the screening and consent form mentions that in case of any adverse events or serious adverse events, recipients will be provided medically recognised standard of care in the government designated and authorised centres/hospitals.“The compensation for serious adverse event will be paid by sponsor (BBIL) if the serious adverse event is proven to be causally related to the vaccine,” said the form.No comments were made on the reports that many doctors expressed apprehension about taking the Covaxin shot.“No comments from the company on this,” said a Bharat Biotech spokesperson.The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) also reportedly recommended its members to get vaccinated, but preferably with the Covishield shot.“There was some hesitation among the doctors in receiving the vaccine, but if I did not believe that the vaccine was safe why would I take it. I will speak to the doctors and try to allay concerns,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, where 31 people were vaccinated and some resident doctors asked the hospital for Covishield vaccine.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College said: “Vaccine hesitancy had a major role to play when it came to the low vaccination rate on Saturday. Many people were comparing the two vaccines, many people wanted to wait and see what happens, and others wondered whether they needed it, having recovered from the infection recently. When people were asked to sign the consent forms, that also led to a lot of anxiety. But, with no major adverse events reported, I think more people will come forward in coming days.”Urging people to have faith in India’s researchers, scientists and regulatory authorities, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Singh Guleria reassured the nation that Covaxin was safe.Dr Guleria along with NITI Aayog member VK Paul were administered the Covid-19 vaccine shot at AIIMS Delhi on the inaugural day of the nationwide roll-out of vaccination. Paul, too, said Covaxin was safe to be administered.Bharat Biotech has received a government purchase order for the supply of 5.5 million doses of Covaxin. In Tamil Nadu, 99 people received the Covaxin shot, and in Delhi at least 152 health care workers received Covaxin shot, on Saturday.According to Union health ministry, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield was supplied to all states and Union Territories, while Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was supplied to 12 States and Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerns-over-covaxin-as-some-cite-lack-of-data-101610825998981.html
17-01-2021||India||Shielded and vaccinated: India begins mammoth immunisation drive||Doctors, paramedics and hospital workers — who for most part of 2020 were on the frontlines of the battle against the rampaging coronavirus, often ceaselessly even when they saw their colleagues fall — became the first to receive Sars-Cov-2 vaccines as India kicked off a colossal immunisation campaign on Saturday.Between 10.30am, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off the exercise with an address to the nation, and late evening, roughly 191,181 people received doses at 3,351 vaccination sites, preliminary data by the Union health ministry showed.According to data compiled from states by HT, 200,297 people were vaccinated. The number was shy of the 300,000 that was being estimated but still far higher than what was recorded by any country on its first day.“We are launching the world’s biggest vaccination drive and it shows the world our capability,” Modi said in his address, imploring citizens to keep their guard up and not believe any “rumors about the safety of the vaccines.”Modi also described India’s vaccine allotment formula as humanitarian and recounted the time when the outbreak was peaking in India. “As much as we think about those days, we become sad. But in those days of crisis there were people who put their lives in danger to save us: our doctors, nurses, paramedic, ambulance drivers, police, ASHA, and other frontline workers. They gave priority to their duties. Many of them stayed away from their families didn’t go home. There are many friends who will never return home. They sacrificed their lives to save us,” Modi said, before adding that these have been prioritised.Among those who got doses on Saturday, there were no serious side effects requiring hospitalisation, Union health ministry said. In all, there were 16,755 personnel involved in the immunisations on Saturday.Authorities hope to give shots to 300 million people, roughly the population of the US, by the end of summer.The recipients include 30 million doctors, nurses and other frontline workers such as police and firefighters, who will be followed by 270 million others, who are either aged over 50 or have illnesses that make them vulnerable to Covid-19.The drive began simultaneously across dedicated vaccination centres set up across the country, where doses of Covishield – the manufactured-in-India version of UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine – and indigenously developed Covaxin were administered to people. In Delhi, the first person to receive a dose was All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) cleaning staff Manish Kumar. “I wanted to serve as an example to my family and colleagues,” said Kumar, minutes after he received Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin shot, flanked by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and AIIMS director Randeep Guleria.Staff who were vaccinating people used a mobile phone app called Co-WIN where they fed in preset lists of people and updated their vaccination status – records that will be crucial since these people will require their second doses in four week’s time.Staff in several states reported glitches in using the tool, but the health ministry said these were addressed soon. “Since this was the first day of the vaccination drive and it was our first real-time experience, there were observed some minor glitches that were resolved immediately,” said Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, health ministry, who is also the nodal officer at the ministry for vaccine delivery.Ironing out issues identified on Saturday will be crucial before vaccinations resume next week. Till Saturday, almost 17 million doses of vaccines have been delivered to states and experts believe the clock is ticking as the world faces threats of new variants of the coronavirus that could make the pandemic harder to control, like B.1.1.7 first identified in UK, and mutation spreading in Brazil that is feared to make existing immunity in those who have recovered from the disease and even those who have gotten doses less effective.In wealthy countries including the United States, Britain, Israel, Canada and Germany, millions of citizens have already been given some measure of protection with at least one dose of vaccine developed with revolutionary speed and quickly authorised for use.India is second to the US with 10.5 million confirmed cases, and ranks third in the number of deaths, behind the US and Brazil, with 152,000. Over 35 million doses of various Covid-19 vaccines have been administered around the world, according to the University of Oxford’s Our World In Data’s vaccination tracker.Experts said the exercise will need India to build on its massive immunisation infrastructure. “To be able to effectively reach the target population for vaccinating people of this scale, India needed to utilize its existing national immunization network, including the infrastructure (production, storage, transport, delivery facilities) as well as the human resources (vaccinators, supervisors, etc),” said Anant Bhan, researcher, global health, health policy and bioethics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shielded-and-vaccinated-india-begins-mammoth-immunisation-drive-101610820997898.html
17-01-2021||India||Nation receives a shot in the arm||From frontline army camps in Ladakh to sparse primary health care centres in the rural heartland, loud applause and cheers rang out in vaccination sites across the country on Saturday as roughly 190,000 frontline workers were inoculated against Covid-19 in what is billed to be the world’s biggest immunisation programme.The workers were administered shots of either the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, made by Serum Institute of India (SII) and locally known as Covishield, or the Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin. They will need to return for the second dose in 28 days. “This is a historic day. Every heath worker has given their hundred percent during this pandemic. Today we are happiest,” said Tulsa Tandi, a 51-year-old sanitation worker who was the first person to get the vaccine shot in Chhattisgarh.Union Health ministry figures showed that roughly 191,181 people received doses at 3,351 sites. This was short of the 300,000-plus target but still well above numbers recorded by any other country on the first day of inoculation.Among the first to receive the vaccine in various states included sanitation worker Saroj Bala in Haryana’s Panchkula, Dr Sudhir Bhandari in Jaipur, primary health care centre medical officer Mridul Das in Tripura, and hospital security guard Haridev Yadav in Bhopal. Vaccination rooms were decorated with flowers and balloons, the first beneficiaries were welcomed with ‘aarti’, garlands and sweets, and people posed with victory signs after receiving the shots as a sense of hope prevailed over the months of anxiety and uncertainty. Sweets and gift hampers were offered to people in several places. “I was a bit tense before the vaccination. But, now I am feeling good. People can trust the vaccine,” said Das.Yadav said he felt lucky to get vaccinated. “When I was asked on Thursday morning, I said yes without thinking twice,” said Yadav, a contractual employee who is the sole bread-earner for a family of four.Many people said family members tried to dissuade them due to fears of side effects, but added that they went ahead to dispel rumours, especially in rural areas. “I am very happy. I felt no trouble and no side effects after the vaccination. I am going to join duty for the rest of the day,” said 29-year-old Mariyam Guria, a sanitation worker in Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital who was Jharkhand’s first person to get the vaccine.Across India, a common protocol was followed. Officials verified a beneficiary’s identity before allowing him/her into the room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-receives-a-shot-in-the-arm-101610823320163.html
17-01-2021||India||Razdan furnishes details of hiring fraud||Former NDTV anchor Nidhi Razdan on Saturday provided a detailed account of an elaborate online fraud that prompted her to resign from her job and accept a non-existent teaching position at Harvard University in the United States but the journalist’s blog left some unanswered questions about the alleged scam.In a blog on her former channel, Razdan said she was invited in November 2019 to speak at an event by the Harvard Kennedy School, the public policy institute of Harvard University, and one of the alleged organisers separately told her of a teaching vacancy. “A few weeks later I was ‘interviewed’ online for 90 minutes. It all seemed legitimate, the questions were thorough and professional,” she wrote.Razdan said she googled and found a journalism degree programme offered by the Harvard Extension School. “Contrary to what many are tweeting, Harvard has a school called the Extension School offering a Journalism Degree Programme. The actual programme is called the Master of Liberal Arts, Journalism degree. The Extension School lists 500 faculty of whom 17 are categorised as journalism faculty. A number of these people are working journalists. I believed I fit this profile.”On Friday, Joshua Benton, a former journalist who founded the university’s news website, Nieman Lab, had said there was no journalism department or journalism professors at Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences. “She (Razdan) was apparently under the impression she was joining the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS), which is the main faculty [for Harvard College and the Graduate School]. FAS definitely doesn’t have any journalism professors or offer any journalism degree,” he tweeted.Razdan said in January last year, she got an email from an “alleged Harvard human resources person” from what appeared to be an official Harvard email ID, with an offer letter and agreement.“The offer letter and the agreement appeared to be on a genuine letterhead with the University insignia, and contained the “signatures” of all senior Harvard University officials who actually do hold those positions even today,” she wrote. The unidentified people separately emailed her employers at NDTV and others for recommendation letters. Razdan said no one at NDTV thought anything was amiss.Later, her former colleague Sonia Singh said she gave Razdan a recommendation. “I gave Nidhi a recommendation as well and received an extremely genuine seeming university link to upload this,” Singh tweeted. It was unclear whether any questions were raised at the lack of a formal interview or her apparent lack of academic qualifications or publishing to be recruited as an associate professor. In June 2020, Razdan quit NDTV.“I had been told a work visa had been issued in the US for me which would be sent to me only when travel was required. I would have also needed a visa from Delhi but it never reached that stage since no travel was on the cards immediately,” she said.Work visas are usually issued by the consulate in the applicant’s home country and need the applicant’s passport. There was no clarity whether Razdan submitted her passport for the visa procedure, or how a work visa could be issued in the US without her visiting the country, or in the absence of a genuine job offer, or communication to the embassy confirming the same from Harvard.In December, Razdan said she wrote to the head of human resources at the university but didn’t hear back. In January, she said she wrote to the office of the Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. “It was only earlier this week that I heard back from them telling me there was no record of my appointment and that the people claiming to be their HR staff do not exist!” It was not clear why Razdan waited until December to communicate officially with Harvard, or why official insignia and designation of the university was used in events and conclaves attended by the journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/razdan-furnishes-details-of-hiring-fraud-101610822822826.html
17-01-2021||India||BMC begins mass inoculation as healthcare workers queue up for first vaccine jab||Almost ten months after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, a glimmer of hope hung over designated hospitals on Saturday morning as officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began the nationwide mass inoculation programme.At around 8.30am, as the ‘Vaccine Van’ carrying 500 units of Covishield made its way into Cooper Hospital at Vile Parle, staffers clapped for the vaccine carriers with the hospital’s nursing staff holding 'arti thalis’ and sweets as a welcome gesture. After the vaccines were unloaded, they distributed sweets and cheered..All ten vaccination centres across the city sported colourful curtains and were decorated with flowers. Some centres at BYL Nair hospital and Covid-19 jumbo centre at Bandra Kurla Complex also placed selfie spots with ‘I got my Covid-19 vaccine’ message in the backdrop.Wearing masks, hundreds of healthcare workers (HCWs) – some anxious, others impatient – queued up to get their first vaccine shots. Though BMC had placed a target of vaccinating 4,000 HCWs on the first day, around 48.15% healthcare workers received the vaccines.Despite last minute delays in informing registered HCWs about the timing and place of the vaccination, 1,926 HCWs including doctors, nurses, ASHA and anganwadi workers reached the centres.After a low turnout in the first few hours, footfall of HCWs started increasing post noon. Many senior HCWs above 80 years also visited vaccination centres to get their first shot. Dr Devadhvala Dilnazj, 75, a retired anaesthetic reached BYL Nair Hospital by 9.30 am and was the first to take the vaccine shot at the hospital.Beneficiaries were asked to show their identity card mainly PAN card following which they were given token numbers. Later, they were asked to wait in the waiting areas and were called for vaccination according to the number. However, this led to overcrowding and social distancing was compromised. The beneficiaries were forced to wait in a long queue at vaccination centres like Dr RN Cooper, Shatabdi hospitals and BKC jumbo centre.Though no case of adverse effects was reported, some beneficiaries reported dizziness after taking the vaccine and were immediately taken to the ‘adverse reaction’ room where they rested. But soon, they were stabilized and sent back home.At Sion Hospital, before starting the vaccination programme, dean Dr Mohan Joshi gave an emotional and inspirational lecture to staffers about their journey in the last ten months. He thanked all medical staffers for their tireless contribution during the pandemic.“Since it was the first day of vaccination, some centres reported crowding but the system will be gradually channelized better to stop the gathering of beneficiaries,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-begins-mass-inoculation-as-healthcare-workers-queue-up-for-first-vaccine-jab-101610822116856.html
17-01-2021||India||Farmer union seeks removal of 3 committee members alleging bias, appeals to SC||In a vote of no confidence against the Supreme Court-appointed four-member Committee to resolve farmers’ concerns over the three farm laws, one of the protesting farmers' groups has asked the Supreme Court to remove the three members who remain in the Committee after one of the members, Bhupinder Singh Mann refused to be part of the Committee proceedings.The demand was raised by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Lokshakti in an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court on Saturday alleging bias against the three members in favour of the farm laws. The affidavit came in response to an application moved by the Delhi Police seeking a stay on any disruption of the Republic Day proceedings by the protesting farmer unions. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde had issued notice on this application last Tuesday and posted the same for hearing on January 18.In its response, BKU-Lokshakti through its advocate AP Singh told the Court that the Delhi Police application was unnecessary as Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code is already in place in central Delhi which restricts gathering of five or more persons.The affidavit then proceeded to address its concerns over the composition of the Committee. It said, “The principle of natural justice is going to get violated by forming these persons as members of the Committee. Members appointed by the Supreme Court, how they will hear all the farmers on equal parameters when they have already supported these three farm Law.” Instead, the farmer union has requested appointment of a former Supreme Court judge along with farm leaders of protesting farmer unions.The Court had on January 12 formed a four-member Committee to hear out the protesting farmers and submit a report to the Court after eight weeks. The members were Bhupinder Singh Mann (National President, BKU and All India Kisan Coordination Committee), Pramod Kumar Joshi (Agricultural Economist, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute), Ashok Gulati, Agricultural Economist and Former Chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Anil Ghanwat, President, Shetkari Sanghatana. The Committee was to hold its first sitting by January 22. The Court directed the Committee to listen to the grievances of the farmers on the farm laws as also the views of the Government and make recommendations.Two days later, Mann refused to join the Committee proceedings in solidarity with the farmer protests leaving just three members. The response by BKU-Lokshakti referred to news clippings where the three members had openly supported the farm laws and criticized protesting farmers of being misled by political parties.“When all committee members appointed by the Supreme Court are already in favour of these three farm laws and already support the laws made and passed by the Central government without enough discussion with farmers, then how can they make fair report without any bias before the Court,” the BKU-Lokshakti said.The union requested the Court to “remove all three members from the committee” and appoint persons who would prepare the report on basis of “mutual harmony” and who can “think about the interest of farmers with impartiality, trust and goodwill.” The union requested the Court to appoint independent, impartial persons such as former Supreme Court judge and include within the Committee the President of BKU-Lokshakti among other farmers’ organization leaders participating in the protests.The apex court on Tuesday had stayed the implementation of the three laws in question, namely Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.While passing the order, the bench, also comprising of Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present and will encourage the farmers bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-union-seeks-removal-of-3-committee-members-alleging-bias-appeals-to-sc-101610821563534.html
17-01-2021||India||One severe adverse impact in Delhi: Person is stable, AIIMS says||A 20-year-old man had a severe allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, after receiving a Covid-19 vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), the only severe reaction reported in Delhi on the first day of the national vaccine roll-out. Anaphylaxis causes skin rash, nausea, vomiting, difficulty breathing, and shock, if not treated promptly.The hospital had been administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.“An AIIMS security guard has developed an allergic reaction after receiving Covid-19 vaccination here today. He is kept under observation of doctors at the hospital,” an AIIMS official said.In all, Delhi reported 51 minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the site of injection, or fever.A senior NDMC official, who asked not to be named, said two cases of mild AEFI (adverse effects following immunisation) symptoms were reported at Charak Palika Hospital. Two of the hospital’s health care workers who took the Covid-19 vaccine in the afternoon, reported slight tightness in the chest during the observation period.“They were immediately attended to by the AEFI team and kept under observation. They felt normal within half-an-hour and were discharged. There is nothing to be worried about AEFI cases, as such symptoms are normal to occur after any vaccination,” the official said.Hospitals across the city said they were equipped to deal with any adverse events.At Lok Nayak, two consultation rooms in the observation area were converted to high-dependence units with all emergency medications and oxygen support available.“The rooms are like mini emergency centres in themselves and can handle any adverse events that may take place during vaccination. The patient will not even have to be moved from the vaccination site,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, the hospital’s medical director.At GTB hospital, intensive care unit beds were kept ready just above the vaccination site on the first floor of the emergency building. And at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, a resuscitation centre was set up – similar to the one in Lok Nayak – at the vaccination site, which was also close to the ICU facility at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-severe-adverse-impact-in-delhi-person-is-stable-aiims-says-101610819631564.html
17-01-2021||India||30-year-old doctor is Tripura's first Covid-19 vaccine recipient||Mridul Das, a 30-year-old medical officer, became the first person to get the Covid-19 vaccine in Tripura shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's launched the nation-wide vaccination drive against the disease on Saturday."I was a bit tense before the vaccination. But now I am feeling good. I will get the second dose after 28 days. People can trust the vaccine," said Das after spending half-an-hour under observation as per the vaccination protocol.Das said dealing with the pandemic has been the most challenging task in his eight-year career. " We remember our struggle during those initial Covid-19 pandemic days. We were clueless as to how to control the situation."Tripura has received the first batch of 56,500 Covid-19 vaccine doses and beneficiaries are enlisted for the vaccination at 17 centres across the state.The state has recorded 33,325 Covid-19 cases and 388 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30yearold-doctor-is-tripura-s-first-covid-19-vaccine-recipient-101610783150900.html
17-01-2021||India||As India begins Covid-19 vaccination, a look at countries which began the drive||India has begun one of the world’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination programmes marking the beginning of the mammoth effort to immunise more than 1.3 billion people. The first dose was administered to a health worker at All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, kickstarted the campaign with a national televised speech.“We are launching the world’s biggest vaccination drive and it shows the world our capability,” PM Modi said.With this India will enter the long list of countries that have approved and started administrating Covid-10 vaccines to their populations.Here’s a list of other countries that have begun their vaccination programme:ArgentinaThe country started administering the two-component Russian Sputnik V vaccine on December 29 last year across all 23 provinces and in the capital Buenos Aires.BelgiumBelgium received the first Covid-19 vaccines developed by BioNTech/Pfizer on December 28, 2020. The country plans to vaccinate 70 per cent of its population by the end of 2021.BelarusBelarus started administering the Russian-made Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine on December 29.CanadaThe country started vaccination with the Pfizer vaccine on December 14. The country has also approved the Moderna vaccine.ChileOn December 24, Chile started its inoculation programme.Costa RicaCosta Rica administered the first shot of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine doses on December 24.CroatiaThe country began its vaccination programme on December 27.CyprusCyprus began rolling out its vaccination programme on December 27.The Czech RepublicPrime Minister Andrej Babis was the first to get the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine at the Central Military Hospital in Prague on December 27 after which the country began its nationwide inoculation program.DenmarkDenmark began vaccinating its people on December 27.FinlandThe country also started its vaccination program on December 27.FranceThe country started its vaccination program on December 26 with first vaccines applied to a woman and a doctor, both 78, in Rene-Muret Hospital near the capital Paris.GermanyVaccinations against the coronavirus began in the country on December 26.GreeceThe country began administering the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine on December 27. Greece’s president and prime Minister were the third and fourth people in the country to get inoculated.HungaryHungary started vaccinating healthcare workers against the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine on December 26.IsraelIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu received a Covid-19 vaccine jab on December 19, kicking off a national roll-out.ItalyThe first vaccinations against the coronavirus disease in Italy took place on December 27.KuwaitKuwait began its coronavirus vaccination campaign on December 24 as the country received the first 150,000 doses of the vaccine developed by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech.MaltaThe country kicked off its vaccination programme at the same time as other EU members on December 27.MexicoMexico started its mass vaccination programme on December 24 after the first 3,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine arrived in the country.OmanOn December 27, Oman launched its Covid-19 inoculation campaign, with the health minister receiving the first dose of the Pfizer vaccine.PolandThe country began its vaccination program on December 27.QatarQatar launched a free coronavirus vaccination campaign after the first batch of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine arrived on December 22. Qatar has also signed deals to acquire Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines.RomaniaThe country rolled out its vaccination program on December 27.RussiaAccording to the Russian government, the country has been inoculating its citizens since September using the indigenous Sputnik V vaccine.Saudi ArabiaSaudi Arabia began its campaign with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on December 17.SerbiaThe nation started its vaccine roll-out on December 24, with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic becoming the first to receive the Pfizer vaccine.SlovakiaSlovakia started to vaccinate its population on December 26 with the Pfizer- BionTech vaccine.SpainSpain started vaccination against Covid-19 on December 27.SwitzerlandSwitzerland started its coronavirus vaccine rollout on December 23 with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.SingaporeSingapore began its coronavirus vaccination campaign on December 30.United Arab EmiratesThe UAE approved the Pfizer-BioNTech and Chinese-made Sinopharm vaccines for mass use and administered vaccines on December 14.United KingdomThe country started its vaccination programme, the first to do so, on December 8 with Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old grandmother, becoming the first person in the world to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine.United StatesThe country also started administering the Pfizer vaccine on December 8. The Pfizer-BioNTech has been administered to more than a million people since the programme began and the country has also approved a second vaccine made by Moderna.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-begins-covid-19-vaccination-a-look-at-countries-which-began-the-drive-101610430737008.html
