21-01-2021||India||5 dead as fire breaks out at Serum facility||Five people were killed in a blaze that ripped through the top floor and partially damaged another floor of a five-storey building at a facility of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Thursday, but the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer said the incident will not hit the production of coronavirus shot Covishield. Officials said at least four people were rescued from SII’s Manjari premises in an operation spanning over an hour to bring the fire under control and save those trapped. They added that the nearest Covishield production and storage units are at least a kilometre away from the under-constructionbuilding that went up in flames. The Maharashtra government ordered a probe into the incident. State health minister Rajesh Tope said initial findings suggested that the fire was caused due to welding work and spread fast due to the presence of inflammatory material on the premises. “We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed,” SII chief executive Adar Poonawalla tweeted in the evening, a little more than an hour after posting that there were no casualties or major injuries. All of those killed were contractual labourers involved in work related to electricity; two of them from Uttar Pradesh, one from Bihar and two from Pune, according to according to Manjari legislator Chetan Tupe. Their bodies were found on the fifth floor of the building called MSEZ-03. Later in the day, SII announced an ex-gratia payment of ₹25 lakh each for the families of the deceased.“I would like to reassure all governments & the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia. Thank you very much @PuneCityPolice & Fire Department,” Poonawalla said in another tweet. His organisation is manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine by Oxford University and British-Swedish pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca in India, where the world’s largest inoculation drive began on January 16 thanks to SII’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s indigenously produced Covaxin. India is also shipping Covishield to its neighbours, strengthening them in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Six countries – Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Seychelles and Myanmar – are part of India’s initial rollout of vaccines as grant assistance. On Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was anguished by the loss of lives. “In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. I pray that those injured recover at the earliest,” he tweeted. Television visuals showed huge plumes of smoke billowing from the building as firefighters worked to extinguish the blaze. “Fire at Serum Institute of India in Pune has been brought under control...I have been informed that the Covid vaccine manufacturing plant is safe,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told the media during an interaction at a guest house at Malabar Hill on Mumbai’s suburbs on Thursday evening.Thackeray will visit the Manjari facility on Friday noon, according to Pune district officials.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said directives “have been issued to the Pune police commissioner for a detailed investigation into the incident”. He said a fire audit will be conducted at the building. “(Also) A team of experts will determine the cause (of the fire),” Pawar added.Officials said the five-storey building (ground plus five floors) was planned as an extension to the production facility for rotavirus. It is a part of the Manjari facility, which falls in a special economic zone and is around 15km from Pune, which began functioning in September 2019 as an extension to SII’s Hadapsar facility in the city. The fire broke out at on the fourth and fifth floors of the building and the fire department received a call around 3:50pm, according to Pune fire brigade control room officials. It rushed at least 10 fire-tenders to the spot. The fire was brought under control around 5pm and the bodies were found during a rescue operation around 5:30pm. Embers resurfaced at around 7pm during the cooling process, but the situation was quickly brought under control.“It is the fire experts who will only be able to ascertain the actual cause of the fire,” said Tupe, the local legislator. SII is producing around 50 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine a month at other facilities in the complex. It also has plans to make up to 50 million doses of a vaccine candidate developed by Novavax Inc from around April. SII, which also makes shots against polio, diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis B, measles, mumps and rubella, plans to supply 200 million doses to Covax, a World Health Organisation-backed effort to procure and distribute inoculations to poor countries. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-as-fire-breaks-out-at-serum-facility-101611253770444.html
21-01-2021||India||IT panel quizzes Facebook, Twitter over data protection||New Delhi: The parliamentary panel on information technology on Thursday quizzed Facebook and Twitter over their data-sharing and protection protocols in the wake of recent changes to WhatsApp’s privacy policy that have since been deferred , people familiar with the proceedings said. “It was a constructive debate, with all parties agreeing that technology is evolving everyday,” said a person familiar with the matter, speaking on condition of anonymity. “It is a constant and persistent challenge and everyone agreed that they need to work together to find a solution.”The panel summoned Facebook, WhatsApp’s parent company, after the latter’s new privacy policy, which stated that the messaging app would mandatorily share data with the social media website, caused a storm. Some of WhatsApp’s users decided to leave the platform. The resulting controversy forced WhatsApp to defer the implementation of its policy from February to April. Experts said the new policy would allow Facebook to collect a vast amount of metadata. The ministry of electronics and information technology has also written to WhatsApp asking it to withdraw the changes. Officials from the ministry were present at the meeting and said that they were keeping tabs on the situation, with the need of the hour being straightening India’s personal data policy. At the meeting, Facebook did not mention whether the policy will be revoked. “They did reassure the panel that individual rights were its priority and asserted that the policy was introduced in 2016. They maintained that the new policy will not infringe on the rights of users and there should be no concerns regarding data sharing.”A Facebook spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Twitter also faced criticism for doing too little to curb hate speech, the person mentioned above said. Twitter said it takes immediate action when it comes to tackling abusive content. “We appreciate the opportunity of being able to share our views before the Standing Committee on Information Technology. We put the people who use our service first at every step, and have made progress when it comes to making Twitter a safer place,” a Twitter spokesperson said. Interestingly, one of the panel’s members, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Nishikant Dubey, criticised Twitter for overreach in banning former US President Donald Trump from the platform. “Twitter can’t act as both an intermediary and a publisher, it has to be one or the other,” a second person familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Representatives from WhatsApp also attended the meeting. “We wish to thank the Honorable Parliamentary Committee for giving us an opportunity to appear before them and provide our views. We look forward to assisting the Hon’ble Committee in future as well,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-panel-quizzes-facebook-twitter-over-data-protection-101611253650499.html
21-01-2021||India||‘Construction in our own territory’: China on Arunachal village report||BeijingChina on Thursday dismissed a report that said it had built a village in Arunachal Pradesh, saying the construction activities were within its own territory and its sovereign right.The Chinese foreign ministry was responding to the report based on satellite imagery, which showed rows of houses in Indian territory that has been under Chinese control since 1959, and which is disputed.“First, I would like to tell you that China’s position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China’s Tibet), is consistent and clear. We have never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh illegally established on Chinese territory,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing while responding to a question on the report on Thursday.“China’s normal construction on its own territory is entirely a matter of sovereignty,” Hua added.China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet opposing New Delhi’s consistent stand that the northeastern state is an integral and inalienable part of India.Using satellite images dated November 1, 2020, television channel NDTV reported the village is located on the banks of the Tsari Chu river, which lies in the area disputed between India and China.The report said the village comprises more than 100 homes; an image dated August 26, 2019, did not show any habitation in the same area.The India-China border dispute covers the 3488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC).The report about the new village in Arunachal Pradesh comes amid a military stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh, which has lasted for over eight months.India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off in eastern Ladakh but no significant headway has been made so far.Earlier this week, Chinese state media said New Delhi was trying to hype news about the village.The Indian media reports were “a blatant attempt to stir up troubles on the China-India border,” Zhang Yongpan, a research fellow of the Institute of Chinese Borderland Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), told the tabloid Global Times on Tuesday.The external affairs ministry in India when asked about the development said on Monday that it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country’s security and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.India had stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens, MEA said.“Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-in-our-own-territory-china-on-arunachal-village-report-101611253590424.html
21-01-2021||India||Army plans to deploy 10,000 troops as LAC reinforcements||NEW DELHI: With a planned and gradual drawdown of soldiers underway in the Northeast ,where the security situation has significantly improved, the Indian Army plans to redeploy up to 10,000 extra troops by the year-end to carry out the force’s primary task --- dealing with the Chinese threat in the eastern sector, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity. These soldiers are part of a reserve division whose elements can be swiftly marshalled to support front-line troops guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China to deal with any contingency in the sensitive sector, the people said. While around 3,000 soldiers have already been pulled out of counter-insurgency and internal security duties in the Northeast, another 7,000 soldiers are expected to be withdrawn by the year-end, said one of the people cited above. The move will help the army focus on the borders and train for conventional operations, experts said. Several parliamentary panels have made recommendations in their reports to reduce the army’s exposure to counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism duties because it results in blunting the force’s focus on its main task --- defending the country from external aggression. Also, the Kargil Review Committeem (KRC), which tabled its report in Parliament in February 2000, said the army’s role in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism duties was resulting in the development of a mindset that distracts it from performing its primary role. The KRC underlined the pressing need to evolve a long-term strategy to reduce the army’s role in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations. On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said the army was in the process of reducing its footprint in the Northeast to sharpen its focus on external threats. No such drawdown of troops is currently planned in Jammu and Kashmir though, he stressed. The planned pull out of some units from a counter-insurgency role in the Northeast is a good step, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “The security situation is almost completely under control and it can now be handled by the police and central armed police forces. It will enable Eastern Command formations to focus on their primary role along the Northern borders,” he said. With both the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan and LAC being volatile, any reduction in internal security duties would be of great help in effective management of the borders and training for conventional operations, Hooda added. The internal security situation in the Northeast has improved considerably with a large number of insurgent cadres surrendering before the security forces, and successful operations carried out last year. Compared to 2018, there was a 40% increase in the apprehension of insurgents last year, a 60% decline in violent incidents and a140% increase in seizure of contraband, resulting in choking the supply of funds, according to government data accessed by Hindustan Times. “There has been a progressive decline in violence over a period of time. However, continued efforts are needed to achieve the desired level of peace, especially in Manipur, Nagaland and south Arunachal Pradesh,” said a second official. More troops will be withdrawn when the situation further stabilises in these states. Excellent coordination with Myanmar (Op Sunrise) has also made it hard for Indian insurgent groups to set up camps and operate from there, said a third official. However, one concern that remains is that the cadre strength of valley-based insurgent groups (VBIGs) in Manipur remains intact, he said. “The current focus of all stakeholders is primarily on the ongoing Naga peace talks,” said a fourth official. On the situation in Assam, he said the army had gradually started disengaging from the counter-insurgency grid in lower Assam and begun handing over the operational responsibility to the state government. “A comprehensive view of the security situation in lower Assam is being taken post the Bodoland Territorial Council elections that were held in December 2020 and a decision on disengagement of remaining forces will also be deliberated upon subsequently,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-plans-to-deploy-10-000-troops-as-lac-reinforcements-101611253350932.html
21-01-2021||India||Delhi HC refuses to stay Netflix premiere of ‘The White Tiger’||The Delhi high court on Thursday refused to stay the release of Priyanka Chopra-starrer ‘The White Tiger’ on Over the Top (OTT) platform Netflix on January 22.Hours before the release of the movie based on the Booker Prize winning novel of the same name written by Aravind Adiga, the court dismissed an urgent plea to injunct the makers and Netflix from premiering the movie, which also stars Rajkummar Rao and Adarsh Gourav in central roles.Justice C Hari Shankar dismissed an application by John N Hart Jr, an American film and theatre producer who had bought the copyright from Adiga for the movie adaptation in March, 2009.The court held that Hart Jr and others were “no stranger” to the production and release of the movie and that they have approached the court at the “nth” hour despite knowing about the making of the movie since the last one and half years.The judge came down heavily on Hart Jr and others for their concealment of certain documents and agreements which they had signed with the producers and the makers.After an urgent hearing on Thursday evening, the court said that postponement of the film will have larger ramifications on the producers, directors and actors since finances are involved.“You cannot blame the Coronavirus pandemic for your delay in coming to the court. You are coming at the nth hour and you are disentitled for the relief even on this ground,” the judge remarked.The court was hearing an injunction suit filed by Hart and his associate Sonia Mudbhatkal, a filmmaker, who had said that the movie makers infringed their copyright which they had got after giving a lot of money to the original author Adiga.Appearing for them, senior counsel Kapil Sankha said that Hart Jr had thought of a magnum opus like Slumdog Millionaire and he would be emotionally and financially shattered if the movie is released.He said that since he was in America, he did not have any clue about the making or release of the movie in India. He said that they had expected that the movie would not move due to the pandemic.Countering his submissions, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, for the producer, said that Mudbhatkal had sent a legal notice in October 2019, raising objections to the movie and a reply was given within a few days. However, till now, no objection has been raised and plaintiffs have come at the last moment.He said that there would be huge ramifications as a gamut of stakeholders are involved in the process even if the release is online. The court agreed to his submission.Appearing for Netflix, senior advocate Sai Rajagopal told the court that the movie has already been released in the US on January 11, 2021 and no objection was raised by the plaintiffs. He also said that the makers had gone ahead only after one of the plaintiffs, Mudbhatkal, had signed an agreement with them.The court took umbrage at concealment of documents by Hart Jr and turned down the plea for stalling its release.It, however, kept the suit pending and asked the makers of 'The White Tiger' to maintain the account of profit from the movie. The case will now come up before a registrar on March 22 for completion of pleadings and paper work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-refuses-to-stay-netflix-premiere-of-the-white-tiger-101611252431660.html
21-01-2021||India||The community dogs of Dhanbad: pampered, protected, proud||They recognise his white car from a distance. Almost as if they can read the number plate. Observant, hopeful eyes light up at its sight. “Aye, aye” (come, come) Anutosh Bagchi tells them in Bangla, signalling them to gather. They show up from different directions, excited to break bread together. Kalu, Kalia, Sheru, Chhota Sheru…they know their names well and respond with respect and affection. This is how the “community dogs of Dhanbad” begin their day. “Our dogs are well fed and they are well behaved, too. We don’t address them as strays,” says Bagchi, who lives in the Coal Capital of India situated in Jharkhand. The 71-year-old general manager of Skylark Hotel leaves from home a little early every morning to ensure the dogs get their share of fish and rice laddoos on time. The dogs are fed once again in the evening by members of Bagchi’s animal lovers group.The group of ten members came into being when the pandemic struck. “In the initial few days of the lockdown, one didn’t realise what animals were going through. With dhabas shut, there was suddenly no one to give them leftovers. That’s when we got into action and formed this group, connecting to members via Whatsapp,” shares Bagchi.The city was divided into various zones with one person heading each. “Soon, we included even a few cows and oxen in our feeding program, along from cats, dogs and birds,” says Bagchi. Oxen and cows are fed gud, choker and kutti (cattle feed). “We realised what a challenge it was for these big animals to keep their stomach full. Thus abandoned oxen and cows in the city became a part of the feeding initiative,” he shares.Cultivating compassion Bagchi has also started organising sensitisation classes across the city to encourage people to do their bit for animals. “We want to reduce the human-animal conflict. I come across instances of mischievous people pelting stones on dogs or beating them with sticks mercilessly for no reason. This leads to aggression in them. Hunger is also a big trigger. It’s a battle for survival. As long as you give them love and feed them, they don’t pose any threat to humans,” he says. Bagchi and his team conduct sensitisation meetings in various localities across the city to pass this message. “We go to clubs, schools and play grounds where we talk to children and their parents as well as grandparents and show them videos explaining dos and don’ts of taking care of dogs living in the community,” he says.“Dogs are quick to learn and inherently compassionate. Once they are assured of food, love and care, they start trusting you and treat you with 100 times more love and care,” says the animal lover.Greeting passers-by with exuberant tail wagging in the daytime, the loyal community doggos are always willing to play chowkidaars as night falls, guarding localities from suspicious elements, he says. Bagchi’s group is also getting the dogs sterilized through non-invasive methods. “Female dogs are given oral contraceptives during the estrous cycle . This is quite an effective measure that our group is carrying out to control the population of dogs,” he says. No one’s a stray hereBaghchi also corrects people when they use the terms stray or street dogs. “If you address dogs with such terms, you are likely to mistreat them. They are community dogs. If they live with us, they are a part of our community. Let’s give them the place they deserve,” says Bagchi whose group has been taking care of some 10,000 dogs in Dhanbad.Bagchi’s four-legged friends are grateful for all the love. There’s no growling and teeth gnashing for food. They wait for their turn to be fed patiently, for they know there’s enough meal for everyone. They are the community dogs of Dhanbad. Pampered, protected, proud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-community-dogs-of-dhanbad-protected-pampered-proud-101611252091593.html
21-01-2021||India||SC upholds bail for Azam Khan, wife and son in forgery case||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed the Uttar Pradesh government’s appeal challenging the bail granted to Samajwadi Party Member of Parliament Mohammad Azam Khan in a case of alleged forgery of his son’s birth certificate.His son, Abdullah Azam Khan is a member of UP Legislative Assembly from Suar constituency.Azam Khan’s wife Tazeen Fatima and son are also accused in the forgery case. The Allahabad High Court had granted bail to the trio on October 13 last year against which the UP Government approached the top court. Although Abdulla and Tazeen were immediately released, Azam Khan was released after police had recorded the statement of the complainant in the case.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah dismissed the state’s appeal as it noted that the order was limited to grant of bail. The Allahabad High Court had further directed the three accused persons not to tamper with the prosecution evidence by intimidating the witnesses during investigation and cooperate during the trial.The state represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta pointed out the concern of the state that the grant of bail should not have a bearing on trial. The bench agreed to make that clarification. In its final order.“The special leave petitions are dismissed. We make it clear that any observation made in the impugned order shall have no bearing in trial since it was only with regard to granting bail.”It was in February 2020, Khan had surrendered along with his wife and son in a Rampur court in the alleged forgery case. The case against the Rampur MP and his family was lodged on a complaint by one Akash Saxena in 2019.Saxena had alleged that Azam Khan and his wife secured two birth certificates for Abdulllah. One was issued by Nagar Palika Parishad, Rampur on January 28, 2012 while the other was issued on April 21, 2015 from Nagar Nigam, Lucknow.According to the state government, the matter was serious as Abdullah used the fake birth certificate to contest the Assembly elections which he won. In December 2019, the Allahabad High Court had set aside his election following which in February 2020, the UP Legislative Assembly disqualified him from membership of the House and declared his seat vacant.The matter is being separately contested by Abdullah in the Supreme Court which had in November last year stayed holding fresh election for the Suar Assembly seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-bail-for-azam-khan-his-son-and-wife-in-forgery-case-101611250150731.html
21-01-2021||India||India lodges protest after fishermen die in crash with Sri Lankan naval craft||India on Thursday lodged a strong protest with Sri Lanka over the death of three fishermen from Tamil Nadu in a collision between their vessel and a Lankan naval craft, saying Colombo should take steps to prevent the recurrence of such incidents.Four fishermen from Ramanathapuram district in Tamil Nadu had been reported missing on January 19. They were out fishing in a mechanised boat along with many other vessels from the same area. The Sri Lankan Navy initially said an Indian boat, with four fishermen on board, sank when patrol vessels sought to apprehend it with other fishing boats that were allegedly poaching in Sri Lankan waters.“We are shocked at the unfortunate loss of lives of three Indian fishermen and one Sri Lankan national following a collision between their vessel and a Sri Lankan naval craft,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.“Our strong protest in regard to this incident was conveyed by our high commissioner to the Sri Lankan foreign minister (on Thursday). A strong demarche was also made to the Sri Lankan acting high commissioner in New Delhi,” it said.The Indian side expressed “deep anguish at the loss of lives” and emphasised the need to deal with issues related to fishermen in a humanitarian manner, the statement said.“Existing understandings between the two governments in that regard must be strictly observed. Utmost efforts should be made to ensure that there is no recurrence,” it said.According to media reports, the bodies of the four fishermen were recovered in the Palk Strait by the Sri Lankan navy.The issue triggered protests by fishermen in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. Tamil Nadu chief minister EK Palaniswami announced compensation of ₹10 lakh each for the families of the fishermen and accused the Sri Lankan navy of destroying the livelihood of fishermen from the state.External affairs minister S Jaishankar had raised the issues of Indian fishermen during a visit to Sri Lanka this month. The bilateral joint working group on fisheries recently discussed outstanding issues were discussed, and Jaishankar said the Indian side was looking forward to the “early return” of fishermen detained in Sri Lanka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lodge-protest-after-fishermen-die-in-collision-with-sri-lankan-naval-craft-101611248006952.html
21-01-2021||India||On eve of PM Modi’s visit, TMC, BJP face-off in Bengal over Netaji’s birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Kolkata on January 23 to celebrate Subhash Chandra Bose’s birthday as Parakram Diwas, or day of valour, is intended to woo Bengal’s voters before the crucial assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) said on Thursday while the state government announced that it will celebrate the day as Desh Nayak Diwas, or day of the national hero.The Bengal government also appealed to people through televised advertisements to blow conch shells at 12.15 pm, the time of Bose’s birth in 1897. Both the Centre and the state have decided to organise various programmes till Bose’s 125th birthday next year.The Forward Bloc, which Bose formed in 1939, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on the other hand said they would celebrate January 23 as Desh Prem Diwas, or day of patriotism, as declared by the erstwhile Left Front government in 2010.Despite the TMC and the Left parties’ demand that January 23 be declared a national holiday and designated after the names they had chosen, the Modi government declared on January 19 that the day will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas but remained silent on the demand for declaration of a national holiday.This is the first time since the BJP came to power at the Centre that PM Modi will be celebrating the iconic freedom fighter’s birthday in Kolkata. He will attend two programmes, at the National Library and the Victoria Memorial Hall, during his day-long visit.“This is a publicity stunt and politically motivated. The BJP is utterly confused. It is worshipping Gandhi as well as his killer (Nathuram Godse). It is worshipping Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel who wanted to ban the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Is the BJP even aware that its founder Shyama Prasad Mookerjee opposed every move of Subhash Chandra Bose? It is only to woo Bengal’s voters that the BJP is praising Rammohan Roy, Vidyasagar and other legendary figures,” said Bengal’s deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy.BJP state vice-president Ritesh Tiwari criticised the TMC for being narrow-minded.“It is the Modi government that gave proper recognition to the Azad Hind movement that Netaji (as Bose is popularly known) had begun. Nobody did it in decades. It celebrated Gandhi Jayanti amid nationwide fanfare in 2019. Mamata Banerjee should remember that the Congress, to which she originally belonged, was led by Jawaharlal Nehru, who never recognised Bose’s sacrifice and patriotism,” said Ritesh Tiwari.TMC leaders said they had no information whether the chief minister would attend the Prime Minister’s programmes on Saturday although she has been invited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-eve-of-pm-modi-s-visit-tmc-bjp-face-off-in-bengal-over-netaji-s-birthday-101611248783963.html
21-01-2021||India||WhatsApp thanks Parliamentary committee after meeting on data privacy||A WhatsApp spokesperson thanked the standing committee of Parliament on Information Technology headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for allowing them to present their views after Thursday's meeting where the company's new privacy policy was discussed."We wish to thank the Parliamentary Committee for giving us an opportunity to appear before them and provide our views. We look forward to assisting the Hon’ble Committee in future as well," the spokesperson said as quoted by news agency ANI.The committee met the officials of Twitter and Facebook and the ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to hear their views on safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social and online news media platforms.The meeting was held at 4pm today, according to ANI.The Centre recently asked WhatsApp to withdraw its new privacy policy which had led to a global outcry about privacy protection and resulted in thousands of users switching to other online messaging platforms like Signal and Telegram.WhatsApp, however, has assured that they do not expand its ability to share user data with its parent company Facebook and is working to address the "misinformation" that was being spread about its privacy norms.“We wish to reinforce that this update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook. Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses...” a WhatsApp spokesperson said.The app promises end-to-end encryption which means that no third party, even WhatsApp itself, would be unable to access someone's personal chats.The company delayed the implementation of its new privacy policy from January 16 to May 15 after massive global backlash resulting in thousands switching over to other online messaging platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-thanks-parliamentary-committee-after-meeting-on-data-privacy-101611246128738.html
21-01-2021||India||Parliamentary panel members concerned over WhatsApp's proposed privacy policy||Members of a parliamentary panel on Thursday flagged the issue of proposed changes in the privacy policy of WhatsApp and highlighted concerns of Indian citizens, sources said.WhatsApp representatives who appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology said the proposed changes are aimed at bringing in more transparency and the chat and calls on platform still remain end-to-end encrypted, some of the members said.Some other members who attended the meeting maintained that the company was "evasive" in its reply on the issue of how it can bring in changes which are not conducive for Indian users. "They had no reply," said a member.The member also claimed that company representative agreed that data was being monetised.The committee interacted separately with representatives of Facebook, Twitter and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.After the meeting, a WhatsApp spokesperson said in a statement, "We wish to thank the Honorable Parliamentary Committee for giving us an opportunity to appear before them and provide our views. We look forward to assisting the Hon'ble Committee in future as well."In a strongly-worded letter to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had earlier this week said the proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, without giving users an option to opt-out, "raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens".The letter noted that with over 400 million users in India, the changes will have a disproportionate impact on the country's citizens.WhatsApp had earlier this month begun asking its 2 billion users worldwide to accept an update of its privacy policy if they want to keep using the popular messaging app. The new terms caused an outcry among technology experts, privacy advocates and users and triggered a wave of defections to rival services such as Signal and Telegram.In the updated policy, it got a right to share data it collected from WhatsApp users with the broader Facebook network, which includes Instagram, regardless of owning any accounts or profiles there. Some businesses, as per the new policy, were to use Facebook-owned servers to store messages.This triggered an outcry regardless of WhatsApp's assertion that all private messages between friends and family members remain end-to-end encrypted.WhatsApp had on January 16 delayed the introduction of the new privacy policy to May 15 after user backlash over sharing of user data and information with the parent company, Facebook Inc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-members-concerned-over-whatsapp-s-proposed-privacy-policy-101611247806665.html
21-01-2021||India||Twitter to restart giving blue ticks from January 22: All you need to know||After a gap of three years, micro-blogging platform Twitter is all set to resume its 'blue tick' verification programme from Friday. It was stopped in November 2017 as Twitter said the blue tick was being seen as an endorsement by Twitter creating a perception problem. It felt arbitrary and confusing to many people, as Twitter said.Three years later, Twitter comes up with a new verification system and here's all you need to know about it.> Twitter will verify accounts that fall under these six categories: government, companies/brands/non-profit organisation, news, entertainment, sports, activists/organisers and other influential individuals.> The profiles have to be active and complete.> Twitter will also remove the blue tick from accounts that should not be verified.> What does a complete profile mean? A profile that has either a verified email address or a phone number, a profile image or display name.> It has sent automated email and notifications to users who are at the risk of losing the blue ticks. They have been asked to make changes to their profiles by January 22.> Accounts which have repeatedly violated Twitter rules are also at the risk of losing verification.> How to apply for verification? It will be processed using both automation and human review. Go to your account settings page. You will find the option of request verification. "The process will include asking applicants to select a category for their verified status and confirming their identity via links and other supporting materials," Twitter said.> "We also plan to give people the option to share demographic information after completing the new verification application so that we can better measure and improve the equity of our verification process," Twitter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-to-restart-giving-blue-ticks-from-january-22-all-you-need-to-know-101611247298167.html
21-01-2021||India||Expelled AIADMK leader Sasikala tests positive for Covid-19, shifted to ICU||Former AIADMK leader VK Sasikala was shifted to the intensive care ward of Bengaluru's Victoria Hospital after testing positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) on Thursday."She has tested positive for Covid-19 but there are no other complications. Her oxygen saturation is around 98 per cent with around 10 litres of oxygen. There is a lung infection," said Dr K Ramesh Krishna, medical superintendent at Victoria Hospital. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSoon after Sasikala was shifted to the Bowring Hospital on Thursday morning as she complained of fever and breathlessness, just seven days before her scheduled release, her health condition was reported to be stable.“I've reliable info that Sasikala's health is stable, doctors are looking after her. She is being monitored properly. She needs oxygen due to some secondary infections. Doctors are still deciding on whether CT scans are required or not,” her nephew and AIADMK general secretary TTV Dhinakaran had told news agency ANI.The 63-year-old former associate of late J Jayalalithaa, who also suffers from hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism, was shifted to Victoria Hospital at 2.30pm.Doctors will decide when she would be discharged, Dr Krishna said, adding that it could be as long as a week or 10 days. The expelled leader, who is serving a four-year jail term in the disproportionate assets case in Bengaluru’s Parappana Agrahara jail and is set to be released on January 27, had undergone a treatment at the jail hospital some time ago. Her release will not be affected due to her health, her lawyer Raja Senthoor Pandian told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expelled-aiadmk-leader-sasikala-tests-positive-for-covid-19-shifted-to-icu-101611246207007.html
21-01-2021||India||Lagging a little in military modernisation compared to adversaries: Army Chief||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said India’s adversaries were modernising their militaries at a swift pace while the country was lagging slightly on that front, calling for concerted capability building of the armed forces to address national security challenges amid a lingering border row with China in eastern Ladakh.Speaking at an event to mark 25 years of army-industry partnership, the army chief said equipping the military with locally-produced weapons and systems was critical to meet national security challenges but indigenous development alone was not enough to plug existing operational voids because of challenges relating to niche technology and manufacturing capability.“There may be some inescapable need for a certain percentage of imports. One cannot afford to have operational voids when the enemy is at the gate,” Naravane said. He said dependence on imported military hardware could create vulnerabilities during a crisis, and self-reliance in the defence sector was a “strategic necessity.”“It is imperative for us to invest in building long-term indigenous capabilities for application across the entire spectrum of conflict,” he said.The army also signed a memorandum of understanding with the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) to power the indigenisation drive in the defence sector and reduce dependence on imported military hardware.“Increasing security challenges due to India's rising stature in the international community, apart from unresolved borders and revisionist adversaries have led to Indian Army being embroiled in protracted conflicts such as insurgencies and proxy wars. Continuous and concerted capability building of the army through modernisation to address these security challenges is a national imperative,” the army chief said.He said the Covid-19 pandemic had exposed the fragility of global supply chains and self-reliance was the only way to insulate the military from such disruptions.Enabling policy measures, swift decision making and speeding up timelines for delivery have induced a new sense of direction and there is a strong Make in India traction in many major areas such as combat vehicles, guns, rockets, ammunition, missiles, radars and electronic warfare systems, he said.He said defence exports had witnessed a seven-fold increase in three years and concerted actions by manufacturers and facilitation by industry associations will help the country achieve the $5 billion export target by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lagging-a-little-in-military-modernisation-compared-to-adversaries-army-chief-101611245913546.html
21-01-2021||India||Names of 800 healthcare workers go missing from Co-WIN portal in Bihar||Names of around 800 health care workers, including senior doctors at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, have gone missing from the Co-WIN portal for Covid-19 vaccination drive, the hospital alleged on Thursday.The NMCH administration claimed it had sent the list of nearly 800 health care workers, working in the principal’s office, along with the list of 1,400 hospital staff, to Patna civil surgeon last December, but names of those from the medical college were missing from the portal.“Some of the senior doctors wanted to take the vaccine shots and lead by example so that we can motivate the younger doctors, nursing, paramedical staff and sanitation workers to come forward and take the vaccine, but we couldn’t. We found that names of all faculty members (assistant professor and above) and college staff are missing from the portal,” said NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh.NMCH's principal Dr Hiralal Mahto has flagged the issue with Patna civil surgeon.“We have asked the NMCH to send us its list once again so that we can re-verify and re-load the names of those missing from the portal,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh.Asked how long it would take for the process to be completed on the portal, Dr Singh said, “Let’s hope for the best”.The NMCH has been struggling to reach vaccination targets. It achieved 31% target on day one (January 16), 28% on day two (January 18), 11% on January 19 and 40% on Thursday.“Though it should not have happened, these are IT issues and sometimes technical glitches do take place. We will re-load the names of those missing from the portal,” said executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar, who is also the state nodal officer for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/names-800-health-care-workers-go-missing-from-co-win-portal-in-bihar-101611244718216.html
21-01-2021||India||Puri’s Jagannath Temple administrators seek early vaccination for priests, staff||The administrators of the Jagannath Temple in Puri on Thursday requested for a special Covid-19 vaccination drive for priests and their family members as well as 500 officials after the 12th-century shrine was thrown open for devotees without any restriction.Expressing concern that priests are more prone to getting the viral infection due to the surge of pilgrims, chief administrator of the temple administration, Dr Krishan Kumar in a letter to the secretary of health and family welfare department requested that the priests, their families and 500-odd temple staff be vaccinated on priority.“Chances of the Sevayats getting infected with the virus cannot be ruled out as they will be coming in close contact with the devotees. For uninterrupted performance of different Nitis of the deities inside the temple, it is suggested that all Sevayats and their families may please be vaccinated on a priority basis. Further, there are 500 temple officials who may also be vaccinated on priority,” the letter said. The decision for quick vaccination of priests and temples officials was discussed in the Chhatisa Nijog meeting of the temple.On Thursday, the Jagannath Temple administration waived off the requirement of a Covid-19 negative report for devotees, but made wearing of masks mandatory for those entering the shrine.Odisha on Thursday exceeded its target of Covid-19 vaccination by inoculating 44,880 frontline health workers against a target of 37,076 as the vaccinators in 20 of the 30 districts managed to surpass the target. Till now more than 1.12 lakh health workers have been vaccinated while the target is 3.92 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puris-jagannath-temple-administrators-seek-early-vaccination-for-priests-staff-101611243668527.html
21-01-2021||India||Decision on release of Rajiv Gandhi killers in a month, Supreme Court told||Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit would take a decision in a four weeks on the state government’s recommendation to release the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, the centre on Thursday informed the Supreme Court.This comes as a significant development just months ahead of Tamil Nadu’s assembly elections slated for April-May. The Raj Bhavan in Chennai said that an official communication would follow after receiving information from solicitor general Tushar Mehta."Our part is over, it is up to the governor and the Centre now," said AIADMK leader and law minister C Ve Shunmugam.For more than a decade, political parties and activists have been demanding the release of the convicts - Nalini Sriharan, V Sriharan alias Murugan, AG Perarivalan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas and P Ravichandran. It gained momentum with elections nearing and a series of observations by the top court after it expressed unhappiness, earlier over the recommendation for remission of sentence of Perarivalan pending with Purohit for more than two years.Perarivalan's mother Arputham Ammal who has been fighting for his release on Thursday tweeted that she hoped the government would release her son.The DMK and AIADMK have concurred on the convicts’ release but continue to tussle over who is responsible for their delayed freedom. Though the Gandhi family and Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul and daughter Priyanka have forgiven the convicts, the state and central Congress leadership has been in disagreement over convicts’ release.DMK’s ally Congress in Tamil Nadu too has opposed political parties demanding their release stating that they will accept the decision of the court. Dalit party Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), also in alliance with the DMK and Congress, have been closely involved with the case.In 2019, VCK leaders accompanied Perarivalan’s mother Arputham Ammal to meet union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. “With the court’s intervention, the governor doesn’t have too many options and he is unlikely to reject Perarivalan’s plea as it would create political problems in the state and affect the AIADMK-BJP alliance,” said VCK’s leader and MP Ravikumar.In 2014, the top court commuted the death penalty of Perarivalan and two other convicts (Murugan and Santhan) to life sentences. In 2015, Perarivalan applied for pardon to the governor. In 2018, Tamil Nadu government had recommended the release of Perarivalan after remitting his life sentence. The same year, the cabinet had also unanimously recommended remission for the seven convicts under provision of Article 161.“We have been demanding that the AIADMK government do this since 2014 when J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister and they eventually did it in 2018 but haven’t been able to pressurise the governor to act,” said DMK spokesperson A Saravanan.In November, DMK president MK Stalin met Purohit urging him to release the seven prisoners on ‘humanitarian grounds’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-release-of-rajiv-gandhi-killers-in-3-4-days-supreme-court-told-101611243999623.html
21-01-2021||India||Jayant Khobragade named India's next envoy to ASEAN secretariat||India on Thursday named Jayant Khobragade as its next ambassador to the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) secretariat in Jakarta, months after Pakistan declined to accept his posting as the deputy chief of mission in Islamabad.Khobragade, an officer of the 1995 batch of the Indian Foreign Service, is currently serving as a joint secretary in the external affairs ministry. He is expected to take up his assignment shortly, the ministry said.India first posted a dedicated ambassador to ASEANin 2014 following the elevation of ties between the two sides to a strategic partnership and in view of growing cooperation in areas ranging from security to trade.Pakistan had said in September last year that Khobragade was too senior for the post of deputy chief of mission in Islamabad.The Indian and Pakistani missions in the two national capitals have been headed by the deputy chiefs of mission since August 2019, when Pakistan asked India to withdraw the then high commissioner as part of a slew of retaliatory actions in response to India’s decision to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status.The Indian side had proposed Khobragade’s name in June 2020, days before New Delhi asked Islamabad to reduce the strength of its high commission by 50%. The move had triggered a reciprocal decision by the Pakistani side.Khobragade had earlier served on deputation with the Department of Atomic Energy since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jayant-khobragade-named-india-s-next-envoy-to-asean-secretariat-101611242792074.html
21-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UK strain infects 145 people in India||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK strain infects 145 people in India; situation under careful watch, says govtA total of 145 people have been infected by the coronavirus strain that was first reported in the United Kingdom, the health ministry said on Thursday."The total number of persons found infected with the UK strain of Covid-19 is 145," the ministry said on Thursday.Read more.Farmers reject centre's proposal to put laws on hold for 1.5 yearsA day after the Centre proposed to put the three agricultural laws on hold for at least 1.5 years, farmers union on Thursday rejected the proposal and said they want nothing but a complete withdrawal of all the three contentious agriculture laws. "In a full general body meeting of Samyukt Kisan Morcha today, the proposal put forth by the Govt yesterday was rejected.Read more. India sends 3 mn vaccine doses to Bangladesh, Nepal. China steps in for PakistanSix countries – Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Seychelles and Myanmar – are part of India’s initial rollout of vaccines as grant assistance. There are also plans to supply doses to Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and Mauritius.Read more. 'Anguished': PM Modi tweets after fire kills 5 at Pune's Serum InstitutePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed anguish over the fire incident at Pune's Serum Institute of India which took away the lives of four who were trapped inside the building when the massive fire started. "In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. I pray that those injured recover at the earliest," PM Modi wrote.Read more. Indonesia ends search for crashed plane's victims, debrisIndonesian authorities on Thursday ended the search for remaining victims and debris from a Sriwijaya Air jet that nosedived into the Java Sea, killing all 62 people on board.Read more. 'He tried to make them The Wall too': Inzamam lauds Dravid's contribution behind the face of new IndiaInzamam praised Dravid for what he's done for Indian cricket, highlighting that his biggest strength was making the players mentally tough, without which India's Test series win against Australia wouldn't have been possible.Read more. Losing Alice review: Apple's erotic thriller is too timid to bare it allLosing Alice review: Despite a couple of strong performances by Ayelet Zurer and Lihi Kornowski, Apple's Israeli series can't make the most of its promising premise.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uk-strain-infects-145-people-in-india-101611242342441.html
21-01-2021||India||Six shooters involved in murder of Mukhtar Ansari’s aide, say Lucknow police||Six shooters were present at the crime scene when Ajit Singh, henchman of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, was shot dead near Kathauta crossing in Lucknow on the evening of January 6, senior police officials said on Thursday after the arrest of one of the shooters.Ajit Singh’s accomplice Mohar Singh was injured in the shooting.Lucknow joint commissioner of police (JCP), law and order, Nilabja Choudhury said the arrested shooter was identified as Sandip Singh alias Baba, 42, who is a history-sheeter of Chanduali district and wanted in a 2006 murder case of Kerakat in Jaunpur.He said a reward of ₹10,000 was declared on Baba in the same case in 2018 and that he has a long criminal record since 1998 with 15 criminal cases, including four murders and two attempt to murder, registered against him.Choudhury said Baba was arrested Thursday from his Ambedkarnagar hideout where he had reached by a roadways bus after the assassination.He said during interrogation Baba revealed that Ajit Singh was killed at the behest of two gangsters Dhruv Kumar Singh alias Kuntoo Singh and Akhand Singh who are now lodged in Azamgarh jail.The police officer also said that Baba further said Ajit Singh was key witness against Kuntoo Singh in the murder case of former MLA Sarvesh Singh alias Sipu Singh of Azamgarh in 2013. He said Ajit was gunned down as he refused to turn hostile in the case despite multiple threats.A senior police official privy to the investigation, said there were two teams of shooters, with one being the backup in case the first team failed or faced any problem in executing the crime.“Other than Baba, five others including Kanhaiya Vishwakarma alias Girdhari Sharma, Ravi Yadav, Shivendra Singh alias Ankur, Bunty alias Viru alias Mustafa and Rajesh Tomar alias Jai were present at the crime scene. One of their facilitators named Bandhan was present at some distance from the spot in a car, which was later used by four shooters to reach a flat in Alakhnanda Apartments in Gomti Nagar Extension,” Choudhury said.“One pistol and five cartridges have been recovered from the flat on revelation made by Baba,” he said.The JCP said one of the shooters Rajesh Tomar had suffered bullet injury in retaliatory firing by Ajit Singh’s accomplice Mohar Singh and was initially treated at the same flat by a Lucknow doctor with the help of Vipul Kumar Singh (now named facilitator) and was later taken to a Sultanpur hospital for treatment.Another police official said the four shooters executed the crime while two shooters were present at some distance from the spot as a backup team. “The main shooter Girdhari Sharma and Ravi Yadav had left separately on two-wheelers after the incident while the four others reached the bus stand and later escaped in the car driven by Bandhan.’Baba is the second shooter to have been arrested in the case after Girdhari was nabbed in Delhi earlier. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining four shooters and other facilitators involved in the crime.The JCP said a reward of ₹25,000 each has been announced for the remaining four shooters and two facilitators -- Bandhan and Vipul Kumar Singh.Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) DK Thakur said a former MP is still under the scanner for possible involvement since it was on his call the Sultanpur doctor got the injured shooter admitted to his hospital and treated him for two days. He said one of the facilitators Vipul Kumar Singh is a close aide of the former MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-shooters-involved-in-murder-of-mukhtar-ansari-s-aide-say-lucknow-police-101611241738243.html
21-01-2021||India||India vaccinated 9,99,065 beneficiaries against Covid-19 so far, says health ministry||The Union health ministry on Thursday informed that a total of 9,99,065 beneficiaries have been vaccinated as of 6pm, January 21 against Covid-19 since January 16, when the vaccination drive began in the country. Additional secretary at the health ministry Manohar Agnani during a press briefing on Thursday said, "Till 6 pm of 21st January, a total of 9,99,065 beneficiaries have been vaccinated for Covid-19 across the country for which a total of 18,159 sessions have been held."Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19On Thursday, vaccination drives were held in 27 states and union territories covering, a total of 1,92,581 beneficiaries.During the press conference, the additional secretary also said that no case of severe or serious adverse effects following immunization or AEFI has been attributed to the vaccination and no death has been reported due to the same today.There has been one hospitalisation in Udaipur of a person vaccinated on January 16, but the hospitalization is due to Intracranial haemorrhage and not related to vaccination, he added.The ministry has further enhanced the Co-WIN software by increasing the number of sessions in the software. Change in session site location, creation of more vaccination sessions per site etc., have been activated. For the safety of the beneficiaries, tagging of contraindications has also been enabled in the vaccinator module.Also Read | PM Modi to interact with Varanasi's Covid-19 vaccinators, beneficiaries tomorrowEarlier today, the health ministry launched a special digital campaign to address the Covid vaccine hesitancy and reluctance. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan unveiled the information, education and communication (IEC) campaign to spread awareness about the vaccine and address hesitancy and misinformation around it. The digital campaign will also include impactful messages from technical experts to educate on the Covid-19 vaccination.#COVID19vaccines are safe & effective.To end this #pandemic, it's essential for all of us to come together & allay any doubts related to the #vaccines.Pleased to have released today, creatives made by @MoHFW_INDIA to address the important issue of vaccine hesitancy. pic.twitter.com/YvCpprAxfxFor the first phase, the government of India had targeted 30 million healthcare and frontline workers for administering the Covid vaccine shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vaccinated-9-99-065-beneficiaries-against-covid-19-so-far-says-health-ministry-101611236375041.html
21-01-2021||India||India's vaccine diplomacy in south Asia pushes back against China||India will give millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccine to South Asian countries in the next few weeks, government sources said on Thursday, drawing praise from its neighbours and pushing back against China's dominating presence in the region.Free shipments of AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest producer of vaccines, have begun arriving in the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Nepal.Myanmar and Seychelles are next in line to get free consignments as India uses its strength as one of the world's biggest makers of generic drugs to build friendships."The government of India has shown goodwill by providing the vaccine in grant. This is at the people’s level, it is the public who are suffering the most from Covid-19," said Nepal's Minister for Health and Population Hridayesh Tripathi.I thank Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji as well as the Government and people of India for the generous grant of one million doses of COVID vaccine to Nepal at this critical time when India is rolling out vaccination for it's own people. pic.twitter.com/uO7qQpLiSxThe gesture comes at a time that India's ties with Nepal have been strained by a territorial dispute and Indian concern over China's expanding political and economic influence in the Himalayan nation sandwiched between the Asian giants.China, which had promised Nepal help to deal with the pandemic, is awaiting Nepali clearance for its Sinopharm shots."We've asked them to submit more documents and information before we give them the approval," said Santosh K.C., spokesman for Nepal's department of drug administration.Chinese rivalryBangladesh was supposed to get 110,000 doses of vaccine free from Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech, but Bangladesh refused to contribute towards the development cost of the vaccine leading to a deadlock.Bangladesh has instead turned to India for urgent supplies and on Thursday was due to receive 2 million shots of the AstraZeneca vaccine as a gift from India.Also Read: India sends 3 mn vaccine doses to Bangladesh, Nepal. China steps in for Pakistan"India is making the AstraZeneca vaccine which makes all the difference. It can be stored and transported at normal refrigerated temperatures and countries like Bangladesh have that facility," a Bangladesh health official said.Meanwhile, India's arch-rival Pakistan on Thursday thanked China, its close strategic ally, for a pledge to provide half a million doses of the vaccine free of charge by the end of the month.India for years has struggled to match the pace of Chinese investment in countries such as Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives, where China is building ports, roads and power stations as part of its Belt and Road Initiative.But the demand for vaccines in these countries desperate to revive their tourism-dependent economies has offered Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government a way to claw back ground, diplomats say.India is considering giving away anything from 12 million to 20 million shots to its neighbours in the first wave of assistance over the next three to four weeks, one government source said.India is also helping with the training of health workers in some of these countries and the setting up of the infrastructure to administer the shots, the source said."It's a well-crafted, calibrated series of actions you are seeing, they confirm the validity of our 'neighbourhood first' policy," said a former Indian ambassador, Rajiv Bhatia."It plays to our strengths in science and pharma, and this is our moment to shine."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-diplomacy-in-south-asia-pushes-back-against-china-101611241255109.html
21-01-2021||India||UK strain infects 145 people in India; situation under careful watch, says govt||A total of 145 people have been infected by the coronavirus strain that was first reported in the United Kingdom, the health ministry said on Thursday. "The total number of persons found infected with the UK strain of Covid-19 is 145," the ministry said on Thursday.Those infected by the virus have been kept in single room isolation in designated health care facilities by respective state governments, officials had said earlier.The close contacts of the infected individuals have also been put under quarantine, the health ministry said. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said.The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs.The B.1.1.7 variant genome, which is much more infectious, has prompted comprehensive contact tracing for co-travellers, family members and others of those who have travelled to the UK in the last two monthsys.From November 25 to the midnights of December 23, 2020, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK, the government said. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to RT-PCR tests to detect the presence of the new variant.The government took cognisance of the reports of the virus reported from the UK and said it has put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant.This strategy included temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK from December 23 to January 7 and mandatory RT-PCR test for all UK-returnees.The samples of all those found positive in the RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs.Countries like Russia, Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore have also reported cases of the new variant so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-strain-infects-145-people-in-india-situation-under-careful-watch-says-govt-101611240426853.html
21-01-2021||India||India to face higher security challenges in line with rising stature: Naravane||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane on Thursday said India will face increasingly higher security challenges in tune with its rising stature and it must enhance indigenous defence capabilities to maintain strategic influence and freedom of action as external dependence for weapons creates vulnerabilities in times of crisis.In an address at a seminar on Army-industry partnership, Gen Naravane talked about twin challenges of Covid-19 pandemic and the "belligerence" on the northern borders that his force faced in 2020, and said the government's focus on self-reliance will boost the country's overall strategic objectives.He also said the unresolved borders and wars in the past with "our adversaries" challenge the myth of 'no conventional war', adding proxy war, 'Left wing extremism' and insurgencies are likely to keep the Army occupied."India is now a rising regional global power in Asia, more particularly in South Asia. As we rise in our stature and influence, we will face increasingly higher security challenges," he said at the seminar organised by the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM).Referring to increasing security challenges along India's unresolved Northern borders, he said a continuous and concerted capability building of the Army through modernisation to address these security challenges is a national imperative.Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months.The Chief of Army Staff said India was lagging behind slightly considering the quick pace of defence modernisation being undertaken by its adversaries, and called upon the indigenous industry to invest in research and development to boost the country's overall military capabilities."The continuous and heavy dependence of the armed forces on equipment of foreign origin needs to be addressed in the right earnest through indigenous capability development and towards meeting the modern day defence requirements," he said."The defence industry is a big enabler for self reliance and capability building and it is a prerequisite to maintain our strategic influence and freedom of action," Gen Naravane said.He further said: "We are committed to procuring indigenous equipment and weapon systems as nothing is more motivating for any army then to fight and win its wars with indigenous technologies and weapons."Encouraging the private industry to take advantage of the government's reform measures to boost domestic defence production, he said the Army was strongly committed to support them."Our external dependence for weapons and ammunition creates vulnerabilities during times of crisis. However, in the past few years, we have tried to reverse this trend by boosting indigenisation and focusing on dual purpose high-end technology." he added."It may be noted that 75 percent of our priority one projects in the 13th Army plan, costing over ₹1,50,000 crore are supporting efforts towards the Make in India programme," Gen Naravane said.At the seminar, an MoU was signed between the Indian Army and the SIDM that will provide for further impetus to indigenisation under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' initiative. This MoU was signed on the occasion of 25 years of Army-industry partnership with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)m officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-face-higher-security-challenges-in-line-with-rising-stature-naravane-101611240755277.html
21-01-2021||India||Farmers 'reject' Centre's proposal to put laws on hold for 1.5 years||A day after the Centre proposed to put the three agricultural laws on hold for at least 1.5 years, farmers union on Thursday rejected the proposal and said they want nothing but a complete withdrawal of all the three contentious agriculture laws. "In a full general body meeting of Samyukt Kisan Morcha today, the proposal put forth by the Govt yesterday was rejected. A full repeal of three laws and enacting legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is the umbrella body of 40 farmers' unions, said after discussing the Centre's proposal. However, Bharatiya Kisan Union told ANI that the meeting was still going on.For the first time in the month-long stand-off between farmers and the Centre, the latter proposed to keep the laws on hold for the time being. The time could be utilised to further the talks between the Centre and farmers until a common ground is reached. After Wednesday's meeting, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also expressed hope and said a solution is possible on January 22, the 11th round of meeting between the two parties.Farmers' protest: No nod for Republic Day rally; SC panel begins consultationDuring the meeting on Wednesday with the ministers, several union leaders objected to the proposal saying postponing the implementation of the laws would bring no solution. What they want is a complete withdrawal of all the three laws and a legal guarantee of the MSP system. The leaders, however, said the final decision on Centre's proposal will be taken only after discussing it in details.The unions held their discussion on Thursday and said they will not be accepting the Centre's proposal. With this, the situation again returns to ground zero which the ball again in Centre's court to decide its further course of action to address the farmers' issues. The meeting started in the afternoon and went on till late in the evening. Even after Samyukt Kisan Morcha issued a statement dismissing the Centre's proposal, Bharatiya Kisan Union said the final decision was still pending.The implementation of the three laws was put on hold by a Supreme Court order passed early this month. The apex court also set up a committee which will find a solution to the ongoing impasse after consulting with all stakeholders. The SC-appointed committee held its first discussion on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-reject-centre-s-proposal-to-put-laws-on-hold-for-1-5-years-101611240895639.html
21-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand govt asks Centre for 20,000 additional Covid vaccines for Kumbh Mela||Amid the on-going first phase of the mass vaccination-drive for Covid-19, the Uttarakhand Government has asked the Centre for 20,000 additional vaccines for the occasion of Kumbh Mela.The state Covid-19 Control Room chief Dr Abhishek Tripathi informed that the state government has sent a proposal to the Centre in this regard.The Covid-19 vaccination drive was initiated on Saturday in the state with the healthcare workers getting their first shots at the Doon Hospital in the presence of Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.The state received its first batch of 1,13,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Serum Institute of India (SII) on January 13 and additional 92,500 doses of Covishield vaccine were received yesterday.The Maha Kumbh Mela in Haridwar had begun on Makar Sankranti on January 14 after twelve years and will continue till April. It will be held for 48 days instead of the usual three-and-half-months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-asks-centre-for-20-000-additional-covid-vaccines-for-kumbh-mela-101611240096883.html
21-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Jharkhand minister recovers after double lung transplant in Chennai||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was airlifted from Ranchi to a Chennai hospital, underwent a bilateral lung transplant after the organs were completely damaged by Covid-19 and has recovered well, doctors treating him said. On Thursday, the doctors said he was fit to be discharged.Only a few lung transplants on Covid-19 patients have been performed across the world and the minister’s critical condition necessitated the procedure.“This is different from a regular lung transplant, which is commonly done, as these are the sickest of patients who have been on a ventilator for months,” said Dr KR Balakrishnan, who performed the surgery and is chairman-director, cardiac sciences and director of the Heart and Lung Transplant, MGM Healthcare. “The patients are on ECMO (Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) and have been given tons of steroids, several drugs and sedation. They have profound muscle weakness where they haven’t even moved their fingertips. Even if we change the lung; it takes a long time to rehabilitate them,” he added.Sitting in his hospital room, Mahto spoke to reporters via video link, “I’m well and wish to come back soon to serve the people of Jharkhand.”The 54-year-old minister was infected by the coronavirus in October and was admitted to a Ranchi hospital where he was on ventilator. Mahto also had comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and coronary artery disease.The Jharkhand government contacted the Chennai hospital who flew a team that brought him to Chennai in an air ambulance. “He was unconscious for a week,” said Dr Balakrishanan. Mahto was tracheostomized on October 28 last year. The fibrosis had severely damaged the cells of his lungs that there was no gas exchange possible. When his CT scan did not show any improvement, he was enlisted under the lung transplant program. “This patient was kept alive for more than a month by an external machine and because Tamil Nadu has such an excellent system of organ donation and distribution, he fortunately received a good pair of lungs,” said Dr Balakrishnan.Mahto underwent a bilateral lung transplant on November 10.“The transplanted lungs were functioning normally and he started breathing spontaneously,” said Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, heart and lung transplantation. “After the lung transplant, a bronchoscopy was done to check if anastomosis was perfect.”Mahto met guidelines prescribed for lung transplants in Covid-19 patients - which is the person should be under the age of 65, fully conscious and no other organ should have been affected. The hospital has done bilateral lung transplants on eight other Covid-19 patients. As the virus affects both sides, a single lung transplant isn’t done.The surgery was done while the patient was on an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machine. Both the chest cavities were opened, the old lungs were taken out and replaced one by one with the donor lungs. “Technically the lung transplant is a straightforward operation though the Covid situation makes it challenging because the lungs are badly stuck so they tend to bleed a lot more,” said Balakrishnan. “Managing the patients is more complicated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-jharkhand-minister-recovers-after-double-lung-transplant-in-chennai-101611239581351.html
21-01-2021||India||Puducherry CM to meet President, seek recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi: Report||Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy, who was earlier scheduled to meet President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi on Thursday, will now meet him on Friday and handover a petition seeking recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, news agency PTI reported.Agriculture minister R Kamalakannan, welfare minister M Kandasamy, health minister Malladi Krishna Rao and the only member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) from Puducherry V Vaithilingam would also be accompanying the CM, sources said.Narayanasamy leads the Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) government in Puducherry.Earlier this month, he along with Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president A V Subramanian, various ministers, Congress legislators and delegates of different wings of the CPI, CPI(M) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) held an agitation against the 'negative attitude' of the Lt Governor towards proposals submitted by the government for her approval."She is not allowing the elected government to function and is interfering in day-to-day administration," Narayanasamy had said.This is not the first time that a protest against Bedi, spearheaded by the chief minister, is being held in Puducherry. In February 2019, an agitation was held to push for the demands of reopening the closed industries and public sector undertakings and also for smooth operation of the free rice scheme.Meanwhile, Narayanasamy on Thursday presented a memorandum to Union minister of state for power R K Singh in Delhi, registering his government's protest against the Centre's move to privatise distribution of power in the Union Territory, a source close to the chief minister told PTI.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cm-to-meet-president-seek-recall-of-lt-governor-kiran-bedi-report-101611238270799.html
21-01-2021||India||'Anguished': PM Modi tweets after fire kills 5 at Pune's Serum Institute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed anguish over the fire incident at Pune's Serum Institute of India which took away the lives of four who were trapped inside the building when the massive fire started. "In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. I pray that those injured recover at the earliest," PM Modi wroteAnguished by the loss of lives due to an unfortunate fire at the @SerumInstIndia. In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. I pray that those injured recover at the earliest.At least five people were killed in the fire that broke out at an under-construction building at Serum Institute's Pune campus on Thursday. All of them were construction workers. The fire, as is being speculated, started from welding works that were going on at the building. Inflammable materials were stored in the building which aggravated the fire.Maharashtra orders probe into SII fire that killed 5; Covid vaccine plant safeAs Serum Institute of India, the largest vaccine maker of the world by the volume it produces annually, is supplying Covishield vaccine to India and other countries, the incident led to concerns whether vaccine storage or vaccine work have got affected by the incident.CEO Adar Poonawalla has confirmed that there has been no loss in vaccine manufacturing. The unit where Covishield is being manufactured is about one kilometre away from the under-construction building. Vaccine production was supposed to begin at this site from next month.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit the facility tomorrow to review the situation. The government has already ordered an investigation into the incident. “People in the country and abroad have expressed concerns over the incident. I would like to clarify that I have been told that the plant where Covid-19 vaccine is being manufactured is safe. At present, our focus is to douse the fire and minimize the damage caused,” deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said.In the evening, another fire broke out in one of the compartments of the building at Serum Institute of India, news agency ANI reported. The earlier fire in which five people lost their lives broke out at around 2.45pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anguished-by-the-loss-of-lives-pm-modi-tweets-after-serum-institute-fire-101611238678646.html
21-01-2021||India||Supreme Court grants bail to Kannada actor accused of drug peddling||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi who is accused of arranging sale and consumption of drugs at rave parties.The Court, on a prima facie reading of the evidence produced by the prosecution, Karnataka Police, concluded that at best the actress could be found guilty of consuming drugs for which the maximum punishment under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act Section 27 is one year's imprisonment.The order came as a big relief to the 30-year-old actor who was arrested in September last year and has been in custody for over 140 days. On November 3, 2020, the Karnataka High Court had dismissed Ragini’s bail plea along with that of her co-accused.Ordering her release, a bench of justices RF Nariman, Navin Sinha and KM Joseph noted that the charges against her of possession, sale and purchase of commercial quantity of drugs punishable under Section 21(a) of NDPS Act with 10 years or more was “prima facie” not made out.The Court noted three arguments to support this conclusion as pointed out by Ragini’s counsel and senior advocate Sidharth Luthra. He stated that pursuant to search of the petitioner’s residence, no drugs were found by police and the entire case against her rested on the statement of a co-accused BK Ravishankar. At best, Luthra told the Court that the petitioner could be faulted for consuming drugs at rave parties. In addition to these grounds, the bench further noted that the charge of criminal conspiracy between the actress and other drug peddlers for sale of drugs was found to be “tenuous” by the High Court.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the state government informed the Court that investigation of the case was still on as the charge sheet was yet to be filed. He told the Court that the petitioner was in regular contact with drug peddlers and such contraband was sold at rave parties organized by her.The bench told Mehta that their view was only “prima facie” and said that similarly placed persons who are accused in this case would get benefit of this judgment. The Court added a line that the observations made in this judgment will not hamper investigation of the case and will not be used to influence trial.Twelve people including Ragini were named in a FIR registered in September 2020 by the Cottonpet police station in Bengaluru. The Crime Branch which began investigation in the case had arrested two actors – Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjana Galrani and other persons linked with the film industry in connection with supply and consumption of drugs. Sanjana had obtained bail in December on medical grounds.The single judge bench of the Karnataka High Court while dismissing bail to Ragini had said, “The very purpose of participation of accused Nos. 2 (Ragini) and 14 (Sanjana) was to attract a large number of consumers as they are celebrities. The materials so far collected by the investigating officer show that accused Nos. 2 and 14 are not only consumers but also sellers and facilitators.”The state police had found a diary from Ragini’s possession where she disclosed that on her birthday party, she consumed cocaine with Ravishankar and offered to sell it to a witness for ₹5,000 per gram. Another witness had stated to have paid three lakh rupees to accused no.14 towards purchase of drugs. The police had also begun investigations into the financial wealth amassed by the two actors through sale of drugs at parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-kannada-actor-accused-of-drug-peddling-101611237438667.html
21-01-2021||India||Popular Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui floats new political party in Bengal||A young and popular Muslim cleric in West Bengal, Abbas Siddiqui, has floated a new political outfit – the Indian Secular Front -- in the poll-bound state.Siddiqui, who has emerged as one of the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, recently held a meeting with Asaduddin Owaisi, leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM).“The party has been formed so that everybody can enjoy social justice and constitutional democracy can be protected,” Siddiqui said at a program organized to launch his new party in Kolkata.He is the scion of the Siddiqui family, which is the custodian of the famous Furfura Sharif shrine, one of the most popular places of pilgrimage in Bengal.In recent months, he has accused the TMC of not doing enough for the minority community and using it as a vote bank instead.The TMC, however, has downplayed the event saying that it won’t affect the ruling party’s vote bank in anyway.“In every state, new players enter politics just before the elections. Abbas Siddiqui is a new player. But it is hard to do anything in just three months. He won’t be able to do anything. If he manages to snatch even a single vote of the TMC it would help the BJP. Now he will have to decide whether it would in any way help the minority. We believe the minorities are with the TMC and will remain so,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.Significantly, other members of the Siddiqui family, especially Toha Siddiqui, the most prominent among the elders and whose support had helped the CPI(M) and TMC in the past had criticized Abbas’ foray into politics and had even maintained silence on Owaisi’s visit.Furfura Sharif is built around the mausoleum of Pir Abu Bakr Siddiqui. It also has a mosque built in 1375. Furfura Sharif draws millions from across the country during the Urs festival and the annual fair dedicated to the Pir.Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01% during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30% now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/popular-muslim-cleric-abbas-siddiqui-floats-new-political-party-in-bengal-101611236598916.html
21-01-2021||India||'Hyenas': Kangana reacts to Mumbai Police's summon in Javed Akhtar case||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has been summoned by Mumbai Police in a defamation case filed in November 2020 by writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar. In his complaint filed before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate, Akhtar complained that Kangana mentioned his name in television while she was referring to Bollywood coteries.The complaint, according to PTI, said Kangana had falsely claimed that Akhtar threatened her to keep silent about her alleged relationship with actor Hrithik Roshan, a claim which tarnished Akhtar's public image.Today one more summon for me. Come all hyenas come together... Put me in jail... torture me and push me against the wall with 500 cases ... come on. मर कर भी मेरी राख कहेगी मैं तुम सब भेड़ियों को नहीं छोड़ूँगी । https://t.co/PQf1TuiYYAThe court heard the case on January 17 and allowed the police time till February 1 to file a report of their probe into the complaint.Reacting to the summon, Kangana on Thursday said she can't be deterred no matter how many cases are slapped on her. "Today one more summon for me. Come all hyenas come together...Put me in jail...torture me and push me against the wall with 500 cases," she wrote.Kangana will have to appear at Juhu police station on Friday. Early this month, she and her sister Rangoli Chandel appeared before Mumbai police in a sedition case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-all-hyenas-come-together-kangana-on-mumbai-police-s-summon-on-january-22-101611235933159.html
21-01-2021||India||Manipur ranks 3rd in Niti Aayog’s innovation index for hill states||Manipur bagged third position in NITI Ayog’s India Innovation Index, 2020, in the North East and Hill States category. The first and second position has been secured by Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, respectively, in the same category.Sharing the news, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh tweeted on Thursday, “Proud moment for us as Manipur bagged 3rd position in NITI Ayog’s India Innovation Index, 2020 in the NE & Hill States category. Under the leadership of Hon’ PM @narendramodi ji & HM @amitshah Ji, the State Govt. is leaving no stone unturned to fulfil the aspirations of people.”In the India Innovation Index-2020, the states and union territories have been divided into 17 major states, 10 north-east and hill states and nine union territories and small states for effectively comparing their performance.Karnataka retained its first position in the major states category. Maharashtra moved one position higher and stood at second spot while Tamil Nadu slid to third position.Delhi stands at the first position while Chandigarh retained its second spot in the union territories and small states category.It may be mentioned that NITI Aayog released the second edition of the India Innovation Index-2020 on Wednesday. The index demonstrates the government’s continued commitment towards transforming the country into an innovation-driven economy.While releasing the Index in New Delhi, vice chairman of NITI Aayog Rajiv Kumar said the index illustrates that India is on the right path and the states are endeavouring to improve their innovative ecosystem.He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi always emphasises on innovation and technological frontiers as these can solve the challenges and fulfill the aspiration of people.He urged on the need to improve the coordination mechanism between the various science and technology institutions of government and the private sector. He also asked to bring the India Innovation Index in sync with Global innovation index’s parameters.Speaking at the event, Amitabh Kant, chief executive officer of NITI Aayog, said that innovation will play a key role in making the country self-reliant and heading towards the five trillion dollar economy. He said the innovation index will increase the competitive federalism among the states and union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-ranks-3rd-in-niti-aayog-s-innovation-index-for-hill-states-101611235647585.html
21-01-2021||India||Maharashtra orders probe into SII fire that killed 5; Covid vaccine plant safe||The Maharashtra government has ordered a detailed investigation into the fire that swept through the Serum Institute of India in Pune killing five people on Thursday afternoon.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said shortly after the devastating fire that the directives have been issued for a detailed probe into the incident. He also said that the plant where the Covid-19 vaccine is being manufactured is safe.“Directives have been issued to the Pune police commissioner for detailed investigation into the incident,” Pawar said in a statement.“People in the country and abroad have expressed concerns over the incident. I would like to clarify that I have been told that the plant where Covid-19 vaccine is being manufactured is safe. At present, our focus is to douse the fire and minimize the damage caused,” he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also took stock of the situation.“The fire at Serum Institute of India in Pune has been brought under control. The fire brigade officials have rescued six people from the facility. I have been informed that the Covid vaccine manufacturing plant is safe,” he told reporters at Sahyadri guest house at Malabar Hill in the evening.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the local administration has recovered five dead bodies from the spot.“Rotavirus plant installation was going on when welding sparks caused the fire due to highly inflammable material present at the spot. It took the local administration three hours to douse the fire completely. They have also recovered five bodies. Police investigation is on and a fire audit of the building will also be conducted,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-orders-probe-into-serum-institute-fire-covid-vaccine-plant-safe-101611235224388.html
21-01-2021||India||Man, 20, dies during kabaddi match in Chhattisgarh; spectator records video||A 20-year-old man died in the ring during a match of a kabaddi competition at Goji village in Dhamtari district of Chhattisgarh, officials said on Thursday.The video of the player collapsing was captured by one of the spectators. The clip has gone viral on social media.Narendra Sahu, a resident of Kokadi village of Dhamtari district, died inside the opponent’s court when he was caught by the players. The incident took place on Wednesday evening.“As per the statements, Sahu raided the opponent’s court and while making a return was pulled by a player and then others too got in the act. He was soon out of breath and then fell unconscious,” said Ramnaresh Sengar, Thana Incharge (TI) of Kurud police station.नरेंद्र साहू (20) ने कब्बड्डी खेलते हुए अपनी जान गंवा दी। जगह - गाँव गोजी , ज़िला धमतरी। पुलिस का कहना कि मर्ग क़ायम कर के जांच हो रही है। दुःखद हैऔर नमन है इस खिलाड़ी को(वीडियो : सोशल मीडिया से मिला है ) pic.twitter.com/IySLyktc4mThe officer further said that the co-players and the sarpanch of the village rushed the player to Kurud hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.“The preliminary investigation suggests that Sahu died of a heart attack but we are waiting for a post mortem report,” said Sengar, who is investigating the case.The officer said that police have registered a case under 164 CrPC and started investigating into the incident.“Police have recorded the statements of around a dozen people and after investigation the sections could be added,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-20-dies-during-kabaddi-match-in-chhattisgarh-spectator-records-video-101611233241653.html
21-01-2021||India||In a first, Hawk-i aircraft fires smart anti-airfield weapon off Odisha coast||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Thursday announced that a Hawk-i aircraft successfully fired a Smart Anti-Airfield Weapon (SAAW) for the first time off the coast of Odisha, in what is being seen as a significant boost to an upgrade programme for the Hawk advanced jet trainer operated by the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy.The SAAW is a precision strike weapon that can be used to target enemy airfield assets such as radars, bunkers, taxi tracks and runways. Indigenously developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s Research Centre Imarat, the weapon has a range of 100 km. It has been test-fired from the IAF’s Jaguar fighter planes.It is the first smart weapon to be fired from an Indian Hawk Mk132 trainer aircraft. The Hawk-i project (or upgraded Hawk) seeks to equip the trainer jet with combat capabilities through an internally-funded HAL programme. HAL is in talks with the IAF and navy for the weaponisation of their Hawks, officials said.“HAL has been focusing on the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. The company-owned Hawk-i platform is being extensively used for certification of systems and weapons developed indigenously by DRDO and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research labs,” HAL chairman R Madhavan said.The plane was flown by HAL test pilots Wing Commanders (retd) P Awasthi and M Patel. “The pilots executed the weapon release in a text book manner and all mission objectives were met. The telemetry and tracking systems captured all the mission events confirming the success of the trials,” HAL said in a statement.Arup Chatterjee, director, engineering and R&D, HAL said the state-owned plane maker was indigenously enhancing the training and combat capability of the Hawk-i aircraft, and it was in talks with the Indian military for integration of various weapons on the Hawk platform.The IAF inducted the British-origin Hawk Mk132 aircraft in 2008 to simplify the training of its fighter pilots. The planes are crucial for the training of combat pilots as they serve as a bridge between subsonic trainers and supersonic fighters such as Rafales, Sukhoi-30 MKIs, Mirage 2000s and Jaguars. Pilots carry out the final stage of their training on Hawks for one year at Bidar in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-hawk-i-aircraft-fires-smart-anti-airfield-weapon-off-odisha-coast-101611232574089.html
21-01-2021||India||Judiciary, agencies like CBI, ED should act independently: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said the judiciary and agencies like the RBI, CBI and ED should act independently, and asked "what heavens are going to fall" if an interim protection from coercive action is granted for a few days to NCP leader Eknath Khadse in an alleged land grab case of 2016.A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a petition filed by Khadse, seeking to quash the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in October last year.Khadse's counsel Aabad Ponda sought the court to grant the former state revenue minister interim protection from any coercive action, pending hearing of the plea.The ED's counsel, Anil Singh, told the court that the agency would not take any action till Monday (January 25).The bench while posting the petition for hearing on Monday, however, sought to know why the ED was insisting on protection to be granted only till Monday."What heavens are going to fall if the petitioner is given protection for few more days? We are always of the belief that the judiciary and agencies like the RBI, CBI, ED and so on should act independently and impartially," Justice Shinde said."There is a threat to the very democracy if these agencies do not act independently," the court added.Khadse (68), who quit the BJP and joined the NCP In October 2020, appeared before the ED in Mumbai on January 15 this year to record his statement in the alleged land grab case, pursuant to summons issued against him.The bench further noted that the petitioner was cooperating with the probe and has also appeared before the agency for questioning."If somebody is ready to cooperate and honour summons then we ask ourselves what is the need for arrest," the court said."At the end of the day, he (Khadse) has cooperated and honoured the summons issued...he has appeared for questioning. We can understand if someone is not cooperating," Justice Shinde said.Khadse in his plea claimed the land in question was purchased by his wife and son-in-law from the owner legally and there was no illegality in the procedure.In reply to Khadse's petition, the ED in its affidavit on Thursday said an initial investigation has clearly revealed various evidences showing money laundering in the case.The ED claimed the ECIR was registered in October 2020 against Eknath Khadse, his wife Mandakini Khadse and son-in-law Girish Choudhari in the alleged land grab case in Pune, causing a loss of ₹62 crore to the public exchequer.According to the agency, the land was purchased at a low rate of ₹3.75 crore with a criminal intent to later seek compensation from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), which was to acquire the land in future.It alleged that Khadse misused his official position as state revenue minister in 2016."The petitioner (Khadse), using his official position and government machinery, manipulated the actual market price which was more than ₹31 crore at that time," the affidavit said.It said the petition seeking to quash the ECIR was premature and hence, should be dismissed.Khadse in his petition claimed that an FIR was lodged in the same case in 2017, but the police later filed a closure report before a court in Pune.The ED in its affidavit said the court has till date not accepted the closure report and hence, the FIR is not closed.The agency also said it was probing the money laundering angle in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-agencies-like-cbi-ed-should-act-independently-bombay-hc-101611231546304.html
21-01-2021||India||5 killed in fire at Pune's Serum Institute’s Manjari plant||At least five people were killed in a fire that tore through India's Covid-19 vaccine producer Serum Institue of India in Pune on Thursday. The deaths were confirmed by state officials three hours after the fire engulfed the vaccine production unit."Four people were evacuated from the building but when it came under control, five bodies were found by our jawans," Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol told news agency ANI. The mayor added that the five people who died, were perhaps the workers at the under-construction building. "The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained but it is being speculated that welding, that was going on at the building, caused the fire," Mohol said. The state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the fire was caused by welding sparks at the construction site at the SII. "The inflammable material at the site aggrivated the fire," Tope said. As the smoke filled the building, authorities rushed and evacauted nine people trapped inside in the Serum Institute of India's Manjari premises, police said.SII CEO Adar Poonwalla said there would be no loss in vaccine manufacturing because the company has other available facilities."Thank you everyone for your concern and prayers. So far the most important thing is that there have been no lives lost or major injuries due to the fire, despite a few floors being destroyed," Poonawalla tweeted.Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest maker of vaccines and has been contracted to manufacture a billion doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford University vaccine. Of the more than 12 billion coronavirus vaccine doses expected to be produced this year, rich countries have already bought about 9 billion, and many have options to buy even more. As a result, Serum Institute is likely to make most of the vaccines that will be used by developing nations.The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccine used in the nationwide inoculation drive against the pandemic is made. The building where the fire broke out is part of the under-construction site of the Serum facility and is one km from the Covishield manufacturing unit, sources said."I would like to reassure all governments & the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia. Thank you very much @PuneCityPolice & Fire Department," he added.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the state government has ordered a probe into the fire.The fire, which broke out at 2.45 pm on the fourth and fifth floors of the SEZ 3 building in the Serum Institute premises, was brought under control in two hours, police said.Viral visuals from the site showed smoke billowing out from the Serum Institute facility.A fire brigade official said cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team was rushed to the spot, an official said.Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta said all the people trapped inside the building where the fire broke out have been evacuated.Chief Fire Officer Prashant Ranpise said cooling work has commenced at the spot. Nobody was injured in the fire, he added.Fifteen water tankers were pressed into action and the fire was brought under control around 4.30 pm, he said."The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Furniture, wiring, cabins were gutted. No major machinery or instruments were stored on the floors where the fire broke out," he said."I have taken information from the Pune Municipal Corporation about the incident and an instruction has been given to carry out a detailed probe into the incident," Ajit Pawar said.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the state machinery to ensure that the fire is brought under control, his office tweeted. He is in touch with the Pune Municipal Commissioner, the CMO added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-in-fire-at-serum-institute-s-manjri-plant-in-pune-101611231917506.html
21-01-2021||India||BSF threatening people in border villages to vote for particular party: TMC||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India alleging that the Border Security Force (SF) was threatening people living along the Bangladesh border and asking them to vote for a particular political party.Meanwhile, the BJP has urged the poll panel to order a special audit of the electoral roll.“BSF personnel are going to bordering villages and threatening villagers to vote for a particular political party. Villagers are being told that the state administration won’t be able to help them and that they would be left at the mercy of the BSF. We have taken up the matter with the ECI,” said Partha Chatterjee, TMC general secretary and state education minister, after meeting the Chief Election Commissioner.The BSF has refuted the allegations, calling them baseless and far from truth“The BSF is a professional border guarding force. We have actively checked on illegal infiltration and smuggling and criminals involved in such activities have been brought to book. The statements made by Chatterjee, are without any basis and far from truth,” said a statement issued by the BSF.Representatives of both the TMC and the BJP met the Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and the two election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar on Thursday. The ECI team is on a two-day visit to West Bengal to take stock of the election preparedness and law and order situation in the poll-bound state.“Bordering areas are very sensitive. We have urged the ECI to cross-check the voter’s list in some areas where there has been an alarming increase in the number of electors,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal.The BJP in its letter to the ECI alleged that at least five bordering districts – Malda, Murshidabad, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakshin Dinajpur, and South 24 Parganas – have registered high population growth in the last four years. Three of these – Malda Murshidabad and Uttar Dinajpur have a Muslim majority, according to the 2011 census.The BJP team also demanded that central forces be deployed at least 15 days before the polls. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls where the party won 18 of the 42 seats, the BJP has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the 294-member legislative assembly.Ghosh also claimed that between 4 to 5 lakh Rohingyas who illegally entered the country through the Indo-Bangla border, have been included in the voters' list. But the BJP’s letter to the ECI made no mention of this point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-threatening-people-in-border-villages-to-vote-for-particular-party-tmc-101611231154136.html
21-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: No nod for Republic Day rally; SC panel begins consultation||The panel appointed by the Supreme Court to find a solution to the impasse after studying the farm laws and talking to the stakeholders interacted with 10 farmer organisations on Thursday, beginning its consultation process. The committee will have to submit its report within two months and until that time the implementation of the farm laws will be stayed, the Supreme Court had ordered.Meanwhile, farmers who are protesting at Delhi borders met Delhi Police officials on Thursday over permission for tractor march on Delhi's Outer Ring Road.The protest of the farmers against the three contentious laws began on November 26 and is still going strong. Several parallel developments have taken place in the last few days.1. The talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre is going on. The 10th round of meeting was held on Wednesday in which the Centre has proposed to hold the implementation of the laws for 1.5 to 2 years. In the next meeting on January 22, farmers' union leaders will reply to the Centre after discussing among themselves.2. The consultation of the SC-appointed committee will be going on separately from the talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre. This committee is supposed to talk to as many as farmers organisations possible, not only the protesting ones. In fact, the protesting unions earlier refused to attend any meeting of this panel as they said the members are supporters of the farmers' laws.3. On Thursday, the panel virtually interacted with 10 farmers' organisation from eight states, including Uttar Pradesh. Other states were Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu.4. Currently, there are three members in the panel — president of Maharasthra-based Shetkari Sanghatana Anil Ghanwat and agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann has recused himself from the committee.5. The panel issued a statement, which said, "The farmers' unions participated in the discussion and gave their frank opinion including suggestions to improve the implementation of Acts."6. Protesting farmers are planning a peaceful tractor march on Republic Day on the Outer Ring Road. This case too reached the Supreme Court which said it was Delhi Police's decision whether they would allow the march or not.7. Delhi Police has not granted the permission to hold tractor march on Outer Ring Road. Police officers tried to convince them to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway, which the farmers didn't accept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-nod-for-republic-day-rally-sc-panel-begins-consultation-101611230836077.html
21-01-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with Varanasi's Covid-19 vaccinators, beneficiaries tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries and vaccinators of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Varanasi on Friday via video conferencing, said Prime Minister's Office (PMO).The participants in the interaction will share their first-hand experience of vaccination, the PMO release stated."The world’s largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Our frontline warriors are getting vaccinated across the nation. At 1:15 PM tomorrow, 22nd January, I would interact with beneficiaries and vaccinators of Covid vaccination drive in Varanasi, via video conferencing," PM Modi said in a tweet on Thursday. The world’s largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Our frontline warriors are getting vaccinated across the nation. At 1:15 PM tomorrow, 22nd January, I would interact with beneficiaries and vaccinators of Covid vaccination drive in Varanasi, via video conferencing.The interaction with the drug inoculators and beneficiaries comes amid the continuous dialogue and discussion by the prime minister with scientists, political leaders, officials and other stakeholders to proactively ensure smooth conduct of the world’s largest vaccination drive, PMO said in a statement.Helmed by PM, the interaction comes within a week of the country's vaccination drive - largest ever held globally - where more than 8 lakh healthcare workers have been vaccinated so far. The health ministry has maintained that there was no case of serious/severe AEFI attributable to vaccination to date.Ten cases of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) -- four in Delhi, two in Karnataka, and one each in Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and West Bengal -- have required hospitalisation so far, additional secretary in the Health Ministry Manohar Agnani said.In the initial round, 30 million health care and front line workers - such as the police and defense forces - were administered the injections. The second phase is targeted at about 270 million people above the age of 50 and those at particular risk to Covid. The process will draw on existing networks used to vaccinate tens of millions of babies each year against diseases such as polio.The Union health ministry official said that the Centre has advised states to keep vaccination sessions four days a week to avoid disruption of routine health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-varanasi-s-covid-19-vaccinators-beneficiaries-tomorrow-101611229824201.html
21-01-2021||India||Fadnavis writes to Maharashtra CM to relocate Metro car shed to Aarey||Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday appealed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to relocate a proposed Metro car shed to Aarey Colony in Mumbai.Aarey Colony was the old site for the construction of the proposed car shed for Metro-3 line between Colaba in south Mumbai and SEEPZ, before the state government announced shifting of the project to Kanjurmarg.In a letter addressed to Thackeray, Fadnavis alleged that some state officials were "misguiding" the government over the proposed car shed project for Metro-3 line.It will lead to a major delay in the completion of the work and over-expenditure, the former chief minister said."If the car shed is shifted to Kanjurmarg, it will end up in cutting of more number of trees, the project will be delayed and crores of rupees will be wasted," he claimed.The BJP leader said it is also a "lie" that the Aarey car shed land is available only till 2031.While planning for the Metro-3 line car shed, planners have estimated the population growth till 2053, he said.The depot will have enough space to accommodate the number of Metro cars that would be required in 2053, when the movement of Metro trains "will be at its peak", he said.In the beginning, only 31 trains would be required, while the number would later increase to 42 with each train having eight coaches, Fadnavis said."The technical committee set up for studying the car shed at Aarey land had recommended use of 25 hectares of land at the beginning. The remaining 1.4 hectares could be used later. There are 160 trees on that small piece of land, which can be translocated by 2053," he claimed.Fadnavis also said it is impractical to merge Metro-2 and 3 lines.A committee headed by Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, which was set up to recommend the site for the construction of the Metro car shed, on Monday visited Kanjurmarg and Aarey Colony sites.The Bombay High Court on December 14 last year stayed an order passed by Mumbai suburban district collector allotting 102 acre of salt pan land in Kanjurmarg area for the construction of an integrated Metro car shed.The court had also restrained the authorities from carrying out any construction work at the said land.The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government are locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked by the state for constructing the car depot which was earlier planned at Aarey Colony, a green belt in suburban Goregaon.The Union government has filed a petition in the HC, challenging the October 1, 2020 order passed by the collector allotting the land for construction of the car shed, and said the land belongs to its (Centre's) salt department.The previous Maharashtra government led by the BJP had decided to construct the car shed for the Mumbai Metro line-3 at Aarey Colony in the western suburbs, despite opposition from environmentalists and activists to the vast tree-cutting for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-writes-to-maharashtra-cm-to-relocate-metro-car-shed-to-aarey-101611230118005.html
21-01-2021||India||Paddy procurement sparks war of words between BJP and BJD in Odisha||The politics over paddy procurement in Odisha intensified on Thursday with opposition BJP organising a protest of thousands of farmers in the state’s western town of Sambalpur accusing the Biju Janata Dal government of doing a shoddy job of paddy procurement.At the congregation of farmers, BJP leaders alleged that despite the Odisha government's claim of record procurement in the current kharif marketing season thousands of farmers have not been able to sell their paddy to the government.Addressing the farmers, Bijaypal Singh Tomar, Rajya Sabha MP and in-charge of Odisha BJP, alleged that farmers in western Odisha as well as other districts are facing a lot of problems during the paddy procurement and many are being forced to sell their paddy below the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,868."The Narendra Modi govt raised the MSP of paddy to ₹1,868 per quintal, yet several farmers are not able to get the MSP," he alleged.Bargarh MP Suresh Pujari, alleged that the state government has no reply to farmers' grievances over lapse of advance tokens issued to them. "Though the government claims that this year they have procured 22 per cent more paddy than last year's, the reality is totally opposite. Farmers are being forced to sell their paddy much below the minimum support price fixed by the Centre at ₹1,868 per quintal. Food supplies minister Ranendra Pratap Swain had promised that criminal cases will be filed if paddy is procured below the MSP at any place. However, no such action has been taken anywhere so far,” alleged Pujari.He further said the procurement ceiling of 19 quintal for irrigated lands and 13 quintal for non-irrigated lands was completely unjustified and has resulted in hundreds of quintals of paddy lying unsold.Farmers led by state BJP president Samir Mohanty and leader of opposition Pradipta Naik also scuffled with police when they tried to gherao the revenue divisional commissioner office in Sambalpur. They have been arrestedThe ruling BJD rubbished the BJP’s allegations. BJD spokesperson Pratap Deb said that the Odisha government has already procured 23 per cent of more paddy as compared to the corresponding period of last year.“At a time when the procurement is more than last year, claims of lacuna in the procurement process are totally wrong and based on fake evidence. Instead of gheraoing the RDC's office claiming that farmers are facing problems, the BJP should first address the country-wide protest over the farm laws,” said Deb, referring to procurement of 36 lakh tonne of paddy during the current kharif marketing season.Farmer leaders in western Odisha, said the state government's claim of record procurement was misleading. "This year the harvest was good due to adequate rain. However, the government did not revise its ceiling of paddy procurement of 19 quintals for every acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals for every acre of non-irrigated land. As a result thousands of farmers were left with unsold paddy which they had to sell at half the price of MSP fixed by the government. The government should have re-oriented its policy looking at the record harvest," said Ashok Pradhan, farmer leader of western Odisha.Pradhan alleged that apart from the losses suffered by the farmers due to distress sale, foregoing 4-6 kg of paddy for every quintal during procurement was hurting the farmers.Meanwhile, Odisha's food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranendra Pratap Swain in a letter to Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister Piyush Goel claimed that that the Centre is yet to give ₹6,039 crore towards pending subsidy claims for paddy procurement. Swain in his letter said the Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation which procures paddy, has so far borrowed a staggering sum of ₹15,000 crore to run the programme due to non-release of subsidy by the Department of Food and Public Distribution. "As all resources including the sanctioned limit of bank finances have been exhausted by OSCSC, the pending subsidy may be released urgently as further paddy procurement from farmers will be severely affected," he wrote.Swain also took exception to the Food Corporation of India's missive to Odisha government for limiting the delivery of surplus parboiled rice of Odisha to the extent of 50% of the last year delivery and not to accept any surplus in the form of parboiled rice during the Rabi season of the current Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21.“Odisha is primarily a parboiled rice consuming state which is consumed in 24 out of 30 districts. As most of the rice mills in the state are parboiled mill, asking the state to deliver surplus rice in the form of raw rice in Rabi and to limit procurement of parboiled rice in the Kharif to the extent of 50% of last year FCI delivery will have far-reaching adverse consequences for the state,” Swain said.Political analysts said the fight between BJD and BJP over paddy procurement was essentially a tussle over retaining their political base in western Odisha. "As BJP has regained its bastion in western Odisha in 2019 Assembly and Lok Sabha polls, the BJD wants to dent BJP's base in the region where allegation of distress sale of paddy is heard frequently. Such fights would become more intense before the panchayat polls next year," said Maheswar Duriya, assistant professor of political science in Bhawanipatna college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-procurement-sparks-war-of-words-between-bjp-and-bjd-in-odisha-101611229325260.html
21-01-2021||India||Coronavirus vaccine doses from India arrive in Nepal||One million doses of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine Covishield, which were dispatched on day-2 of India's 'Vaccine Maitri' initiative, reached Kathmandu on Thursday. In Maldives and Bhutan, the first two countries to receive the vaccines from India under its 'neighbourhood first' policy, the doses arrived on Wednesday.As many as 150,000 doses of the vaccine reached Bhutan while 100,000 doses were sent to Maldives.  "The AstraZeneca/Oxford University vaccine, manufactured under license by Serum Institute of India, will be first administered to health workers and other front-line workers within 10 days," Nepal health minister Hridayesh Tripathi said.Tripathi added that Nepal would like to purchase 4 million more doses, and asked for the Indian government's help but there was no immediate response from India's side, news agency AP reported.According to the foreign ministry, more doses will be sent to Bangladesh, Myanmar and the Seychelles in coming weeks. There were also plans to provide vaccines to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius, after “confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances”, the ministry added.“It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad,” the external affairs ministry had said.A day before the 'Vaccine Maitri' initiative began, PM Modi on Tuesday tweeted, "India is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community. Supplies of Covid vaccines to several countries will commence tomorrow, and more will follow in the days ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-vaccine-doses-from-india-arrive-in-nepal-101611223350502.html
21-01-2021||India||Sewer worker deaths: SC panel seeks status report from Delhi govt on compensation payment to families||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has asked the Delhi government to share the status of payment of compensation to families of those who died while cleaning septic tanks in the city.According to the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK), 44 people died in Delhi between 1993 and 2019 while cleaning septic tanks and sewers.The Supreme Court had directed that payment of compensation of ₹10 lakh be made to persons who died in sewage work since 1993. It is advised that the pending payments be made as early as possible. The status of such deaths and payment of compensation be updated to the commission, the NCSC said.The details of one-time cash assistance for rehabilitation of manual scavengers and skill training provided to such persons should also be provided, the commission said in a letter to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev and Secretary, Social Welfare Department, Rashmi Singh.The NCSC has also asked the city government to share data related to the coverage of SC households under the Centre's schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.It has also sought information about action taken to improve the health and education parameters of the SC population in the city.According to the letter, the commission has suggested dropping "caste-indicated" words from the names of colonies and schools, if any, in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sewer-worker-deaths-sc-panel-seeks-status-report-from-delhi-govt-on-compensation-payment-to-families-101611228297526.html
21-01-2021||India||In Haridwar, mother-son duo booked for fraud after selling temple trust property||A mother-son duo has been booked for allegedly selling temple trust properties by posing as custodians of a temple in Har Ki Pauri area of Haridwar on Wednesday night, according to the police.According to station house officer, Kotwali police station, Praveen Koshyari, a complaint was lodged by Vishal Sharma, resident of Durganagar, Bhoopatwala and secretary of the Kaura Devi Temple Trust of which the two accused posed as office-bearers.“Vishal in his complaint alleged that accused Mohit Puri and his mother Puspha Puri illegally sold the temple trust property to a priest and some other people by posing as the temple's custodians. The two also threatened him with dire consequences if he complained to the police about the deal,” Koshyari said.“Based on the complaint, a case was registered followed by a probe against the mother-son duo. The temple trust was founded in 1980 and preliminary investigation revealed forging of documents and illegal selling of trust property. The magnitude of the alleged fraud can only be ascertained after gathering all the documents and witness accounts,” Koshyari said.Kaura Devi Trust secretary Vishal Sharma said, “In no way can a trust property be sold by individuals.”He alleged that the temple of Prachin Shri Ganga temple, Prachin Asthkhambha Shri Ganga temple and Shri Kali Mandir, Bhimgoda which are run by the Kaura Devi Temple Trust, were also being “eyed by Mohit for the past few years”. He further alleged that Mohit often posed as a trust member to influence people.Ganga Sabha, which manages the affairs of Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghats, has urged the administration to take stringent action against such people who try to illegally occupy, encroach or sell trust-temple lands.through forgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-haridwar-mother-son-duo-booked-for-fraud-after-selling-temple-trust-property-101611227477904.html
21-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kerala assembly to not remove speaker and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala assembly turns down motion for removal of Speaker P SreeramakrishnanAfter nearly a four-hour long heated debate, the Kerala Assembly on Thursday rejected a motion moved by the opposition seeking the removal of Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan alleging his role in the gold smuggling case. Read moreFire at Serum Institute’s Manjri plant in Pune; 10 fire tenders at the spotA fire broke out at the Manjri plant Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune, on Thursday afternoon. The plant produces multiple vaccines along with Covishield. The cause of fire is being investigated, said fire brigade officials. Read moreIndia to kick off major drills in Andaman Sea to sharpen military synergyThe Indian military will carry out complex drills off the Andaman and Nicobar Islands next week to fine-tune joint war-fighting capabilities and sharpen operational synergy between the three services, with the high-tempo exercise involving fighter jets, transport aircraft, helicopters, warships, infantry combat vehicles and elements of special forces, the defence ministry announced on Thursday. Read morePakistan faces dilemma of sourcing Covid-19 vaccinesFollowing Prime Minister Imran Khan’s directive to expedite the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines, Pakistan is grappling with a dilemma – how to source millions of doses to inoculate the country’s most vulnerable. Read moreFeels amazing but don't want to be compared with Dhoni: Rishabh Pant aims to 'make a name' for himself in Indian cricketRishabh Pant feels 'amazing' when people compare him with the legendary MS Dhoni but the India wicket-keeper batsman wants to 'make a name' for himself in Indian cricket. Read more4 important things to know about FAU-G ahead of its Republic Day launchWe still don’t have anything positive to share with you about PUBG Mobile India as far as a potential launch date is concerned, but for what it’s worth, FAU-G is all set for a Republic Day launch. Read moreHero MotoCorp reaches 100 million production milestoneHero MotoCorp on Thursday announced that it has achieved a monumental 100 million production milestone since the company started operations in 1984. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka shares moving note on his birth anniversary: ‘Your silence is too loud to bear'Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh poured her heart out in an emotional Instagram post on his birth anniversary. She shared a video montage of their precious memories, which included many childhood photos. Read moreFLOTUS Dr Jill Biden's Inauguration Day outfits and their significanceFirst Lady Of The United States (FLOTUS) Dr Jill Biden has been making sartorial statements since the time she arrived in Washington DC while her husband and the 46th President of the United States, Joe Biden took over the office. Since her arrival, Jill Biden has been snapped wearing three gorgeous outfits and all of them have been custom made for her by American designers. Read moreWatch: Decoding President Joe Biden’s China challenge; future of US-India tiesJoe Biden during his first speech as the President of the United States of America spoke on the need to heal the country and assured that he would work for all Americans. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kerala-assembly-to-not-remove-speaker-101611226418697.html
21-01-2021||India||Amid bird flu scare in Uttarakhand, more hens die in poultry farms||After around 150 hens died in a poultry farm in Tehri Garhwal last week, deaths of hens have been reported from Udham Singh Nagar, the Uttarakhand veterinary department said Thursday.Seven hens were found dead in a poultry farm in Bajpur area of the district on Wednesday"Seven hens were found dead in a poultry farm in Bajpur. So far, it seems that it is a case of natural death but as a precautionary measure we have taken the samples of the hens and sent them for testing to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Bareilly," Dr. GS Kharayat, veterinary officer of Bajpur region said.The district veterinary department has closed the farm for precaution and sanitized the entire premise.On Tuesday, around 150 hens were found dead in a poultry farm in Tehri Garhwal district. Samples from the farm have been sent for testing. Officials from the district veterinary department went to the farm to assess the situation and the farm has been closed for the time being.According to records of the state forest department, over 870 birds have died in Uttarakhand since January 8 including over 750 crows. Dehradun district saw the highest casualties with over 780 birds dying there.On Monday, Uttarakhand had reported its third case of bird flu after samples of crows sent from Haridwar tested positive for avian influenza. On January 11, first two cases of bird flu were reported from Dehradun and Pauri Garhwal districts.With increased bird mortality, the state forest department and animal husbandry departments are on alert.The state forest department has also issued toll-free numbers, 1800-180-4141, 1800-20-8862 and 1926, where people can report bird deaths from their areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-bird-flu-scare-in-uttarakhand-more-hens-die-in-poultry-farms-101611224878415.html
21-01-2021||India||SC may send notice to Yogi govt, Shashi Tharoor quips after action on 'Mirzapur'||As the Supreme Court on Thursday issued a notice to Amazon Prime web series 'Mirzapur' on the accusation of portraying the state and the town in a bad light, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor made a sarcastic comment and said the UP government can be accused of the same charges as the Yogi government too has "besmirched" the name of the state."The SC should consider also sending a notice to the UP govt for the same reason. They have besmirched the name of a great state through their misconduct," Tharoor tweeted.An FIR against the web series starring Pankaj Tripathi, Ali Fazal among others was filed by one Arvind Chaturvedi at Mirzapur Kotwali (Dehat) police station for hurting religious sentiments and spoiling the image of Mirzapur.This was a development close on the heels of Tandav controversy where several BJP leaders took objection to the Ali Abbas Zafar directed political thriller and now some controversial scenes have also been edited.माननीय प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी एवं माननीय मुख्यमंत्री @myogiadityanath जी के नेतृत्व में मिर्ज़ापुर विकासरत है।यह समरसता का केंद्र है। मिर्ज़ापुर नामक Webseries के ज़रिए इसे हिंसक इलाक़ा बताकर बदनाम किया जा रहा है।इस सीरीज़ के माध्यम से जातीय वैमनस्य भी फैलाया जा रहा है।1/2Though the action against Mirzapur escalated after Tandav row, the complaint against Mirzapur is an old one. When the latest season of the web series released in October, Mirzapur MP Anupriya Patel took to Twitter and complained that unlike as shown in the web series, Mirzapur is a centre of harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-may-send-notice-to-yogi-govt-shashi-tharoor-quips-after-action-on-mirzapur-101611224689101.html
21-01-2021||India||MP transfers cash directly to farmers, earns additional borrowing capacity||Madhya Pradesh has become the first state to implement the direct cash transfer of power subsidy to farmers as stipulated by the Union finance ministry under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) stimulus package. This has earned the state an additional borrowing capacity equivalent to 0.15% of its gross state domestic product (GSDP) in the current financial year, two officials said.Madhya Pradesh is the only state to undertake the specific power sector reforms to unlock an additional borrowing limit offered under the package announced on May 17, the Union finance ministry officials said, requesting anonymity.The Centre had allowed states to borrow beyond their set fiscal road map to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, states are allowed to keep their fiscal deficit at 3% of GSDP.The Centre on May 17 raised states’ borrowing limit by 2% of GSDP in 2020-21; a part of which was based on certain conditions. A 1% of the additional borrowing limit was available to states on implementation of four citizen-centric reforms with a 0.25% value each -- one nation, one ration card system, ease of doing business, reform of urban local bodies and the power sector.Also Read: India still hopes oil majors will join race for biggest saleAfter the launch of the scheme under the package, 14 states have so far carried out at least one of the four stipulated reforms and have been granted reform linked borrowing permissions worth ₹62,762 crore, the officials said. Eleven states have implemented the one nation, one ration card system. Eight states have done ease of doing business reforms. Four have carried out local body reforms and Madhya Pradesh has implemented power sector reforms, the officials said.“...to earn special borrowing dispensation, MP [Madhya Pradesh] has launched direct transfer of electricity subsidy to farmers in one district of the state from December 2020. Thus, it earned the eligibility to mobilise additional financial resources equivalent to 0.15% of its GSDP,” one of the officials said.The finance ministry on Tuesday granted permission to the state to mobilise additional ₹1,423 crore through open market borrowings.The state has to work on other areas of the power sector to earn the full 0.25% of the dispensation, the official added. Under the power sector reforms, states are required to meet three conditions to avail additional financial resources of up to 0.25% of the GSDP.They get additional borrowing space of 0.05% of GSDP each by reducing aggregate technical and commercial losses and by narrowing the gap between the average cost of supply and average revenue realisation (ACS-ARR) in the state as per prescribed targets. Balance space of 0.15% of GSDP is earned by introducing Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in power subsidy to the farmer.“According to the special borrowing dispensation policy stipulated by the department of expenditure, an arm of the Union finance ministry, states were expected to frame a scheme for transfer of cash power subsidy to the farmer and implement the same in at least one district by December 31, 2020,” a second official said. “MP met the criteria by framing the policy and implementing the same in Vidisha.”Madhya Pradesh framed a DBT scheme for agricultural power consumers and the MP Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited has distributed over ₹32 crore directly into bank accounts of over 60,000 farmers within the stipulated time, the second official said.The scheme will also be launched soon in other districts such as Jhabua and Seoni and the state government has informed the Centre that the DBT system will be rolled out in the entire state in the next financial year.Abhishek A Rastogi, a partner at law firm Khaitan & Co, said: “Out of the four reforms offered to avail the special dispensation under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat stimulus package, Madhya Pradesh is the only state which has boldly initiated the power sector reforms. This is commendable as most states seem reluctant to undertake power reforms due to various reasons. Leakage of power subsidy is a bane. DBT must be introduced across the country. Power sector reform is must to take India into a higher growth trajectory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-transfers-cash-directly-to-farmers-earns-additional-borrowing-capacity-101611224908268.html
21-01-2021||India||Kerala assembly turns down motion for removal of Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan||After nearly a four-hour long heated debate, the Kerala Assembly on Thursday rejected a motion moved by the opposition seeking the removal of Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan alleging his role in the gold smuggling case.The house rarely takes up such motions and during the debate Deputy Speaker V Sasi presided over the house as the Speaker sat with the other members. Introducing the motion, Muslim League legislator M Ummer said the Speaker denigrated his office by allegedly supporting a smuggling racket.He said it would be ideal for him to keep away from the post till the multi-agency probe was over. He also alleged serious irregularities in the modification of the assembly building and funding of the assembly-controlled TV news channel.Based on the statement of the prime accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, the Speaker is set to be interrogated by the Customs. On January 8, his personal assistant was interrogated for more than 10 hours by officials probing the dollar case related to the gold smuggling incident. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also said it would be ideal for the Speaker to quit till he gets a clean chit.But ruling party members defended him. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the motion was politically-motivated and it will set a bad precedent in legislature history. Later, the Speaker also replied to allegations saying since his hands were clean so he was not worried.“Other than media reports I haven’t got any calls or summons from anyone. I can’t run after media churning choicest stories. All allegations are without any basis and I am ready for any probe,” he said adding the opposition notice was a personal attack against him.“I am confident that there was no lapse on my part. So I have no anxiety or fear,” he said claiming that he would end his political career if the charges against him were proved. Later, the house rejected the motion and the opposition staged a noisy walkout.After seizure of 30 kg gold from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic luggage in last July, there were reports allegedly linking the Speaker with main accused Suresh. He later admitted that he knew Suresh as an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate and he attended some functions after being invited by her. But the opposition Congress and BJP alleged that it was more than an ‘official relationship’ and that Sreeramakrishnan had travelled with her several times to the West Asian countries.They also alleged the accused smuggled US dollars to Gulf countries using the Speaker’s green channel access. They also alleged that a major portion of the smuggled US dollar was commission obtained from various government projects.When the Customs broke up the gold smuggling racket, Suresh was working as a senior consultant with the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited. Before this, she worked at the UAE consulate in the state capital as its public relations officer. After the gold smuggling case surfaced, her degree was also found to be fake.Two months back Suresh told a court in Kochi that her life was in danger and sought special protection for herself and her family members. She said she was under pressure not to take big names and some people met her in the jail a couple of times to put pressure on her. Later, the court directed the prisons department to provide her with adequate security. Detained under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa), Swapna Suresh is lodged in the women’s jail in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-turns-down-motion-for-removal-of-speaker-p-sreeramakrishnan-101611224506187.html
21-01-2021||India||Harsh Vardhan assures people on safety, efficacy of Covid vaccines||Vaccination against Covid-19 will lead to people not transmitting the disease and its eradication in some time, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday as he unveiled IEC posters to address the emerging issue of vaccine hesitancy in some sections of the population.Commenting on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines, he said, "The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines, while a section of our own is fomenting misinformation and doubt for narrow political ends."More than eight lakh healthcare workers were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country till 7 am on Thursday, according to the health ministry.Vardhan reminded everyone of the achievements of India, the second-most populous country in the world, which is seeing a steady decline in the number of active coronavirus cases."The elimination of polio and small pox was made possible by large-scale immunisation. Once immunised, not only that person is not capable of catching the disease, he or she is also unable to transmit the disease to others, thus passing on the social benefit to the larger society he or she interacts with. This was also the logic of undertaking mass immunisation of women and children against 12 diseases under Mission Indradhanush."The vaccination against Covid will similarly create persons incapable of transmitting the disease and eradicate the disease altogether in some time," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the health ministry.The minister urged everyone to counter the "vested campaigns of untruth and misinformation"."Let us put a stop to these falsehoods," he said.Vardhan appealed to people to seek correct information regarding the Covid-19 vaccines from credible and authentic sources such as the health ministry, the information and broadcasting ministry, the Press Information Bureau (PIB), the MyGov website etc., according to the statement.He reiterated that "truth is powerful and shall prevail" and encouraged everyone to share the IEC posters to multiply the virtuous cycle of truth.Commenting on the safety and efficacy of the Covid vaccines, the health minister said, "All eminent doctors of well-known hospitals have taken the vaccines and praised the exercise for its desired end. It is only a handful of vested political interests who are interested in spreading rumour and encouraging vaccine hesitancy among those vulnerable to such propaganda in the population."The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines, while a section of our own is fomenting misinformation and doubt for narrow political ends."He said eminent doctors, along with many other healthcare workers within the government as well as the private sector, have taken the vaccines and returned to work without any side-effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-assures-people-on-safety-efficacy-of-covid-vaccines-101611223862989.html
21-01-2021||India||HT Environment Conclave: Prepare for more heatwaves and floods, says Rajeevan Nair||Frequency and duration of heatwaves, droughts, flash floods, urban floods, short intense rainfall events, probability of cyclones to become severe storms will increase in the coming years due to climate change, said M Rajeevan Nair, secretary ministry of earth sciences at Hindustan Times Environment Conclave. At a session on Climate Change and Green Economy, he said India needs to be ready and come up with specific projection models for how these changes are going to affect agriculture, health, water resources, energy and other sectors to cope with impact. Agreeing with him, Sunita Narain, director general of Delhi-based advocacy group, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said the ministry’s study shows that the impact of climate change was intensifying and India needs to amplify its vulnerability at the international global negotiations, which are expected to get steam with the United States deciding to re-join the Paris Climate Agreement.Narain said the absolute emissions of US have increased in the four years of Donald Trump government and it is an opportunity for India to push for three agendas at the negotiations. “One, the world is today talking about how we can involve markets in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. India needs to push for transformational markets, a market mechanism that pays us the true cost of carbon dioxide reduction. We don’t want any cheap convoluted market-based mechanism which takes away our cheapest options,” she said. Also read | Climate crisis can be new area of cooperation for India, US: Antony BlinkenNarain said the second agenda that India should push is the role within markets of land-based sinks. “Sinks are those which absorb carbon dioxide. And there is a huge debate on how accurate is the estimation of the role of sinks in carbon dioxide reduction. India needs to put this on the table because the fact is our forests are the habitats of our very poor people. And we cannot look at forests just as carbon sinks. If we can come up with the right formula and invest in the livelihoods of forest-based communities, build our forest resources, it will be good for us,” she said. Lastly, she said, the world will have to move towards much tougher emission reduction targets. “Today’s targets set under the Paris Agreement amount to nothing. We must drive the issue of equity in the target setting. We must insist that countries have to take reductions based on the contributions to the problem. And we must ask for burden-sharing in the target setting when it comes to Paris Plus, when it comes to talking about what we will do to reduce emissions so that we can stay within the phase two threshold,” she said.Coming back to India’s vulnerability, Nair said based on the climate change projections and past data, it has become evident that though Indian monsoon is robust, rainy days are coming down, dry spells are increasing, India is warming equal to global warming elsewhere in the world and cold waves are reducing. “This will have a serious impact on agriculture and farmers need to devise ways to cope up with these changes,” he said. Stressing that Indian climate change models are improving day by day, Nair said for the first time India has developed an Indian climate model from which it has started making future climate change projections. “And for the first time, our climate change projection model will be included in the IPCC (The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) report coming in 2022 or so. We are collaborating with foreign scientists and improving our projection models and reducing uncertainty in projections,” he said. Under Paris Agreement of December 2015, the goal is to limit global warming to below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius (°C), compared to pre-industrial levels by turn of the century. Studies shows at the present rate of emissions the temperature rise would be 3°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longer-heatwaves-more-droughts-in-future-says-earth-sciences-secy-101611223648221.html
21-01-2021||India||Girl to be booked for filing false gang rape case||The Indore police have decided to book a girl for allegedly filing a false case of gang rape, kidnapping and attempted murder after an investigation revealed that the charges were false.Harinarayan Chari Mishra, IGP, Indore, said "A case will be filed under section 182/211 against the girl after man investigation by the police revealed that these claims were false.""The footage of more than 150 CCTV was checked and scientific evidence along the railway tracks from Pardeshipura to Banganga was collected during the probe. The police found that the claims made by the girl were baseless and inconsistent," he told the media.On Tuesday night, the girl had told the police she was kidnapped by two men and gang-raped by them and three others. Then, they stabbed her, put her in a jute bag, and threw her on a railway track.Pardeshipura police had registered cases of kidnapping, gang-rape, and attempt to murder in this connection following the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-to-be-booked-for-filing-false-gang-rape-case-101611222755547.html
21-01-2021||India||India using vaccine diplomacy in south Asia to push back against China||India will give millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccine to South Asian countries in the next few weeks, government sources said on Thursday, drawing praise from its neighbours and pushing back against China's dominating presence in the region.Free shipments of AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest producer of vaccines, have begun arriving in the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Nepal.Myanmar and the Seychelles are next in line to get free consignments as India uses its strength as one of the world's biggest makers of generic drugs to build friendships."The government of India has shown goodwill by providing the vaccine in grant. This is at the people’s level, it is the public who are suffering the most from Covid-19," said Nepal's Minister for Health and Population Hridayesh Tripathi.The gesture comes at a time that India's ties with Nepal have been strained by a territorial dispute and Indian concern over China's expanding political and economic influence in the Himalayan nation sandwiched between the Asian giants.China, which had promised Nepal help to deal with the pandemic, is awaiting Nepali clearance for its Sinopharm shots."We've asked them to submit more documents and information before we give them the approval," said Santosh KC, spokesman for Nepal's department of drug administration.Bangladesh was supposed to get 110,000 doses of vaccine free from Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech, but Bangladesh refused to contribute towards the development cost of the vaccine leading to deadlock.Bangladesh has instead turned to India for urgent supplies and on Thursday was due to receive 2 million shots of the AstraZeneca vaccine as a gift from India."India is making the AstraZeneca vaccine which makes all the difference. It can be stored and transported at normal refrigerated temperatures and countries like Bangladesh have that facility," a Bangladesh health official said.India for years has struggled to match the pace of Chinese investment in countries such as Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives, where China is building ports, roads and power stations as part of its Belt and Road Initiative.But the demand for vaccines in these countries desperate to revive their tourism-dependent economies has offered Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government a way to claw back ground, diplomats say.India is considering giving away anything from 12 million to 20 million shots to its neighbours in the first wave of assistance over the next three to four weeks, one government source said.India is also helping with the training of health workers in some of these countries and the setting up of the infrastructure to administer the shots, the source said."It's a well-crafted, calibrated series of actions you are seeing, they confirm the validity of our 'neighbourhood first' policy," said a former Indian ambassador, Rajiv Bhatia."It plays to our strengths in science and pharma, and this is our moment to shine."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-using-vaccine-diplomacy-in-south-asia-to-push-back-against-china-101611220681510.html
21-01-2021||India||India to kick off major drills in Andaman Sea to sharpen military synergy||The Indian military will carry out complex drills off the Andaman and Nicobar Islands next week to fine-tune joint war-fighting capabilities and sharpen operational synergy between the three services, with the high-tempo exercise involving fighter jets, transport aircraft, helicopters, warships, infantry combat vehicles and elements of special forces, the defence ministry announced on Thursday. Indian forces will execute high-intensity offensive and defensive manoeuvres in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal as part of the wargames, the ministry said. The Andamans are located more than 1,200km away from mainland India. Also Read: UAE Air Force to help 3 Rafale fighters reach India, 7 more in AprilThe exercise, codenamed Kavach (shield), is being conducted at a time when India and China are locked in a border standoff in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the Indian Navy has stepped up surveillance in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to keep tabs on China’s moves to expand its footprint in the strategic waters. The military drills will be coordinated by the Port Blair-based Andaman and Nicobar Command—India’s only tri-services command. “The exercise will involve synergised application of maritime surveillance assets, coordinated air and maritime strikes, air defence, submarine and landing operations,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The scope of the exercise will cover joint intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) tasks that will involve the military’s technical, electronic and human intelligence elements. From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the IOR, India’s focus remains on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean. “The ISR exercise will validate the capabilities of intelligence gathering from space, air, land and sea-based assets/sensors, its analysis and sharing to achieve battlefield transparency for quick decision making at different stages of operations,” the statement said. The drills will witness the deployment of the assets belonging to the army, navy, air force and coast guard. The exercise will involve the air force’s Jaguar maritime strike aircraft, transport aircraft, elements of the Indian Army’s amphibious brigade, destroyers, anti-submarine warfare corvettes and amphibious warships with ship-borne helicopters of the Vishakhapatnam-based Eastern Naval Command, the statement said. The waters in which the exercise is being conducted hold strategic value for India as China is trying to open multiple routes to the Indian Ocean to overcome the Malacca Dilemma (China’s strategic weakness), officials said. The Malacca Dilemma refers to China’s apprehension of major naval powers controlling the Malacca Strait between Malaysia and Indonesia and interdicting vital supply lines. A significant volume (more than 80%) of China’s oil imports passes through the strait connecting the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. The Malacca Strait is about 350km from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. “The joint force would execute multi-domain, high-intensity offensive and defensive manoeuvres in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal and carry out amphibious landing operations, air-landed operations and helicopters-borne insertion of Special Forces from sea, culminating in tactical follow-on operations on land,” the statement added.Since all wars are ‘joint’ in nature, it is imperative that constituents of a fighting force plan and exercise together, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “The exercise off the Andaman coast is vital in nature for any amphibious operation. In the present security environment, with both neighbours testing us, it is essential that such war-fighting expertise be kept honed for any eventuality,” Bahadur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-kick-off-major-drills-in-andaman-sea-to-sharpen-military-synergy-101611220587721.html
21-01-2021||India||Indian economy undergoing a 'V-shaped recovery', world is surprised: Amit Shah||The Indian economy is undergoing a "V-shaped recovery" and the world is watching the same in surprise, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday.Shah, one of the senior most members of the cabinet, also said the Covid-19 vaccination drive is progressing well and once everyone is vaccinated, "we will attain victory over the pandemic".He made the comment while joining through vide- conference the inauguration of a four-lane over-bridge in Shilaj here by Gujarat Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel."Economies of all countries in the world were affected due to the coronavirus. But, the world is surprised and watching the V-shaped recovery of the Indian economy," Shah said.The GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent in the June 2020 quarter due to the lockdown, and the contraction narrowed down to 7.5 per cent in the September quarter as compared to the same in the year-ago period, as the unlock process began.The demand situation has shown further improvement in the December quarter which witnessed the festivities, with several high-frequency indicators illustrating the same.The Union government now expects the GDP to close FY21 with a contraction of 7.7 per cent.Shah also said that infrastructure development carried out under the Narendra Modi regime in the last six years exceeds that done by governments in the 20 years preceding the NDA government."The work done in the infrastructure sector in last six years is equivalent to that done in 20 years of previous governments," he said.He listed various infrastructure works like Metro lines, bullet train and other projects taken up by the Centre.He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is working hard to develop infrastructure in the country, be it rural or urban areas.The Modi government has provided electricity to all villages of the country, road connectivity, and has provided one bank account to every family."Ten crore families, or 30 crore people, in India were not having their own houses, and the way construction of houses for low income groups is going on, we are confident that every family will get a home by 2022," Shah said."Another big project that we have taken up is providing piped water to every household by 2022," he said.Shah said the government has also taken up the work of removal of one lakh railway crossings on national and state highways by building over-bridges or under-bridges on them. The work on around 5,000 such crossings has been completed and it is currently on in 8,000 other places, he said."The Shilaj bridge (inaugurated here on Thursday) is one such among the one lakh bridges (being built) on the railway crossings," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-economy-undergoing-a-v-shaped-recovery-world-is-surprised-amit-shah-101611219568180.html
21-01-2021||India||'Tandav makers would have been behind bars if...': Madhya Pradesh minister||Amid the ongoing controversy over Amazon Prime web series Tandav, a political thriller starring Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra justified the protests against the series and said had the court not provided the makers of the series relief, they would have been behind the bars. "When we react on an act, then they say that we are creating chaos. Why do you do such acts that need such a reaction? We will not tolerate such things at all. Court has provided them relief. So, they are safe. Otherwise, they would have been behind bars," the home minister said. The web series has been directed by Ali Abbas Zafar who has already issued an apology statement and said required changes would be made to the web series.When we react on an act then they say that we are creating chaos. Why do you do such acts that a reaction is needed? We will not tolerate such things at all. Court has provided them relief so they are safe otherwise they would have been behind bars: MP Home Minister on #Tandav pic.twitter.com/sz7w2xgaNUThe Bombay high court on Wednesday granted a transit pre-arrest bail to Zafar, Amazon Prime India head Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Mehra and writer Gaurav Solanki.Fresh case filed in Greater Noida against makers of web series ‘Tandav’Several FIRs have been lodged against the series for allegedly outraging religious feelings after many BJP leaders called for a ban on the show. The objection has been raised over a particular scene involving characters talking about Hindu deities.Bombay HC grants three weeks transit pre-arrest bail to Tandav makersComplaints have been lodged in Madhya Pradesh, Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh police offers have also started an investigation and have reached Mumbai for the purpose of the probe.In Madhya Pradesh, two FIRs have been lodged against the makers — one in Jabalpur by a functionary of Hindu Seva Parishad and the other in Gwalior by Hindu Mahasabha worker Lalji Sharma.Madhya Pradesh Assembly protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma has written a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding registration of an FIR based on the complaint filed by BJP MLA from Mumbai, Ram Kadam, asking him "to take forward the legacy of" Bal Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tandav-makers-would-have-been-behind-bars-if-narottam-mishra-101611219302926.html
21-01-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Kolkata to address 'Parakram Diwas' on January 23||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Kolkata to address ‘Parakram Diwas’ celebrations on January 23 to commemorate 125th birth anniversary year of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Thursday.The PMO said thatPM Modi will also visit Jerenga Pathar in Sivasagar, Assam to distribute 1.06 lakh land pattas/allotment certificates.The government has decided to observe January 23 as 'Parakram Diwas' every year to commemorate the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Tuesday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the first 'Parakram Diwas' programme in Kolkata on January 23, Bose's 125th birth anniversary, and inaugurate an exhibition on the grounds of National Library to mark the occasion, Patel said. He said PM Modi will also felicitate prominent members of the Indian National Army (INA), formed by Bose, and their family members in Kolkata on Saturday.An 85-member high-level committee helmed by PM Modi has been formed to plan year-round programmes to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Bose.The minister said 200 Patua artists from West Bengal will make a painting on a 400-metre-long canvas depicting Bose's life. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will participate in a programme in Cuttack, Odisha, where Bose was born. Another programme will be held in Haripura village in Gujarat's Surat district where Bose was elected as president of the Indian National Congress in 1938. The culture ministry is also considering building a memorial in the honour of around 26,000 martyred members of the INA, Patel said."Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja" – the regimental quick march of INA -- will be included in the Beating Retreat ceremony, he said, adding Air India will carry Bose's pictures on its aircraft. Football tournaments, marathons, padyatra and "cycle yatra" will also be organised as part of the celebration, he said.Patel said the idea is to inspire the people of the country, especially the youth, to act with fortitude in the face of adversity as Netaji did, and to infuse in them a spirit of patriotic fervour.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-kolkata-to-address-parakram-diwas-on-january-23-101611217884878.html
21-01-2021||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat stresses on job-oriented education, lauds current policy||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday stressed on job-oriented education and accused the British of imposing their education policy on India.Addressing the gathering after inaugurating the new premises of Ramkali Devi Saraswati Balika Vidya Mandir in Vrindavan, he said, “Job-oriented education is the need of the hour. In the past, our education policy was job-oriented but the British imposed their policy on India and adopted ours.”He added that education needed to generate confidence in an individual that it would help in employment and contribution to the society.“Education is an important aspect of one’s life apart from health and food. Education should be such that it generates confidence in a person so that one can run one’s family while fulfilling obligations towards society. As such job-oriented education is a must,” said Bhagwat.He added that the education system in India was helping in creating a self-reliant ecosystem.‘We need not look towards others for education reforms as we have an education system which is leading to Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat,” he said.He also applauded the efforts of Vidya Bharti for rendering ethics-based education.“Education system in the glorious past of our nation was such that it gave employment to all,” he said. Bhagwat said one should be aware of what was happening in the world but warned against senseless copying.Also Read: RSS decision-making body to hold annual meet in BengaluruHe also advocated girls’ education so that they could work for the progress of the nation and added that an educated mother was the edifice of an educated society.“Mother is the first teacher of every person and thus if the mother is educated, she would make her children educated,” stated RSS chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-stresses-on-job-oriented-education-lauds-current-policy-101611218525517.html
21-01-2021||India||BS Yediyurappa allocates portfolios in new Karnataka cabinet. See list here||A week after expanding his cabinet, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday allocated portfolios to the new inductees and also effected a reshuffle of the departments of some ministers.The CM has retained at least eight ministries that include Bengaluru development, energy, finance, intelligence, infrastructure development and all other unallocated portfolios as a measure to manage expectations and quell dissent in the ranks of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state.The list was released by the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR), Karnataka.Umesh Katti, the legislator from Hukkeri, has been named as the new minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs that was earlier held by K Gopalaiah, who was among the 17 legislators who helped bring down the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal(S)-Congress coalition government.N Nagaraju (M.T.B), another turncoat legislator who lost his seat in the bypolls, has been named in charge of excise department after Yediyurappa let go of H Nagesh, an independent candidate who transferred his support from the coalition government to the BJP.Murugesh Nirani, who had allegedly led a large contingent of legislators against Yediyurappa, has been named as the minister for mines and geology department.Arvind Limbavali and CP Yogeshwar, the two people who were instrumental in safeguarding the support of the turncoats, have been given forest and minor irrigation departments, respectively.K Sudhakar, the health and family welfare minister was forced to part with the medical education portfolio which was handed to JC Madhuswamy, who was earlier the minister for law, parliamentary affairs and legislation department. Sudhakar had fought hard to retain both medical education and health in the peak of the pandemic from B Sriramulu.Former mining baron and turncoat Anand Singh was relieved of the forest department and has been handed the tourism portfolio that was earlier held by CT Ravi, who has since assumed charge as general secretary of the BJP. Singh has also been entrusted with the environment and ecology department.R Shankar, who won as an independent before merging his party with the Congress, has been made minister for municipal administration and sericulture.Former chief minister Jagadish Shettar retained the industries portfolio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bs-yediyurappa-allocates-portfolios-in-new-karnataka-cabinet-see-list-here-101611217949869.html
21-01-2021||India||'World is family', says Rajnath Singh as India begins Covid-19 vaccine export||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that India believes ‘the world is our family’ and has begun the export of coronavirus vaccines. Bhutan, the Maldives and Bangladesh are among the first countries in the neighbourhood to receive Covid-19 vaccines from India as assistance, with supplies of millions of doses to six nations that began on Wednesday."The whole world is family for us. We will not only vaccinate the people of India, but also supply the vaccines to neighbouring countries wherever needed. If the need arises, we'll provide the vaccine to other nations as well," Singh said while addressing the annual National Cadet Corps (NCC) Rally in Delhi. The Union minister also lauded the contribution of scientists who helped in developing the Covid-19 vaccines in the country within the short span of less than a year.Addressing the NCC cadets at NCC Camp in New Delhi. Watch https://t.co/cjxLY3DfPUAccording to the ministry of external affairs, there are also plans to provide Covid-19 vaccines to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius, after “confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has branded the move as “VaccineMaitri”. “India is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community. Supplies of Covid vaccines to several countries will commence tomorrow, and more will follow in the days ahead,” he said in a tweet on Tuesday.“In an ongoing effort, India will continue to supply countries all over the world with vaccines. This will be calibrated against domestic requirements and international demand and obligations, including under GAVI’s Covax facility to developing countries,” the foreign ministry said in a statement earlier this week.“Nepal receives Indian vaccines. Putting neighbours first, putting people first! #VaccineMaitri” minister of external affairs S Jaishankar wrote on Twitter earlier in the day, hours after he confirmed the delivery of vaccines to Bangladesh.India’s grants are part of plans to provide up to 10 million doses of both Covidshield and Covaxin, the vaccine made by Bharat Biotech, to friendly countries, according to people familiar with the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-is-family-says-rajnath-singh-as-india-begins-covid-19-vaccine-export-101611216577217.html
21-01-2021||India||Will hold R-Day tractor parade only on Outer Ring Road, reiterates farmer leader||On a day farmer leaders are holding second meeting with the Delhi Police over the proposed Republic Day tractor rally, Krantikari Kisan Union chief Darshan Pal on Thursday re-emphasised that the rally will take place only on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi, adding that the leaders will hold another meeting with the police after 11th round of talks with the Centre, which is scheduled to take place on Friday.“Govt has said tractor parade on Republic Day can’t be conducted on Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, due to security reasons. We’re clear that we will conduct tractor parade there only. After tomorrow’s meeting with Centre, we’ll hold another meeting with police,” news agency ANI quoted Pal as saying.Govt has said tractor parade on R-Day can't be conducted on Delhi's Outer Ring Road, due to security reasons. We're clear that we'll conduct tractor parade there only. After tomorrow's meeting with Centre,we'll hold another meeting with police: Darshan Pal, Krantikari Kisan Union pic.twitter.com/cHrRlTb74UPal’s organisation is a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, which has been leading protests against the three contentious agricultural laws. Pal is also in the group of over 40 farmer leaders which has held ten rounds of talks with the government thus far.Thursday’s meeting between the farmers and Delhi Police is taking place a day after they held their first meeting to decide upon the route on which the rally will take place. While farmers are adamant to hold their march on the Outer Ring Road, albeit “peacefully,” the police have proposed that the march take place on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, where a “trailer” tractor march was held on January 7. As no consensus could be reached, the first meeting ended inconclusively.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to withdraw its plea filed in the court through the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction on the rally. In its plea, the police said that the march would “malign the image of the nation.” The top court, however, said that only the police can take a call on the matter.Also on Wednesday, the government told farmer leaders that it was ready to put the laws on hold for the next 18 months. The farmers will communicate their decision in Friday’s meeting. The implementation of the laws has already been stayed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-r-day-tractor-parade-only-on-outer-ring-road-reiterates-farmer-leader-101611217392004.html
21-01-2021||India||India hopes for more Iran and Venezuela oil exports under Biden||India is hoping US President Joe Biden’s administration will take a softer line against adversaries Iran and Venezuela, enabling the world’s third-largest oil importer to diversify its sources of crude.The country would be happy if the number of oil-producing nations rise, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said in an interview on Bloomberg TV, reiterating comments that he made last month. “Some geopolitical changes are there,” he said. “Let us wait for how things unfold.”The South Asian economy is heavily reliant on energy imports and its refiners struggled to cope as the White House’s aggressive foreign policy over the last few years restricted access to Iranian and Venezuelan oil. Pradhan also expressed his exasperation with Saudi Arabia, after the de-facto leader of OPEC announced unilateral output cuts in response to a resurgence in Covid-19.The sudden change in production policy has made economic planning more difficult and will add to inflation, he said. “We never expect low oil prices. But it should not be a knee-jerk reaction.”India halted imports from Iran, previously its third-largest oil supplier, in mid-2019 after the expiration of U.S. exemptions from sanctions. It purchased 7.65 million tons of Venezuelan crude from January to October last year, compared with 15.9 million tons in 2019. Iran has pledged to increase its oil exports, with shipments to China almost doubling last month from November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopes-for-more-iran-and-venezuela-oil-exports-under-biden-101611217117901.html
21-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh cops seek Mumbai police chief’s assistance in Tandav probe||The Lucknow police team on Wednesday approached the office of Mumbai Commissioner of Police (CP) to get assistance in investigating the case registered against the makers of the newly released web series Tandav for promoting enmity and causing public mischief at the Hazratganj police station of Lucknow on Sunday, said senior police officials.A senior police official said a four member team headed by inspector Anil Kumar Singh reached Mumbai on Tuesday night and first visited Andheri police station of Thane, Mumbai, before visiting the local deputy commissioner of police’s (DCP) office. The team thereafter approached the CP office to get assistance in the matter.The police officer said the team will try to question and record the statements of the accused in the FIR lodged in the matter on Thursday. He said the FIR has been lodged against Aparna Purohit, an official of OTT platform Amazon, Ali Abbas Zafar, the director of the web series, Himashu Krishna Mehra, the producer, Gaurav Solanki, the writer, and others.Also Read: Tandav bows down: Is censorship the way forward for OTT?This FIR was lodged on the complaint of senior sub-inspector (SSI) Amarnath Yadav, posted at the Hazratganj police station. The IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 295 (defiling place of worship with intent to insult religion), 505 (statement conducing public mischief), 469 (forgery on purpose of harming reputation) and a section for misuse of web platform was included in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-cops-seek-mumbai-police-chief-s-assistance-in-tandav-probe-101611216235417.html
21-01-2021||India||Tripura to provide girl students with free sanitary napkins||The Tripura government will deliver free sanitary napkins to girls studying in Class VI to XII. Currently, there are over 168,000 girls studying in schools across the state. “We have decided to deliver free sanitary napkins to the girls from Class VI to XII studying in both government and private schools throughout the state under Kishori Suchita Abhiyan. Our state Cabinet has given its consent to it,” law minister Ratan Lal Nath told reporters in Agartala. The estimated expenditure for the project in three months of the current financial year is ₹60.57 lakh. “We have estimated over ₹1.75 crore expenditure in the upcoming financial year and over ₹1.86 crore in 2022-23 financial year for the project,” said Nath. The state has also adopted Centre’s School Bag Policy - 2020 to reduce weight of school bags. The Centre has constituted a committee comprising six members for the implementation of the policy, Nath said. According to the committee, the weight of school bag for classes 1-2 should be within 1.6 kg-2.2 kg; for classes 3-5, it should be 1.7 kg- 2.5 kg; for classes 6-7, it should be within 2-3 kg; for Class 8, it should be within 2.5 kg-4 kg; for classes 9-10, it should be 2.5 kg- 4.5 kg and, for classes 11 and 12, the weight should be 3.5 kg - 5 kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-provide-girl-students-with-free-sanitary-napkins-101611216178581.html
21-01-2021||India||Vaccination will be last nail in coffin of Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said the vaccination will be the last nail in the coffin of Covid-19, adding that it is unfortunate that some people are spreading misinformation about the vaccination for political reasons."This has developed vaccine hesitancy in a small group of people.Government does not want people who are hesitant to take vaccine to suffer any disadvantage. Everyone should get equal protection just like our doctors," Vardhan said.He further said that the message is clear that vaccine is completely safe and effective."The said adverse events or side effects surfacing are common and it can be seen after any vaccination," Vardhan added.India is currently administering vaccines to 30 million healthcare and frontline workers.The second phase of the programme will involve 270 million people over 50 and those with compromised immunity or underlying medical conditions that make them vulnerable to Covid-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to be in this batch, said a highly placed official in the vaccination drive, adding that the exact dates hadn’t been determined.India is currently administering the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, made by Serum Institute of India (SII) and known locally as Covishield, and the Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin.Dr Vinod Paul, member (health) of Niti Aayog and who heads the government’s Covid-19 task force, said the second phase was crucial. “Phase 2 is our real focus of effort after healthcare and frontline workers. These are people who are above 50 and all political workers would feature in this section,” said Dr Paul.Currently, about 10 million healthcare workers are being administered the vaccine. Other frontline workers will perhaps start getting the vaccine in about a week’s time, according to Dr Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-will-be-last-nail-in-coffin-of-covid-19-harsh-vardhan-101611212564250.html
21-01-2021||India||Paddy procurement mess in Odisha and Chhattisgarh, states blame Centre||After Chhattisgarh, Odisha government has accused the Centre of stalling the paddy procurement process in the state, resulting in many farmers having to sell their produce at a price lesser than the Minimum Support Price (MSP) fixed by the Centre or keep their produce at marketing yards.A farmer, Ramcharan Patel, of Sambalpur district, has been keeping a vigil during the wintry nights on his 200 quintals of paddy, which has been lying unsold at the Jamankira purchase center run by the state government, where about 270 farmers take turns to protect their paddy bags. Around 16,000 tonnes have been stacked at the centre. At the neighbouring Demrinmunda marketing yard, another 5,900 tonnes of paddy is waiting to be procured.“I have no option but to wait for procurement to start as the price being offered by private players is very less than the MSP. I will lose up to ₹500 per quintal,” he said, urging the state’s food minister Ranendra Pratap Swain to re-start the procurement. However, some farmers have sold their harvest below the MSP as the moisture level was increasing in the produce, thereby deteriorating its quality.Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh had a bumper paddy harvest this year due to good rains. In Odisha, experts said the state did not revise its ceiling of paddy procurement of 19 quintals for every acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals for every acre of non-irrigated land. “As a result, thousands of farmers were left with unsold paddy which they had to sell at half the price of the MSP fixed by the government,” said Ashok Pradhan, farmer leader of western Odisha.Paddy procurement has been stopped by the government at many places, especially in the rice bowl area of western Odisha, forcing the farmers to either store the produce at their homes or to sell them at low prices.In a letter to the Union food minister, Piyush Goyal, Odisha’s food minister, Swain, blamed the Centre for the present crisis saying it has failed to pay a pending subsidy amount of ₹6,039 crore towards paddy procurement.“The Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation, which does paddy procurement, has so far borrowed a staggering sum of ₹15,000 crore to run the programme due to non-release of subsidy by the Department of Food and Public Distribution. As all resources including the sanctioned limit of bank finances has been exhausted by OSCSC, the pending subsidy may be released urgently as further paddy procurement from farmers will be severely affected," he wrote.The Odisha minister also took exception to the Food Corporation of India's (FCI) missive to the Odisha government for limiting the delivery of surplus parboiled (partially boiled in husk) rice of Odisha to the extent of 50% of the last year’s delivery and not to accept any surplus in the form of parboiled rice during the Rabi season of the current Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21.“Odisha’s own consumption under the PDS (public distribution system) and other welfare schemes currently comes to 24 lakh MT (metric tonne) of rice. The estimated surplus that needs to be evacuated by the FCI from the State in the current kharif season would be in the range of 30 lakh MT,” Swain said.The BJP has, however, blamed the Biju Janata Dal government for the mess.Bargarh BJP MP Suresh Pujari, who would spearhead the protest on Thursday at Sambalpur, blamed the state government for farmers' grievances. “Farmers are being forced to sell their paddy much below the minimum support price fixed by the Centre at ₹1,868 per quintal as the state has been unable to procure. The minister had promised that criminal cases will be filed if paddy is procured below the MSP at any place. However, no such action has been taken anywhere,” said Pujari.State Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare department had recently claimed that it has procured 35.06 lakh tonne of paddy during the current kharif marketing season, 22% cent higher than that of the procurement made in the corresponding period last year. About 28.81 lakh tonne of paddy was procured last year.In Chhattisgarh, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had accused the Centre of reducing paddy procurement target. “The Centre agreed on 60 lakh (MT) procurement of paddy from Chhattisgarh but has reduced it to 24 lakh(MT) putting additional financial burden on us,” Baghel said.The CM said it was responsibility of the Centre to procure its quota of grains from the state at the MSP and pay the state accordingly. “It is a conspiracy to disrupt paddy procurement in the state,” said state Congress president Mohan Markam.However, former chief minister and BJP leader Raman Singh hit back saying the paddy procurement has stopped in the state due to mismanagement of the state government. “They (the government) are blaming the Centre to hide its shortcomings,” he said.Jharkhand also faced paddy procurement delays as it wanted the Centre to increase its quota because of the bumper crop, but it did not happen. “Due to the bumper crop this year, we are expecting better procurement this season compared to previous season. We will procure whatever we can,” said Jharkhand food minister, Rameshwar Oraon.The issues in paddy procurement comes at the time when the Central government is holding negotiations with about 40 farmer bodies on three farm laws and a legal MSP guarantee. The 10th round of talk on Thursday between the Central government and farmer bodies remained inclusive.(With inputs from Sanjoy Dey in Ranchi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-procurement-mess-in-odisha-and-chhattisgarh-states-blame-centre-101611213333774.html
21-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: BJP terrorising people to vote for them, says TMC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP provoking hatred in Bengal by communal speeches: TMCTrinamool Congress (TMC) leader Firhad Hakim on Thursday said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is provoking hatred in West Bengal by communal speeches, adding that they have requested the Election Commission of India (ECI) to take note of it. Read moreRahul Dravid's hand in the rocking rookiesNot without spirit and belief could Mohammed Siraj, Shubman Gill, Washington Sundar and Shardul Thakur, on their first Australian tour with the senior team, have together brought the hosts down at their citadel, the Gabba. Read moreDeepika Padukone's off-duty looks are all about neon colours and quirky printsWhen it comes to slaying the casual fashion, no one does it better than Deepika Padukone. The Padmaavat actor is someone who has no difficulty owning a red carpet and at the same time, she can also turn the casual airport looks into her personal showstopper moment. Deepika has had many history-making sartorial moments in the fashion spectrum but it is her off-duty looks that has her fans always waiting in anticipation. Read moreVarun Dhawan, Natasha Dalal plan to tie the knot at this resort in Alibaug, see pics of their wedding venueActor Varun Dhawan and fashion designer Natasha Dalal are all set to tie the knot on January 24 in Mumbai. It will be the next big Bollywood wedding, and as per various reports, the wedding venue is in Alibaug. Read moreBernie Sanders wins Inauguration Day meme fest with his mittens. Seen them yet?US Senator Bernie Sander has previously been a subject of funny memes on social media. On January 20, as Joe Biden and Kamala Harris took the oath as the 46th President and the 49th Vice-President of the US, Sanders again grabbed the attention of netizens with his outfit as well as socially-distanced demeanour. Read moreWatch: PM Modi, world leaders congratulate President Biden | Who said whatJoe Biden took oath as 46th President of the United States with Kamala Harris as vice-president. Wishes poured him from world leaders congratulating the new administration. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-bjp-terrorising-people-to-vote-for-them-says-tmc-and-all-the-latest-news-101611210716204.html
21-01-2021||India||SC dismisses Aadhaar review petitions: All you need to know||The Supreme Court has, by a majority verdict, dismissed a clutch of petitions seeking a review of its 2018 judgment that validated the Aadhaar Act even as one of the five judges on the bench that heard the matter termed it a “constitutional error”. Here is all you need to know about the matter: • A Constitution Bench affirmed by 4-1 the verdict in September 2018 when the top court upheld the country’s biometric identity system and also cleared mandatory Aadhaar enrolment of recipients of government welfare benefits. • The court, in its verdict, had also approved the passage of Aadhaar law by Parliament as a money bill, which did not require the approval of the Rajya Sabha. • The Supreme Court considered the bunch of review petitions in judges’ chambers on January 11. The court order was released on Wednesday in which the five-judge bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar, held that “no case for review” of the 2018 judgment had been made out. Also Read: Supreme Court-appointed panel to begin consultations with farmers• Justice DY Chandrachud disagreed and wrote a separate order, suggesting that any decision must wait for a larger bench to determine whether the Aadhaar verdict was correct in interpreting what could constitute a “money bill.” • In split verdicts, the view of the majority holds. • Justice Chandrachud had in the 2018 judgment also held that Aadhaar could not have been passed as a money bill. • The majority view refused to await a word from the larger bench, as it declined to take into account a subsequent judgment in 2019 by another five-judge bench. • That bench had raised doubts on the correctness of the Aadhaar verdict and preferred that a seven-judge-bench re-examine it. The seven-judge-bench is yet to be constituted. • The majority view in the Aadhaar case has said that the 2019 judgment was not sufficient to press for a reconsideration of the 2018 Aadhaar judgment. • Justice Chandrachud dissented with the majority view and said that the 2019 judgment questioning the correctness of the Aadhaar verdict was a relevant fact and that the apex court must wait for the larger bench of seven judges to decide these pertinent issues. • In his separate order, the judge added that dismissal of the review petitions without waiting for the larger bench’s decision would place a seal of finality on the issues in the present case, without the court having the benefit of the larger bench’s consideration of the very issues which arise before the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-aadhaar-review-petitions-all-you-need-to-know-101611212490183.html
21-01-2021||India||Srinagar temperature dips to -7 degrees C, city witnesses another cold night||Night temperature in Srinagar again plunged to minus 7 degrees Celsius on Thursday as the city witnessed another cold night. Weather department officials said that this was due to the north westerly cold winds and clear sky. On Wednesday, Srinagar recorded a temperature of -6.4 degrees C.Since the last one week, the Valley is gripped by the cold wave as the night temperature has been hovering around minus 7 to 8 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a wet spell in Kashmir later this week, which could end the current spell of cold wave and disrupt air and surface traffic. Officials said it could last for five days.Regional MeT director, Sonum Lotus said the intensity of the new Western Disturbance would be less, compared to the previous spells as there is less or no moisture emanating from the Arbain Sea. "The fresh spell will bring rain and snow in the region for three to four days with main activity on January 24. There after weather will be remain dry for four to five days."Also Read: Nidhi Razdan files complaint over online fraudThe ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded minus 7.8 degrees C, while the temperature went to -9.3 degrees C in the tourist resort of Pahalgam. Winter capital Jammu recorded 2.1 degrees C night temperature.Meanwhile, divisional administration has said they are ready to face any challenge and prepared for fresh snowfall, predicted for later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-temperature-dips-to-7-degrees-c-city-witnesses-another-cold-night-101611211418945.html
21-01-2021||India||After six months, SC permits CERC to resume work||The Supreme Court has allowed the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) to resume its functioning, six months after the restraining order was issued against the regulatory body.A bench, headed by Justice Sanjay K Kaul, also lifted its prohibitory order against the two non-judicial members of the Commission, permitting them to deliver judgments and perform administrative works.The order on Wednesday will enable delivery of 177 judgments and orders that have remained pending disposal before the CERC since August when the bench suspended the Commission’s functioning for not being able to appoint a judicial member.The CERC is a regulatory body to determine power tariffs as well as for all interstate generation, transmission and supply of power.On Wednesday, Attorney General KK Venugopal informed the bench, which also had justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, that the appointment of judicial members has now come through.“The appointment committee of the Cabinet has cleared the appointment of the Member-Law on December 16. He is currently a member of the state electricity commission in Jharkhand. He will join very soon,” Venugopal submitted.The law officer added that there is now a compliance with the court’s 2018 judgment, directing the CERC and all state commissions to make certain they appoint a Member-Law, who must be either a sitting or a retired judge, or a person with substantial knowledge and practice of the law whenever the next vacancy arises.The bench took on record the AG’s submissions, and requested him to use his good offices so that the Member-Law can join as soon as possible.Also read | Executive not following court orders will lead to anarchy: SCAt the same time, the court accepted senior advocate Maninder Singh’s plea that the other two members should be allowed to deliver judgments and orders in cases already heard by them.The court, in its order, said that the CERC could begin its adjudicatory functions after the judicial member joins it and till such time, the other two members can pronounce judgments and carry out other administrative work.With this order, the bench also wrapped up the contempt proceedings against the CERC.Anguished at the “prima facie contempt” of its judgment, the court had, in August, ordered two CERC members to go on leave till the time a Member-Law is appointed. This left the regulator non-functional with just the chairperson, PK Pujari, whereas the quorum for a hearing is two members in addition to the chair.After the last hearing in December, the bench had come down heavily on the Central government, stating the court cannot help consumers when the “government does not seem to be interested in coming to the aid of the consumers or making the Commission functional.”“The Executive cannot be expected to act nor permitted to act in breach of the judgment of this court. This would be an invitation to anarchy! The mutual respect of the three pillars of democracy requires each of them to respect the role and functioning of the other,” the court said in its last order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-six-months-sc-permits-cerc-to-resume-work-101611211227000.html
21-01-2021||India||'Chinese village': Arunachal students' union demands counter-measures against Beijing's 'expansionist' move||The All Arunachal Pradesh Students' Union (AAPSU) on Thursday said it has taken serious note of China reportedly establishing a village in Upper Subansiri district in the northeastern state and demanded that the Centre initiates appropriate counter-measures to check Beijing's "expansionist" move.Condemning China's "provocative" move, the apex students' body of the state alleged that the Centre's "lethargic and non-committal" approach other than mere lip service vis-a-vis Chinese antics is emboldening the neighbouring country to carry out their "expansionist design"."Chinese claim over our state has given rise to myriad problems notably the stapled visa issue and Siang river imbroglio which still remains inconclusive till date despite the union bringing up the issue at the highest level several times," AAPSU chief Hawa Bagang said in a statement.Bagang stated that Arunachal Pradesh is an integral part of India and the people are proud and patriotic Indians.If the nation calls for duty, the youths are ready to stand up even with arms to defend the country, he said.The AAPSU also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the happenings in the frontier state seriously not only in terms of military deployment but also match with China in terms of infrastructure development and road connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-village-arunachal-students-union-demands-counter-measures-against-beijing-s-expansionist-move-101611210714156.html
21-01-2021||India||PM Modi wishes people of Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura on their Statehood Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his wishes to the people of Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura on their Statehood Day.Under the North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971, Tripura, Manipur and Meghalaya attained statehood on January 21, 1972.In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his wishes to people of Meghalaya and said, "On their Statehood Day, greetings to my sisters and brothers of Meghalaya. This state is known for its remarkable kindness and spirit of brotherhood. Youngsters from Meghalaya are creative and enterprising. May the state keep scaling new heights of progress in the times to come."In another message, PM Modi acknowledged Manipur's contribution to national development."Statehood Day greetings to the people of Manipur. India is proud of Manipur's contribution to national development. Manipur is a powerhouse of innovation and sporting talent. I wish the state the very best in its journey towards progress," PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also congratulated Tripura for its outstanding progress in various fields."Best wishes to the people of Tripura on the special occasion of their Statehood Day. The culture and warm-hearted nature of the people of Tripura is admired across India. The state has achieved outstanding progress in various fields. May the same spirit continue," he said.Meanwhile, Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma marked the Statehood Day and honoured the leader who helped in carving out the path for the creation of Meghalaya.Sangma shared a video clipping on Twitter and said, "On Meghalaya Day, we honour our resolute leaders before us who paved way for the creation of Meghalaya. Let us recommit ourselves & carry forward their legacy with the same values & purpose that inspired them- for the future of our people. Wishing everyone a Happy Meghalaya Day!"To mark the day, Manipur Chief Minister, N Biren Singh too marked the spirit of Statehood Day and pledged to work together for the prosperity of the state.Singh tweeted, "Warmest greetings to the people of my State on the occasion of Statehood Day. Let us pledge to work together for peaceful co-existence, progress and prosperity of our beautiful State. May the State achieve zenith of development under the leadership of PM Shri Narendra Modi ji."While Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb extended wishes for prosperity and progress of the state."I extend warm greetings to my beloved sisters & brothers on Statehood Day of our state. Tripura is witnessing a new era of progress & prosperity under the leadership of Adarniya Shri Narendra Modi ji. Together we shall strive to realise the hopes & aspirations of every citizen," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-people-of-meghalaya-manipur-and-tripura-on-their-statehood-day-101611209820070.html
21-01-2021||India||Supreme Court grants bail to Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi in Sandalwood drugs case||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi, who was arrested in connection with drug menace in the Kannada film industry, also known as “Sandalwood”.The Karnataka high court had in November rejected the bail plea of Dwivedi and two others - Sanjjanaa Galrani alias Mahira and jeweller Prashanth Ranka. The petitioners had claimed that no evidence had been found against them and so they should be immediately released.The counsel for prosecution, however, had argued that digital evidence had been collected and are being processed, and since all the accused are influential people, any release could lead to destruction, following which the high court declined to release them.The three, along with several others, were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) under various sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police and the NCB had jointly arrested Dwivedi on September 14 and Sanjjanaa two days post that.All the three apart from seven other accused are lodged at the Parappana Agrahara Jail on the outskirts of Bengaluru.In September, a special NDPS court in Bengaluru had also rejected the bail plea of Galrani and Dwivedi and one Rahul in connection with the case.The actors have been arrested following a FIR registered in the Cottonpet police station under various sections of CrPC and NDPS acts dealing with illegal drug possession, consumption and dealing.Several other well known Kannada movie personalities, including star couple Diganth Manchale and Aindrita Ray, anchor Akul Balaji and actor Arryan Santosh have been called in for questioning till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-kannada-actor-ragini-dwivedi-in-sandalwood-drugs-case-101611209664429.html
21-01-2021||India||Sasikala's health stable, needs oxygen due to secondary infections: Dhinakaran||VK Sasikala, who was shifted from Bengaluru prison to a hospital just seven days before release, is reported to be stable, her nephew and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AMMK’s) general secretary TTV Dhinakaran told news agency ANI on Thursday.“I've reliable info that Sasikala's health is stable, doctors are looking after her. She is being monitored properly. She needs oxygen due to some secondary infections. Doctors are still deciding on whether CT scans are required or not,” Dhinakaran was quoted as saying.The 63-year-old aide of late J Jayalalithaa, who also suffers from hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism, was taken to the Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru as she complained of fever and breathlessness on Wednesday evening.She earlier underwent treatment at the jail hospital but was later taken to the Bowring Hospital for a second opinion, news agency PTI quoted sources as saying. The expelled AIADMK leader arrived in an ambulance and was taken inside the Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute,also known as Bowring Hospital, in a wheelchair, they added."On arrival at hospital, (her) oxygen saturation at room air was 79 % and febrile. Stable with supportive measures and antibiotics and oxygen. She will be further evaluated and monitored. Investigation reports are awaited," the hospital said in a statement.Sasikala, a former interim general secretary of Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK, is serving a four-year jail term in the disproportionate assets case in Bengaluru’s Parappana Agrahara jail and is set to walk out in the morning hours of January 27 after completing her sentence and having paid a fine of ₹10 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikalas-health-stable-needs-oxygen-due-to-secondary-infections-dhinakaran-101611208757988.html
21-01-2021||India||Covid-19: PM Modi likely to get vaccinated in 2nd phase of inoculation drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to get vaccinated for Covid-19 in the second phase of the immunisation programme, and it may happen in March or April, said two top government officials on Wednesday, underlining that the leader opposed politicians jumping the queue of inoculation determined by the government and experts.India is currently administering vaccines to 30 million healthcare and frontline workers. The second phase of the programme will involve 270 million people over 50 and those with compromised immunity or underlying medical conditions that make them vulnerable to Covid-19. Modi, 70, is likely to be in this batch, said a second highly placed official in the vaccination drive, adding that the exact dates hadn’t been determined.Also Read: 15,223 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally to over 10.61 million“PM will take the vaccine when his turn will come after completion of the first phase,” said an official in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). “He himself said this in his meeting with chief ministers that politicians shouldn’t try to break the queue and only take the vaccine when their turn comes,” the official added. He was referring to a January 11 meeting between Modi and chief ministers where the PM shot down suggestions of including politicians in the first phase of vaccination.A third official, from the Union health ministry, said the PM’s turn is likely to come by March or April. When asked if the PM would opt for a particular vaccine, the official refused to respond. “It’s too early to say anything,” he said.The country is currently administering the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, made by Serum Institute of India and known locally as Covishield, and the Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin.Dr Vinod Paul, member (health) of Niti Aayog and who heads the government’s Covid-19 task force, said the second phase was crucial. “Phase 2 is our real focus of effort after healthcare and frontline workers. These are people who are above 50 and all political workers would feature in this section,” said Dr Paul. Currently, about 10 million healthcare workers are being administered the vaccine.. Other frontline workers will perhaps start getting the vaccine in about a week’s time, according to Dr Paul. “It’s not that every doctor or nurse has to be inoculated to begin the next phase. It is being done in waves. Healthcare workers inoculation will go on and the other phases can also start, we have enough supply,” he added.It wasn’t clear whether the Prime Minister would have to register on the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) app, which is being used to monitor vaccinations. HT reported last week that the Centre may allow self-registration by the elderly and those with comorbidities on platform, which is currently closed to the public, for faster and easier enrolment of beneficiaries. Neither the PMO nor the Union health ministry had details about the logistics for the PM’s vaccination.Dr Paul said the government was trying to fight vaccine hesitancy. “We are trying to make ‘role models’ of prominent doctors taking vaccines willingly to remove hesitancy about vaccines,” said Dr Paul, adding, “You must also remember that six lakhs have been given the vaccine already and so they are our role models.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pm-modi-likely-to-get-vaccinated-in-2nd-phase-of-inoculation-drive-101611208766609.html
21-01-2021||India||SCOD evaluates operational preparedness, coastal security in Arabian Sea||A sixteen-member Standing Committee on Defence (SCOD) headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Jual Oram visited Goa Naval Area on Tuesday to evaluate operational preparedness in the Arabian Sea including coastal security.The visit of the SCOD was part of its on-the-spot study on the 'State of present operational preparedness in the Arabian Sea including Coastal Security'. The delegation was received by the Flag Officer Commanding, Goa Naval Area and a briefing on the preparedness of the Indian Navy in the Arabian Sea was given by the Western Naval Command.On Wednesday, the committee visited Karwar Naval Base in Karnataka to view the development of Project Seabird. It was also briefed about the modernisation of Karwar naval ship repair yard and the capabilities of Indian Naval Ship Vikramaditya.The SCOD also watched a demonstration at the ship lift facility and made a field tour of the naval harbour for the assessment of marine infrastructure being developed as part of Project Seabird Phase II-A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scod-evaluates-operational-preparedness-coastal-security-in-arabian-sea-101611208082557.html
21-01-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Legislators bring resolution against House Speaker||Kerala Assembly on Thursday took up a notice brought on by opposition legislators against Kerala Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan seeking his removal from the post alleging that he was involved in the gold smuggling case.Kerala speaker P Sreeramakrishnan’s name cropped up in connection with the gold smuggling case but the speaker has denied any involvement with the case. Sreeramakrishnan is also set to be interrogated by the customs authorities regarding his alleged involvement in the gold smuggling case. Earlier on January 8, Kerala Assembly Speaker’s assistant was called before the customs officials who were probing the dollar smuggling cases in the state.Kerala deputy speaker V Sasi chaired the session on Thursday as Sreeramakrishnan sat among legislators as opposition members took up the resolution against him. Kerala speaker Sreeramakrishnan had earlier admitted that he knew main accused Swapna Suresh as an employee of the UAE consulate and participated in functions organised by Suresh.CPI(M) leader S Sharma said that the allegations against the speaker cannot be taken into consideration as they are based on 'media speculations'. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan lashed out at the opposition politicians for moving the resolution against the assembly Speaker. "164 statements given by the accused in gold smuggling case in the court has not come out yet. From all these months, the investigation agency was questioning the accused. How 164 statements given by such accused can be trusted?" Vijayan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the assembly is a temple of democracy and tainted leaders should not be associated with it. "P Sreeramakrishnan will be the first person to hold Speaker's chair in state's history while being tainted for his association with smugglers. Assembly is temple of democracy. No charges like association with gold smugglers came against any speaker," Chennithala was quoted as saying by news agency ANIThe opposition alleged that Sreeramakrishnan had deeper ties with Suresh. They also raised questions about the Kerala speaker inaugurating a shop of one of the accused in the gold smuggling case. Sreeramakrishnan had inaugurated the shop of Sandeep Nair, accused in the gold smuggling case, months ago.“I am fully confident that there was no lapse from my side. So I have no anxiety,” the Kerala speaker had said, claiming that he would end his political career if the charges against him are proved.The Kerala gold smuggling case had come into light after 30 kg gold worth ₹14.82 crore which was being smuggled in diplomatic cargo was found by customs department in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-legislators-bring-resolution-against-house-speaker-101611206959946.html
21-01-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari accuses TMC of rigging in Lok Sabha polls||Former West Bengal minister and now the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) prominent campaigner against the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Suvendu Adhikari, on Wednesday brought a serious charge of electoral malpractice against the ruling party, saying it did not allow the Hooghly district administration to count the votes in 16 electronic voting machines (EVM) at the Arambagh Lok Sabha constituency in 2019.Aparupa Poddar, the sitting TMC MP from Arambagh defeated the BJP by 1,142 votes last year. The saffron camp, however, bagged the district’s Hooghly Lok Sabha seat. One EVM can record up to 2000 votes.“The TMC pressured district officials to not count the votes in 16 machines. Otherwise, the BJP would have won the Arambagh seat. But we are surging ahead in the district. A number of TMC legislators will join us because they cannot work for the people if they stay in the ruling party,” Adhikari said at a rally at Mankundu in Hooghly district.He made the allegation hours before the chief election commissioner of India, Sunil Arora, arrived in Kolkata with his entire team to review the ground situation before the assembly polls due in March-April.Reacting to the allegation, Bengal’s deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy said, “Adhikari is making random allegations. If such a malpractice took place, why didn’t he speak up one year ago?”The TMC lost a prominent legislator on Wednesday, when Arindam Bhattacharya, who represents the Santipur assembly seat in Nadia district, joined the BJP in Delhi.Bhattacharya, 40, an international trade lawyer and social entrepreneur who studied in foreign universities, won the seat on a Congress ticket in 2016 but joined the TMC a year later. He was earlier made president of the Bengal youth Congress. “I left my career to join politics because I wanted to work for the people. But there has been no progress, no industrialisation and no employment generation during the TMC regime,” said Bhattacharya.Ranjan Banerjee, senior vice-president of a nationally known industrial group, also joined the BJP in Kolkata on Wednesday.At the rally, Adhikari accused the TMC of corruption, saying it was running sand and coal smuggling operations. He also accused chief minister Mamata Banerjee of telling lies to the people and running the Centre’s welfare schemes by changing their names in Bengal.“It is essential that the same party rules the nation and Bengal. Unless you (voters) drive out the TMC, people won’t get jobs. This government has kept appointments by the school service commission on hold for years. There is no industrial growth but you see only hefty expenses being made on annual investment summits,” said Adhikari.He also appealed to Left voters to support the BJP in the interest of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-accuses-tmc-of-rigging-lok-sabha-polls-101611205084216.html
21-01-2021||India||IFFCO ranks first among top 300 cooperatives of the world||The Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) has stepped up to 65th position in overall turnover ranking from 125th position in last financial year and now is at the top spot among 300 leading cooperatives in the world, according to an official release.The ranking is based on the ratio of turnover over the gross domestic product (GDP) per capita."It signifies that IFFCO is contributing significantly to the GDP and economic growth of the Nation. It relates the turnover of the enterprise to the wealth of the country according to the 2020 edition of the 9th Annual World Cooperative Monitor (WCM) report published by International Cooperative Alliance (ICA)," IFFCO said.IFFCO with more than 36,000 member cooperatives and a group turnover of nearly 7 billion dollars, it is amongst the biggest cooperative institutions in the world, it said.Dr U S Awasthi, MD, IFFCO said it is a proud moment for IFFCO and cooperative as well."A great achievement for all of us in the Indian cooperative movement. At IFFCO, we are always committed to the growth of farmers across the country and strengthening the Indian Cooperative movement. We believe in innovation as it is the key to success. I congratulate everyone at IFFCO and the entire cooperative fraternity of the country for this big achievement," he said.The International Cooperative Alliance (ICA) and the European Research Institute on Cooperative and Social Enterprises (Euricse) launched the 2020 edition of the World Cooperative Monitor during an international webinar on Thursday.The report is the 9th annual one and explores the economic and social impact of the largest cooperatives and mutual worldwide, providing a ranking of the Top 300, sector rankings, and an analysis of responses to the current global challenges: Covid and climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iffco-ranks-first-among-top-300-cooperatives-of-the-world-101611203078152.html
21-01-2021||India||'Regret not being there for you': Kangana Ranaut remembers Sushant Singh Rajput on his birthday||On late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s birthday on Thursday, Kangana Ranaut attacked big shots of the Mumbai based film industry accusing them of trying to “ban” the former, who died by suicide in last year, and alleged that “they collectively killed him.”In a series of tweets, Ranaut, who has been taking potshots at the Bollywood industry, said that she regretted not being there for Rajput when he needed help. “Dear Sushant, movie mafia banned you bullied you and harassed you, many times on social media you aksed for help and I regret not being there for you. I wish I didn’t assume you are strong enough to handle mafia torture on your own. I wish ... Happy Birthday dear one #SushantDay,” she wrote on the microblogging site.Also Read: On Sushant's birth anniversary, sister makes announcement for his fansTaking a swipe at nepotism in the film industry and how attempts were made to bring down Rajput, Ranaut tweeted, “Never forget before his death Sushant wrote on his social media that movie mafia is trying to throw him out of film industry and seeked help from his followers in making his film a success. he complained about nepotism in his interviews. His blockbuster films were declared flop.”As there were reports of Rajput being in depression before his death on June 14 last year, Ranaut took a dig at director-producer Mahesh Bhatt, whose daughter Shaheen also fought the battle with depression. Her tweet also accused YashRaj films and Karan Johar of trying put the late actor out of business.Dear Sushant, movie mafia banned you bullied you and harassed you, many times on social media you aksed for help and I regret not being there for you. I wish I didn’t assume you are strong enough to handle mafia torture on your own. I wish ...Happy Birthday dear one #SushantDay pic.twitter.com/xqgq2PBi0Y“Never forget Sushant spoke about YashRaj films banning him,He also spoke about Karan Johar showing him big dreams and dumping his film on streaming, then crying to the whole world that Sushant is a flop actor. Never forget all Mahesh Bhatt children are depressed yet he told Sushant that he will die Parveen Babi death, he self admittedly gave him therapy. These people collectively killed him and Sushant himslef wrote that in his social media interaction before his death. Never forgive never forget #SushantSinghRajput #SushantDay,” she wrote on the microblogging site.Also Read: Risked life to expose Sushant Singh Rajput's 'murder', says Kangana Ranaut as she backtracks on tweet about leaked chatsThis is not the first time that Ranaut has made these allegations. She had also targeted the Maharashtra government over the handling of Rajput’s death case by the Mumbai Police.A related case of alleged drug racket in Bollywood also surfaced during the investigation by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the actor’s death. The NCB also made dozens of arrests in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regret-not-being-there-for-you-kangana-ranaut-remembers-sushant-singh-rajput-on-his-birthday-101611202269530.html
21-01-2021||India||15,223 new Covid-19 cases take India's tally to over 10.61 million||India recorded 15,223 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update on Thursday. With this, the nationwide tally reached 10,610,883.The number of active cases, which have already reached a record low, dropped further to 1,92,308, while 10,265,706 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.The country recorded 151 fresh fatalities due to the disease in the said period, according to health ministry update at 8 am. The death toll now stands at 1,52,869.The active cases comprise just 1.86 per cent of the total infections, according to health ministry. It said that 72 per cent of the active cases are concentrated in Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal.The national recovery rate has risen to 96.70 per cent while the fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, according to health ministry.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19.Meanwhile, the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme has been going on in India, with a target of inoculating the healthcare and frontline workers. It was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16.As on January 20, 2021, a total of 6,74,835 beneficiaries have received the vaccination. In a span of 24 hours, 2,20,786 people were vaccinated across 3,860 sessions. A total of 11,720 sessions has been conducted so far, according to the government.It also said that the country reported at least 600 adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) in the past five days, one of the lowest in the world, of which 82 were reported on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15223-new-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-to-over-10-6-million-101611200760950.html
21-01-2021||India||Phase 3 trial of Sputnik V vaccine begins in Agra||The third phase of the clinical trials for Russia-made Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V began at the SN Medical College in Agra on Wednesday. Eight volunteers were given the jab on day one of the 10-day-long trial, said officials.“This is the third phase of the trials for the corona vaccine Sputnik. Eight of the 23 volunteers selected were vaccinated today. Only those above 18 years will be included as volunteers,” said Dr Prabhat Agarwal from the medicine department of SNMC.Dr Sanjay Kala, principal of the medical college, vaccinated the first volunteer to begin the trial.“About 100 people will be selected as volunteers and they must be in good health. A total of 46 have got their registration done,” added Dr Agarwal.The development coincides with Sputnik V getting approval in Argentina for use in people over 60 after it was earlier cleared for the younger age groups in the country, agencies reported.New documents and data on Sputnik V, including a clinical report on the vaccine’s use among the 60-plus age group, says it showed an efficacy of around 91.8% in people over 60.On Tuesday, Russia applied for registration of the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine in the European Union and it has also filed for the WHO’s approval, but no timetable has yet been set on its authorisation by the World Health Organisation, according to an exclusive AFP report.Sputnik V, named after the Soviet-era satellite, was registered in August 2020, months ahead of Western competitors but before the start of large-scale clinical trials, which left some experts wary.Its developers have since said that the jab is more than 90 percent effective and Russia launched its mass vaccination campaign using the shot this week. Sputnik has already been registered in a number of countries including Belarus, Venezuela, Bolivia and Algeria.(With agency input||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-trial-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-begins-in-agra-101611202405510.html
21-01-2021||India||Ahead of Republic Day, MHA asks people not to use plastic flags||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued an advisory ahead of Republic Day urging the general public not to use flags made of plastic while also asking states and union territories to ensure strict compliance of Flag Code of India, people familiar with the development said. In its advisory, seen by HT, the home ministry asked the state governments to undertake mass awareness programmes regarding the use of flags made of paper only and to dispose them in private to maintain the flag’s dignity. “It has been brought to the notice of this ministry that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, national flags made of plastic are being used in place of paper flags. Since plastic flags are not biodegradable like paper flags, these do not get decomposed for a long time; and ensuring appropriate disposal of national flag made of plastic with dignity is a practical problem,” MHA said. Also Read: Rafale jets to debut in Republic Day flypastThe advisory asked states/UTs to ensure that only paper flags are used by the public under the provisions of the Flag Code of India, 2002 and such flags are not discarded or thrown on the ground after the event. According to Section 2 of The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, “Whoever in any public place or in any other place within public view burns, mutilates, defaces, defiles, disfigures, destroys, tramples upon or otherwise shows disrespect to or brings into contempt (whether by words, either spoken or written, or by acts) the Indian National Flag or any part thereof, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.”The MHA added “There is universal affection and respect for and loyalty to the national flag. Yet, a perceptible lack of awareness is often noticed amongst the people as well as organisations and agencies of the government in regard to laws, practices and conventions that apply to ‘display of the national flag’”.An official who didn’t want to be named said such advisories are regularly sent to the states/UTs for creating awareness among the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-republic-day-mha-asks-people-not-to-use-plastic-flags-101611200006048.html
21-01-2021||India||13 injured as fire breaks out due to cylinder explosion at Hyderabad home||At least 13 people were injured in a fire that broke out due to a cylinder explosion at a house in Hyderabad on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported.The injured in the fire at the home in city’s Mir Chowk police station limits were admitted to a hospital.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-injured-as-fire-breaks-out-due-to-cylinder-explosion-at-hyderabad-home-101611199643438.html
21-01-2021||India||Final probe report on Kozhikode air crash due in January delayed by 2 months||The final probe report on the August 7 Air India Express crash at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport due for submission in January will be delayed by two months, officials aware of the development said. A civil aviation ministry order, reviewed by HT, has granted a two-month extension to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), the regulatory body in charge of the investigation, to submit the report.“Due to COVID pandemic, there is a delay being experienced in the Test Reports of components, and an extension of two months has been granted for submission of the draft final report of Investigation into VT-AXH Accident,” the order said.The Air India Express Boeing-737 plane repatriating Indians stranded in Dubai due to the pandemic overshot the runway in heavy rain, skidded off the table-top runway and broke into two parts after crashing nose-first into the ground. The flight was carrying 190 passengers and crew. It was the deadliest commercial aviation disaster in the country in 10 years and claimed 20 lives. Another Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot Mangalore’s table-top runway in 2010. It slid down a hill and left 158 people dead.The AAIB in August last year appointed a team of five investigators to lead the probe and submit a report within five months.AAIB director-general Aurobindo Handa appointed Captain SS Chahar, a former Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA)-designated examiner for pilots of B737NG aircraft, as the investigator-in-charge tasked with completing its inquiry and submitting the report.He is assisted by Operations Expert Ved Prakash, Senior Aircraft Maintenance Engineer-B737 Mukul Bhardwaj, Group Captain Y S Dahiya, Aviation Medicine Expert, and Jasbir Singh Larhga, Deputy Director AAIB.“The Investigator-in-Charge may take the assistance of other experts/agencies whenever required. The headquarters of the investigation will be at New Delhi,” an order issued by AAIB in August said.Also Read:India’s 1st Covid case, plane crash and gold smuggling charges: Kerala’s 2020 recapThe bureau’s role is to conduct an independent aircraft accident investigation, obtain a preliminary report to assist in setting up a committee of inquiry in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation rules.DGCA, the aviation regulator, a day after the crash, had announced that the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder were recovered from the crash site. They can help in determining the cause of the crash. The cockpit voice recorder keeps a recording of all the conversations taking place in a plane’s cockpit. The flight data recorder logs data such as airspeed, altitude, and fuel flow.The aviation regulator in August had also banned the use of wide-body body aircraft during the monsoon at Kerala’s Calicut (Kozhikode) airport and decided to divert them to neighbouring airports during the season. DGCA said it also planned to conduct safety audits across airports in regions that receive high rainfall.So-called tabletop airports have limited space at the ends of the runway and several international airlines have stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode due to safety issues. Wide-body aircraft operations were permitted at this airport from 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-probe-report-on-kozhikode-air-crash-due-in-january-delayed-by-2-months-101611199465487.html
21-01-2021||India||Facebook, Twitter officials to appear before parliamentary panel on IT today||The standing committee of Parliament on Information Technology has summoned the officials of Facebook and Twitter on Thursday to hear their views on safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms.The agenda of the meeting has been uploaded on the website of the Lok Sabha secretariat.News agency ANI reported that recent changes in the privacy policy of Facebook-owned messaging platform WhatsApp will also be discussed. The sitting of the committee will be held at 4 pm, according to ANI.The Centre had recently asked WhatsApp to withdraw the latest changes to its policy that triggered boycott calls and said the “unilateral changes” are unfair and unacceptable.However, WhatsApp has backed these changes, saying they don't expand its ability to share user data with Facebook and the messaging app is working on addressing “misinformation” about it.“We wish to reinforce that this update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook. Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses...” a WhatsApp spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that WhatsApp will always protect personal messages with end-to-end encryption, so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see them.On January 16, WhatsApp delayed the introduction of these changes to May 15 after massive backlash and users moving en masse to other messaging applications such as Signal and Telegram.The 30-member parliamentary standing committee on IT is headed by Dr Shashi Tharoor, Lok Sabha MP from Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-twitter-officials-to-appear-before-parliamentary-panel-on-it-today-101611199022854.html
21-01-2021||India||Supreme Court-appointed panel to begin consultations with farmers||The Supreme Court-appointed panel for resolving grievances concerning the newly passed farm laws will begin its consultations with the farmers’ unions from Thursday.Farm activist Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the panel, said that they have drawn up a list of categories of organisations which would be invited over the course of the consultations.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading protests against the three laws, has however said its members would not appear before the committee.According to the Supreme Court’s instructions, the committee has to submit a report to the apex court in two months.The Supreme Court had named Bharatiya Kisan Union president BS Mann, Maharashtra's Shetkeri Sangthana chief Anil Ghanwat, and economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi as the four members of the panel. However, Mann later recused himself from the committee saying that he is duty-bound to protect the interests of farmers.Earlier on Monday, Ghanwat said that the panel faces the challenge of convincing farmers’ unions representatives to come and share their concerns with them. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” Ghanwat was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Ghanwat also outlined that the panel will take the views of every stakeholder into consideration while trying to break the deadlock which has led widespread agitations at Delhi’s borders for more than eight weeks. He also added that panel members will keep their personal views on the newly passed farm laws aside while discussing means to mitigate the problems arising from the new laws. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing reports to be submitted to the Supreme Court. We want to request those farmers who don't want to come before us that we are neither from any party nor on behalf of the government. The Supreme Court has sent us,” he said.Farmers’ have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 claiming that these laws will help multinational companies enter the agricultural sector and adversely impact farmers’ incomes. Farmers also say that these laws will affect government procurement of crop yields under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-appointed-panel-to-begin-consultations-with-farmers-101611198957155.html
21-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Second farmers-Delhi Police meeting today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Day after rejecting alternative route, farmers likely to meet cops again over proposed tractor rallyThe farmers are expected to meet the police officials in Delhi on Thursday over their proposed tractor rally on Republic Day. Read moreOn Day 1, Joe Biden sets the ball rolling on immigration, climate change, Covid-19Shortly after taking office on Wednesday, US President Joe Biden signed a series of executive actions to reverse the policies of the Trump administration. Read moreBJP chief JP Nadda on two-day visit to UP from today, will hold key meetings in LucknowNadda will hold meetings with BJP office bearers and later in the day meet Uttar Pradesh ministers at the BJP office here. Read moreBoys next door to household namesDonning the Test cap in Australia can be overwhelming, but when opportunity knocked, India’s new picks were peerless. Read moreUS Vice President Kamala Harris makes history in purple attire by black designerLast night Kamala Harris made history when she was sworn in as the first female Vice President of the United States. Read morePriyanka Chopra, Nick Jonas, Sushmita Sen share messages of hope, unity after Joe Biden-Kamala Harris inaugurationBollywood and Hollywood stars took to social media to share their happiness and excitement as Joe Biden and Kamala Harris were sworn-in. Read moreJoe Biden arrives at White House for first time as presidentUS President Joe Biden entered the White House for the first time as chief executive after walking an abbreviated parade route. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-second-farmers-delhi-police-meeting-today-101611196565118.html
21-01-2021||India||Covid vaccination-related adverse events in India among lowest in world: Govt||India has reported at least 600 adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) from across the country in the past five days, one of the lowest in the world, of which 82 were reported on Wednesday. So far, 10 people have been hospitalised in six states due to reported adverse event following Covid immunisation, of which seven have been discharged. Delhi has reported four hospitalisations, of which one healthcare worker is under observation at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Shahdara. Karnataka has reported two cases, and one is still under observation at the district hospital in Chitradurga. Uttarakhand, Chattissgarh, Rajasthan and West Bengal have all reported one hospitalisation each related to AEFI. While three from other states have been discharged, the case reported from West Bengal is still under observation at Sub-Divisional Hospital, Jangipura, Murshidabad. “No case of serious or severe AEFI is attributable to vaccination to date,” said Manohar Agnani, additional secteaty, health ministry.The country has vaccinated close to 800,000 (7,868,42) healthcare workers against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) through 14,119 sessions till Wednesday, government data shows, of which 112,007 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6pm on Wednesday.Two more deaths were reported of healthcare workers who were vaccinated, taking the total number of deaths to four since the launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive in India, according to the government data. The two new deaths were reported from Shivamoga in Karnataka and Nirmal in Telangana.However, three of the four deaths have been found to be not related to Covid-19 vaccination, said Agnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-related-adverse-events-in-india-among-lowest-in-world-govt-101611198985726.html
21-01-2021||India||Ninong Ering: Union minister turned MLA who is also a part time teacher||A 500 m walk on a cobbled street leads former Union minister Ninong Ering to a single-story building, the Remi government school, located deep in the interior of the lush green foothills of Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh.“They fondly call all of us teachers, mama,” Ering says. Ering served as the minister of state for minority affairs from October 2012 to May 2014.For him, the school was like a second home before the Covid-19 pandemic hit. He would frequently saunter into a classroom, reciting nursery rhymes to teach the students English. “I have always believed that the correct pronunciation is extremely important,” Ering says. “There is no better way to teach this than by using nursery rhymes, or even songs. I personally think Sound of Music has some of the instructional rhymes.”Ering, 62, who was elected as the legislator from Pasighat (West) in June 2019, moved to the village of Remi six months ahead of the polls. He spent five years as a teacher, before he became a civil servant in 1981. The pull of his former profession led him back to the schools in his constituency last year, as he started teaching in some, assessing and helping the others grow in whatever way he could. He used to visit Remi at least thrice a week before the pandemic caused the schools to shut.“It was after a very long hiatus that I got to return to the school,” Ering said. “Now, schools are slowly opening up and I could not miss the chance to return to the classroom.”On Tuesday, Ering shared a video on Twitter reciting the rhyme Doe a Deer to the students of class 1. “He used to visit the school often but then the pandemic happened,” said Tagon Padho, a teacher at the school. “We have around 136 students who are studying in classes one to eight.”Eloquence of the language, Ering asserts, can be a means to achieving great success in life. Before Ering entered politics in 1989, he served as a teacher for five years in Mirbuk and Miren schools. “I often teach them in Hindi and make sure they understand what the word means in English as well.”He laughs as he recalls his teaching days from 1975 to 1980. “There were just the three of us, we would teach everything from mathematics to the social sciences,” he says. “Back then, the schools barely had 40-50 students and now they have nearly a 1,000.”He fondly recalls the bamboo-based furniture and the thatched roofs under which he taught. “Now the schools have better infrastructure, but a lot more needs to be done. Arunachal needs more full-time teachers, especially those with training in the English language.”Although he laments that the state of education in Arunachal is still basic, he wants to try whatever he can to help. “Sometimes I try and train the teachers as well; a lot of them find it difficult to converse in English.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ninong-ering-union-minister-turned-mla-who-is-also-a-part-time-teacher-101611197221680.html
21-01-2021||India||Widespread rain, snowfall in western Himalayan region this weekend: IMD||A Western Disturbance (WD) is likely to cause widespread rain and snowfall in the Western Himalayan region between January 22 and 24, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). After the Western Disturbance passes, the minimum temperature is likely to fall by 3 to 4 degrees C (°C) over Delhi and other parts of northwest India.The WD will affect the western Himalayan region from Thursday and is likely to cause widespread rain and snow over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and isolated rain and snow over Uttarakhand till Sunday and light rain and thundershowers over some parts of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on Saturday. There is likely to be heavy snowfall in parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh on January 23 [Saturday], IMD has said.Dense to very dense fog is likely over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next two days; over Uttar Pradesh and West Rajasthan during the next 24 hours and over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura between January 22 and 24. Dense fog is also likely over Bihar during the next three days; over Odisha and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next 24 hours.Cold day to severe cold day conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and West Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.“The Western Disturbance is likely to be of moderate intensity. On January 23 [Saturday], there is likely to widespread and intense rain and snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. There is likely to be light rainfall over Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand. In Delhi, we can expect shallow to moderate fog on Friday but the wind speed is likely to pick up from Saturday. On Saturday and Sunday, we can expect overcast sky here. Once the WD passes, minimum temperatures are likely to fall to around 4°C on January 25 and 26. Day temperature may also be significantly low as strong, chilly northwesterly winds are likely to blow over the region,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.On Wednesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature was 7.8°C, a degree above normal. According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10°C and maximum temperature of 4.5°C or 6.4°C below normal, respectively.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-snowfall-in-western-himalayan-region-this-weekendimd-101611197304898.html
21-01-2021||India||BJP chief JP Nadda on two-day visit to UP from today, will hold key meetings in Lucknow||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda will reach Lucknow on Thursday, on a two-day visit to Uttar Pradesh. According to the party's media in-charge Manish Dixit, during the visit Nadda will hold various meetings and attend other programmes.On Thursday, Nadda will hold meetings with BJP office bearers and later in the day meet Uttar Pradesh ministers at the BJP office here.The BJP national president will on Friday address a conference of social media volunteers and intellectuals and also attend a meeting of Chinhat rural area and booth and district presidents, Dixit said.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, Nadda will also hold crucial meeting with party workers in the wake of next year's Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.The visit also comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's trusted bureaucrat Arvind Sharma joined the BJP and got nominated to the upper house of the UP Assembly.Sharma's nomination to the legislative council had led to speculation about his possible induction in the state government.Nadda completed the first year as BJP president on Wednesday. On the occasion, he wrote an open letter to BJP workers lauding the party's recent victory in a number of state and local body polls and setting the target of “historic” wins in the next round of assembly elections.Nadda, who had taken over from Union home minister Amit Shah on January 20 last year, also praised the party's welfare work during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-on-two-day-visit-to-up-from-today-101611195934815.html
21-01-2021||India||Day after rejecting alternative route, farmers likely to meet cops again over proposed tractor rally||The farmers are expected to meet the police officials in Delhi on Thursday over their proposed tractor rally on Republic Day. This will be the second meeting over the issue in two days.On Wednesday, officers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police had met the farmer unions to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on January 26. The cops suggested an alternate route, but the farmers rejected it.According to news agency PTI, farmer leaders were given the option to take out their rally on the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway, but they did not agree.They want to take out the rally on the Outer Ring Road which passes through several areas of Delhi such as Vikaspuri, Janakpuri, Uttam Nagar, Burari Peeragarhi and Pitampura. The farmer unions said their preparations are in full swing and authorities should facilitate the "peaceful march", instead of stopping it.The rally has been opposed by the Centre and the police. The Centre filed a petition in the Supreme Court through Delhi Police seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest, which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day on January 26.The Centre has said the right to protest can never include "maligning the nation globally".However, the top court turned down the plea, saying the matter must be decided by the police. The bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, said police have the authority to deal with the issues pertaining to the proposed tractor rally.The farmers have been protesting near Delhi for nearly 60 days against the three farm laws passed by Parliament. The proposed tractor rally is against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.Ten rounds of talks have taken place till now over the issue. While the farmers want the government to repeal the three laws, the Centre has proposed to suspend three contentious agricultural laws for one-and-a-half years. The step back came during the tenth round of talks on Wednesday. The farmers said they will discuss the government’s offer on January 21, and make their stand clear when the next round of talks takes place on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-likely-to-meet-police-officers-today-over-proposed-tractor-rally-101611194108303.html
21-01-2021||India||Congress steps up attack on Centre over Arnab Goswami's chats||Stepping up its attack over WhatsApp chat leaks of Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami that showed the former may have had advance knowledge of the Balakot strike in 2019, the Congress party on Wednesday rallied its top guns to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah on what the party alleged was a breach of national security.A day after former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi demanded a probe of the matter, the Congress fielded former defence minister AK Antony, former home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde, the United Progressive Alliance government’s foreign minister Salman Khurshid and Rajya Sabha leader of the Opposition, Ghulam Nabi Azad, to allege that “the Arnab Goswami saga reveals an ugly spectre of inexcusable compromise with national security and an unforgivable trade off with the oath of Constitution by the Prime Minister-Home Minister and those holding high offices.”In a purported WhatsApp chat with Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the television viewership measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), three days before the Indian Air Force strike on a terrorist camp in Balakot, Pakistan, Goswami is purported to have said that “something big” would happen soon. The chat transcripts were part of a chargesheet filed by Mumbai Police last week.The Congress leaders claimed in a statement that the chats “conclusively prove leaks of top secret information detrimental to national security & integrity” and held members of Cabinet committee on security responsible for the leak.“The responsible Minister/Official violated the OSA (Official Secrets Act) and the Constitutional Oath of Secrecy- should be brought to book and sacked,” the Congress leaders said.“The confidence with which Arnab Goswami flaunts his proximity with the Prime Minister and his office is shocking,” the leaders added.Reacting to the developments, Goswami, in a statement on Tuesday, said: “I am horrified that the Congress party actually thinks that any journalist in India expressing the views publicly stated by the Government is committing a crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-steps-up-attack-on-centre-over-arnab-goswami-s-chats-101611192401766.html
21-01-2021||India||Bhutan, Maldives first to benefit from India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’||Bhutan and the Maldives on Wednesday became the first countries in India’s neighbourhood to benefit from the government’s roll-out of millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccines under a grant assistance programme dubbed “Vaccine Maitri”.Two aircraft took off several hours apart, carrying 150,000 doses of Covishield vaccine for Thimphu and 100,000 doses for Male. The external affairs ministry has said India will initially provide vaccines to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles.On Thursday, India will supply two million doses of Covishield to Bangladesh and another million doses to Nepal. This assistance reflects the government’s commitment to “Neighbourhood First” policy, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.With the shipping of doses to Bhutan and the Maldives, India also became the first country to provide South Asian nations with vaccines as aid.Bhutan’s Prime Minister Lotay Tshering, health minister Dechen Wangmo and senior officials received the vaccines ferried by an Indian Air Force aircraft to Paro international airport.“As we celebrate the arrival of vaccines as the new milestone in our battle to beat the pandemic at home, we applaud the gesture that signifies the compassion and generosity of the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi, and the people of India for the well-being of humanity,” Tshering said. “It is of unimaginable value when precious commodities are shared even before meeting your own needs, as opposed to giving out only after you have enough,” he added.New Delhi has assured Thimphu that it will “cover the two doses requirement of Bhutan’s target population of slightly over 533,500 and has committed to deliver the remaining consignments soon”, said a statement from Tshering’s office.In the Maldives, President Ibrahim Solih thanked India for supplying the vaccines during a televised address to the nation. “The government had commenced the work of obtaining vaccines for the entire population,” he said.During a ceremony to hand over the vaccines, Indian high commissioner Sunjay Sudhir said the Maldives had received the doses within 96 hours of the nationwide roll-out in India, highlighting the country’s special place in India’s foreign policy. It also bolstered India’s credentials as the first responder for the Maldives during emergency situations, he said.India will also help the Maldives secure vaccines at affordable rates from Indian manufacturers, the people cited above said. “The vaccines being supplied are made by the Serum Institute of India in Pune. The relevance of an Atmanirbhar Bharat is reiterated through this timely delivery of ‘Made in India’ vaccines,” said one person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhutan-maldives-first-to-benefit-from-india-s-vaccine-maitri-101611191910201.html
21-01-2021||India||One in 3 new coronavirus cases recorded in Kerala||More than one in every three new Covid-19 cases recorded in India over the last week have come from Kerala, a state that is defying the national trend of falling infections and has been the biggest outbreak centre in the country since late October.The latest statistic -- Kerala recorded 6,815 new cases on Wednesday, and 37% of all cases reported across the country since January 13 have been in the state -- has health experts worried, even as state government points to a low case fatality rate (CFR) to contend that the pandemic is under control.“Due to our effective intervention we delayed the peak and controlled death rate considerably. Our death rate is still lowest in the country, below 0.4% when the national average is more than 1.4%,” state health minister KK Shailaja said, adding that timely government intervention delayed the peak and saved many lives.A low CFR means that while the pandemic may have affected a high number of people, fewer are dying of the coronavirus on account of either effective treatment or immediate isolation following detection.Yet, the continuing high numbers -- for example, Kerala’s share in new cases across India went to as high as 45% on Tuesday -- has led experts to call for changes in the state’s Covid management strategy. They have called for the government to increase testing, and to increase the number of RT-PCR tests, which have a lower rate of false negatives than antigen tests.The test positivity rate in the state stood at 11.8% on Wednesday as against 1.8% across India.“The situation is really serious. Test rate of the state is still poor and emphasis is on antigen tests. At least 40% of tests are still antigen. The government will have to rope in more experts and engage private players in a big way before it is too late,” said public health expert Dr SS Lal.Since India’s Covid-19 peak in its first and only wave, the national case trajectory has dropped 85% — from 93,617 on September 16 to 14,376 on January 19. In Kerala, by contrast, the case trajectory has dropped only 34% —from 8,728 cases (seven-day average) on October 13 to 5,374 cases a day in the past week.The health minister attributed the high caseload to the local body elections held in December, and the festive season which began in September and continued till New Year’s eve. She asked people not to lower their guard. “We have noticed some people behave as if a remedy is around (in terms of the vaccine) and refuse to take precautions. Many fail to turn up for tests and vaccinations as well. It is not good,” she said.The state has also seen a series of unlocks, with some restrictions, in the past few months. Last month, local body elections were held, and hotels and bars were opened. On January 1, schools were opened for Class 10 and 12 students, and on January 13, cinema halls were opened at half capacity. Spas and ayurvedic resorts have also opened in the state owing to a revenue loss of an estimated ₹15,000 crore to the exchequer, the state tourism minister said earlier this month.(With inputs from Jamie Mullick)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-3-new-coronavirus-cases-recorded-in-kerala-101611191313693.html
21-01-2021||India||JP Nadda hails BJP cadre, sets goal of ‘historic’ poll wins||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Wednesday lauded the party’s latest victories in various state and local body elections and set the target of “historic” wins in the next round of elections slated to be held this year.Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and West Bengal in 2021.In an open letter to party workers, Nadda exuded confidence that the ‘lotus’, the party’s poll symbol, will bloom in West Bengal after the assembly elections.The BJP chief, who completed a year in office after taking over the role from Union minister Amit Shah on January 20 last year, congratulated party cadres for working “tirelessly and with full devotion” during the Covid-19 pandemic and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “putting the brakes on the corona cases” through the country’s own Covaxin produced by vaccine maker Bharat Biotech.He said that the BJP had set an example of how a political party can “effectively work as a potent tool of social service and help people in times of need”.“As a leading political party our goal is to win elections and work tirelessly for the goodwill and betterment of common people; but how a political party can effectively work as a potent tool of social service and help people in times of need, the world has witnessed an unmatched example of this through your service and hard work during the Corona pandemic,” he wrote.During the nationwide lockdown that was imposed to check the spread of Covid-19, the party chief had set a target for the workers to feed five families each day, besides ensuring the availability of basic necessities for the needy.The BJP leader also referred to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the contentious agricultural bills and the Citizenship Amendment Act and termed the concerns raised by the opposition parties as “misleading”.He lauded the efforts of party workers in West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala where, he said, the teams worked “under very adverse circumstances”.Recollecting the attack he faced during a rally in Bengal when his convoy was pelted with stones, Nadda said, “When a person like me, who is the national president of India’s largest political party and who is always covered with security personnel, had to face a murderous assault in daylight while on a visit to West Bengal, it can be well imagined how difficult it would be for a common BJP worker to work under such tough and demanding circumstances.”He also credited the Prime Minister for producing the Covid vaccine. “...India reported the least death rate while our recovery rate kept on improving. Yet again in response to the call of the honourable Prime Minister our scientists were successful in making Corona vaccines, a feat which only 4 to 5 nations have been able to achieve,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-hails-bjp-cadre-sets-goal-of-historic-poll-wins-101611190377641.html
21-01-2021||India||Bird flu: New cases trigger second wave concerns||A second wave of bird flu seems to be underway in some Indian states with fresh cases of the virus reported from Kerala after a hiatus of about 10 days and suspected cases surfacing in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.The first case of bird flu was reported from Jhalawar in Rajasthan on December 29, and the infections, deadly for birds, spread to 10 other states, resulting in the deaths of thousands of poultry, and hundreds of common crows and some migratory species. The animal husbandry departments of state governments have culled hundreds of thousands of birds to prevent the spread.On Wednesday, Kerala was on high alert after fresh cases of bird flu were reported from Alapuzha, said the state animal husbandry department, after the Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases confirmed the presence of virus in at least 300 samples.Officials said the culling of birds will begin anew on Thursday and in the first phase 5,000, mostly ducks, will be destroyed. In early January , at least 80,000 ducks and 10,000 chicken were culled in Alapuzha and Kottayam districts and the Centre dispatched a high-level team to the state.In Chhattisgarh, at least 45 mynas were found dead near a Central Reserve Police Force ( CRPF) camp in Bijapur district of Bastar region, officials said on Wednesday. Samples of five mynas have been sent for avian influenza tests, they said.“There is a CRPF camp in Naimad area where the carcasses of the birds were found on Monday and Tuesday. We rushed to the spot and sent five dead birds for tests on Tuesday evening,” said AP Dohare, deputy director of veterinary services.In Jharkhand, around 200 pigeons were found dead in Hazaribag and authorities have scrambled teams there.The department has so far sent 4,300 samples of birds from across the state to a Kolkata lab for testing but no death due to the virus has been confirmed yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-new-cases-trigger-second-wave-concerns-101611190145903.html
21-01-2021||India||4-1 verdict: Supreme Court dismisses pleas seeking Aadhaar ruling review||Even as one of the five judges on the bench termed it a “constitutional error,” the Supreme Court by a majority verdict has dismissed a clutch of petitions seeking a review of its 2018 judgment that validated the Aadhaar Act.By 4-1, a constitution bench affirmed the verdict delivered in September 2018 when the top court upheld the country’s biometric identity system and also cleared mandatory Aadhaar enrolment of recipients of government welfare benefits. The court, in its verdict, had also approved the passage of Aadhaar law by the Parliament as a money bill, which did not require an approval of the Rajya Sabha.The SC considered the bunch of review petitions in judges’ chambers on January 11. The court order was released on Wednesday, in which the five-judge bench, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar, held that “no case for review” of the 2018 judgment was made out. Other judges signing off on the majority view were justices Ashok Bhushan, SA Nazeer and BR Gavai. Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud disagreed and wrote a separate order, suggesting that any decision must wait for a larger bench to determine whether the Aadhaar verdict was correct in interpreting what could constitute a “money bill.” In split verdicts, the view of the majority holds.“This is an interesting judgment. Even though one judge on the bench has dissented, the court did not allow a hearing in the open court for the lawyers to make arguments. Open court arguments, I feel, was imperative in this situation. We still have the legal remedy of moving a curative petition. We will consider this option in due course,” said Prasanna S, a lawyer associated with several petitioners in the matter.The majority view refused to await a word from the larger bench, as it declined to take into account a subsequent judgment in 2019 by another five-judge bench. That bench had raised doubts on the correctness of the Aadhaar verdict, and preferred that a seven-judge-bench re-examine it. The seven-judge-bench is yet to be constituted.The majority view in the Aadhaar case has said that the 2019 judgment was not sufficient to press for a reconsideration of the 2018 Aadhaar judgment.“We hasten to add that change in the law or subsequent decision/judgment of a coordinate or larger bench by itself cannot be regarded as a ground for review. The review petitions are accordingly dismissed,” it held.Justice Chandrachud dissented with the majority view and said that the 2019 judgment questioning the correctness of the Aadhaar verdict was a relevant fact and that the apex court must wait for the larger bench of seven judges to decide these pertinent issues.“With the doubt expressed by another constitution bench on the correctness of the very decision which is the subject matter of these review petitions, it is a constitutional error to hold at this stage that no ground exists to review the judgment,” said Justice Chandrachud, who had in the 2018 judgment also held that Aadhaar could not have been passed as a money bill.In his separate order, the judge added that dismissal of the review petitions without waiting for the larger bench’s decision would place a seal of finality on the issues in the present case, without the court having the benefit of the larger bench’s consideration of the very issues which arise before the bench.Justice Chandrachud concluded: “As such, the present batch of review petitions should be kept pending until the larger bench decides the questions referred to it in Rojer Mathew (2019 case). In all humility, I conclude that the constitutional principles of consistency and the rule of law would require that a decision on the review petitions should await the reference to the larger bench.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/41-verdict-supreme-court-dismisses-pleas-seeking-aadhaar-ruling-review-101611189869910.html
21-01-2021||India||Supreme Court turns down plea seeking to stop farmers’ tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to stop a proposed tractor rally in capital on January 26 by the farmers protesting against the contentious agricultural laws, and questioned why the Centre was looking for its nod on an issue relating to law and order.Declining to pass any order on the plea by the government, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, remarked that it was not for the court to remind the authorities of the policing power they have by passing an order in this regard.“Does the Union of India need Supreme Court to tell what powers it has under the Police Act? Why do you want us to tell what powers you have?” the bench asked Attorney General KK Venugopal, who implored the court to issue a prohibitory order on the application of the Delhi Police so as to injunct farmers’ groups from causing any disruptions in the Republic Day celebrations by taking out tractor rally or any other processions.CJI makes indirect appeal to farmersSeparately, CJI Bobde made an indirect appeal to the farmers to come on board and meet with the court-appointed committee that has been tasked with finding ways to address the impasse.After being told that none of the farm unions protesting on the Delhi border wants to meet with the court-appointed committee, the CJI Bobde urged Prashant Bhushan, the lawyer for some of the unions, “In cases such as this, it may not be enough to act only as a lawyer. We would want you to counsel your clients in a way that it brings peace. We want a resolution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-turns-down-plea-seeking-to-stop-farmers-tractor-rally-101611189504986.html
21-01-2021||India||WhatsApp backs policy, says addressing ‘misinformation’||The changes to the privacy policy don’t expand WhatsApp’s ability to share user data with Facebook and the messaging app is working on addressing “misinformation” about it, the company said on Wednesday, a day after the central government asked the firm to withdraw the proposed update.“We wish to reinforce that this update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook. Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses...” a WhatsApp spokesperson said.The spokesperson said WhatsApp protects personal messages with end-to-end encryption, which ensures that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can access them. “We are working to address misinformation and remain available to answer any questions,” the spokesperson said.The Centre, in a letter dated January 18, asked WhatsApp to withdraw the latest changes to its policy that triggered boycott calls and said the “unilateral changes” are unfair and unacceptable.Facebook-owned WhatsApp rolled out a new privacy policy recently that included mandatory sharing of data with its parent company.The tweak triggered backlash, with users moving en masse to other messaging applications such as Signal and Telegram.On January 16, WhatsApp delayed the introduction of the changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-backs-policy-says-addressing-misinformation-101611189190384.html
21-01-2021||India||Electoral rolls, not NRC, to determine voters in Assam: Election Commission||The Election Commission of India (ECI) made it clear on Wednesday that those living in Assam whose names are missing from the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC), but are listed in the electoral rolls can vote in the assembly elections due in April-May this year.“A union home ministry notification dated August 29, 2019 clearly stated {that} non-inclusion of a person’s name in NRC doesn’t amount to him/her being declared a foreigner. By implication, such persons remain in voters’ list and shall be eligible to vote until a decision is taken by the concerned tribunal,” said Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora.Around 1.9 million (of 33 million applicants) were left out of the updated NRC published for Assam on Augst 31, 2019. The NRC was a list intended to identify legal residents and weed out illegal immigrants from Assam. Those left out of the updated NRC were given the option of appealing to foreigners’ tribunals.“The NRC is yet to be notified and several matters related to it are still pending in Supreme Court. Hence, there no question of our party reacting to the CEC’s remarks on allowing those left out of the NRC to vote,” said Roopam Goswami, a spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The NRC is yet to be become a legal document hence it is desirable that till it is notified, those left out of it should be allowed to vote. But we also want that the updated NRC is notified soon as it was one of the promises made by the BJP prior to coming to power in Assam in 2016,” said Debabrata Saikia, leader of the Congress legislature party in the Assam assembly.NRC is expected to be a poll issue in a state where there has always been a distrust of outsiders.“There’s no link of NRC with voters’ list as the latter is not updated with inputs from the former. Additionally, the Registrar General of India is yet to notify the updated NRC. So, if those left out of NRC are allowed to vote based on their listing in electoral rolls, there’s nothing to be surprised about,” said Abhijeet Sharma of the Assam Public Works (APW), a Guwahati-based non-government organisation whose petition in the Supreme Court had led to the start of the NRC updating process in 2015.Arora spoke to reporters in Guwahati on the last day of a three-day visit by a high-level ECI team to the state to take stock of its preparedness for the upcoming polls.Arora said the election in Assam will be held keeping in mind the Bohag Bihu festival that falls in mid-April and the poll process would be over before May, on the day the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examination starts.Because of Covid-19 safety protocols, the ECI has decided to reduce the average number of voters in each polling station from 1,500 to nearly 1,000. This would lead to an increase of around 5,500 polling stations in the state; total number of polling stations could reach 33,000.“We will be giving Covid-19 kit to polling teams and in order to further decongest polling spaces and allow more free movement of voters, polling time has been increased by one hour,” said Arora.“Nomination forms and affidavits can be filled by candidates online and print out submitted to returning officers. Security money can also be paid online. Number of persons accompanying candidates at the time of filing of nomination has been restricted to two,” he added.Door-to-door campaigning will be restricted to five persons, including the candidate. Road shows are allowed subject to a convoy being broken up every half-an-hour. District deputy commissioners will ensure maintenance of social distancing norms at election rallies.Arora mentioned that discussions are under way to ensure the vaccination of poll officials for Covid-19 before the elections and added that the t law and order situation in Assam was “under control.".“The voluntary code of ethics agreed upon by social media platforms during interactions with EC would apply to Assam election as well to ensure social media doesn’t play a mischievous role in inciting violence and communal riots,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electoral-rolls-not-nrc-to-determine-voters-in-assam-election-commission-101611188802621.html
21-01-2021||India||Film City in Sikkim: Union minister Jitendra Singh holds discussions||After the sanction of a Film and television Institute for Arunachal Pradesh, Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh on Wednesday discussed the proposal of a Film City in Sikkim."Discussed the proposal of a Film City for Sikkim. Northeast has several picturesque locations which have remained under-utilized because of lack of infrastructure. The Narendra Modi government has already sanctioned a Film and Television Institute for Arunachal Pradesh," Singh tweeted.The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) campus in Arunachal Pradesh was established in 2018, the second in the country after Pune."It will give a boost to the employability of Northeast youth and open avenues for exciting career choices in various domains of media and filmmaking," Singh had said about the Arunachal FTII campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/film-city-in-sikkim-union-minister-jitendra-singh-holds-discussions-101611188245030.html
21-01-2021||India||CBI arrests two of its officials in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested its deputy superintendent of police (DSP), R K Rishi, inspector Kapil Dhankad and an advocate Manohar Malik in connection with its probe into a “bribes-for-relief” scandal in the agency, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.Rishi, who is accused of running a well-oiled racket in the central anti-corruption agency along with another DSP, R K Sangwan, Dhankad, a stenographer Sameer Kumar Singh and some lawyers for extending favours to private companies under investigation in bank fraud cases, was arrested on Tuesday night, the people cited above added.The allegation is that crucial case related information and documents have been leaked since 2018 to individuals/companies being investigated for bank frauds.Rishi’s home in Deoband (Uttar Pradesh) and his wife’s residence in Roorkee (Uttarakhand) were also searched by a team.The agency claims to have already established that Rishi took ₹30 lakh bribe in two tranches for facilitating the leak of information from the agency and that Dhankad had taken around ₹25 lakh from two companies.A case was registered last week naming four CBI officers , Rishi (deployed in CBI academy at Ghaziabad), Sangwan (DSP in Special Crimes Unit), Dhankad (Inspector in Bank Securities and Fraud Cell) and Singh (Stenographer in BS&FC); two lawyers , Manohar Malik and Arvind Kumar Gupta; and Mandeep Kaur Dhillon (additional director of a company, Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd) and Sujai Desai and Udai Desai of Mumbai based company Frost International Pvt Ltd, who alleged paid the bribes and sought information on the probes from CBI.According to the CBI First Information Report, the four CBI officers, along with two advocates, and certain other accused have been “compromising the integrity of investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”.Both Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd (SSPBML) and Frost International are being investigated by the premier investigating agency for defrauding banks. The case against Frost International was registered in August 2020 for cheating 14 banks of over ₹3,500 crore.CBI’s FIR states that “in the case of SSPNML, RK Sangwan, who was the previous investigating officer in the case, offered and paid a bribe of ₹10 lakh in cash on behalf of Mandeep Kaur to Inspector Kapil Dhankad”. “On his part, Dhankad conveyed confidential information relating to the investigation of this case to RK Sangwan, with an intention to favour the accused.”It is further alleged that RK Rishi paid ₹10 lakh bribe to Dhankad on behalf of the Desais of Frost International.For facilitating the bribe, Rishi received ₹15 lakh twice through advocates Malik and Gupta to extend favours to a Chandigarh based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by CBI, the FIR adds. “In this matter, Dhankad twice received ₹2.5 lakh from Gupta for having brokered the deal through Rishi,” read the CBI FIR.Rishi, Dhankad and Malik were produced before a court on Wednesday.The accused’s legal representatives could not be located for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-two-of-its-officials-in-bribery-case-101611187925548.html
21-01-2021||India||Supreme Court irked over criticism of farm committee picks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday strongly defended its choice of members for the committee that will weigh in on the contentious farm laws, and cautioned critics against attributing motives to the court or “maligning” members of the panel just because they had in the past come out in favour of these legislation aimed at opening up farm markets.An SC bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde disapproved of the criticism, saying that “public opinion will not determine who should be a member and who should not” and that it had “serious objections” to people and the press casting aspersions either on members of the panel or the apex court.“If you muster a public opinion to malign people, brand people, should that be a ground of disqualification? We have very serious objections to our members being called names, accused of bias etc. And then they say this court had some interest. What interest can we have? We entered into this in the interest of common people, especially farmers,” commented the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Emphasising that people have the right to hold an opinion and they were also entitled to change it at a later point in time like judges do sometimes, the CJI added that the members of this committee had reputations none of their critics actually had.“They are some of the best minds, brilliant minds in this country. You cannot brand people like this. We are not forcing anyone to appear before the committee but there is no need to brand people, and on top of that, cast aspersion on the court. The Supreme Court appoints people and their reputations are torn to shreds like this. We don’t understand this. How lightly can this be taken?” asked the CJI.The bench’s outburst was triggered by a plea by advocate Ajay Choudhary, who appeared for a farmers’ organisation from Rajasthan, Kisan Mahapanchayat. Choudhary had moved an application for reconstitution of the committee, which the court appointed on January 12 when it also stayed the implementation of the three laws in question.The composition of this four-member committee triggered a controversy since all four had previously made statements in support of the reforms. The criticism was such that one of the members, BS Mann, later chose to leave the panel, expressing solidarity with the farmers.The other three members are Pramod Kumar Joshi, the director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, New Delhi; agricultural economist Ashok Gulati and Anil Ghanwat of the Shetkari Sanghatana, a Maharashtra-based farm union. Gulati is the former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), the advisory body of the Government of India on food supplies and pricing policies.While Choudhary cited various news reports about the committee members, senior counsel Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, on being asked, said the eight farm unions, which they represented and were currently a part of the protest, had nothing to do with the composition of the committee because they did not want to engage with it at all.At this point, apart from Choudhary, advocate AP Singh also pressed his application on behalf of the Bharatiya Kisan Union - Lokshakti, demanding removal of the other three members, alleging bias.The bench was livid. “This has become almost a cultural thing to brand people and criticise them for one reason or another. The committee has not been given any power of adjudication. They only have been given the power of hearing parties. So, where is the question of a bias? If you don’t want to appear, don’t appear but why do you have to brand people like this? We are very sorry to see the kind of opinions published in the media.”The court then asked attorney general KK Venugopal, who appeared for the Central government, to formally respond to the plea on reconstitution of the committee, and also address the issue of a vacancy that has arisen after Mann’s resignation.Meanwhile, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre and Delhi Police in the matter, supported the bench, saying it was unfortunate to see the kind of attacks being made on the committee members.Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for a Delhi resident, implored the bench to clarify that the committee’s role was confined to assisting the court and that it would do so even if no farmer union appeared before the panel. Salve added he was inclined to move a contempt plea if the committee members were “wrongly” criticised in the press.At this, the bench included in its order a portion to the effect that the committee had not been set up to adjudge any issue but to only hear the parties. The committee’s role, the court order said, “is to share the grievances of the parties affected by the impugned legislations and make a report to the court.”Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 26, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support prices and do away with the “mandi” (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporate entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-irked-over-criticism-of-farm-committee-picks-101611187535464.html
21-01-2021||India||Government writes to WhatsApp, asks it to withdraw new privacy policy||The government has written to WhatsApp head Will Cathcart asking him to “respect the informational privacy and data security of Indian users” and withdraw the latest terms and privacy policy in India proposed by the messaging service for users. In a letter, it has expressed strong concerns over the policy days after HT on January 11 reported that the government was closely examining the matter.WhatsApp on January 4 updated its privacy policy to allow it to share user data with its parent company Facebook and other group firms . The data includes location and phone number.The move has triggered a backlash across the world and led to a surge in the downloading of alternative messaging apps such as Signal and Telegram. India is WhatsApp’s biggest market with 400 million users.The government has sent a questionnaire to WhatsApp seeking more details about its data-sharing protocols and business practices. It has sought the exact categories of data that the application collects from Indian users, details of the permissions and user consent sought by and utility of each of these with respect to the functioning and specific service provided. The service has been asked whether it profiles users based on their use of the application.The government has also sought details of the difference between WhatsApp’s privacy policies in India and other countries along with details of its data security, information security, cyber-security, privacy, and encryption policies.A WhatsApp spokesperson said, “We wish to reinforce that this update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook. Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses so they can serve their customers and grow. WhatsApp will always protect personal messages with end-to-end encryption so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see them. We are working to address misinformation and remain available to answer any questions.”Also read | The government can, and must, stand for privacyThe government has highlighted the latest policy will lead to the collection of “a vast amount of highly invasive and granular metadata”.“With this, any meaningful distinction between WhatsApp and Facebook companies will cease to exist. Given the huge user base of WhatsApp and Facebook in India, the consolidation of this sensitive information also exposes a very large segment of Indian citizens to greater security risks and vulnerabilities creating a honeypot of information,” a person familiar with the matter said, citing the contents of the letter to the WhatsApp chief.“This all-or-nothing approach takes away any meaningful choice from Indian users. This approach leverages the social significance of WhatsApp to force users into a bargain, which may infringe on their interests in relation to informational privacy and information security. It is expected that Facebook will value the principles of privacy and consent as laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in its judgment of Justice K S Puttaswamy vs Union of India (2017). The PDP [Personal Data Protection] Bill is under consideration, then why these changes.”The letter noted the “integration of data between WhatsApp and other Facebook companies” denies the user the choice to opt out of the policy.Also read | Don’t use WhatsApp if concerned about data: Delhi HCThe government has “raised strong objections against the differential treatment by WhatsApp to its users in India and in the European Union”. It added this has triggered serious criticism and “shows lack of respect for the rights and interests of Indian citizens, who form one of the largest user bases for WhatsApp”.The government underlined such treatment is “prejudicial to the interests of Indian users and is viewed with serious concern. “In this context, it [the letter] reminds WhatsApp that the Government of India owes a sovereign responsibility to its citizens to ensure that their interests are not compromised and therefore it calls upon WhatsApp to respond to concerns raised in this letter,” said the person cited above.The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has summoned Facebook officials on January 21 amid privacy concerns about WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-writes-to-whatsapp-asks-it-to-withdraw-new-privacy-policy-101611186928426.html
21-01-2021||India||Centre says can put farm laws on hold for 1.5 years||The Union government on Wednesday proposed to suspend three contentious agricultural laws for one-and-a-half years, taking a step back to try and assuage farmers with its most far-reaching proposal yet to end months-long protests against the legislation passed in Parliament in September.In the 10th round of negotiations with a 41-member delegation representing protesting farm unions on Wednesday, the government said it will move an affidavit before the Supreme Court to put the laws in abeyance till a solution to the farmers’ demands is found. Leaders of major farm unions who took part in the talks said they will discuss the government’s offer on January 21, and make their stand clear when the next round of talks takes place on January 22.To discuss the farmers’ issues, which include a law guaranteeing assured prices for their produce, the government also told farm unions that it proposed to set up a committee of representatives as well as experts who should be nominated both by the protesters and the government to examine “all agitation-related issues”.“The talks were held on the solemn occasion of Guru Parab, the birth anniversary of (Sikh) Guru Govind Singh. Farmers have agreed to discuss our proposal and I believe that we will move towards success on January 22, when we meet again,” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after the talks concluded at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhavan on Wednesday.Farm unions have not rejected the government’s offer outright, unlike in the past, and said it was a proposal worth discussing, which offers a glimmer of hope to end the standoff. The unions will hold a two-tier discussion on January 21 to discuss the government’s proposal.The government has pushed a set of agricultural laws to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.Farmers staging a massive protest on several of Delhi’s border points say the laws will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The agriculture minister said the government proposed to put the laws on hold till such time a committee representing both farm unions and the government finalised its “recommendations on what should be done with the laws”.On January 12, after two days of deliberation, the Supreme Court had suspended the farm laws. Judges dealing with the case also appointed a committee to look into farmers’ grievances over the laws.Tomar said the Supreme Court had put the laws in abeyance for a short time. “Our proposal is to put the laws on hold for a full year-and-a half or even more till a solution is found.” He added that if farmers accepted the proposal in principle, then the government would begin work on setting up the committee and its modalities, adding that the laws would be suspended so that the panel could find a settlement.“The government has proposed to put the laws on hold for one-and-half years but at the same time, it has accepted that the time frame could be fixed according to a mutually agreeable duration. That could be two or even three years,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a farmers’ representative.According to senior farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, the farm unions “feel the proposal is worth discussing but a decision will only be collectively taken and thorough discussions will take place tomorrow”.“We told the government we still want a repeal but we will discuss the government’s offer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-can-put-farm-laws-on-hold-for-1-5-years-101611186008238.html
21-01-2021||India||Covid: South African, Brazilian strains raise new fears on vaccines, immunity||Mutations of the Sars-Cov-2 virus found in South Africa and Brazil have begun worrying authorities and scientists who say that these – they are distinct from the new variant first found in the UK – could trigger more re-infections, even reduce vaccine efficacy, though more tests are underway.The first major mutation of the Sars-Cov-2 virus was reported from the UK in the so-called B.1.1.7 variant (also called VOC202012/01) ; authorities said in December that it was more infectious, and it was later seen as a factor in leading to the country’s worst wave yet.Scientists also discovered a handful of other significantly mutated strains. Two of these, B.1.351, found in South Africa, and P.1 found in Brazil, now seem like they can escape, at least partly, the immune response in people who have been vaccinated or were infected earlier, preliminary studies and government reports published this week say.“It is possible that these mutations and others that emerge in individuals with suboptimal or waning immunity will erode the effectiveness of natural- and vaccine-elicited immunity. The data suggests that Sars-CoV-2 vaccines may need to be updated,” said a team led by researchers from Rockefeller University in a study submitted to Biorxiv on January 19.Mutations in a virus are a natural phenomenon and the Sars-Cov-2 was seen to be gaining two significant mutations every month. But in December, researchers began discovering some strains with unusually high number of mutations – the UK-associated strain has 23 changes, the South Africa-linked one has eight and the Brazil-linked one has 20.Among these changes are N501Y and E484K. These letters refer to descriptions of how a particular portion of the virus has changed – these in particular are all changes in the Spike protein, the component that the virus uses to infect cells. Of these, N501Y has been linked to the virus becoming more infective, while E484K is the mutation that possibly makes the virus more resistant.The variant in UK carries N501Y, the one seen in Brazil carries E484K and the one seen in South Africa has both.The researchers took these mutations for laboratory tests to check how immune cells triggered by vaccines reacted to them. With plasma from 14 people who received the Moderna vaccine and from six who got the Pfizer-BioNTech dose, they saw a “modest” but significant drop in how the immune cells neutralised the mutated strains as compared to how they neutralised the older one.Similar findings were shared by South African authorities on January 18. The variant B.1.351 (which contains E484K) did not react with antibodies in 21 out of 44 serum samples collected from people infected in the first wave, South African scientist Salim Abdool Karim said at a discussion streamed online on January 18.There is also at least one confirmed case of re-infection caused by the P1 variant (which too has E484K). This was detailed by Brazilian researchers in a study published on January 18, detailing the case of a 29-year-old woman in Manaus, Brazil, who developed a symptomatic infection in March. In late December, she was infected again with symptoms such as fever. Genetic sequencing showed the second infection was with the P1 variant.The Covid-19 Genomics UK (COG-UK) consortium said the emergence of such variants raises the concern that there might be an evolutionary convergence that could make the virus capable of spreading faster and harder to fight. “However, the effect of this mutation in relation to natural immune or immunity from vaccination has yet to be determined,” they added in a report released on January 19.Researchers also say that the evolution of Sars-Cov-2 at present does not pose a major risk since the changes seen even till now do not make existing immunity (from older infections) or vaccines completely obsolete.It ties into projections that Covid-19 could become endemic, where it will be able to keep circulating by evolving but not lead to as debilitating effect. “What the long-term effect of accumulation of mutations on the Sars-CoV-2 on the pandemic will be is not known, but the common cold coronavirus HCoV-229E evolves antigenic variants that are comparatively resistant to the older sera but remain sensitive to contemporaneous sera,” the researchers in the first study said.In a study published in Science on January 12, a team led by researchers from Emory University used transmission modelling and estimates of immunity prevalence to suggest that once Sars-Cov-2 becomes endemic, it will resemble a common cold since childhood infections will confer protection against severe disease later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-south-african-brazilian-strains-raise-new-fears-on-vaccines-immunity-101611184220986.html
21-01-2021||India||Covaxin recipients to be monitored for three months after second dose||Covaxin recipients will be monitored for three months after getting the 2nd dose for any adverse reactions, according to a detailed plan released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in an attempt to dispel safety concerns about the vaccine whose efficacy data isn’t publicly known.If a serious adverse event is linked to vaccination, then the recipient will be compensated based on the national drug controller’s recommendations after thorough investigation, said the plan. Covaxin is one of two vaccines – the other being the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine known locally as Covishield – being used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme that kicked off on Saturday. It was developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR, which released the plan on January 18.For the first 35 days after the first dose of the vaccine, the recipients will be actively monitored, said the document. For seven days after taking each dose, the recipient will have to will have to document their health condition in writing, and submit the form to health authorities. The second dose of the vaccine is administered 28 days after the first.A district-level team will contact and enquire about any adverse events over phone, added the document.“Day 1-7: The vaccine recipients will be given an adverse event form to record the adverse events. Day 8-27: The vaccine recipients will inform the vaccination site, if they have encountered any health-related issues or adverse events. The vaccine recipients will return the adverse event form during the visit for the administration of the second dose of vaccine (Day 28),” said the plan.“Visit 2 (Day 28): The vaccine recipients will be administered the second dose… Day 28-35: The vaccine recipients will be given an adverse event form to record the adverse events... The vaccine recipients will inform the site, if they have encountered any health-related issues or adverse events. Vaccine recipients will return the filled-in adverse event reporting form after completion of 7 days post-vaccination,” it added. “All the vaccine recipients will be followed-up for a period of 3 months after the second dose of vaccination,” the document added.According to the plan, any report of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), including serious ones, will be submitted to the designated immunisation officer or health care worker. Vaccination officers will also help in providing psychological support to recipients.Causality assessment of all severe adverse events, medical management and compensation will be determined by the existing practices under the government immunisation program and central ethics committee as appropriate.“In case of any adverse events or serious adverse events, vaccine recipients will be provided medically recognized standard of care in the government designated respective state hospitals,” the plan said.Experts say safety is not a concern with Covaxin, which is currently in late-stage clinical trials. “The studies are done in a robust manner, and the data that has so far been generated has already established Covaxin’s safety profile. So, safety isn’t a concern,” said Dr MC Misra, former director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.Bharat Biotech developed Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research.Individuals with the following conditions will not be eligible for vaccination: Those with a history of allergies; those with fever, bleeding disorder or those who are on blood thinners; those who are immunocompromised or are on a medicine that affects their immune system; are pregnant; are breastfeeding; have received another Covid-19 vaccine; any other serious health related.Side effects reported with Covaxin include injection site pain, swelling, redness, itching, stiffness in the upper arm, weakness in injection arm, body ache, headache, fever, malaise, weakness, rashes, nausea and vomiting. There is a chance that the vaccine may cause a severe allergic reaction that includes difficulty in breathing, swelling of face and throat, fast heart beat, body rash, dizziness, and weakness.“These may not be all the possible side effects… Serious and unexpected side effects may occur... Covaxin is still being studied in clinical trials,” the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-recipients-to-be-monitored-for-three-months-after-second-dose-101611183910202.html
21-01-2021||India||Congress Working Committee meet on Jan 22 with eye on party polls||Five months after the Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi asked the party to relieve her from the top post, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet on Friday to draw up a schedule for the long-pending organisational elections that could also pick a new party chief, people aware of the developments said on Wednesday.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is widely preferred within the party to replace Sonia Gandhi as efforts to pick a non-Gandhi party president have not succeeded in the past two years ago. Sonia Gandhi offered to step down at a CWC meet last August following a letter by more than 20 prominent party leaders that demanded an “active, full-time and visible” president.“It will be a meeting of the full CWC,” a senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. The meet will include 19 members, 26 permanent invitees and nine special invitees other than the Congress president.No agenda, however, has been circulated so far for the meeting that will begin at 10.30am on Friday, according to the person quoted above. But party insiders pointed out that during the eventful meeting of CWC in August last year, it was decided that the next meeting will be held within six months to decide on the elections. “Next meeting will be called soon, probably within next six months, to elect new chief. Till then, Sonia Gandhi agreed to remain interim president,” PL Punia, a member of CWC, the top executive body of the Congress, had said in August.When the CWC met last on August 23, Sonia Gandhi asked her party colleagues to begin the process of selecting her successor. Her letter, which was read out to those attending, said: “In the interest of the party, I ask CWC to begin deliberations to put in place the process of transition to relieve me of my duties.” More than four party leaders said that while the election isn’t on the agenda formally, it will feature as one of the major issues that the CWC will take up.A leader, however, said that the meeting is also likely to have a threadbare discussion on national security in the backdrop of the situation in Ladakh where troops of India and China are locked in a boundary standoff.The CWC meeting also comes just days before the all-important budget session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-working-committee-meet-on-jan-22-with-eye-on-party-polls-101611183474725.html
21-01-2021||India||Need focus on removing obstacles to ‘good’ jobs||By: Kunal Dasgupta, Srinivasan Murali and Vidhya SoundararajanThe Covid-19 pandemic brought into sharp focus the plight of thousands of small businesses in the country. As businesses struggled to stay afloat, the government announced a number of measures targeted towards the so-called Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Many of these measures, part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package, are aimed at easing financial constraints faced by businesses. But there are a multitude of obstacles facing businesses, not just financial; easing some of these obstacles could go a long way in raising worker productivity and ultimately lead to the creation of good (high-paying) jobs.1) Finance not the only constraintOur argument is built on a unique survey conducted by the World Bank called the Enterprise Surveys. The survey draws a representative sample of businesses and collects a wealth of information, including measures that try to quantify different obstacles faced by such businesses. We use data for the organised manufacturing sector in 2014, the most recent year for which data is available for India. Interestingly, almost 70% of the firms covered in this survey fall under the MSME definition applicable during this survey, and the findings are therefore highly relevant for issues facing such firms. In one of the survey questions, respondents were asked to choose their biggest obstacle from a set of 15 that could potentially affect production.Their response is summarised in Figure 1. Some of the obstacles are clearly more important than others. In terms of their importance, the top six are corruption, electricity, tax rates, competition from the informal sector, access to finance, and labour regulations. Hence, although finance is an obstacle for businesses, it may not be the most severe obstacle. Furthermore, the ranking of obstacles does not change much if we look separately at small and large businesses.2) Many factors hurt labour productivityFurther analysis sheds light on each of the obstacles. Take electricity. On average, businesses faced roughly 27 power cuts per month, with the average duration of each power cut being around two hours. Of course, one can minimise the disruption from power outages by using generators. In fact, 80% of businesses that faced power outages in the previous fiscal year owned generators. Because power created through generators is significantly more costly, however, this clearly affects the bottom line. Lower profits, in turn, could limit their ability to invest in productivity enhancing technologies. While experts often suggest that the government should encourage technology adoption among MSMEs, this is impossible to achieve without an input as critical and fundamental as uninterrupted and reliable power. Figure 2 suggests that there might be some truth to the above hypothesis. For each of the above-mentioned factors, the plot shows the average labour productivity of businesses that reported the factor to be an obstacle versus those that did not (The survey asked respondents to assign a score between 0 and 4 to each factor, with 0 denoting no obstacle and 4 denoting a very severe obstacle. We assigned businesses with a score of 0 to the No obstacle group and the rest to the Obstacle group).Out of the 15 factors, businesses that faced an obstacle for 13 of those factors had lower labour productivity compared to their counterparts that did not face an obstacle. The differences are especially stark for access to finance, labour regulations, tax rates and transport. Of course, Figure 2 simply displays correlations, and one needs to be careful before drawing causal inferences. For example, businesses that have lower labour productivity could be located in regions that have less reliable power supply. Nevertheless, a clear negative correlation between labour productivity and severity of obstacle for a wide range of factors is indicative of something deeper: it is likely that some, if not all of these obstacles, could be limiting the ability of businesses to hire more productive workers.3) Labour productivity matters for wagesWhy should policymakers care? Because, at the end of the day, labour productivity is intimately tied to wages. Intuitively, a more productive worker is more attractive than a less productive one. This results in higher demand for the former, ultimately pushing up their wage. This fact is borne out in Figure 3 which plots average annual wages paid by businesses against their labour productivity. It is clear from the figure that businesses with a more productive workforce also pay higher wages. In the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, easing the financial constraints of MSMEs was the top policy priority, and rightly so. From a medium- to long-term perspective, however, help offered to the MSMEs must extend beyond finance.MSMEs employ about 110 million workers and contribute to about 40% of exports (MSME census, 2006-07), and have a huge role to play in creating quality jobs, improving export competitiveness, and increasing aggregate productivity. To achieve these, policies should also focus on delivering critical infrastructure (electricity access, transportation, land), easing bureaucratic hurdles (courts, tax administration), and liberalising business-related policies (trade and customs, labour regulations, friendly and simplified tax rates). One popular approach for holistically achieving these is through the setting up of place-based policies that have been successful in the US, European Union, and China.In India, evidence is limited, but some policies have had positive impact, for example, the 1994 tax exemption for backward districts , and the 2003 tax exemptions and capital subsidies for firms in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The need of the hour is to design a focused policy in this regard that majorly overhauls the current Special Economic Zones (SEZ) framework (SEZ act, 2005) using learnings from the successes and failures from other countries, and our own past. The upcoming budget is a timely opportunity to think about these structural changes in initiating a transformation.(The authors are faculty members at the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-focus-on-removing-obstacles-to-good-jobs-101611182836280.html
21-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine doses wasted in more states over hesitancy||Authorities in at least six states on Wednesday said that doses of coronavirus vaccines are going to waste because people are not turning up, underscoring a persistent vaccine hesitancy problem in the country that may now impact inventories stockpiled in the millions.India’s start to the Covid-19 vaccination programme has been one of the strongest in the world, reaching more people on its first day than any other country. By 6pm on Wednesday, 786,842 people were inoculated in the 14,119 sessions held since the launch on January 16, Union health ministry data showed.But this still translates to a cumulative coverage rate of 55% — every day, 100 people are selected and invited for shots for each session, and on average roughly 45 of them are not turning up.Experts have called for opening up access to more people that just health care workers — perhaps even to the general public — if targets are not being met.To address the problem thrown up by vaccine hesitancy, the government on Tuesday tweaked the digital platform to allow willing health workers (who have been selected as initial beneficiaries) to take doses even if they were not scheduled to, and on Wednesday, it decided to hand out provisional first-dose certificates.But, as on Wednesday, the numbers were yet to pick up in any significant manner. According to preliminary government figures, the turnout for the day was approximately 65%.This, officials in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Bihar and Assam said, was leading to doses being wasted since vials need to be used up within four hours once opened, and each vial contains 10 (in the case of Covishield) or 20 (for Covaxin) doses.“On the first day of the vaccination, as we had recorded 100% turnout, we didn’t lose any unit. All the registered 100 health care workers opted for vaccination. All five vials that we had opened were successfully utilised. However, the next day when only 38 HCWs came forward, we lost two doses from the second vial,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, district health officer, Amravati.HT reported on Wednesday that officials in Delhi estimated that at least 1,000 doses were wasted across the Capital when opened vials were discarded for want of enough recipients.The issue also led to a political fight, with former Union finance minister P Chidambaram calling on the government on Twitter to open the vaccination drive up to more volunteers.To this, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan replied: “... (health ministry) has already taken steps to address the issue. We are ensuring that no vial or session is wasted and in case of absenteeism, vaccines are being allotted to another beneficiary.”While officials in the six states argued that the overall wastage was less than the 10% margin that they have assumed, the loss was not uniform and more doses of Covaxin had to be thrown away at some locations since they were in vials of 20.“In case of Covaxin, it is difficult to mobilise 20 health care workers at a time, given that hospital functioning should not be interrupted,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, where 25% of doses were thrown away.“Each vial has 10 doses, and if only five people are coming, either we have to deny vaccination for these five people or waste five doses,” said Tamil Nadu’s director of public health and preventive medicine Dr TS Selvavinayagam.Tamil Nadu’s health secretary said some of this problem is inevitable. “Unused doses are inevitable as some session sites will have less beneficiaries while other sites will have more than the prescribed 100 beneficiaries in a day,” said J Radhakrishnan, while adding: “This is going to be a long process which may take up more than 1.5 years.”But authorities in some other states continued to be concerned at the low turnouts. “We felt that the frontline workers should be contacted first to know their willingness to get the jab and availability, then selected for the next day. It is a matter of concern for us that fewer numbers of health workers are turning up to receive the dose,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator of the clinical trials at the PGIMS, Rohtak.Several state governments such as Punjab, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh reported negligible wastage of doses. Dr Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, immunisation officer in Uttarakhand, said facilities in the state “open vials only after around ten candidates are lined up for vaccination. Along with this, there is strict supervision over vaccinators to ensure that doses are not wasted”.In Assam, the wastage was due to a logistical error when authorities had to discard 100 vials of Covishield after they were found frozen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-doses-wasted-in-more-states-over-hesitancy-101611182030965.html
21-01-2021||India||New Parliament building: Gandhi statue hurriedly shifted, move raises eyebrows||Mahatma Gandhi’s iconic statue in the parliament complex was shifted prematurely from its place facing the main gate to a space overlooking gate number 3 on Tuesday morning. The hurried shifting has raised eyebrows as the initial plan was to do so during the one-month gap between the first and the second part of the Budget Session that begins on January 29.The shifting was planned to make space for the ongoing construction of the new Parliament building.Officials in the Speaker Om Birla office were surprised at the hasty shifting. The space in front of the statue has been a preferred location for the Opposition lawmakers to protest against the government policies and proposed laws. During the last monsoon session, some Opposition lawmakers camped overnight in front of the statue to protest against the hurried passage of the farm bills.Officials said the Public works Department, the government’s construction arm, carefully shifted the statue and placed it in a small lawn near the gate used exclusively by the Speaker to reach his office.Also read | RT-PCR tests for MPs; Zero, Question hours back in Budget sessionOfficials added the Gandhi statue is eventually planned to installed just outside the current Parliament building, where that of late former Union home minister Govind Ballabh Pant currently stands. Pant’s statue is planned to be shifted to New Delhi Pant Marg named after him.Gandhi’s 16-feet high bronze statue in a meditating posture, sculpted by Ram Sutar, was unveiled by then President Shanker Dayal Sharma on October 2, 1993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-gandhi-statue-hurriedly-shifted-move-raises-eyebrows-101611170523492.html
21-01-2021||India||CBI arrests two of its officials in Bribery case||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested its deputy superintendent of police (DSP), R K Rishi, inspector Kapil Dhankad and an advocate Manohar Malik in connection with its probe into a “bribes-for-relief” scandal in the agency, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. Rishi, who is accused of running a well-oiled racket in the central anti-corruption agency along with another DSP, R K Sangwan, Dhankad, a stenographer Sameer Kumar Singh and some lawyers for extending favours to private companies under investigation in bank fraud cases, was arrested on Tuesday night, the people cited above added. The allegation is that crucial case related information and documents have been leaked since 2018 to individuals/companies being investigated for bank frauds. Rishi’s home in Deoband (Uttar Pradesh) and his wife’s residence in Roorkee (Uttarakhand) were also searched by a team. The agency claims to have already established that Rishi took ₹30 lakh bribe in two tranches for facilitating the leak of information from the agency and that Dhankad had taken around ₹25 lakh from two companies. A case was registered last week naming four CBI officers , Rishi (deployed in CBI academy at Ghaziabad), Sangwan (DSP in Special Crimes Unit), Dhankad (Inspector in Bank Securities and Fraud Cell) and Singh (Stenographer in BS&FC); two lawyers , Manohar Malik and Arvind Kumar Gupta; and Mandeep Kaur Dhillon (additional director of a company, Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd) and Sujai Desai and Udai Desai of Mumbai based company Frost International Pvt Ltd, who alleged paid the bribes and sought information on the probes from CBI. According to the CBI First Information Report, the four CBI officers, along with two advocates, and certain other accused have been “compromising the integrity of investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”. Both Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd (SSPBML) and Frost International are being investigated by the premier investigating agency for defrauding banks. The case against Frost International was registered in August 2020 for cheating 14 banks of over ₹3,500 crore. CBI’s FIR states that “in the case of SSPNML, RK Sangwan, who was the previous investigating officer in the case, offered and paid a bribe of ₹10 lakh in cash on behalf of Mandeep Kaur to Inspector Kapil Dhankad”. “On his part, Dhankad conveyed confidential information relating to the investigation of this case to RK Sangwan, with an intention to favour the accused.” It is further alleged that RK Rishi paid ₹10 lakh bribe to Dhankad on behalf of the Desais of Frost International. For facilitating the bribe, Rishi received ₹15 lakh twice through advocates Malik and Gupta to extend favours to a Chandigarh based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by CBI, the FIR adds. “In this matter, Dhankad twice received ₹2.5 lakh from Gupta for having brokered the deal through Rishi,” read the CBI FIR. Rishi, Dhankad and Malik were produced before a court on Wednesday. The accused’s legal representatives could not be located for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-two-of-its-officials-in-bribery-case-101611168320906.html
21-01-2021||India||SC irked over criticism of farm committee picks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday strongly defended its choice of members for the committee that will weigh in on the contentious farm laws, and cautioned critics against attributing motives to the court or “maligning” members of the panel just because they had in the past come out in favour of these legislation aimed at opening up farm markets. An SC bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde disapproved of the criticism, saying that “public opinion will not determine who should be a member and who should not” and that it had “serious objections” to people and the press casting aspersions either on members of the panel or the apex court. “If you muster a public opinion to malign people, brand people, should that be a ground of disqualification? We have very serious objections to our members being called names, accused of bias etc. And then they say this court had some interest. What interest can we have? We entered into this in the interest of common people, especially farmers,” commented the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Emphasising that people have the right to hold an opinion and they were also entitled to change it at a later point in time like judges do sometimes, the CJI added that the members of this committee had reputations none of their critics actually had. “They are some of the best minds, brilliant minds in this country. You cannot brand people like this. We are not forcing anyone to appear before the committee but there is no need to brand people, and on top of that, cast aspersion on the court. The Supreme Court appoints people and their reputations are torn to shreds like this. We don’t understand this. How lightly can this be taken?” asked the CJI. The bench’s outburst was triggered by a plea by advocate Ajay Choudhary, who appeared for a farmers’ organisation from Rajasthan, Kisan Mahapanchayat. Choudhary had moved an application for reconstitution of the committee, which the court appointed on January 12 when it also stayed the implementation of the three laws in question. The composition of this four-member committee triggered a controversy since all four had previously made statements in support of the reforms. The criticism was such that one of the members, BS Mann, later chose to leave the panel, expressing solidarity with the farmers. The other three members are Pramod Kumar Joshi, the director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, New Delhi; agricultural economist Ashok Gulati and Anil Ghanwat of the Shetkari Sanghatana, a Maharashtra-based farm union. Gulati is the former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), the advisory body of the Government of India on food supplies and pricing policies. While Choudhary cited various news reports about the committee members, senior counsel Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, on being asked, said the eight farm unions, which they represented and were currently a part of the protest, had nothing to do with the composition of the committee because they did not want to engage with it at all. At this point, apart from Choudhary, advocate AP Singh also pressed his application on behalf of the Bharatiya Kisan Union - Lokshakti, demanding removal of the other three members, alleging bias. The bench was livid. “This has become almost a cultural thing to brand people and criticise them for one reason or another. The committee has not been given any power of adjudication. They only have been given the power of hearing parties. So, where is the question of a bias? If you don’t want to appear, don’t appear but why do you have to brand people like this? We are very sorry to see the kind of opinions published in the media.” The court then asked attorney general KK Venugopal, who appeared for the Central government, to formally respond to the plea on reconstitution of the committee, and also address the issue of a vacancy that has arisen after Mann’s resignation. Meanwhile, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre and Delhi Police in the matter, supported the bench, saying it was unfortunate to see the kind of attacks being made on the committee members. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for a Delhi resident, implored the bench to clarify that the committee’s role was confined to assisting the court and that it would do so even if no farmer union appeared before the panel. Salve added he was inclined to move a contempt plea if the committee members were “wrongly” criticised in the press. At this, the bench included in its order a portion to the effect that the committee had not been set up to adjudge any issue but to only hear the parties. The committee’s role, the court order said, “is to share the grievances of the parties affected by the impugned legislations and make a report to the court.”Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 26, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support prices and do away with the “mandi” (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporate entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-irked-over-criticism-of-farm-committee-picks-101611168319242.html
21-01-2021||India||Electoral rolls, not NRC, to determine voters in Assam: EC||GUWAHATI: The Election Commission of India (ECI) made it clear on Wednesday that those living in Assam whose names are missing from the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC), but are listed in the electoral rolls can vote in the assembly elections due in April-May this year. “A union home ministry notification dated August 29, 2019 clearly stated {that} non-inclusion of a person’s name in NRC doesn’t amount to him/her being declared a foreigner. By implication, such persons remain in voters’ list and shall be eligible to vote until a decision is taken by the concerned tribunal,” said Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora.Around 1.9 million (of 33 million applicants) were left out of the updated NRC published for Assam on Augst 31, 2019. The NRC was a list intended to identify legal residents and weed out illegal immigrants from Assam. Those left out of the updated NRC were given the option of appealing to foreigners’ tribunals.“The NRC is yet to be notified and several matters related to it are still pending in Supreme Court. Hence, there no question of our party reacting to the CEC’s remarks on allowing those left out of the NRC to vote,” said Roopam Goswami, a spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “The NRC is yet to be become a legal document hence it is desirable that till it is notified, those left out of it should be allowed to vote. But we also want that the updated NRC is notified soon as it was one of the promises made by the BJP prior to coming to power in Assam in 2016,” said Debabrata Saikia, leader of the Congress legislature party in the Assam assembly. NRC is expected to be a poll issue in a state where there has always been a distrust of outsiders.“There’s no link of NRC with voters’ list as the latter is not updated with inputs from the former. Additionally, the Registrar General of India is yet to notify the updated NRC. So, if those left out of NRC are allowed to vote based on their listing in electoral rolls, there’s nothing to be surprised about,” said Abhijeet Sharma of the Assam Public Works (APW), a Guwahati-based non-government organisation whose petition in the Supreme Court had led to the start of the NRC updating process in 2015.  Arora spoke to reporters in Guwahati on the last day of a three-day visit by a high-level ECI team to the state to take stock of its preparedness for the upcoming polls. Arora said the election in Assam will be held keeping in mind the Bohag Bihu festival that falls in mid-April and the poll process would be over before May, on the day the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examination starts. Because of Covid-19 safety protocols, the ECI has decided to reduce the average number of voters in each polling station from 1,500 to nearly 1,000. This would lead to an increase of around 5,500 polling stations in the state; total number of polling stations could reach 33,000. “We will be giving Covid-19 kit to polling teams and in order to further decongest polling spaces and allow more free movement of voters, polling time has been increased by one hour,” said Arora. “Nomination forms and affidavits can be filled by candidates online and print out submitted to returning officers. Security money can also be paid online. Number of persons accompanying candidates at the time of filing of nomination has been restricted to two,” he added. Door-to-door campaigning will be restricted to five persons, including the candidate. Road shows are allowed subject to a convoy being broken up every half-an-hour. District deputy commissioners will ensure maintenance of social distancing norms at election rallies. Arora mentioned that discussions are under way to ensure the vaccination of poll officials for Covid-19 before the elections and added that the t law and order situation in Assam was “under control.". “The voluntary code of ethics agreed upon by social media platforms during interactions with EC would apply to Assam election as well to ensure social media doesn’t play a mischievous role in inciting violence and communal riots,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electoral-rolls-not-nrc-to-determine-voters-in-assamec-101611168264114.html
21-01-2021||India||‘Goli Maaro’ chants at BJP leader Suvendu’s rally in Bengal||Kolkata Supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday allegedly raised the controversial “goli maaro” slogan at a roadshow in West Bengal’s Hooghly district, a day after a similar slogan was raised by supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress.The slogan, “desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro” (shoot the traitors of the nation), was raised by people carrying the BJP flag who were seen trailing a truck carrying former Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari who is now with the BJP, the BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh and BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee in the district’s Chandannagar area. Condemning the incident, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said the party “does not endorse it”. “Our party does not endorse it at all. People carrying the BJP flag cannot talk like that,” he told mediapersons in Kolkata.The BJP spokesperson also hit out at the TMC, saying that the slogan raised at the Chandannagar rally was aimed at terrorists while workers of the ruling party had used it against “traitors of Bengal”. “However, one must understand that when we talk of traitors of India we mean mercenaries and terrorists who kill innocent citizens and pose a threat to the nation. The intention of TMC workers was quite different because they talked of traitors of Bengal,” he said. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh targeted the BJP and said that the party believes in the “culture of violence”. “The TMC workers should not have uttered it but the BJP has proved once again that it believes in the culture of violence in letter and spirit,” he said. On Tuesday, the BJP had alleged that a section of people who took part in a massive TMC road show in Kolkata shouted slogans about “shooting traitors in Bengal”. Asked about the purported “goli maaro” slogan, TMC leader Madan Mitra said: “Bullets are not part of Bengal’s political culture, but the people could certainly slap BJP leaders.”In January last year, Union minister Anurag Thakur egged the audience at a Delhi election rally to raise the slogan by repeatedly chanting the first half of it, and waiting for the crowd to complete it. West Bengal is scheduled to go polls before May this year.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goli-maaro-chants-at-bjp-leader-suvendu-s-rally-in-bengal-101611168260259.html
21-01-2021||India||After cabinet expansion, dissent brews in Karnataka BJP||Bengaluru: Troubles are mounting for Karnataka chief minister B.S.Yediyurappa after his attempt to quell dissent within the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by expanding the cabinet only widened the fissures within the two-year-old government.Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the legislator from Bijapur City, on Wednesday targeted Yediyurappa by calling for an end to family-based politics in the BJP. “Our Prime Minister’s dreams are development, end of dynasty politics, corruption-free government. I will request our national president that only one person from a household should be given power. It cannot be that there is an MP, MLC, MLA, board heads and even people in-charge of party affairs from only one family,” Yatnal said in Bengaluru.The renewed opposition to Yediyurappa comes at a time when there is a growing clamour by dissidents for the removal of the 77-year old who has been accused of trying to placate his family and staunch loyalists; The troubles are only likely to increase as the CM turns a year older in February; there is a tacit rule in the BJP that those above 75 years of age should not hold any administrative posts.A cabinet expansion last week triggered open criticism of the CM by those who missed out on ministerial berths. Yediyurappa has also been fighting charges of neglecting Kannada for Hindi. He faces the task of finding ways to make up for shortfall in revenue from the Centre ahead of the state budget in March. So deep is the divide within the state BJP that Yediyurappa now faces opposition not just from his earlier detractors but those who were once seen to be close to the Lingayat leader.M.P.Renukacharya, the legislator from Honnali, on Wednesday met with senior BJP leaders including Prakash Javedekar and Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi to express his concern on being overlooked for a cabinet post.“All the meetings went well,” Renukacharya said, refusing to disclose more details of the talks he had with the central leaders.“Core BJP MLAs are unhappy and are now planning to approach the top leadership of the organisation and the Centre to express their concerns,” said a three-time legislator of the BJP, requesting not to be named.Incidentally, his first challenge after entering office for a record fourth term in July 2019 was also related to his cabinet as he struggled to get his choice of names approved by the BJP’s central leadership, forcing him to work alone for nearly three weeks.The pressure has forced Yediyurappa to hold out assurances and promises to disgruntled elements within his party of a cabinet expansion to accommodate those left out of his ministerial council. Heavy lobbying continues for portfolios like heavy industry, energy, rural development, panchayat raj and the all important Bengaluru in-charge ministries, people aware of the developments say.Yediyurappa scrambled between meetings on Wednesday to discuss portfolio allocations. So busy is he with the administration and cabinet reshuffle that the chief minister could not even savour the fact that Karnataka had been named the most innovative state in the country by NITI Aayog.Political analysts say that as the government enters the third year, how the BJP shapes its strategy in the state will become more clear.“The government is entering the third year of existence that will leave just two years before the next elections. Of this one year will be entirely dedicated towards elections and the BJP will have to decide if they want to keep Yediyurappa or replace him right now,”said A.Narayana, a political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cabinet-expansion-dissent-brews-in-karnataka-bjp-101611168199260.html
21-01-2021||India||One in 3 new Covid cases recorded in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: More than one in every three new Covid-19 cases recorded in India over the last week have come from Kerala, a state that is defying the national trend of falling infections and has been the biggest outbreak centre in the country since late October.The latest statistic -- Kerala recorded 6,815 new cases on Wednesday, and 37% of all cases reported across the country since January 13 have been in the state -- has health experts worried, even as state government points to a low case fatality rate (CFR) to contend that the pandemic is under control. “Due to our effective intervention we delayed the peak and controlled death rate considerably. Our death rate is still lowest in the country, below 0.4% when the national average is more than 1.4%,” state health minister KK Shailaja said, adding that timely government intervention delayed the peak and saved many lives.A low CFR means that while the pandemic may have affected a high number of people, fewer are dying of the coronavirus on account of either effective treatment or immediate isolation following detection. Yet, the continuing high numbers -- for example, Kerala’s share in new cases across India went to as high as 45% on Tuesday -- has led experts to call for changes in the state’s Covid management strategy. They have called for the government to increase testing, and to increase the number of RT-PCR tests, which have a lower rate of false negatives than antigen tests.The test positivity rate in the state stood at 11.8% on Wednesday as against 1.8% across India.“The situation is really serious. Test rate of the state is still poor and emphasis is on antigen tests. At least 40% of tests are still antigen. The government will have to rope in more experts and engage private players in a big way before it is too late,” said public health expert Dr SS Lal. Since India’s Covid-19 peak in its first and only wave, the national case trajectory has dropped 85% — from 93,617 on September 16 to 14,376 on January 19. In Kerala, by contrast, the case trajectory has dropped only 34% —from 8,728 cases (seven-day average) on October 13 to 5,374 cases a day in the past week.The health minister attributed the high caseload to the local body elections held in December, and the festive season which began in September and continued till New Year’s eve. She asked people not to lower their guard. “We have noticed some people behave as if a remedy is around (in terms of the vaccine) and refuse to take precautions. Many fail to turn up for tests and vaccinations as well. It is not good,” she said. The state has also seen a series of unlocks, with some restrictions, in the past few months. Last month, local body elections were held, and hotels and bars were opened. On January 1, schools were opened for Class 10 and 12 students, and on January 13, cinema halls were opened at half capacity. Spas and ayurvedic resorts have also opened in the state owing to a revenue loss of an estimated ₹15,000 crore to the exchequer, the state tourism minister said earlier this month. (With inputs from Jamie Mullick)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-3-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-kerala-101611168079207.html
21-01-2021||India||Covaxin recipients to be monitored for three months after 2nd dose||New DelhiCovaxin recipients will be monitored for three months after getting the 2nd dose for any adverse reactions, according to a detailed plan released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in an attempt to dispel safety concerns about the vaccine whose efficacy data isn’t publicly known. If a serious adverse event is linked to vaccination, then the recipient will be compensated based on the national drug controller’s recommendations after thorough investigation, said the plan. Covaxin is one of two vaccines – the other being the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine known locally as Covishield – being used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme that kicked off on Saturday. It was developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR, which released the plan on January 18.For the first 35 days after the first dose of the vaccine, the recipients will be actively monitored, said the document. For seven days after taking each dose, the recipient will have to will have to document their health condition in writing, and submit the form to health authorities. The second dose of the vaccine is administered 28 days after the first.A district-level team will contact and enquire about any adverse events over phone, added the document. “Day 1-7: The vaccine recipients will be given an adverse event form to record the adverse events. Day 8-27: The vaccine recipients will inform the vaccination site, if they have encountered any health-related issues or adverse events. The vaccine recipients will return the adverse event form during the visit for the administration of the second dose of vaccine (Day 28),” said the plan.“Visit 2 (Day 28): The vaccine recipients will be administered the second dose… Day 28-35: The vaccine recipients will be given an adverse event form to record the adverse events... The vaccine recipients will inform the site, if they have encountered any health-related issues or adverse events. Vaccine recipients will return the filled-in adverse event reporting form after completion of 7 days post-vaccination,” it added. “All the vaccine recipients will be followed-up for a period of 3 months after the second dose of vaccination,” the document added.According to the plan, any report of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), including serious ones, will be submitted to the designated immunisation officer or health care worker. Vaccination officers will also help in providing psychological support to recipients.Causality assessment of all severe adverse events, medical management and compensation will be determined by the existing practices under the government immunisation program and central ethics committee as appropriate.“In case of any adverse events or serious adverse events, vaccine recipients will be provided medically recognized standard of care in the government designated respective state hospitals,” the plan said.Experts say safety is not a concern with Covaxin, which is currently in late-stage clinical trials. “The studies are done in a robust manner, and the data that has so far been generated has already established Covaxin’s safety profile. So, safety isn’t a concern,” said Dr MC Misra, former director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Bharat Biotech developed Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research. Individuals with the following conditions will not be eligible for vaccination: Those with a history of allergies; those with fever, bleeding disorder or those who are on blood thinners; those who are immunocompromised or are on a medicine that affects their immune system; are pregnant; are breastfeeding; have received another Covid-19 vaccine; any other serious health related. Side effects reported with Covaxin include injection site pain, swelling, redness, itching, stiffness in the upper arm, weakness in injection arm, body ache, headache, fever, malaise, weakness, rashes, nausea and vomiting. There is a chance that the vaccine may cause a severe allergic reaction that includes difficulty in breathing, swelling of face and throat, fast heart beat, body rash, dizziness, and weakness.“These may not be all the possible side effects… Serious and unexpected side effects may occur... Covaxin is still being studied in clinical trials,” the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-recipients-to-be-monitored-for-three-months-after-2nd-dose-101611168019207.html
21-01-2021||India||SA, Brazil strains raise new fears on vaccines, immunity||Mutations of the Sars-Cov-2 virus found in South Africa and Brazil have begun worrying authorities and scientists who say that these – they are distinct from the new variant first found in the UK – could trigger more re-infections, even reduce vaccine efficacy, though more tests are underway. The first major mutation of the Sars-Cov-2 virus was reported from the UK in the so-called B.1.1.7 variant (also called VOC202012/01) ; authorities said in December that it was more infectious, and it was later seen as a factor in leading to the country’s worst wave yet. Scientists also discovered a handful of other significantly mutated strains. Two of these, B.1.351, found in South Africa, and P.1 found in Brazil, now seem like they can escape, at least partly, the immune response in people who have been vaccinated or were infected earlier, preliminary studies and government reports published this week say. “It is possible that these mutations and others that emerge in individuals with suboptimal or waning immunity will erode the effectiveness of natural- and vaccine-elicited immunity. The data suggests that Sars-CoV-2 vaccines may need to be updated,” said a team led by researchers from Rockefeller University in a study submitted to Biorxiv on January 19. Mutations in a virus are a natural phenomenon and the Sars-Cov-2 was seen to be gaining two significant mutations every month. But in December, researchers began discovering some strains with unusually high number of mutations – the UK-associated strain has 23 changes, the South Africa-linked one has eight and the Brazil-linked one has 20. Among these changes are N501Y and E484K. These letters refer to descriptions of how a particular portion of the virus has changed – these in particular are all changes in the Spike protein, the component that the virus uses to infect cells. Of these, N501Y has been linked to the virus becoming more infective, while E484K is the mutation that possibly makes the virus more resistant. The variant in UK carries N501Y, the one seen in Brazil carries E484K and the one seen in South Africa has both.The researchers took these mutations for laboratory tests to check how immune cells triggered by vaccines reacted to them. With plasma from 14 people who received the Moderna vaccine and from six who got the Pfizer-BioNTech dose, they saw a “modest” but significant drop in how the immune cells neutralised the mutated strains as compared to how they neutralised the older one. Similar findings were shared by South African authorities on January 18. The variant B.1.351 (which contains E484K) did not react with antibodies in 21 out of 44 serum samples collected from people infected in the first wave, South African scientist Salim Abdool Karim said at a discussion streamed online on January 18. There is also at least one confirmed case of re-infection caused by the P1 variant (which too has E484K). This was detailed by Brazilian researchers in a study published on January 18, detailing the case of a 29-year-old woman in Manaus, Brazil, who developed a symptomatic infection in March. In late December, she was infected again with symptoms such as fever. Genetic sequencing showed the second infection was with the P1 variant. The Covid-19 Genomics UK (COG-UK) consortium said the emergence of such variants raises the concern that there might be an evolutionary convergence that could make the virus capable of spreading faster and harder to fight. “However, the effect of this mutation in relation to natural immune or immunity from vaccination has yet to be determined,” they added in a report released on January 19.Researchers also say that the evolution of Sars-Cov-2 at present does not pose a major risk since the changes seen even till now do not make existing immunity (from older infections) or vaccines completely obsolete. It ties into projections that Covid-19 could become endemic, where it will be able to keep circulating by evolving but not lead to as debilitating effect. “What the long-term effect of accumulation of mutations on the Sars-CoV-2 on the pandemic will be is not known, but the common cold coronavirus HCoV-229E evolves antigenic variants that are comparatively resistant to the older sera but remain sensitive to contemporaneous sera,” the researchers in the first study said. In a study published in Science on January 12, a team led by researchers from Emory University used transmission modelling and estimates of immunity prevalence to suggest that once Sars-Cov-2 becomes endemic, it will resemble a common cold since childhood infections will confer protection against severe disease later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sa-brazil-strains-raise-new-fears-on-vaccines-immunity-101611167959193.html
21-01-2021||India||Sasikala hospitalised in Bengaluru week before her release from prison||Just seven days before her release, the late J Jayalalithaa’s close aide V K Sasikala was shifted from Bengaluru prison to the Bowring Hospital as she complained of fever and breathlessness on Wednesday evening,Sasikala, 63, who also suffers from hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism was admitted with cough and fever, said a medical bulletin from the hospital."On arrival at hospital, (her) oxygen saturation at room air was 79 % and febrile. Stable with supportive measures and antibiotics and oxygen. She will be further evaluated and monitored. Investigation reports are awaited," the hospital said in a statement.Sasikala, a former interim general secretary of Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK, is serving a four-year jail term in the disproportionate assets case in Bengaluru’s Parappana Agrahara jail and is set to walk out in the morning hours of January 27 after completing her sentence and having paid a fine of ₹10 crore. Her release will not be affected due to her health, her lawyer Raja Senthoor Pandian told reporters.“She is rapid (Covid test) negative now,” said Dr H V Manoj, director-dean of the hospital. “We have done all the investigations, her sugar was low and we are treating her. She was complaining of breathlessness and her saturation was around 80. After oxygen, she has become stable. She will be staying through the night.”Pandian earlier said that none had met Sasikala recently due to pandemic restrictions. “I met her in March 2020 and I haven’t received permission to meet in person after that,” Pandian said on Tuesday while confirming the information of her release.Sasikala’s release is expected to add another complicated dimension to politics in Tamil Nadu which goes to assembly polls in April-May. As a high-stakes behind-the scene operator, her moves will be keenly watched.A day ago, after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, Tamil Nadu chief minister and AIADMK’s coordinator Edapaddi Palaniswami ruled out inducting Sasikala into the AIADMK after the party had expelled her and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran in 2017.Sasikala’s supporters are now with Dhinakaran’s party the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). Palaniswami also scorched at questions of whether their ally, the BJP was compelling the AIADMK to merge with the AMMK in its effort to defeat the principal opposition, the DMK saying her return to the party was “impossible.” Palaniswami will also inaugurate a memorial for Jayalalithaa in Chennai on January 27- the same day Sasikala is expected to walk out of prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-hospitalised-in-bengaluru-week-before-her-release-from-prison-101611167428092.html
21-01-2021||India||Those excluded from Assam NRC can vote if their names are on electoral rolls: EC||Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Wednesday cited a Union home ministry notification and said those excluded from Assam’s updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) can vote in the assembly polls due in the state in April-May this year if their names are on the electoral list.He said the press note dated August 20, 2019, says the exclusion of a person’s name from NRC does not amount to her declaration as a foreigner. “By implication, such persons remain on the voters’ list and shall be eligible to vote until a decision is taken by concerned tribunals [about their citizenship],” said Arora, who was on a three-day visit with an Election Commission (EC) team to take stock of poll preparedness in Assam.Also Read: Assam Assembly polls: Voting to be held in over 33,000 booths, announces ECIAround 1.9 million people were left out of the updated NRC published on August 31, 2019, as part of a process to identify and deport alleged undocumented immigrants from neighbouring Bangladesh. Only those who could prove they came to the state by March 24, 1971, the day before Bangladesh was liberated from Pakistan, were included in the NRC. The NRC was first created in 1951.Arora said elections in Assam will be held keeping in mind the Bohag Bihu festival in mid-April. He added the poll process would be over before the Central Board of Secondary Education exams begin in May. Arora said the EC will give Covid-19 kits to polling teams. He added polling time will be increased by one hour to decongest polling spaces and allow more free movement of voters. “Nomination forms and affidavits can be filled by candidates online and print out can be submitted to returning officers. Security money can also be paid online. The number of persons accompanying candidates at the time of filing of nominations has been restricted to two,” said Arora as he explained measures being taken for the polling in view of the pandemic.The EC has decreased the average number of voters in each polling station from 1,500 to 1,000. This would lead to an increase of around 5,500 polling stations in Assam. Around 33,000 polling stations are expected to be set up in the state.Arora said door-to-door campaigning will be restricted to five people including the candidate. “Roadshows are allowed subject to [restrictions]... Deputy commissioners of districts will ensure the maintenance of social distancing norms at election rallies.”Arora said they are in discussions with the government to ensure the possibility of Covid-19 vaccination of poll officials before the elections. He added a voluntary code of ethics agreed upon by social media platforms would apply to the Assam election as well to ensure they are not used for inciting violence even as the law and order situation in the state is presently under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-excluded-from-assam-nrc-can-vote-if-their-names-are-on-electoral-rolls-ec-101611144425805.html
21-01-2021||NA||Highlights: 10th round of talks between farmers-Centre ends, next meet on Jan 22||The farmers' agitation against the contentious farm laws entered 56th day on Wednesday. The tenth round of talks between farmer unions and the Central government over the three farm laws began at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on Wednesday.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Minister Piyush Goyal, among others, were present at the meeting.In the last meeting, the government had asked farmers to form an informal group among themselves and submit a draft to the government regarding their demands. Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the government will discuss the demands with an "open mind" in today's meeting.Meanwhile, a committee, appointed by the Supreme Court to resolve the logjam between the farmers and the government, met for the first time on Tuesday. The committee will hold discussions with farmers and farmers' bodies in the country who are both pro and against the farm laws, informed Anil Ghanwat, one of the panelists. The Committee will soon send invitations to the farmers' unions and associations to discuss their views on farm laws.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Govt proposes to suspend farm laws for 1.5 to 2 years, farmers say will discuss proposal; next round of talks on Jan 22The tenth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the central government has concluded.The government has offered to suspend the farm laws for a period of 1.5 to 2 years and move an affidavit in the Supreme Court if the farmers agree.The farmers leaders, however, have made it clear that they want the laws to be repealed and not a suspension.The next round of talks have been scheduled for January 22, 2021.The ones who have sold paddy and received the money shouldn't protest: Bhupesh BaghelNearly 17-18 lakh farmers have sold their produce. BJP is protesting... those who don't believe in the system may protest or those who couldn't sell their produce. The ones who have sold paddy and received the money shouldn't protest: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelTenth round of talks between farmer unions and Centre over three farm laws beginsThe tenth round of talks between farmer unions and the Centre over the three farm laws begins at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi.Tenth round of talks between farmer leaders and Centre over three farm laws to begin shortlyThe tenth round of talks between farmer leaders and Centre over the three Farm Laws to begin shortly; Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive at Vigyan BhawanFarmers delegation arrive at Vigyan BhawanA delegation of farmer union leaders arrive at Vigyan Bhawan for the tenth round of talks with union ministers.Farmers in Punjab head to Delhi ahead of tractor rallyFarmers assemble at Harike Pattan in Tarn Taran district in Punjab to head to Delhi, ahead of their proposed tractor rally on Republic Day.There's no attempt to destroy peace: Lawyer Prashant BhushanChief Justice of India says, if we uphold farmers' laws then you can start agitation but peace has to be maintained. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, appearing for 8 farmer unions, tells CJI that farmers only want to celebrate Republic Day on outer ring road peacefully,there's no attempt to destroy peace.'We gave power to the committee... Where is the question of bias?'"We gave power to the committee to listen (to farmers) and come to us and file their reports," the Chief Justice of India (CJI) said. "What is the point of bias in it?," the CJI said and added that don't cast aspersion on Court."No power has been given to committee members to adjudicate things, they have to report to us. Where is the question of bias? If you don't want to appear before committee, don't appear but don't malign or brand anyone like this, don't cast aspersion on the court," CJI also said.SC slams criticism against committee membersThe Supreme Court also slammed criticism against committee members. It also issued notice on application by Bhartiya Kisan Party to replace Committee members. The committee was constituted to resolve the deadlock between the government and agitating farmers. However, protesters rejected the committee saying it has all pro reforms members.The application was moved by Kisan Mahapanchayat seeking to fill up vacancy in the Four-member Committee created by resignation of Bhupinder Singh Mann of BKU.Centre withdraws plea seeking injunction against proposed tractor rallyCentre withdraws plea seeking injunction against proposed tractor rally by farmers on January 26 after SC says it is a police matter, the news agency PTI reported.SC asks Centre to withdraw plea against proposed tractor rally by farmersSupreme Court asks Centre to withdraw its plea against proposed tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day. The top court also said that it will not pass any order against proposed tractor rally or any other kind of protest by farmers on Republic Day. "We've said that it is for the Police to decide. We are not going to pass the orders. You are the authority to take action," said the Chief Justice of India.Govt has to make a legislation on MSP: Farmers' union"The government has to make a legislation on Minimum Support Price and repeal the three farm laws. Our protest is against the govt and the corporate system," said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union, ahead of the 10th round of farmer-Centre talks.Farmers arrive for meeting with police at Vigyan BhawanFarmers arrived at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss routes and regulations for tractor rally on January 26. "We've told them that we'll hold tractor march at Ring Road, they should accept it. We'll have further info after meet but they won't face any disturbance due to it," said Gurnam Singh Chadun of Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farmer union leaders to meet Delhi police over tractor marchGroup of farmer union leaders to meet top Delhi Police officials over tractor march on January 26, PTI reported quoting Kisan union leader Kalwant Singh Sandhu.BJP govt is trying to stop farmers agitating against farm laws at any cost: Congress Karnataka chiefKarnataka Congress chief, DK Shivakumar on Wednesday said that urged farmers to block highways, roads and stage a protest against the farm laws. "I know BJP govt is trying to stop farmers at any cost and not letting them participate in the protest. I request protesters to come to Sangolli Rayanna statue and participate in the massive protest rally," ANI qouted him as saying.Farmers offer prayers at temporary GurudwaraAgitating farmers offered prayers at the temporary Gurudwara to mark Parkash Purab of 10th Guru of Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh.Tenth round of talks to take place todayRepresentatives of protesting farm unions and the central leadership will on Wednesday meet for the 10th time to overcome the deadlock over three contentious agricultural laws enacted during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-20-2021-101611108033052.html
