22-01-2021||India||Cong wants JPC to probe ‘security breach’||New Delhi: The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest executive body, on Friday stepped up its attack on the chat transcripts between journalist Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, demanding a joint parliamentary committee probe into what it called a breach of national security. The transcripts between the editor-in-chief of Republic TV and the ex-CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc) were a part of a Mumbai Police probe into an alleged television ratings scam. The portions of the chat referred by the Congress pertain to the 2019 Pulwama attack and India’s retaliation.“The CWC demands a timebound investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee to enquire into the breach of national security, violations of the Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved. Ultimately, those who are guilty of treasonous behaviour must be brought before the law and punished,” the CWC resolution said.CWC met on Friday to discuss dates for organisational polls, the farm protests and the chat leak. Its resolution, read out to the media by general secretaries Randeep Surjewala and KC Venugopal, said that CWC expresses its “grave concern at recent revelations “ exposing the “sordid conversations that have undoubtedly compromised national security”.The Congress maintained that people in the “highest echelons of government” were involved in the breach, raising secrecy concerns of “vital and sensitive military operations”.“The revelations also point to inexcusable and deliberate subversion of government structures, scandalous and extraneous influence over Government policies, and a vicious attack on the independence of the judiciary. The shameful compromise of the Modi Government with non-government players has been exposed,” it said. In her opening speech, too, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said, “the silence from the government’s side on what has been revealed has been deafening. Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed”.Reacting to the CWC’s demand, the Republic TV management reiterated their statement on the matter issued on January 19. The statement by Goswami had said, “I am horrified that the Congress party actually thinks that any journalist in India expressing the views publicly stated by the Government is committing a crime...It is beyond absurd to suggest that expecting India to strike back at Pakistan, after the Pulwama attack, was a crime. It was publicly available information and thousands of journalists reported, wrote, broadcast and analysed in the same direction after Pulwama. There are thousands of articles from that time suggesting a hard and tough response from the India Forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-wants-jpc-to-probe-security-breach-101611339106101.html
22-01-2021||India||Local Body elections: Andhra govt, state poll panel at loggerheads||Hyderabad : The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government of Andhra Pradesh and state election commissioner (SEC) Ramesh Kumar on Friday headed for a showdown over the conduct of elections to village councils in the state in February. As Kumar prepared to issue a notification on Saturday for the first phase of the gram panchayat elections, the state government sent a note to the SEC asking for a deferment of the election process pending a Supreme Court directive on the matter. Meanwhile, state government employees, including those from revenue, panchayat raj and the police departments, announced that they would boycott the election process, stating that they cannot risk their lives amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In the morning, the Supreme Court rejected a special leave petition (SLP) filed by the state government challenging the Thursday’s state high court order giving a green signal to the SEC to go ahead with the local body elections. The apex court said there were flaws in the SLP and asked the government to file a fresh petition by Monday. The elections to as many as 13,371 gram panchayats will be held in four phases – February 5, 9, 13 and 17. Kumar rejected the state government’s appeal and announced that he would go ahead with initiating the election process. He also issued orders suspending two district collectors, a superintendent of police, two DSPs and five circle inspectors. The SEC charged them with failure to prevent irregularities and curb poll violence during the initial phase of elections to block parishad and zilla parishad elections in March 2020, before they were postponed due to the imposition of a lockdown in the country on account of Covid-19. In the afternoon, representatives of several employees’ unions met chief secretary Adityanath Das and submitted a nine-page memorandum, stating that they would not be able to participate in the gram panchayat elections until the Covid-19 vaccination programme was completed. The employees’ joint action committee leader Boppa Raju found fault with the SEC for deciding to hold elections during the vaccination period. “How can vaccination and elections be held simultaneously? We can’t take part in the election process, unless all the employees are given two doses of vaccine,” he said. With the employees refusing to cooperate, Kumar met governor Biswabhushan Harichandan and explained the situation. He asked the Governor to issue directions to the state government to cooperate with the SEC in smooth conduct of the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-body-elections-andhra-govt-state-poll-panel-at-loggerheads-101611338993748.html
22-01-2021||India||Follow my father’s ideology... he’d never, ever give up on idea of India: Mehbooba Mufti||Mehbooba Mufti, 61, was the last chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir before the momentous events of August 5, 2019, when the Centre scrapped the special status and converted the state into two Union territories. A former ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Mufti, who heads the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), also spent the maximum time under detention before being freed in October 2020. She spoke to Harinder Baweja on a range of issues. Edited excerpts: How has August 5, 2019, changed you? Are you disturbed, or has it made you more determined?August 5 was a black day in the history of our country. It destroyed the trust that people of Jammu & Kashmir had placed while choosing to be a part of this country. People like me who believed in the Constitution of this country too felt cheated. It was disturbing, and quite humiliating to see our special status robbed. Do you still see yourself as an Indian or only as a Kashmiri -- a sentiment many expressed after the special status was changed?Well, it has been a very difficult and traumatic experience, swinging from one extreme to another. But my politics has revolved around my father’s ideology, and I am sure he would never ever have given up on idea of India. He believed that J&K had to be resolved to restore peace with dignity, without compromising on sovereignty of the country. It has to become a bridge of friendship rather than a battlefield between India and Pakistan. So that vision is more relevant today, and needs to be fulfilled for lasting peace in the region.Have you ever thought of quitting politics or would you be willing to be the chief minister of the UT of J&K?Yes I did think about it but then the thought of giving up on everything that my father held so dear to his heart would be a betrayal of sorts. But my politics is going to be much more than just fighting for power. I will continue my struggle for peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue.After your release, you said you don’t recognise the Indian national flag. Many called it sedition.Unfortunately, a majority of the embedded media chose to distort my statement deliberately. Because J&K’s constitution and flag was snatched unconstitutionally, I said I will wait for it to be restored, and hold both the flags together. Let’s not forget both the Indian and J&K flag derived their legitimacy from the Indian Constitution. If that amounts to sedition, then so be it. Students are called anti-nationals, activists and NGOs as urban Naxalites; Shaheen Bagh protestors as Pakistani; farmers are Khalistani; and we Kashmiri as terrorists. So in any case, dissent or criticism of the ruling party has become anti-national and sedition in today’s India.What message do you derive from the local DDC polls as far as you and your party’s political future is concerned?The message was quite clear that PDP’s strength is its vision and party worker. Despite Delhi engineering a split in our party, our workers continue to work tirelessly to fulfill the party’s vision of peace with dignity. Their hard work paid off, and even though we fought fewer seats, our strike rate was good. So that’s very encouraging.The people of Kashmir are angry with mainstream parties such as the NC and the PDP, and feel that since both have allied with the Centre, particularly the BJP, you are responsible for Aug 5. How much blame are you willing to take?We placed our faith in the Prime Minister of this country and assumed he would carry forward the peace process initiated by (former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee). Assuming that the resolution of larger J&K issue has to come from Delhi, we tried to engage the BJP by aligning with them. Sadly, the BJP views everything through the prism of petty electoral gains, and lacks the vision and resolve to take decisions that will heal and build the country. Instead, it has chosen to take India down a dark and regressive path steeped in division, bigotry, and hatred for minorities. Unfortunately, J&K became a political experimental laboratory.Let’s be candid and honest: did you ally with the BJP because of your father Mufti Saeed, or did you see some political merit in it too?My father had a political vision not only for J&K but also for the country. He put everything at stake, including his credibility, while aligning with the BJP, only with the intention to secure what we already had -- our special status – and to find a peaceful and dignified solution to the Kashmir problem. He was of the firm opinion that the resolution of Kashmir issue would not only end the bloodshed in the state but would also be in the interest of the country nationally as well as internationally. So even though I have never been a great fan of the BJP, I could not walk away from his decision. Will you ever ally with the BJP again? It was my father’s decision for a larger cause, and I honoured it. That’s that and doesn’t go beyond it. Will the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) fight elections collectively going forward?The PAGD was formed for a larger cause and fighting assembly elections separately or together is going to be a collective decision. There are bound to be teething problems as we have been political rivals traditionally. The spirit and larger purpose of this alliance will take time to reach to our grass root workers. Sajjad Lone’s leaving has been a loss too.You had said that there would be no one to hold the Tricolour if Article 370 was touched. How do you explain the lack of protests?Well the way BJP has vandalised the Constitution and are running the country on their party agenda, they themselves have sidelined everything that this country stood for. They used the Tricolor to protest in support of rapists in Kathua. Mainstream parties in J&K held the Tricolor for the last 70 years not out of fear of being called anti-nationals, but out of their conviction. But when you destroy the faith and trust that Kashmiris put in the country, how does holding or not holding the flag matter? They have terrorised and stunned people into silence. All the central agencies such as NIA, ED, CBI etc. are used to threaten people here. Such draconian measures have led to an uneasy and forced sense of calm.Are you in touch, or in occasional conversations with the current government, either directly or through the L-G and the NSA? What do you discuss with them?There hasn’t been much conversation but whenever there is, I tell them to let democracy prevail and allow people to express themselves. You can jail a person, not his ideas or thoughts.When you think of your political future -- what do you envisage?I can’t separate my destiny from that of the people of J&K anymore. We are all in it together, so we either sink or swim. For me, resolution of Kashmir is the most important issue, and it was also my father’s desire to see it resolved in a peaceful and dignified way.Do you fear being arrested again?The Enforcement Directorate has been burrowing through my bank accounts and that of my family. Since they couldn’t find any financial impropriety, they started auditing the expenditure on my father’s mausoleum. Three senior PDP leaders have been arrested for a month now without being served any order for the detention. Our youth president Waheed Parra, too, has been jailed under UAPA on flimsy charges. All this is being done to blackmail me into silence. And frankly, they are capable of anything if they can send NIA summons to an organisation such as the Khalsa Aid which has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-my-father-s-ideology-he-d-never-ever-give-up-on-idea-of-india-mehbooba-mufti-101611338993271.html
22-01-2021||India||PM talks to health workers to dispel fears over vaccines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought to set at rest fears and misconceptions over the efficacy and safety of Covid-19 vaccines, and sought to dispel the “vaccine hesitancy” that has kept the turnouts low at inoculation centres. In an interaction with health workers in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, Modi said the vaccines had been launched after completing all scientific processes of trial and testing. It was only when scientists gave the green signal that the vaccination drive, billed as the world’s biggest, started on January 16, he added.“When doctors and health workers give a clean chit to the vaccine, it sends a very strong message among people about the efficacy of the shots,” he said through a video conference with the health workers, who are at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic Union health ministry data showed that till 6pm on Friday, there were close to 230,000 more vaccinations were done across the country -- a total comparable to what was seen the day before. But there were also significantly more vaccination sessions on Friday, 6,230 compared to 4,043, implying that turnout had dropped again after a brief increase on Thursday. During each session, 100 people are selected and invited -- on Thursday, almost 57% showed up, but on Friday, this proportion fell to 36%. Modi’s interaction came a day after the government launched a mass awareness campaign to drive home its message that the made-in-India vaccines -- Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India; and Covaxin, developed locally by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International -- were completely safe.The two vaccines received emergency use authorisation from India’s drug regulator on January 3, clearing the ground for the start of the vaccination drive.Health practitioners who have been vaccinated against the coronavirus or have administered the shots to others took part in Modi’s interaction with Varanasi’s health workers, sharing their first-hand experience.“Really, corona warriors have done a wonderful job,” Modi said in the 30-minute interaction during which he spoke to a government doctor, a lab technician and three nurses deployed at three vaccination centres —the District Women’s Hospital, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay District Hospital and the Haathi community health centre -- in Varanasi. “Our preparation has been such that the vaccine is fast reaching every corner of the country,” Modi said. “And on the world’s biggest need today, we are completely self-reliant. Not just that, India is also helping out many countries with vaccines.”He appealed to doctors, hospitals and vaccinators to accelerate the inoculation of all health workers in Varanasi so that the next phase of the vaccination drive can get underway soon. (WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-talks-to-health-workers-to-dispel-fears-over-vaccines-101611338806101.html
22-01-2021||India||BSY reshuffles cabinet to contain dissent||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday caved into demands of dissenting ministers and made changes to his cabinet by redistributing portfolios to calm tempers, barely a day after rebellion broke out within his government.The changes were made less than a day after his government distributed and reshuffled several portfolios to newly inducted ministers who were sworn in on January 13 .The move leaves the 77-year old chief minister vulnerable to more such demands from disgruntled leaders within his two-year old government riven by dissent.J.C.Madhuswamy, who was stripped of minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs was given Haj and Wakf department along with his earlier allotted medical education.“Even I do not know the details as I am in Mysuru and have had no contact with the CM. I will wait a few days before taking any decision,” Madhuswamy said on Friday. He, however, refused to reveal what decision he is likely to take.K.Gopalaiah, a former Janata Dal (Secular) leader who helped Yediyurappa to power along with 16 other legislators, was handed the excise department. Gopalaiah said that he was happy with the newly allotted excise portfolio.N.Nagaraju (M.T.B), one of the several people, who had openly lashed out at the choice of portfolios, was made minister for municipal administration and sugarcane development.However, health and family welfare minister K.Sudhakar remains disenchanted after he was stripped of the medical education portfolio, people aware of developments said.Gopalaiah said that the issue of Sudhakar is something that the CM has to take care of.Sudhakar is one of the several legislators within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Karnataka who hone feelings of neglect in the latest cabinet reshuffle exercise.Several legislators overlooked in the cabinet have also started holding meetings among themselves to decide the next course of action to be heard by the party’s central leadership.Yediyurappa divested from his own kitty and handed over planning, programme monitoring and statistics department to K.C.Narayana Gowda, another dissenting minister.Arvind Limbavali, a legislator who helped secure the support of the turncoats, was given the Kannada and culture portfolio in addition to the forest department, he was allocated on Thursday.Yediyurappa’s fire fighting may have prevented an imminent explosion of dissent but simmering tensions are likely to play out in the near future that could make life more difficult for the chief minister.With elections just two years away, any cracks within the BJP is likely to play to the advantage of the Congress, the principal opposition party in the state.Narendar Pani, political analyst and faculty at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS), said that this style of functioning is typical of Yediyurappa who is trying to cultivate a section of legislators and others loyal to him.“He is treating the turncoats as one branch within the party by taking from one and giving it to another. As long as he doesn’t have a major faction developing against him, he should be okay and get his job done,” Pani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-reshuffles-cabinet-to-contain-dissent-101611338746646.html
22-01-2021||India||CBI books Cambridge Analytica over Facebook data theft||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Alexander Nix of British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica (CA) and Aleksandr Kogan of Global Science Research Limited, UK, for allegedly harvesting personal data of up to 562,000 Indians from Facebook for commercial purposes, officials said on Friday.The move comes after a two-year-long investigation. The CBI enquiry revealed that Kogan, founder and director of Global Science Research, created a Facebook app, “thisisyourdigitallife”; the app was authorised to collect certain specific data of the users for academic and research purposes.The agency said that the app illegally collected additional unauthorised data of users as well as their friends’ network on Facebook; in all, data of 335 users and their network of 562,000 of their friends were compromised. Globally, it is believed that the app compromised the data of 87 million Facebook users. Kogan has been named as accused in the CBI First Information Report (FIR) registered on January 19 and has been charged under sections of criminal conspiracy and the Information Technology Act.Cambridge Analytica came under scrutiny sometime around March 2018 when several international media platforms, citing former CA employees, associates and documents, claimed that the company had harvested private information without their consent from the Facebook profiles of 87 million Facebook accounts. The reports said the data may have been used to shape the outcomes of the 2016 US presidential election as well as the 2016 Brexit referendum. Last year, the UK Information Commissioner said CA was not involved in the Brexit vote. Union law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told the Rajya Sabha in 2018 that the probe will be handed over to the CBI.The anti-corruption agency launched a preliminary enquiry (PE), a precursor to an FIR, against CA in July 2018 on a complaint by the ministry of electronics and information technology.During the enquiry, CBI contacted 335 app users out of which six responded to the agency and were examined during the course of enquiry. “They unanimously stated that they were misled by the app and were not aware of the fact that their personal (data) and (their) friends’ data was harvested. They also said that they would not have used the app if they knew that it would do so,” the CBI FIR added. HT has reviewed a copy of the FIR. Global Science Research, CBI said, entered into a criminal conspiracy with CA in 2014 . “Facebook had collected written certificates from Kogan (Global Science Research) and CA during 2016-17 declaring that all such data obtained by them through the app, thisisyourdigitallife, was accounted for and destroyed. This facts confirms that Global Science harvested data sets and provided the same to CA for commercial purposes,” the CBI FIR stated.The FIR also adds that the agency could not ascertain the veracity of claims by Global Science and CA that they had destroyed the data sets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-cambridge-analytica-over-facebook-data-theft-101611338746078.html
22-01-2021||India||Be factually correct, focus on quality: Nadda to BJP's social media cell in UP||BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday called upon the party’s social media volunteers to improve the quality of their content as “the BJP’s social media cell was much ahead of others when it came to quantity.”Addressing the volunteers at the BJP office in Lucknow, Nadda said: “The BJP IT cell is ahead of others in quantity and that’s why it’s time to improve the quality. The social media volunteers should write and comment only after cross-checking facts. We must get facts right before making any comment on social media.”He asked the volunteers to refrain from using abusive language. “While replying to even the most provocative comments by opposition workers, we must not use abusive language. We should use courteous language while replying to comments and must not troll anyone on social media.”The BJP chief directed the volunteers to keep on reminding people of the good work done by the state and central governments on social media as public memory was known to be short.“People have short memories so they must be periodically reminded of all the development work of the government. We must also keep reminding them about the mistakes of the opposition parties. Like those who are out on bail in the National Herald case are trying to look honest. Those who are accused in the 2-G spectrum case, Commonwealth Games scam and coal scam are preaching about honesty,” Nadda said.Citing the example of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Nadda said the standard of the opposition has fallen. He said: “When the Covid-19 pandemic started the Prime Minister, after consulting experts, decided to impose lockdown then Rahul Gandhi criticised him. When lockdown was lifted then also Rahul Gandhi criticised him. It was like criticising the sun for rising in the morning and setting in the evening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-factually-correct-focus-on-quality-nadda-to-bjp-s-social-media-cell-in-up-101611338108380.html
22-01-2021||India||Hold tractor rally outside Delhi, police tells farm leaders; farmers deny||Talks between farmer leaders and police over the proposed January 26 tractor rally in the national capital remained inconclusive on Friday as both sides stuck to their stand with the unions saying it was the government's responsibility to maintain peace.According to sources, police officers at the meeting requested the farmers' union leaders to hold their tractor rally outside Delhi, citing security reasons on Republic Day.Following the meeting, a farmer leader said they will take out their rally on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi and will not settle for anything less than that.Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S S Yadav coordinated the meeting along with other senior police officers. Another round of talks between the police and farmer unions is likely to take place at Singhu Border on Saturday.After the Central government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday farmer leaders said they will intensify their agitation now and alleged that the government's approach was not right during the meeting.They also said their tractor rally will go ahead as per the plans on January 26 and unions have told the police that it is the government's responsibility to maintain peace.Coming out of the meeting with the government at Vigyan Bhavan, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, "Tractor march on January 26 will take place as decided by us on Outer Ring Road. We have informed the police it is for the government to ensure that it should be peaceful."The government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday as the farmer leaders stuck to their demands for a complete repeal of three farm laws they find pro-corporate and a legal guarantee for minimum support price, even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months.Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again once the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal.This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre during the last round when they offered to suspend the laws and form a joint committee to find solutions.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-tractor-rally-outside-delhi-police-tells-farm-leaders-farmers-deny-101611336442484.html
22-01-2021||India||'Sanctity lost': 5 things Narendra Singh Tomar said on farmers' protest||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday accused the ongoing farmers' protest of losing its sanctity. The accusation from BJP ministers is not new but on Friday after the 11th round of meeting failed, the protest came under a sharp attack of the minister.Here are five things that minister said which can shape up the protest in the coming days> "Government gave many proposals to end the protest, but no resolution possible when the sanctity of agitation is lost."> "Government always maintained it is ready to consider alternatives to repeal; Our proposal is in the interest of farmers and of the country."> "We told unions to get back to us by Saturday with their decision on our proposal; If they agree, we will meet again."'Will intensify protest now': Farmers issue threat as 11th round of talks fails> "Some external force definitely trying to ensure agitation continues; Obviously, those forces are against farmers' interests."> "We told farmers to come up with their own proposal, other than repeal if they have anything better than our offer."Farmers' unions have rejected the Centre's proposal of holding the implementation of the farm laws for 1.5 years. This was decided in a meeting of all farmers' unions on Thursday. After the decision was conveyed to the Centre during Friday's meeting which took place briefly as there was no discussion, the minister asked the union leaders to come up with an alternative plan, excepting the repeal of the farm laws.As no new date for another meeting has been announced, the situation has reached a dead-end, though agriculture minister said if the unions agree to Centre's proposal, or come up with their own new proposal, there will be further discussion.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanctity-lost-5-things-narendra-singh-tomar-said-on-farmers-protest-101611336221309.html
22-01-2021||India||Bengal ramps up Covid-19 vaccination drive as state adds 406 new infections||The Mamata Banerjee-led administration in West Bengal ramped up the vaccination drive to combat the Covid-19 disease on Friday by nearly two times.The state received its first consignment of Covaxin doses on Friday. Earlier Bengal had received two consignments of Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.A senior health official said that on Friday 30,517 beneficiaries received the Covishield vaccine. The state had set a target of vaccinating 35,100 health workers on Friday from across 351 centres.“This is the highest number of people vaccinated in one day in the state. The number of sites has been increased from around 207 to 351. Earlier we had vaccinated 15,707 people on January 16,” said the official.Over the last six days 84,505 healthcare workers have been vaccinated against a target of 1,18,372.On Friday the state received 1,13,000 doses of Covaxin. Earlier the state had received 1.3 million doses of Covishield vaccine in two consignments.The state has registered 5,67,304 Covid-19 cases till date with 406 new cases reported from across the state on Friday. Kolkata recorded 82 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-ramps-up-covid-19-vaccination-drive-as-state-adds-406-new-infections-101611335620968.html
22-01-2021||India||Co-win app for vaccination gets new features: All you need to know||After states reported technical glitches of the Co-Win app through which beneficiaries have been registered, the Centre has brought in a few changes in the application. Since the application is not available for public use, the changes are meant for only those who have access to it, which includes health department officials and administrators who are creating vaccine sites on the application. Those who are getting vaccinated now or are eligible for vaccination will also be benefitted by these changes, which are aimed at expediting the process.Here is all you need to know about the changes> Creation of more session sites, more sessions per site and change in site location is now allowed. These are for the ease of beneficiaries.> Those who are scheduling vaccine sessions can now schedule for an entire week.> Contraindication i.e. situation in which vaccines should not be taken are also being tagged in the application.> Arrangement has been made in the application to allow one slot to pass on to another beneficiary if the first beneficiary to whom the slot was allotted first does not turn up.> But this can be done to only those who details are already there in the database. No new registration can take place on the spot.> Generation of a provincial certificate after the first dose. The final certificate will be given after the completion of the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-app-for-vaccination-gets-new-features-all-you-need-to-know-101611334771084.html
22-01-2021||India||Duplication, missing names of health workers on CoWIN add to concerns in Bihar||Duplication as well as names of many healthcare workers (HCWs) missing from the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) portal for vaccination against the Coronavirus disease, are among the latest issues flagged by vaccination centres to the health authorities in Bihar.The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) claimed there was duplication in names of its HCWs generated through the portal on Thursday.At the same time, the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) claimed that names of 800 HCWs, working in the medical college under the principal’s establishment, was missing on the portal. However, the list of 1,400 HCWs on the hospital side was intact.The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (IGIMS), an autonomous institute, also claimed that the portal did not reflect names of around 1,400 HCWs.The PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS together contribute nearly 9,000 healthcare workers in Patna.As per the list generated through the CoWIN app, the PMCH had to vaccinate 163 HCWs on Thursday. However, it ended up vaccinating 97, and its hospital superintendent, Dr Bimal Karak, claimed 100% achievement in vaccination target for the day.“There was duplication in the list of recipients, generated through the portal for Thursday. The list included names of some beneficiaries we had already vaccinated. As such, we achieved 100% target by vaccinating 97 beneficiaries at our hospital on Thursday. We have apprised the health authorities about it,” said Dr Karak.On the other hand, NMCH principal, Dr Hiralal Mahto, said names of some HCWs in the medical college were missing from the portal.“I was among the first few to send the list of healthcare workers under the medical college establishment to the Patna civil surgeon last December. The hospital list went later. However, my hospital superintendent informed me yesterday that the medical college list, which includes senior faculty members, was missing from the portal. I have apprised the civil surgeon about it,” said Dr Mahto.“We have asked the NMCH to send us its list once again so that we can verify and re-load the names missing from the portal,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh.That beneficiary names are missing from the portal was detected after the government on Tuesday tweaked the CoWIN portal to allow on-the-spot administration of shots to those already enrolled for vaccination on the portal.“We have checked. Beneficiary names have not gone missing, but for some reason have not been uploaded. We will upload the names missing from the portal so that no healthcare worker, willing to take the vaccine, is left out,” said executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar, also the state nodal officer for the vaccination.Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit and Kumar took jabs of Covishield at the IGIMS on Friday, in an effort to boost vaccination footfall, which dropped from 62% on day one (January 16) to a cumulative percentage of 54.47% after four days of vaccination.As many as 464,160 healthcare workers have enrolled for vaccination in the first phase in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duplication-missing-names-of-health-workers-on-cowin-add-to-concerns-in-bihar-101611324152240.html
22-01-2021||India||Elephant's ears torched in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris, it dies; 2 arrested||Two men were arrested on Friday in connection with torching the ears of a 40-year-old wild elephant in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris district. The elephant succumbed to his injuries on January 19.Prasath, 36, and Raymond, 28, have been booked for offences under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.The horrific video of the incident has emerged showing the miscreants throwing a flaming cloth wrapped against wood on the jumbo. The animal can be seen with flames over his head and is running around trumpeting and in pain.“This is heartbreaking and cruel. The action we take against them should serve as a deterrent,” said Nilgiris district collector J Innocent Divya.Officials have also sealed a homestay that the duo was running.Forest officials have been following the elephant since November. “It (the elephant) had an injury on its back and it was roaming around in human habitation and was not returning to the forest,” said LCS Srikanth, deputy director of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in Masinagudi.The department had tranquilised the pachyderm in December. “But it was still weak and moving around very slowly,” said Srikanth.Forest officials noticed serious injuries to its ear in the first week of January. On the 19th morning they tranquilised the elephant again to take it for treatment to a nearby camp. “It died when we were nearing the camp,” Srikanth said.The post-mortem is complete and the report is awaited, the officials said.Animal rights activists said that this cruelty was part of the larger problem of man-animal conflict.“Resorts, factories have encroached forest and tribal lands and outsiders don’t understand animals,” said S Muralidharan, founder of Chennai-based Indian Centre for Animal Rights and Education (INCARE).“This is a criminal act and punishments under the Wildlife (Protection) Act aren't severe. The court should take suo-motu cognisance of this; go out of the law books and pronounce stringent imprisonment so it serves as an example,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephants-ears-torched-in-tamil-nadu-s-nilgiris-it-dies-2-arrested-101611333852301.html
22-01-2021||India||‘Zero tolerance for misuse of money and muscle power’: EC in poll-bound Bengal||The Election Commission of India has zero tolerance towards misuse of money power, muscle power and state machinery, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora said on Friday.The poll panel also said that central forces would be deployed in West Bengal ahead of the crucial 2021 assembly polls as per the ECI’s final assessment and that the forces would work in close coordination with the state police.“The Commission has zero tolerance about misuse of money power, muscle power and government machinery. I am not denying that incidents don’t happen despite the commission makings such statements. But whenever incidents have come to our notice we try to move very swiftly,” Arora told the media in Kolkata.The ECI’s full bench comprising the CEC and election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar were in West Bengal on a two-day visit to take stock of the poll preparedness and law and order situation ahead of the crucial assembly polls scheduled to be held this year.On Thursday, meetings were held with political parties and senior IAS and IPS officers of the state, while the ECI met the state's chief secretary, home secretary and DGP on Friday before flying back to Delhi.The ECI also said that election expenditure would be closely monitored so that money power doesn’t vitiate a level playing field.“We have decided to send a special expenditure observer to West Bengal and Assam apart from a special police observer and general observer. We feel that in more than one way there are kinds of possibilities of money power being misused in most states these days,” he addedThe poll panel also said that volunteers of the civic police and green police would be excluded from the election process.“We also heard from political parties something about civic police and green police in West Bengal. Without going into the merits of such force our own belief as commission is that anybody who is given even a semblance of uniform, in one way or the other, assumes a position of authority. We have taken a cast-iron assurance from the chief secretary and the DGP that civic police shall not be used in any work related to polling,” Arora said.Referring to Trinamool Congress' (TMC) allegation that the Border Security Force (BSF) is coercing voters to favour one party, the ECI said that the remark was “unfortunate”.It also said, “Home ministry doesn’t have unlimited central forces. Internal security also demands engagement of central forces in many places. There are 23 companies already deployed in West Bengal in some sensitive areas. We will deploy as much as we can,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-tolerance-for-misuse-of-money-and-muscle-power-ec-in-poll-bound-bengal-101611332873605.html
22-01-2021||India||Schools in J-K to reopen on Feb 1 after nearly 11 months: All you need to know||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Friday decided to reopen schools for students of classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 from February 1. Schools in the Union Territory (UT) have been shut for nearly 11 months due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageClasses for students of standard 9 to 12 will resume in summer zone areas of the Jammu division from February 1, an order issued by the education department said, adding that classes for students from standard 1 to 8 will resume from February 8.Here is all you need to know:- While classes will begin for students in summer zone areas of Jammu division from February 1, winter zone schools of the division and Kashmir division will open as per their schedule.- “In case of elementary classes (1 to 8), teachers shall attend from February 1 for preparation and students shall physically attend classes from February 8,” the government order read.- All students will be mandated to wear masks and ensure social distancing, the order read. Schools are to ensure facilities to wash hands with soap are provided to students and teachers on the premises. - Schools that would not be able to follow social distancing norms due to space crunch have been instructed to follow a roster wherein students will be asked to come to school on a rotational basis.- Students are to maintain personal hygiene and avoid exchanging/sharing things with other students. Authorities are to regularly disinfect the school premises and create awareness among the students about Covid-19 norms. - Educational institutions in the UT were shut since March last year in the view of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-j-k-to-reopen-on-feb-1-after-nearly-11-months-all-you-need-to-know-101611332398038.html
22-01-2021||India||`Namaskar`: Brazil's Bolsonaro thanks 'great partner' India, PM Modi for Covid-19 vaccines||Brazil's President Jair M Bolsonaro on Friday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for supplying Covid-19 vaccines to Brazil. The president took to Twitter and said, "Namaskar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Brazil feels honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle by joining efforts. Thank you for assisting us with the vaccines exports from India to Brazil. Dhanyavaad."Namaskar, Prime Minister @narendramodiBrazil feels honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle by joining efforts. Thank you for assisting us with the vaccines exports from India to Brazil.Dhanyavaad! धनयवादThe biggest nation of South America has been facing vaccine shortage and was awaiting the arrival of two million doses of the coronavirus vaccines from India, though experts feel the shipment from India would not be sufficient to compensate for the paucity of vaccines in Brazil.Also Read | Brazil sends aircraft to collect vaccines, 'too early' for exports, says India"Counting doses from Butantan (a Sao Paulo state research institute) and those from India, there isn’t enough vaccine and there is no certainty about when Brazil will have more, or how much," Mário Scheffer, professor of preventive medicine at the University of Sao Paulo was quoted as saying by the Associated Press.Bolsonaro had written a letter to PM Modi urging him to expedite the shipment as he was facing pressure in the country to roll-out vaccination. Brazil also sent an Airbus A330neo aircraft of Azul Airlines equipped with special containers to Mumbai to bring vaccines from India, even before India finalised export plans.“To [ensure] the immediate implementation of the Brazilian National Programme of Immunisation, I would highly appreciate your good offices in expediting the shipment of two million doses of the vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India to Brazil urgently, but as long as it does not impact the Indian vaccination programme,” Bolsonaro had written in the letter in Portuguese.Also Read | Brazil's Bolsonaro asks India to expedite Covid vaccine shipment as delays loomIndia had started exporting the Astrazeneca/Oxford coronavirus vaccine doses from Wednesday, The first two countries that India exported vaccines to were Bhutan and the Maldives. Seychelles, Morocco and Brazil have received the vaccine shipments on Friday. Morocco receiving two million doses of the Covid vaccine is also the first big shipment of the vaccines to Africa.Brazil has recorded around 214,000 deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is the second-highest in the world after the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/namaskar-brazil-s-bolsonaro-thanks-great-partner-india-pm-modi-for-covid-19-vaccines-101611330200228.html
22-01-2021||India||Those supporting farmer protests being vilified: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday condemned the registration of a case against party leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa.Sirsa was booked by the Delhi Police on Thursday for alleged misappropriation of funds during his tenure as the secretary general of the DSGMC.Badal alleged that the FIR was lodged against Sirsa as he was providing langar service and other humanitarian aid to the farmers' agitation at the Delhi borders.The Akali Dal leader accused the Centre of resorting to arm-twisting tactics to "intimidate" all those who were supporting the farmers' agitation. He alleged that the Centre had struck at the DSGMC because it was at the forefront in providing aid to the farm movement."The DSGMC has been providing langar to farmers from the very first day they arrived at the Singhu border and continues to do so even today," Badal said in a statement.He underscored that the DSGMC was the same body that had won universal praise during the coronavirus lockdown for the service it rendered to humanity, as well as during the time of natural disasters."Now, the same body is being vilified," he said. "The DSGMC will not be affected by such cowardly acts and will not step back from assisting peacefully-agitating farmer brethren."Badal said it was "strange" that a case had been registered against Sirsa and others with regard to a complaint that had been filed against the then DSGMC president, Manjit Singh G K, in 2018.Sirsa's name has been included now even though he was not named in the original complaint, while that of G K has been excluded, Badal said. "This shows how the police and other investigating agencies are being misused by the BJP against its opponents."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-supporting-farmer-protests-being-vilified-sukhbir-singh-badal-101611331376164.html
22-01-2021||India||80% Indians willing to get vaccines, highest in world; Russians most reluctant||Indians are the most willing in the world to get vaccinated as eight in 10 Indians have no hesitancy towards vaccination, a survey by Edelman PR's Trust Barometer 2021 has revealed. The survey was carried out in 28 countries.Russians are most reluctant to take vaccines, though Russia was the first country to announce their Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19. The country started its vaccination drive in the last year.Countries offered Chinese vaccines turn to India for Covid-19 shotsEuropean countries, including the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Ireland, too have reported a high percentage of vaccine hesitancy. In France, only 52% are willing to vaccinate, the survey shows. People in the United States are also not much willing to get inoculated.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan took note of the survey and credited PM Modi's leadership, Indian scientists for this feat.80% Indians ready to take vaccines, says Harsh Vardhan, praises PM, scientists﻿﻿List of 10 countries most willing to take vaccines1. India2. Brazil3. Mexico4. China5. Thailand6. Colombia7. Australia8. Saudi Arabia9. Argentina10. UAEList of 10 countries least willing to take vaccines1. Russia2. South Africa3. France4. Japan5. Singapore6. Spain7. The Netherlands8. Nigeria9. United States10. GermanyParticipants of this survey were asked whether they will take the vaccines if and when the vaccines are ready. There were two options for the answer: 1. yes as soon as possible. 2. yes, within a year. About 51% respondents said they would take the vaccines as soon as possible.India began its vaccination drive from January 16, starting with healthcare workers. A total of 12,72,097 health care workers have already been vaccinated. Among the states, Karnataka has the highest number of beneficiaries as it has inoculated 1,82,503 beneficiaries so far. Odisha stands second with 1,21,004 vaccine beneficiaries.All vaccines that are being administered in the world against Covid-19 have got emergency use authorisation as these vaccines have been developed in less than one year. Hence, vaccine hesitancy has been acknowledged as a common factor in perception which is why world leaders, public figures, doctors are taking the vaccine shot first to build confidence about the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-indians-willing-to-get-covid-19-vaccines-highest-in-world-russians-most-reluctant-101611330823205.html
22-01-2021||India||Kerala logs another Covid-19 surge with 6753 new infections, TPR rises to 11.63%||Kerala recorded yet another spike in Covid-19 cases on Friday with 6,753 new infections and the test positivity rate also soaring to 11.63%, almost triple the national average. Apart from the surging numbers, a worrying point is that another returnee from the United Kingdom (UK) has been detected with the genetically-modified strain.Now almost half of the active cases in the country are being reported from the state which was once lauded for its virus control measures. According to the state health ministry, the active case load in the state is 70,395-- out of 8,77,282 total cases 8,03, 094 have recovered. With 17 deaths, the death toll has also gone up to 3564. But many health experts have questioned the toll saying many deaths failed to find place in the official list.A person who had returned from the UK two weeks back in north Kerala’s Kannur has been detected with the modified strain of the virus. With this, the total number of modified virus cases has gone up to 10 in the state. In daily positive cases, Ernakulam district topped with 1018 infections, health ministry data shows. In view of rising cases many health experts have asked the state to scale up its testing and give more emphasis to RT-PCR tests. They say more than half of the tests are still antigen which is not dependable. Latest statistics show in recovery and test rates also the state is lagging when compared to other states.The rising case graph has triggered a blame game in the state-- health minister K K Shailaja said the opposition failed to do anything feasible to control the pandemic and its activists carried out a series of agitations across the state vitiating the fluid situation. But the opposition said the minister was getting angry because she was getting “bad publicity” these days due to a hike in Covid-19 cases.The first state to report a Covid-19 case in the country in January last year, a China –returned medical student, Kerala was on the verge of flattening the curve in May but cases surged when restrictions were removed in May-June. But still the state managed its numbers well but cases started increasing in September after Onam festivities. The situation aggravated further after the local body elections in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-another-covid-19-surge-with-6753-new-infections-tpr-rises-to-1163-101611330173694.html
22-01-2021||India||Punjab CM announces govt jobs to kin of farmers who died during protest||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday announced that his government would provide jobs to one family member of those from the state who died during the farmers' agitation at the Delhi borders. The offer of government jobs comes in addition to the compensation of ₹5 lakh that will be given to the families."I have received reports that 76 farmers have passed away during the protest against three farm laws. Today, I announce that we'll provide govt job to one family member of those from Punjab who died in agitation at Delhi borders:," Singh said during the 20th edition #AskCaptain, the chief minister's online interaction campaign where he addresses the people of the state on social media.Also Read | Farmers' protest: No going back on Republic Day tractor march, say union leadersThe chief minister in his address attacked the Centre for not assuring minimum support price (MSP) and bringing the three laws without much deliberation.The chief minister questioned the BJP government on the way it brought the new laws without consultation from the agrarian states. He asked, "Is the constitution even there? As per the constitution Schedule VII part-2, the government should have consulted the agrarian states like Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, Uttarakhand, UP and Rajasthan first in matters related to agriculture before passing the laws.""Why did Centre change it without discussion in Parliament? They passed it in Lok Sabha as they'd more members. In Rajya Sabha, it was passed in chaos as they sensed things can go wrong," the chief minister said.He said, the centre needs to understand Punjab is not the only state protesting, farmers from across India have united on the Delhi border to agitate against the laws imposed by the government. "Around 80,000 farmers have gone from Punjab to protest and around the same number of farmers have also come from Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, west Uttar Pradesh and even Delhi while farmers' representatives have joined in from the southern states of India, '' Singh added.Also Read | 'Will intensify protest now': Farmers issue threat as 11th round of talks failsThe 11th round of talks scheduled between farmers' union and government on Friday resulted in a stalemate yet again as the farmers stood their stance on complete rollback of the three contentious laws with the government also stern on stalling the implementation for two years.Farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, passed by the Parliament in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-announces-govt-jobs-to-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-protest-101611330502012.html
22-01-2021||India||Mulayam Singh’s biopic set for release in Uttar Pradesh on January 29||‘Main Mulayam Singh Yadav ’ — a biopic on Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav — will be released in theatres across Uttar Pradesh on January 29, said producer Meena Sethi Mondal on Friday.Insisting that the movie will also be released on OTT platforms at a later stage, Mondal claimed the movie has bagged as many as eight awards in various categories, including best film in biopic category, at Lift India Awards held in Kolkata recently.“The movie has bagged best director, debut actor, best supporting actress, best producer, best Art director, best make-up artist, best biopic and best costume designer award ,” Mondal said.She said, “A special show will be organised at the residence of Mulayam Singh Yadav where the SP patron will watch the movie. A show will also be organised for the Samajwadi Party workers.”Amyth Sethi, who plays Mulayam in the biopic, said, “It was not easy to copy the mannerisms of Mulayam, his style of walking and the way he speaks. I watched his old files to copy his mannerisms.”Another powerful character is that of Shivpal Singh Yadav, which is played by Mimoh, son of filmstar Mithun Chakraborty.Prakash Balbeto has played the role of Ram Manohar Lohia and Govind Namdeo appears as Chaudhary Charan Singh. Noted actress Zareena Wahab and Anupam Shyam have played the roles of Mulayam’s mother and father, respectively. While Toshi and Sharib have composed the music, Saleem Shaikh has penned the lyrics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mulayam-singh-s-biopic-set-for-release-in-uttar-pradesh-on-january-29-101611330586865.html
22-01-2021||India||Indian Navy's R-Day tableau to showcase its stellar role in 1971 Indo-Pak war||At the Republic Day Parade later this month, the Indian Navy's tableau will showcase its stellar role as a credible force during the 1971 Indo-Pak war.As per a statement issued by the Indian Navy, the theme of the tableau for the 2021 Republic Day Parade is titled 'Indian Navy Combat Ready, Credible and Cohesive'."The nation is commemorating the golden jubilee of the victory in 1971 war as Swarnim Vijay Varsh. The Indian Navy proved its mettle as a credible force to reckon in 1971 war proving its combat efficiency and hence this year's tableau aims to showcase the Navy's stellar role as a credible force during the 1971 Indo-Pak war," read an official statement from the Navy.The forward section of the tableau showcases the attack on Karachi harbour by missile boats."The attacks were undertaken as part of Operation Trident on December 3 and 4, and Operation Python on Oel on December 9. The tableau depicts a missile boat firing the missile and also the route taken by attacking units during both operations, as track charts on the sides of the tableau," the Navy said."The rear section of the tableau illustrates the Navy's aircraft carrier INS Vikrant conducting flying operations with Sea Hawk and iodize aircraft. The air operations from Vikrant led to sizeable damage to ships and shore installations of East Pakistan and contributed immensely towards the liberation of Bangladesh," they said.The tableau also showcases photographs of eight naval awardees of Mahavir Chakra, one of which was posthumously awarded. On the sides of the trailer are murals depicting various ships that participated in the war, commando operations (Operation X) undertaken by the Navy, along with the Mukti Bahini and the surrender ceremony at Dhaka."The tableau is an attempt to highlight the most significant aspects of Naval operations conducted during the 1971 war and pay rich tributes to those who were involved in these," the statement read.India will celebrate its 72nd Republic Day on January 26 next year, honouring the historic date when the country completed its transition towards becoming an independent republic after its constitution came into effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-s-r-day-tableau-to-showcase-its-stellar-role-in-1971-indo-pak-war-101611329324707.html
22-01-2021||India||PM to launch programme to allot 'patta' to over a lakh in Assam tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday will launch a special programme of the Assam government to distribute land 'patta' or land allotment certificates to over one lakh landless indigenous people."Tomorrow morning I would be among the people of Assam. At a programme in Sivasagar, 1.06 lakh land pattas/allotment certificates will be distributed. We are committed to doing everything possible to preserve the rights and unique culture of the great state of Assam," PM Modi tweeted on Friday. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said, "The prime minister will formally launch the distribution of land 'patta' to more than one lakh indigenous people who have been living uncertain lives for decades. No government in Assam has ever took such a people-friendly initiative in the past."Sonowal said to fulfil people's aspirations, the BJP- led government took this initiative to safeguard 'jati, mati and bheti (community, land and roots).This is for the first time since independence that such a large number of people will be given 'patta' in Assam in one go, news agency PTI reported.The event will be held at Jerenga Pothar in Sivasagar district, a historical place connected with Assam's erstwhile Ahom kingdom.The Sonowal government has already allotted land 'patta' to more than one lakh landless indigenous families. Subsequently, Union Home Minister Amit Shah will also start his two-day visit to Assam and Meghalaya, and will visit Guwahati on January 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-launch-programme-to-allot-patta-to-over-a-lakh-in-assam-tomorrow-101611328264955.html
22-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: IRCTC to resume e-catering services from Feb and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IRCTC to resume e-catering services in phases from FebruaryIndian Railways' catering arm – the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) on Friday announced it will resume its e-catering services from next month. Read MoreWill India send vaccines to Pak if there is a request? MEA respondsIndia said on Friday it had not received any request from Pakistan for supply of Covid-19 vaccines even as it began commercial exports of doses by sending two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco. Read More'No angle ruled out yet': What we know so far on Serum Institute fireA day after two fire incidents broke out at Serum Institute of India's Pune campus, CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday said allayed concerns regarding the production of Covishield vaccine and said Covishield production or its supply will not be hit. Read MoreColleges shut during lockdown leave many girls in Pune rural areas with no option but to get marriedFor 23-year-old Jyotsana (name changed), it was a tough call when her parents and family members put pressure on her to get married after she returned to her village following the nationwide lockdown announced in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic. Read MorePakistan cafe owners mock manager’s English, viral video irks peopleA video showcasing an interaction between the owners of an upscale eatery and its manager has received backlash on social media. Read MoreLate Irrfan Khan's wife delivers stirring speech at IFFI: 'This is the first time I've come out of home'Late actor Irrfan Khan's son, Babil, and wife, Sutapa Sikdar, on Friday attended a special screening of his film Paan Singh Tomar at the 51st International Film Festival of India (IFFI) in Goa. Read MoreGoogle threatens to withdraw search engine in Australia; government hits backGoogle and the government in Australia are locked in a war of words over a proposed legislation that will make tech giants pay for news content. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-irctc-to-resume-e-catering-services-from-feb-and-all-the-latest-news-101611327284112.html
22-01-2021||India||IRCTC to resume e-catering services in phases from February||Indian Railways' catering arm – the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) on Friday announced it will resume its e-catering services from next month.E-Catering Services had been suspended since March 22, 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic induced restrictions aimed at curbing the spread of the disease.The services will resume in the special trains that are currently operating in the country. IRCTC had started this unique service in the year 2014 whereby passengers could order an array of food of their choice from reputed brands as well as popular regional and local delicacies on phone or online while traveling on trains and get the same delivered to their seats at railway stations.“With the permission from the Ministry of Railways coming in, IRCTC is ready to resume the E-catering services that will begin in a phased manner from February,” the statement said.Initially, the services will be introduced in around 30 railway stations catering to approximately 250 trains.“IRCTC is ensuring that all its E-catering partners ensure proper health and hygiene protocols while serving the meals to passengers. The passengers shall avail the services of E-Catering through www.ecatering.irctc.com. E-catering orders through telephone are also being restored over 1323 shortly. Passengers can also download IRCTC E-catering App “Food On Track” from the various App stores and avail E-Catering Services. For convenience of the passengers the option of Cash on Delivery has also been provided,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-resume-e-catering-services-in-phases-from-february-101611327786297.html
22-01-2021||India||WHO ranks Rajasthan best-prepared state for Covid vaccination||Rajasthan has been rated as the most efficient Indian state for Covid vaccination by the World Health Organization, India, as it ranked green in five categories necessary to start a successful vaccination drive, state government officials said.The state health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the WHO representative had shared a presentation at a review meeting convened by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday that showed Rajasthan was the only state that had scored on every parameter.“The WHO has put us in green categories of vaccination after seeing preparations of state government like transport facilities, cold storage points, supply plan, reach etc. While some other states are put in the green category on limited parameters, our state has been kept under green category on every single parameter,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, Rajasthan’s project director, immunization.Quoting from the WHO presentation, Mahajan said: “According to WHO observation of 67% session sites during vaccination it was found that because of the advance preparation, on all the observed sites 100% team members and vaccinator officer were found wearing a mask, separate dedicated rooms were created as per protocols and the beneficiary duelist was available at every site,” Mahajan said.He further said that at 99% sites, physical distancing was maintained, AEFI (Adverse events following immunization) kits were available and at 78% sites, Cowin app was used. The WHO had prepared a guidance document for governments in November 2020 for prioritisation of Covid vaccination and decided to rank governments on holding state and district level task forces, training of vaccinators, sensitization of private health institutions and logistics for carrying out vaccination.The WHO, in a presentation made to all states, on Thursday ranked Rajasthan green in all categories. If one goes by the presentation, Gujarat would be second best as it is ranked green in all categories except sensitization of private institutions.“For Covid vaccination preparation, Rajasthan is the only state in the country which has done well on all parameters set by the WHO,” said Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a tweet.“According to the state head of World Health Organization (WHO) regarding the preparation of Covid vaccination, Rajasthan is the only state in the country which is the leader in all standards. Like Covid management, Rajasthan is ahead in the country in Covid vaccination management,” he tweeted.As a result of good groundwork in Rajasthan, around 97% of Covid vaccines were utilised during the first three days of the vaccination drive against the target of 90%, set by the central government. The vaccine wastage percentage in the state was 3.40%, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-ranks-rajasthan-best-prepared-state-for-covid-vaccination-101611327866409.html
22-01-2021||India||Countries offered Chinese vaccines turn to India for Covid-19 shots||Several countries that have been offered or purchased Chinese Covid-19 vaccines, including Brazil and Cambodia, have turned to India for supplies of the AstraZeneca vaccine amid questions about the efficacy of some of the Chinese jabs.India is receiving numerous requests for vaccines, both as grant assistance and commercial supplies, and these have increased since New Delhi rolled out nearly five million doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, for seven countries in the neighbourhood.On Friday, India rolled out two million doses as commercial supplies to Brazil, where the question of opting between the AstraZeneca vaccine and Sinovac’s CoronaVac vaccine is at the heart of differences between President Jair Bolsonaro and several governors, including Sao Paulo governor João Doria, widely seen as Bolsonaro’s main rival for the 2022 presidential race.Bolsonaro had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 8 to expedite the shipping of two million doses of Covishield as he hoped to launch the vaccination drive from the presidential palace this week. At the time, however, India was yet to launch its own vaccination drive and officials were working out the timeframe for rolling out vaccine grants and commercial supplies.Doria subsequently launched the vaccination drive with CoronaVac, and Brazil plans to cover 230 million people with its vaccination drive. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Brazil intends to acquire more of the AstraZeneca jab and also manufacture it. Indonesia, which has received three million doses of CoronaVac for its free vaccination drive, too is looking to acquire the AstraZeneca vaccine from India. Indonesia’s Indofarma company is in talks with the Serum Institute to procure Covishield. “Hopefully, this will be realised soon,” said a person aware of the discussions.On Monday, Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen made a request for vaccine assistance from India during a meeting with Indian envoy Devyani Khobragade. Officials in Phnom Penh said the country is interested in both Covishield and Covaxin, which is made by Bharat Biotech, as they can be stored at temperatures suitable for Cambodia.China, one of the biggest supporters of Cambodia that has provided soft loans worth billions of dollars, has donated one million doses of Sinovac vaccine to vaccinate 500,000 people. However, the people cited above said Cambodia will need many more doses to cover a majority of its population of nearly 17 million.At the same time, questions have been raised about the efficacy of CoronaVac after trials in Brazil demonstrated an efficacy rate of around 50% – significantly lower than those of the vaccines from AstraZeneca, Moderna and Pfizer. A trial in Indonesia also showed an efficacy of 65.3%.Though Sinovac is conducting trials in several countries, experts have questioned its lack of openness and noted the company has not released much data. John Moore, a vaccine researcher with Weill Cornell Medicine, told NPR: “It's science by press release. The Chinese are being, well, characteristically less than transparent.”Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said: “If you look at it from the viewpoint of beneficiary countries, no single supplier can provide their entire need for vaccines and they are looking for more options. They cannot say no to China and some vaccines may not be up to the mark though they want to exercise other options.“There is a clear preference for multiple options, and India is preferred option for potential beneficiary countries because of its global reputation as a vaccine manufacturer. Besides, the Serum Institute has the Oxford-AstraZeneca connection. This is good for Indian diplomacy in both South Asia and the extended neighbourhood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/countries-offered-chinese-vaccines-turn-to-india-for-covid-19-shots-101611326769842.html
22-01-2021||India||From J-K to Kerala, bird flu spreads to 13 Indian states, union territories||Signalling a second wave, 13 Indian states have reported bird flu outbreaks till Friday affecting poultry birds, crows, migratory birds and wild birds. The outbreak, gripping the length of the country, has been detected in 13 states - Kerala, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. While the flu in poultry birds has been reported from nine states - Kerala, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, 12 states have reported the outbreak in crow, migratory birds and wild birds. These states include - Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab."Till 22nd January, 2021 outbreaks of Avian Influenza (Bird flu) have been confirmed in 9 States (Kerala, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab) for poultry birds and in 12 States (Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab) for Crow/Migratory/ Wild birds," a statement by ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying on Friday read.The flu has been confirmed in poultry samples from Uttarakhand's Almora and Gujarat's Somnath, the ministry said.In crows, the flu has been confirmed in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam, Anantnag, Budgam and Pulwama) and Uttarkhand's Kaliji Pheasantbird in Tehri range, the ministry said.Avian Influenza has been confirmed in crows in the States of UT of Jammu and Kashmir(Kulgam, Anantnag, Budgam and Pulwama); in Kaliji Pheasantbird inTehri range of Uttarakhand.Soon after the outbreak killed more than 25,000 birds earlier this month, the government had rushed to control the outbreak and prevent further spread by asking states to strengthen the biosecurity of poultry farms, disinfect the affected areas, and properly dispose of dead birds and carcasses.The animal husbandry ministry had also asked states for timely collection and submission of samples for confirmation and further surveillance and intensification of surveillance plan.To prevent the disease transmission from affected birds to poultry and humans, the ministry has asked states to follow the general prevention guidelines.“Coordination with the forest department for reporting any unusual mortality of birds was also suggested to the States. The other states were also requested to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds and to report immediately to take necessary measures,” the ministry said in a statement.Bird flu, also known as Avian Flu, is a variety of influenza caused by a virus in birds. It can spread to humans and can trigger person to person transmission, experts say. There are many varieties of viruses and H7N9 is considered most dangerous among them, they say. According to the World Health Organization there are many subtypes of avian influenza virus and only some of them will be dangerous to humans. Migratory birds are reported to be the main carriers of the virus.The Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying has previously pointed to migratory birds as a cause for the spread of flu which has triggered an alarm in north, central and southern India. “In India, the disease spreads mainly by migratory birds coming into India during winter months i.e. from September-October to February-March. The secondary spread by human handling (through fomites) cannot be ruled out,” the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-j-k-to-kerala-bird-flu-spreads-to-13-indian-states-union-territories-101611319582330.html
22-01-2021||India||UPSC exam: No extra chance for those who missed last attempt due to Covid||The Centre on Friday refused to offer an extra chance to those candidates who missed their last attempt in the UPSC Civil Services examination in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Seeking an additional chance in view of the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country due to Covid-19, several candidates, many of whom included frontline workers and those engaged in essential services, had approached the Supreme Court demanding an extra attempt.They stated that Covid duties, serious economic and emotional stress due to the pandemic, and poor internet connectivity in far-flung areas were all factors that added up to deprive them of preparing better for the examination.General category candidates are allowed six attempts till the age of 32 while for OBC candidates, there is relaxation upto nine attempts till they attain 35 years of age. Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) candidates get unlimited attempts till the age of 37.As the bench took up their case on Friday, additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju informed a three-judge bench, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar, that the proposal made in the petition cannot be accepted. Intimating the oral instruction received from the government officials late Thursday, the law officer told the court that the government had decided not to offer an additional chance to candidates who took their last attempt at the UPSC Civil Services Examination (CSE) 2020.The bench, also comprising justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, told ASG Raju to put this fact on affidavit and posted the matter for Monday.Senior advocates Shyam Divan and CU Singh who appeared for the petitioners, more than 100 in all, told the top court that on September 30, 2020, this court had asked the Centre to explore the possibility of granting an exemption in age or attempts for last chance candidates.The order stated, “We have impressed upon Additional Solicitor General SV Raju appearing for the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to explore the possibility of providing one more attempt to such candidates with corresponding extension of age limit. He has agreed to convey the sentiments of the court to all concerned and to take a formal decision thereon expeditiously.”No such decision was taken by the government. The candidates were left with no option but to appear in the examination, Divan argued. Some of the petitioners in the present round before the top court were party to the September 30 order.“During this pandemic, while everyone had a choice to save their attempt by leaving the exam in 2020, while taking care of their health, the chance candidates were given no choice at all and had to sit for the exam, despite the lack of opportunity to prepare,” said the petition filed by advocate Anushree Kapadia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-exam-no-extra-chance-for-those-who-missed-last-attempt-due-to-covid-101611324929792.html
22-01-2021||India||'No angle ruled out yet': What we know so far on Serum Institute fire||A day after two fire incidents broke out at Serum Institute of India's Pune campus, CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday said allayed concerns regarding the production of Covishield vaccine and said Covishield production or its supply will not be hit. But the company reported a huge financial loss owing to the fire incidents and the manufacturing and storage of Rotavirus and BCG vaccine will be hit.Here's what we know about the fire incidents so far:> A major fire broke out at an under-construction building in Manjari complex between 1.45pm and 2.15pm on Thursday. Five construction workers died. They have been identified as Bipin Saroj and Rama Shankar from Uttar Pradesh, Sushil Kumar Pandey from Bihar, and Mahendra Ingle and Pratik Pashte, both from Pune.> Another fire broke out hours later in the evening. There was no casualty of the second fire incident.> It took almost three hours to bring down the first fire under control.Damage in fire worth 1K crore, Covid vaccine supply not to be impacted: SII CEO> Serum Institute has announced a compensation of ₹25 lakh to the families of each worker who died in the incident.> Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expressed sadness over the fire incident.> The first fire seems to have sparked from electric works going on at the under-construction building.> Maharashtra government has ordered a probe into the fire incident. The authorities are waiting for the investigating report before commenting on whether there was any sabotage. Police said no angle including carelessness, violation of industry guideline, sabotage, has been ruled out yet.> The Manjari facility is part of the Special Economic Zone which is three kilometre from SII's main plant in Hadapsar where Covishield is being manufactured.> The Manjari facility is being built as part of the Serum Institute's expansion plan. There was no vaccine production going on at the building.> The company will lose in the tune of ₹1,000 crore.> Manufacturing and storage of Rotavirus, BCG vaccine will be hit, the company has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-fire-reason-no-angle-ruled-out-yet-rs-1000-crore-damage-covishield-production-not-impacted-aadar-poonawalla-101611324362688.html
22-01-2021||India||Will India send vaccines to Pak if there is a request? MEA responds||India said on Friday it had not received any request from Pakistan for supply of Covid-19 vaccines even as it began commercial exports of doses by sending two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco.Pakistan has not yet placed orders for commercial supplies of vaccines and authorities have been racing to procure doses to begin inoculating the most vulnerable segments of the population. China on Thursday offered 500,000 doses of the Sinopharm vaccine to Pakistan.“I am not aware of any request for the supply of Indian-made vaccines on a [government-to-government] basis or commercial basis,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing.He declined to answer a question on how India would respond if Pakistan were to request vaccines from the country, saying it was “hypothetical at this stage”.Early on Friday, two aircraft took off with two million doses each for Brazil and Morocco – the first commercial supplies of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India.Contractual supplies to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Bangladesh and Myanmar will follow in the coming days. Bangladesh signed an agreement with the Serum Institute last year for 30 million doses.Brazil had planned to send an aircraft to India on January 15, a day before the country launched the world’s biggest vaccination drive, to pick up two million doses of Covishield. It had to put off the move after the Indian side said exports would take some more time.Srivastava said many countries have shown interest in accessing vaccines from India, the global hub of vaccine production. He also reiterated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s commitment that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used for the benefit of all humanity to fight Covid-19.“Keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased rollout [of the vaccination drive], India will continue to supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner,” he said.“It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad.”On Wednesday, India had also begun providing vaccines to friendly neighbours as grant assistance. The “Vaccine Maitri” initiative has so far benefited Bhutan (150,000 doses), the Maldives (100,000 doses), Bangladesh (two million doses), Nepal (one million doses), Myanmar (1.5 million doses), Mauritius (100,000 doses), and Seychelles (50,000 doses).Srivastava also two made-in-India vaccines were in production, four were in active clinical trials, and 15 more were in pre-clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-request-from-pakistan-for-covid-19-vaccines-says-india-101611322236816.html
22-01-2021||India||NCB catches 2 Lankans sitting tight in Chennai, unravels Pak drug syndicate||A multinational crime syndicate that had been smuggling heroin from Pakistan and Iran has been busted, the Narcotics Control Bureau said on Friday after the arrest of two Sri Lankan nationals from Chennai. The two had slipped out of Sri Lanka when drug enforcement officials closed in on them and had been operating out of Chennai.The NCB said the two - MMM Nawas and Mohamed Afnas - were key players in the multinational crime syndicate that was behind the 100 kg heroin and 18.325kg of methamphetamine seized from a Sri Lankan vessel “Shenaya Duwa” in the high seas south of Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi on 26 November. Six Sri Lankan nationals who were in the vessel were arrested and five pistols seized from themNCB, India’s federal drug enforcement agency had been working on leads from this seizure for the last two months and finally tracked down the two players.“Nawas and Afnas controlled the pickup and delivery of narcotic drugs from Pakistani and Iranian vessels for the syndicate that has its tentacles in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Australia,” a senior NCB official said.The NCB believes Pakistani drug traffickers lodged in Sri Lankan prisons play the lead role in the syndicate that sources large quantities of drugs from the Golden Crescent - Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran - and delivers them to Sri Lankan and Maldivian entities.The Golden Crescent has two important transit points for processed heroin in the island nations of Sri Lanka and Maldives. “And the heroin from this region is usually loaded in fishing vessels setting sail from the ports of Iran and Pakistan for mid-sea transfer into similar vessels of Sri Lanka and Maldives. However, the mid-sea transfers happen in territorial waters of India or very near to its territorial waters. There is a big network of foreign entities controlling this lucrative trade,” a spokesperson for the NCB said.The NCB said drug syndicates that earlier mostly depended on smuggling narcotics through the north-western borders of India had increasingly been relying on the sea route since the traditional route for the Afghani-Pakistani heroin had become tougher to breach.“This has also led to the increased use of the sea route by traffickers to smuggle heroin into India,” the agency, which has stepped up coordination with drug enforcement agencies such as the Australian Federal Police, Police Narcotics Bureau of Sri Lanka and the US Drug Enforcement Administration, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-catches-2-lankans-sitting-tight-in-chennai-unravels-pak-drug-syndicate-101611323015313.html
22-01-2021||India||Lalu Prasad’s condition stable, tests negative for Covid-19, say doctors||Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s health conditis stable, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) authorities said here on Friday, a day after the former Bihar chief minister developed breathing trouble with congestion in his chest.Top doctors at RIMS, where Lalu has been under treatment since December 2017, conducted several diagnostic tests on Friday.Prasad's elder daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti also reached Ranchi and met her father, senior party leaders from the state were seen making a beeline at the hospital."His condition is stable. Most of his test reports are normal. He had developed symptoms of pneumonia for which meditation is being administered. Covid-19 has been ruled out with both antigen and RT-PCR tests being negative," RIMS director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told reporters as he visited Prasad for the second time in as many days.The RIMS director added they had also approached specialists at AIIMS, Delhi, who have vetted the treatment being given to Prasad for the identified infection in his lungs.Late Thursday evening Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta had also rushed to RIMS and enquired about RJD chief's health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-s-condition-stable-tests-negative-for-covid-19-say-doctors-101611323113704.html
22-01-2021||India||Gujarat CM announces body cameras for police||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said police personnel above the rank of sub- inspector will be given body cameras, which will be connected to a control room to monitor the conduct of policemen with the public.Notably, body cameras are widely used by the police in the US and other developed countries.Speaking to reporters during a press conference, the chief minister said cameras will be pinned on police uniforms and the live feed will be streamed to a control room.Sub-inspectors and inspectors of the traffic department will be covered in the initial phase, he said."The tendering process to procure body cameras is in the final stages. Police personnel are protectors and they should never hurt innocent people," he said."Using these cameras, which will remain on all the time, we can monitor the conduct of policemen towards public," Rupani said.This technology will not only help police personnel improve their behaviour towards citizens, but it will also protect them from false allegations, he said.In another major announcement, Rupani, who also handles the Home department, disbanded the Rapid Response Cell, commonly known as RR Cell in police circles.RR cells work directly under the respective range inspector generals of police (IGs).Each range comprises three to four districts, and each district superintendent of police (SPs) reports to the concerned Range IG."RR Cells were created in 1995 to help range IGs to conduct raids in a prompt manner. In the present scenario, its usefulness has diminished. The government has decided to dissolve all RR Cells in the state. We want to strengthen the district SPs for effective law enforcement" said Rupani.The decision has come weeks after the Gujarat Anti- Corruption Bureau (ACB) caught an assistant sub-inspector attached to the RR Cell of Ahmedabad Range while allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹50 lakh.The chief minister, however, asserted that there is no connection between the decision and the arrest of the sub- inspector by ACB in December, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-announces-body-cameras-for-policemen-101611321702493.html
22-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: No going back on Republic Day tractor march, say union leaders||The proposed tractor march on the occasion of Republic Day on January 26 will be held as scheduled and there will be no going back on this, Bhartiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Friday, after the 11th meeting between the Centre and the farmers failed to find a middle ground.'Will intensify protest now': Farmers issue threat as 11th round of talks failsAfter Friday's meeting, the farmers said they felt insulted as they were made to wait for hours after which the ministers told them to reconsider their proposal of staying the implementation of the laws for 1.5 years.The issue of the Republic Day parade reached the Supreme Court which asked the Delhi Police to take a final decision on whether to allow farmers' tractor march in Delhi or not. Two meetings between farmers' representatives and police officials have been held in which Delhi Police asked them to take out their march on Kundli border, but farmers have said they will take out the march on the Outer Ring Road. It will be a peaceful march with no intention to disrupt the government's Republic Day parade. So as of now, Delhi Police have not given permission to hold tractor march as the farmers have planned.Farmers are planning to display tableaux of all many states in the tractor parade like it happens in Republic Day's parade.While thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi border points since November 26, several others in the past few days have been on their way to join the tractor march.The march has been a much-anticipated movement of the ongoing protest as the unions have been planning for this for long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-going-back-on-republic-day-tractor-march-say-union-leaders-101611319074305.html
22-01-2021||India||Railways award contract of ₹2211 crore for manufacturing 44 Vande Bharat rakes||The Indian Railways has finalized its tender for 44 rakes of Vande Bharat trains with 16 cars each and awarded the contract worth ₹2211 crore to Hyderabad-based Medha Servo Drives Ltd, the railway ministry announced on Friday.These rakes will be manufactured at three production units of the railways; 24 rakes at the Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, 10 rakes at the Rail Coach Factory at Kapurthala and the balance 10 rakes at Modern Coach Factory, Raebareli. The procurement includes a five-year comprehensive annual maintenance contract with the supplier.“Indian Railways has finalised the tender for Design, Development, Manufacture, Supply, Integration, Testing and Commissioning of IGBT based 3-Phase Propulsion, Control and Other Equipment for Train Sets (Vande Bharat Type Train sets) for 44 Rakes of 16 Cars each on January 21, 2021,” the ministry announced.“The specifications were prepared after multiple deliberations with the industry at various levels for manufacturing the train sets indigenously. For the first time, the tender required minimum 75% local content requirement of the total value of the tender. This is expected to give a boost to the “AtmaNirbhar Bharat” mission. In this tender, 3 bidders participated and the lowest offer was from indigenous manufacturer M/s Medha Servo Drives Ltd. who successfully met the minimum local content of 75% of the total value,” it added.According to the delivery schedule for supply of these rakes – the first 2 prototype rakes will be delivered in 20 months, thereafter on successful commissioning; the firm will be delivering an average of 6 rakes per quarter.In August 2020, the Indian Railways cancelled its global tender issued for manufacturing 44 sets of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains, the ministry of railways announced late on Friday.The move came after Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited emerged as the only foreign bidder for the global tender floated for manufacturing 44 rakes of Vande Bharat trains in July.The JV was established jointly by China-based CRRC Yongji Electric Co. Ltd. and Gurugram-based Pioneer Fil-med Private Limited in 2015.Indian Railways’ Integral Coach Factory, Chennai had floated a tender for manufacturing 44 rakes or train sets of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains on July 10, 2020.The other five bidders then included state-owned Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Bharat Industries, Sangrur, Electrowaves Electronics (P) Ltd, MEDHA Servo Drives Private Limited, Powernetics Equipment India Private Limited, according to the railway ministry.The ambitious ‘Make in India’ project involves the manufacturing of 44 train sets comprising 16 coaches each for Vande Bharat.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-give-contract-of-rs-2211-crore-for-manufacturing-44-vande-bharat-rakes-101611318265235.html
22-01-2021||India||'Will intensify protest now': Farmers issue threat as 11th round of talks fails||Marking failure in negotiations, the 11th round of talks between farm union leaders and the government ended in a standoff again on Friday as the farmers hardened their stand seeking repeal of three contentious farm laws.The rift widened in the Friday's talks as the farmers sought a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP, even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months.The government also showed a stern stance and said the next round of talks will only take place if farm union representatives accept the proposal of stalling the implementation of farm laws for two years."During the meeting, the government offered to put the implementation of the farm laws on hold for two years and said that the next round of meeting can take place only if farmer unions are ready to accept the proposal," Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) told news agency ANI.The government's approach was not right during the meeting, PTI quoted farm leaders as saying.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the welfare of farmers was not at the heart of talks from the farm leaders' side."We asked them to reconsider our proposal (of halting implementation of laws for two years) as it is in the interest of farmers and the country. We asked them to convey their decision tomorrow," Tomar told news agency ANI."The talks remained inconclusive as farmers' welfare was not at the heart of talks from the unions' side. I am sad about it," Tomar said. The government has also sought alternatives, Tomar said. To the government's displeasure, the farmers reiterated their plan to carry out a Tractor Rally on Republic Day, before the talks began on Friday.Krantikari Kisan Union chief Darshan Pal on Thursday re-emphasised that the rally will take place only on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi, adding that the leaders will hold another meeting with the police after 11th round of talks with the governmentThe rally in the national capital will run at the same time as Republic Day celebrations on January 26.“Govt has said tractor parade on Republic Day can’t be conducted on Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, due to security reasons. We’re clear that we will conduct tractor parade there only. After tomorrow’s meeting with Centre, we’ll hold another meeting with police,” news agency ANI quoted Pal as saying.While the meeting lasted for almost five hours, the two sides sat face to face for less than 30 minutes. In the very beginning, the farmer leaders informed the government that they have decided to reject the proposal made by the government in the last round of talks on Wednesday, reported news agency PTI.Coming out of the meeting venue, farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said there was no headway in the discussions and the government asked unions to deliberate on its proposal again.The farmers have been camping out at several entry points to the capital New Delhi since late November in protest against the legislation that they say will hurt farm incomes and leave them vulnerable to big corporations. The government has defended the laws, saying the reforms will make agriculture competitive and bring prosperity to farmers.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law. The government has made it clear that it won’t scrap these laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-intensify-protest-now-farmers-issue-threat-as-11th-round-of-talks-fails-101611316271961.html
22-01-2021||India||Indian Railways finalises tender for Vande Bharat train sets||Indian Railways has finalised the tender for Vande Bharat type train sets for 44 rakes of 16 car each.In an official release on Friday, the Railways Ministry informed that the tender for design, development, manufacture, supply, integration, testing and commissioning of IGBT based 3-phase propulsion, control and other equipment for 'Vande Bharat' type train sets has been finalised for 44 rakes of 16 car each on Thursday.The tender was finalised on Medha Servo Drives Ltd for the cost of ₹2,211 crore for 44 rakes of 16 cars each. These will be manufactured at three Production units of Indian Railways.The procurement includes five years comprehensive annual maintenance contract with the supplier and the specifications were prepared after multiple deliberations with the industry at various levels for manufacturing the train sets indigenously.For the first time, the tender required a minimum of 75 per cent local content requirement of the total value of the tender with an aim to give a boost to 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' mission, said the Railways Ministry."The delivery schedule for supply of these rakes is - first 2 prototype rakes will be delivered in 20 months, thereafter on successful commissioning, the firm will be delivering an average of 6 rakes per quarter.," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-finalises-tender-for-vande-bharat-train-sets-101611316489069.html
22-01-2021||India||‘Digvijaya is knowledgeable but…’: Uma Bharti’s brutal backhanded compliment||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh is a knowledgeable and well-read person but "his tongue is his enemy" and therefore he could not carve out a "suitable place" for himself in his party, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and BJP leader Uma Bharti said on Friday.She was replying to a query on Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP and bitter Sangh Parivar critic, donating ₹1.11 lakh for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh."Digvijayaji is knowledgeable and well-read. But he has no control over his statements. His tongue is his enemy. (That is why) He is a senior leader but has failed to carve out a suitable place in the Congress," Bharti told reporters.She said Singh may have donated the amount out of "reverence".Singh had, on Monday, written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, complaining about the exclusion of "main Shankaracharyas of the Sanatan Dharma" in the Ram Temple trust, and had also enclosed a cheque of ₹1,11,111 as donation for the construction of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijaya-is-knowledgeable-but-uma-bharti-s-brutal-backhanded-compliment-101611316026398.html
22-01-2021||India||'Would like to meet him': Amit Shah praises CISF man for saving life||The video of a CISF personnel performing CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) on a passenger who fell unconscious at Dabri Mor metro station has come to the notice of Union home minister Amit Shah who heaped praises on CAPF personnel's commitment and expressed his wish to meet the person who gave the CPR. CPR is a lifesaving technique to manually restart blood circulation in case a person suffers from a cardiac arrest.Just came across this video!So proud of our CAPF personnel for their unwavering commitment towards serving the motherland and humanity. Have informed DG CISF that, I would like to meet this brave and vigilant @CISFHQrs personnel who saved a precious life. https://t.co/n8sLhxCxLtThe video — a CCTV footage captured at Dabri Mor metro station — showed a passenger standing at the queue of baggage checking started trembling and then fell on the ground. The official who was sitting in front of the baggage checking monitor quickly came to rescue and started pressing his chest, while another started rubbing his feet. Later, a stretcher was brought and the passenger, later identified as Stayanaran, a resident of Janakpuri, was taken for further treatment. The CISF posted the video and said the passenger thanked CISF for saving his life.The video on Twitter garnered several comments as Twitter users commended the quick action of the CISF personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/would-like-to-meet-him-amit-shah-praises-cisf-man-for-saving-life-101611316165164.html
22-01-2021||India||‘KTR for CM’ chorus grows in TRS amid rumours that he may replace his father||After a brief lull, speculations over Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state information technology minister K T Rama Rao taking over as the next chief minister replacing his father K Chandrasekhar Rao, have started surfacing again over the last few days.“Advance congratulations” have been pouring in for KTR, as the chief minister’s son is popularly known, from various quarters of the party including ministers, MLAs and senior leaders. “He has been receiving congratulatory messages from his followers on social media and also on his personal number,” a party leader familiar with the development said.On Thursday, senior TRS leader and presently deputy speaker of the Telangana assembly T Padma Rao openly addressed KTR as “chief minister-in-waiting,” in the latter’s presence at a function of the South Central Railway employees in Secunderabad.“I congratulate K T Rama Rao garu, who is going to become the chief minister of the state very soon, on behalf of the state assembly and also railway employees,” Padma Rao said, amidst loud cheers from the audience. He wished that soon after assuming charge as the chief minister, KTR would take up the issues of railway employees.Interestingly, KTR neither stopped the TRS leader from calling him future CM nor made any reference to it when his turn came to speak.What triggered the fresh speculations over the anointment of KTR as the next chief minister was a comment made by Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender in an interview to a vernacular television channel on Monday evening.“KTR may become the chief minister soon. Definitely it will happen. So what? What is wrong in it?” Eatala said, reacting to a question as to why KCR did not inaugurate the Covid-19 vaccination programme when all the other chief ministers in the country launched it and gave their messages to the people.“There might be various reasons for KCR not launching the vaccination programme. There is no need for picking holes in it. His son, KTR, has been looking after 99 per cent of the party and the government programmes in the absence of KCR. He launched the recent vaccination programme and as a health minister, I attended the same,” he said.Several other TRS leaders, including ministers T Srinivasa Yadav, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, V Srinivas Goud, Puvvada Ajay Kumar and Gangula Kamalakar and lawmakers like Bajireddy Goverdhan and Mohd Shakeel also endorsed the health minister’s opinion.“KTR is going to be the chief minister of the state soon. He has all the qualities to head the state. There is nothing wrong in it,” Srinivasa Yadav said.Another senior party leader who did not wish to be named said there was a serious discussion going on within the chief minister’s family over the timing of the anointment of KTR. “There is talk that it might happen in the third week of February. But it is also expected that KCR will step down after the party’s plenary in April,” he said.So far, there was neither denial nor confirmation about the change of guard in the state from Pragati Bhavan, the official bungalow of the chief minister.The opposition parties have reacted to the developments with a pinch of salt. “It appears KCR has grown old and is not able to handle the administration. So, he wants to hand over the mantle to his son. The party MLAs, too, seem to be feeling enough of KCR and hence, they are pitching for KTR as the CM,” senior Telangana Congress leader and lawmaker T Jeevan Reddy said on Friday.BJP state president Bandi Sanjay said KTR replacing KCR was an internal matter of the TRS. “But I still feel, KCR should make an OBC or a Dalit leader CM,” he said.Political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar said there was no surprise in KCR making KTR the chief minister as dynasty politics is a nationwide phenomenon. “Particularly, regional parties are like private limited companies, where power is transferred from one generation to the next generation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktr-for-cm-chorus-grows-in-trs-amid-rumours-that-he-may-replace-his-father-101611315019415.html
22-01-2021||India||'Made a name for himself in bhajan singing': PM Modi's tribute to Narendra Chanchal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed grief over the passing away of famous bhajan singer Narendra Chanchal. "The news of the demise of popular bhajan singer Narendra Chanchal ji has caused great sorrow. He made a name for himself in the world of devotional singing with his powerful voice. My condolences are with his family and fans in this hour of mourning. Om Shanti!," the prime minister had tweeted in hindi.लोकप्रिय भजन गायक नरेंद्र चंचल जी के निधन के समाचार से अत्यंत दुख हुआ है। उन्होंने भजन गायन की दुनिया में अपनी ओजपूर्ण आवाज से विशिष्ट पहचान बनाई। शोक की इस घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएं उनके परिजनों और प्रशंसकों के साथ हैं। ओम् शांति!The legendary bhajan singer passed away at 12.15pm on Friday at Apollo Hospital in Delhi. The 76-year-old singer was suffering from some health complications, news agency PTI reported.Tributes poured in after the demise of the singer as several ministers took to social media to pay their condolences.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also expressed sorrow on the news of the demise of the bhajan singer. "Got the sad news of the demise of famous bhajan singer Narendra Chanchal ji. May God give his family and loved ones the strength to endure this suffering," the chief minister had tweeted.Madhya Pradesh minister Narottam Mishra wrote, "I am saddened by the news of the demise of popular bhajan singer Shri Narendra Chanchal ji. He made a special place in the world of bhajan singing among the devotees of Mata with his powerful voice. May the goddess grant peace to the departed soul and strength to his family and fans to endure this suffering."लोकप्रिय भजन गायक श्री नरेंद्र चंचल जी के निधन की खबर से दुखी हूं। उन्होंने भजन गायन की दुनिया में अपनी ओजपूर्ण आवाज से माता के भक्तों में विशेष जगह बनाई। मां पीताम्बरा दिवंगत आत्मा को शांति एवं उनके परिजनों और प्रशंसकों को यह दुख सहने की शक्ति प्रदान करें।#NarendraChanchal pic.twitter.com/52teBlfujONarendra Chanchal has been a popular name in the world of devotional music in India. Some of his popular bhajans include 'Chalo Bulawa aya hai' and his last year's viral 'Kithon Aya Corona'. Also popularly referred to as bhajan samrat, Chanchal has given his voice in many Hindi films including Bobby, Benam, Roti, Kapda and Makaan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/made-a-name-for-himself-in-bhajan-singing-pm-modi-s-tribute-to-narendra-chanchal-101611313412356.html
22-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka CM Yediyurappa makes changes in Cabinet to contain dissent and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka: CM Yediyurappa makes changes in Cabinet to contain dissentKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday caved into ministers’ demands, and made changes to his Cabinet by re-distributing portfolios to calm tempers. Read moreElected Congress president by June 2021, announces KC VenugopalThe Congress, which has been without a full-time party president for nearly two years now, is likely to get an elected president by June 2021, party general secretary KC Venugopal announced on Friday. Read moreTamil Nadu health minister gets Covid-19 vaccine, opts for CovaxinTamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabhaskar on Friday got vaccinated against the coronavirus disease and opted for the indigenously-developed Covaxin by Bharat Biotech. Read moreAir Quality panel tasks agencies to develop tool for targeted pollution controlThe Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas has commissioned the development of a Decision Support System tool to capture the nature and source of emissions. Read moreCheteshwar Pujara: The shield that protected India from fiery Aussie paceImmediately after India’s historic and breathtaking win in the fourth and final Test in Brisbane, Arvind Pujara called his son Cheteshwar for a brief chat. Read moreThe White Tiger movie review: Adarsh Gourav roars in Ramin Bahrani's angry answer to Slumdog MillionaireA child is run over in the opening moments of The White Tiger. A drunk couple drives their Pajero down Sardar Patel Marg in the darkness as Punjabi MC blares on the radio. Read moreAll about Amanda Gorman's powerful fashion, poem at Joe Biden's inaugurationAt the ceremony, 22-year-old poet, Amanda Gorman took to the stage to perform her composition, The Hill We Climb, and the poet also sent various messages through her choice of clothes. Read moreWhat shape do you see in this pic of space region NGC 7822 shared by NASA?NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory shared this picture on their official Instagram account on January 21. Read moreWatch | ‘India Atmanirbhar in vaccine production’: PM Modi speaks to health workers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-makes-changes-in-cabinet-to-contain-dissent-and-all-the-latest-news-101611312794550.html
22-01-2021||India||Meghalaya: 6 workers die at mining site in East Jaintia Hills||Six persons lost their lives in a mining-related accident in coal rich district of East Jaintia Hills of Meghalaya on Thursday night. Deputy commissioner E Kharmalki said the incident took place at a mining site near Dienshalalu, Sarkari and Rymbai village.“Six persons were killed. They were digging a hole when the mechanical structure snapped and broke the digger tool carrier due to which they fell into the pit and died,” he said.He said that so far, five of the six deceased have been identified and their respective families have been informed to claim the bodies. Most of them are from neighbouring Assam and the bodies were being taken to the hospital for a post-mortem examination. Also read | Chinese mine workers to remain trapped for at least 2 weeks: ExpertsHowever, Kharmalki said it was yet not clear if the deceased were engaged in coal mining or stone mining activities, since “no coal was found in the hole they were digging”.He said their employer is also yet to be identified but a case has been registered by the administration as per the law.In December 2018, 15 persons (most of them from Assam) were killed in a coal mine in East Jaintia Hills district of Meghalaya when it was flooded by water from a nearby river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-6-workers-die-at-mining-site-in-east-jaintia-hills-101611314024928.html
22-01-2021||India||Fraudsters calling up senior citizens for Covid-19 vaccines, alerts Centre||Alerting people against fraudsters who are apparently calling senior citizens for Covid-19 vaccination and asking for personal details posing as officers from 'Drug Authority of India'. "It is an act of miscreants. Never disclose OTP and personal details to such telecallers," the Centre said through its PIB fact check handle.Some #Fraudsters claiming to be from Drug Authority of India are calling senior citizens to confirm their Aadhaar and OTP for #COVID19Vaccine allocationIt is an act of miscreants. Never disclose OTP and personal details to such telecallers#PIBFactCheck #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/0F8Lxd4NqdThe vaccination drive in India, which is the largest in the world, started from January 16. As of now, healthcare workers are getting vaccinated across the country. Next in line are other frontline workers which include defence personnel, police, civic officials among others. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers may get inoculated in that phase. After that, senior citizens — people above 50 years — will be vaccinated.Before the vaccination began and the government's phase-wise vaccination plan was disclosed, fraudsters were calling up people in Madhya Pradesh asking them to pay ₹500 for vaccine registration. Madhya Pradesh cyber cell said the callers were traced to Haryana, Hyderabad and Telangana.After the government revealed its plan of first phase vaccination, the registration of which is an internal process, fraudsters are targetting the next phases the details of which are yet to be out.Though the Centre has not yet revealed when the vaccination of senior citizens will begin or what the price for each dose will be for the senior citizens, the health department has made it clear that there will be no third-party registration. The data of senior citizens are being souced from electoral rolls while people will be allowed to self-register once the Co-WIN application is launched for everybody.Hindustan Times earlier reported that CoWin platform will allow the public to access some of its features on the Aarogya Setu app as well for self-registration.For self-registration, any of these documents — driving licence, PAN card, bank passbook, passport, pension document, MGNERGA job card, voter ID, official IDs of MPs/ MLAs/ MLCs, government-issued service ID card and health insurance smartcard issued by Ministry of Labour — will be required. But nobody from the government will call up people seeking any details, the Centre has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fraudsters-calling-up-senior-citizens-for-covid-19-vaccines-alerts-centre-101611311889530.html
22-01-2021||India||Elected Congress president by June 2021, announces KC Venugopal||The Congress, which has been without a full-time party president for nearly two years now, is likely to get an elected president by June 2021, party general secretary KC Venugopal announced on Friday, addressing the media after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting."Congress Working Committee has decided that there will be an elected Congress president by June 2021," Venugopal said at a press conference. Earlier in the day, Hindustan Times reported that the CWC may consider holding the organisational elections, between May 15 and May 30, after upcoming Assembly elections in four states and a Union territory (UT). The party is also looking at a possible window in February for its internal polls.The states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and the UT of Puducherry are likely to go to polls in April-May this year. Except Puducherry, the Congress is out of power in all four states. While it is likely to contest in Tamil Nadu in an alliance with the DMK, in West Bengal it is in talks with the Left over seat-sharing. In Assam, meanwhile, it has joined hands with Badruddin Ajmal's All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF).Also Read | Congress ties up with AIUDF for Assam pollsThe Congress has not had a full-time president since Rahul Gandhi resigned from the post in July 2019, two months after the party’s second consecutive loss in a general election. Sonia Gandhi, whom Rahul Gandhi succeeded as Congress president in December 2017, took over as the interim party chief in August 2019. Sonia Gandhi is also the longest-serving Congress president, having earlier presided over the party from 1998-2017.Rahul Gandhi, presently an MP from Kerala’s Wayanad, has repeatedly been "endorsed" by several leaders to once again take over the party’s leadership but has refused to take over the role.Besides its electoral losses, the Congress is also facing an internal “rebellion” from a group of leaders, including veterans like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal and Lok Sabha MPs Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor. The group has been dubbed as “G23.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elected-congress-president-by-june-2021-announces-kc-venugopal-101611308766958.html
22-01-2021||India||Air Quality panel tasks agencies to develop tool for targeted pollution control||The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas has commissioned the development of a Decision Support System tool to capture the nature and source of emissions in the region for interventions to control them.“This tool will help immensely in capturing the static and dynamic features of the emissions from various sources. It will have an integrated framework to handle both primary and secondary pollutants using [a] chemical transport model. The system will also be able to handle the source-specific interventions with the framework to estimate benefits of interventions,” the Commission said in a statement on Friday.Also read | Air quality management commission should consider using bio-decomposer for stubble: Delhi environment ministerThe tool will integrate an emissions inventory development application and database. The sources of emissions covered will include industries, transport, power plants, residential, road dust, agricultural burning, refuse burning, construction dust, ammonia, volatile organic compounds, landfills, etc.The interventions suggested by the tool can be implemented by the pollution control boards and its implementation can be monitored by citizen watch groups and NGOs, the statement said.India Meteorological Department and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, will forecast air quality using weather models. The Energy and Resources Institute will develop a fine resolution emission inventory. Indian Institute of Technology Delhi and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute will develop short- and long-term control interventions to identify hotspots. The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Pune, has been assigned the job of integrating the physical, chemical, and engineering aspects of the tool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-panel-tasks-agencies-to-develop-tool-for-targeted-pollution-control-101611311504713.html
22-01-2021||India||'To boost PM Modi's image': Congress picks holes in govt's Covid-19 vaccine plan||In a sharp criticism of the Centre's Covid-19 vaccination delivery plan, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Friday blamed the government for "complete lack of clarity about the availability of corona vaccine for India's population"."The CWC notes with concern that there is complete lack of clarity about availability of the Corona Vaccine for India’s population, nor is there a timeline laid out by the Government for vaccination beyond the first 3 crore people," the CWC resolution stated.The resolution was passed in a crucial meeting of the CWC which was held to to deliberate on the way forward to elect the new party chief.The virtual meeting started with the address of party chief Sonia Gandhi.The resolution pointed out that India’s under-privileged, disadvantaged and marginalised sections, particularly the Scheduled Castes (SC), the Scheduled Tribes (ST), the Other Backward Classes (OBC) and the poor, need to be administered the vaccine free of charge and within a time-bound period.Noting the rise in hesitancy for the Covid-19 vaccine, the committee also slammed the government for allowing blatant politicisation of the regulatory process to clear the vaccine for use in order to boost the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The CWC notes with concern that there is complete lack of clarity about availability of the Corona Vaccine for India’s population, nor is there a timeline laid out by the Government for vaccination beyond the first 3 crore people: Shri @kcvenugopalmpThe vaccination programme in India, CWC said, should be conducted in a manner that enhances public confidence and trust."Time, numbers and avoidance of wastage are critical. Apart from front-line health professionals, the state governments should be given the option of laying out a state-specific order of beneficiaries, so that the vaccination programme is taken forward with utmost speed and efficiency," the resolution mentioned.Asking the government to ensure necessary steps are taken to overcome the hesitancy amongst front-line health professionals on Covid-19 vaccination, CWC in its resolution appealed and said, "CWC appeals to the people of India to come forward without any hesitation and vaccinate themselves."At the CWC, Congress President Sonia Gandhi blamed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for its handling of the pandemic. “The government has inflicted untold suffering on the people of our country by the manner in which it has managed the Covid-19 pandemic. It will take years for the scars to heal." Gandhi hoped that India's nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive would be completed to the fullest extent.The internal committee of Congress also slammed the pricing of drug for Covid-19 - a disease outbreak that has toppled economies across the globe from early last year, torpedoed economies, and tested the mettle of public health system in every affected nation - and sought a clear policy."CWC expresses its dismay over reports that the Vaccine may be sold in the open market at ₹2,000/- for two dosages per individual. Such profiteering in times of grave adversity simply cannot be permitted. Government needs to explicitly and publicly declare a clear policy in this regard," the CWC resolution said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-boost-pm-modi-s-image-congress-picks-holes-in-govt-s-covid-19-vaccine-plan-101611308529932.html
22-01-2021||India||'Govt dismissing angst of millions of farmers': CWC passes resolution on farm laws||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) passed a resolution against the three farm laws and said they were detrimental to the Constitutional rights of states and the systems of MSP, Public Procurement and PDS. "The CWC demands that the Modi government should forthwith repeal the three anti-agriculture laws," the resolution read.Passed in the CWC meeting on Friday, the resolution noted that the laws did not pass the test of Parliamentary scrutiny as they were "bulldozed by muzzling the voice of the opposition". "Particularly in Rajya Sabha, the three laws were passed by Voice Vote in an unprecedented fashion as the Government did not have the requisite majority on the floor," it read.Also Read: CWC may hold organisational elections between May 15 and May 30According to the CWC, these laws, if implemented, would adversely affect all citizens as pricing of all food products would be at the mercy of a handful of people."There is only one demand of India's farmers and farm labourers — repeal the three objectionable laws. But the Government continues to side-step, malign, deceive and hoodwink the farmers by attempting to tire out, intimidate and divide the farmers. Let the BJP Government understand one unequivocal truth - India's farmers shall neither bow down, nor be cowed down," the resolution read.Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three laws passed by the Centre in September last year. These laws, which according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Also Read: Farmers 'reject' Centre's proposal to put laws on hold for 1.5 years"Across the country, farmers and farm labourers have been protesting, taking out rallies, holding hunger strikes, conducting tractor yatras and extensive demonstrations, yet a tyrannical Government dismisses the angst of millions of farmers by branding them as 'anti-nationals' and worse," the resolution read, adding that according to the farmers' organisations, 147 farmers have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-anti-agriculture-laws-cwc-passes-resolution-on-farm-laws-101611310239880.html
22-01-2021||India||Kerala mother accused of son's sexual abuse gets bail, court orders SIT probe||The Kerala high court on Friday granted bail to a mother who was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) two weeks ago for alleged sexual abuse of her minor son.The court has directed the government to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) under a senior woman police officer and inform it about the progress of the probe. It also instructed authorities to get the mental health of the child examined by an expert committee. Earlier, the government had opposed the accused mother's bail plea saying crucial evidence was found on her mobile phone and she gave the boy steroids.The 36-year-old woman, hailing from Kollam district, was arrested and remanded to judicial custody after her husband and son filed a complaint two weeks back. The case got wide publicity as it was the first time in the state that a mother was arrested under Pocso charges, that too, for exploiting her own child.But after her arrest, the youngest son told the media that his brother was tutored under threat to lay such a charge and that their father, who married another woman without divorcing his mother, used to physically assault them regularly.The woman’s family later alleged that the police made undue haste in arresting her and a proper investigation was not carried out. The State Women Commission and the Child Welfare Commission had also criticised her arrest.Also Read: Kerala assembly turns down motion for removal of Speaker P SreeramakrishnanRelatives later claimed that the mother was falsely implicated after she sent her husband a notice for alimony and threatened to move the court against his practice of bigamy. They said the couple were estranged for the last three years and the husband forcibly took his three children to a West Asian country, where he was working.The father had claimed that the mother was exploiting the son for quite some time and the boy revealed his alleged ordeal to a psychiatrist in the Gulf. He later approached the Child Welfare Commission, which forwarded his complaint to the police. When the case snowballed into a controversy, the police put the blame on the commission. However, commission member N Sunanda said police were requested to probe the matter and weren't told to arrest the mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-mother-accused-of-son-s-sexual-abuse-gets-bail-court-orders-sit-probe-101611309318268.html
22-01-2021||India||'National security compromised': CWC on Arnab Goswami's leaked chats||Launching a scathing attack on the Centre over journalist Arnab Goswami's WhatsApp leaked chats, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Friday alleged that there have been a breach of secrecy in regard to important and sensitive military operations."The CWC expresses its grave concern at recent revelations exposing the sordid conversations that have undoubtedly compromised national security. It is clear that among those involved are persons in the highest echelons of government and there has been a breach of secrecy concerning vital and sensitive military operations," the CWC said in a letter."The revelations also point to inexcusable and deliberate subversion of government structures, scandalous and extraneous influence over government policies, and a vicious attack on the independence of the judiciary," it added.The CWC said that the "shameful" compromise of the Modi government with "non-government players" has been exposed."It is shocking that three days after the revelations, the Prime Minister and the Central government remain silent on the issue as though the storm will pass," it added.The CWC further said that the silence underlined the government's collusion, complicity and guilt."The storm will not pass and we will hold the Central government accountable for compromising national security and aiding India’s adversaries," the resolution added.The CWC demanded a time-bound investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to enquire into the "breach of national security, violations of the Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved.""Ultimately, those who are guilty of treasonous behaviour must be brought before the law and punished," it added.Workers of the Congress staged agitations across Maharashtra, including in Mumbai, demanding action against Goswami over leaked WhatsApp chats related to the Balakot airstrike and other sensitive national issues. The party alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its top leaders were shielding Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-security-compromised-cwc-on-arnab-goswami-s-leaked-chats-101611307812267.html
22-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu health minister gets Covid-19 vaccine, opts for Covaxin||Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabhaskar on Friday got vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and opted for the indigenously-developed Covaxin by Bharat Biotech. Vijayabhaskar said that he took the jab as a doctor and as a member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to instill faith in health workers regarding the vaccine. He urged everyone to take the vaccine to safeguard themselves from the deadly virus that has taken the lives of more than 150,000 people in India.I will be taking the #Covidvaccine shot at 9 am @gmcrgggh. I am doing this as a doctor & member of IMA, to instill confidence among Health Care Workers. I request all to get vaccinated and safeguard themselves from #COVID19. #COVIDVaccination @MoHFW_INDIA @CMOTamilNadu @TNDME1"I got my covaxin shot! Thanks to the team Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for the seamless experience. Appeal everyone to do it when your turn comes. Let's end Covid-19 together," Vijayabhaskar tweeted after he was vaccinated.The minister chose to be inoculated by Covaxin, as it is a 'Made in India' product and only 908 people including him have been vaccinated by the homegrown shot till date, reported news agency PTI. He had also said that around 10.45 lakh Covishield doses and 20,000 Covaxin doses have arrived in the state so far and 166 session sites for the vaccination drive has been set up in the state, reported PTI.Click here for complete coverage of Covd-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with vaccine beneficiaries in Varanasi on Friday. Addressing the hesitancy around the vaccine, he thanked the beneficiaries for getting vaccinated in the first phase of the Covid vaccine drive and instilling confidence for the same.India had vaccinated nearly 1 million beneficiaries as of Thursday evening, according to the data presented by the Union health ministry. Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 596 new coronavirus cases and 9 deaths. The total coronavirus caseload in the southern state is over 8.3 lakh.The country on Friday has reported 14,545 new coronavirus cases, taking the total tally of India to 1,06,25,428 cases. The coronavirus recovery rate in India stand at 96.78 per cent with total 1,02,83,708 recoveries as of today, according to the health ministry's data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-health-minister-gets-covid-19-vaccine-opts-for-covaxin-101611307734615.html
22-01-2021||India||Caught entering girlfriend’s home, shamed Rajasthan youth flees to Pakistan||A youth in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, who was caught while attempting to secretly enter his girlfriend’s house, fled to Pakistan fearing infamy, claimed police.After his family lodged a missing complaint, he was traced in Pakistan after more than a month-long probe. Pakistani rangers confirmed to the Border Security Force (BSF) that the youth was taken into custody by the Sindh police after he crossed over. Now, efforts are on to ensure his return.19-year-old Gemara Ram Meghwal, a resident of Kumharo Ka Tiba of Sajjan Ka Paar village under Bijrad police station area in Barmer district, had crossed the international border on the intervening night of November 4 last year. His family members lodged a missing complaint with Bijrad police on November 16 after their search proved to be futile.In the missing complaint, family members expressed apprehension that the boy might have crossed to Pakistan since the family lived very close to the Indo-Pak international border and they had relatives in Pabni village in Pakistan, which is located right across the border from their village. According to the complainant, Gemara Ram used to say he will go to Pakistan to meet the relatives.Family members further claimed that they have got calls from their relatives in Pakistan confirming a boy had crossed the border and was arrested by the Pakistani police.Jetha Ram, station house officer at Bijrad police station told HT that Gemara Ram had an affair with a girl, who was his neighbour. Gemara Ram’s family told cops that he was caught entering his girlfriend’s house on November 4 by her parents, who threatened to report the incident to his parents, making him flee to Pakistan fearing infamy.Also Read: At UN meet, India hits out at Pakistan over Hindu temple's vandalismAnand Sharma, superintendent of police in Barmer said that the police department had requested BSF to take up the matter with Pakistani authorities.A BSF official, on condition of anonymity, said that efforts were being made to secure the boy’s return, but it was yet not clear by when he will be returned.“Pakistani authorities have told us that they are fulfilling the due process and any decision on his return will be taken under the law of the land,” said the BSF official, who didn’t wish to be named.The BSF official said that the youth had crossed the international border on November 4 last year, but the Pakistani authorities only confirmed his detention on January 5, after several meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caught-entering-girlfriend-s-home-shamed-rajasthan-youth-flees-to-pakistan-101611307492842.html
22-01-2021||India||MNS urges RBI to set up panel to resolve transporters' woes||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Friday urged the Reserve Bank of India to set up a high-power committee to look into the woes of transporters reeling under financial burdens.In a letter to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, Thackeray claimed that several banks were not following the Centre's guidelines of observing leniency while recovering dues."The RBI and Centre had issued guidelines to banks asking them to observe leniency in the recovery process in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, banks have not been honouring these guidelines," the MNS chief stated in the letter.The RBI should set up a high-power committee to address the woes of the transport sector, he said, adding that the panel should also direct action against financiers who have violated the government's directives.Thackeray further claimed that some financiers had issued notices for recovery and were charging ₹2,000 per notice as fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mns-urges-rbi-to-set-up-panel-to-resolve-transporters-woes-101611307327631.html
22-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin led to enhanced immune responses, says Lancet||British medical journal the Lancet has published a study on the effects of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine against Covid-19, and said the vaccine doses were well tolerated and no vaccine-related serious adverse events were found. The study, funded by Bharat Biotech International, was conducted during the phase 1 trial of the vaccine. Though Bharat Biotech funded the study, the funder had no role in data collection, data analysis data interpretation or writing of the report, but was involved in study design, the Lancet report says..@TheLancetInfDis publishes findings from trial of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, BBV152 developed by @BharatBiotech & ICMR. @TheLancet @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes Read more: https://t.co/KKZJOf6Ew1 pic.twitter.com/ZCfu2pfOwbThe study was conducted during the lockdown and around 375 participants were enrolled for the purpose between July 13 and 30. The study also notes that since the number of daily infections was high at that time, participants were more exposed to the virus. "The sample size was intentionally large to enable the inference of meaningful conclusions regarding neutralising responses. With several reports questioning the efficacy of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines against antigenically divergent strains, we report neutralising responses to homologous and heterologous strains," the report said.Coronavirus vaccine doses from India arrive in NepalThis trial was held at 11 hospitals across India and the doses were administered 14 days apart, not 28 days as what will be done to vaccine recipients.The participants were divided into several groups and all reported enhanced immune responses, the report said.Participants were observed for two hours after the trial to assess reactogenicity and were also instructed to record local and systemic reactions within seven days (after each dose). The overall incidence of solicited local and systemic adverse events in this study was 14–21% in all vaccine-treated groups."The results reported here do not permit efficacy assessments. The analysis of safety outcomes requires more extensive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials," it said.The Drug Controller General of India granted restricted emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin under the clinical trial mode, which entails taking consent from the beneficiaries before administering them with the doses, and then following up on each beneficiary.From January 16 onwards, healthcare workers of the country are being administered vaccines — both Covaxin and Serum Institute of India's Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-led-to-enhanced-immune-responses-says-lancet-101611306952662.html
22-01-2021||India||Gorakhpur student Aniket Mishra to celebrate Republic Day with PM Modi||Aniket Mishra, a second-year student of IIT Guwahati, has been invited as a guest during the Republic Day celebrations in Delhi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mishra, who is from Gorakhpur, will join the Prime Minister in his special VIP box at Rajpath next Tuesday to witness the Republic Day parade.Mishra, who is currently in the Capital for his exams, will be accompanied by his aunt and is expected to report to Hotel Ashoka in New Delhi on January 25. He said that it is a matter of huge honour for him to attend the Republic Day celebrations with the Prime Minister. He said that his family will also watch the Republic Day celebrations in Delhi and are eagerly waiting for the January 26 to arrive.Mishra’s parents and relatives have expressed their happiness after he received the invitation from the Union ministry of education, HT’s sister concern livehindustan.com reported. His father, Rakesh Mishra, said that his son is a talented student and had topped the college exams in his first year. Aniket is pursuing his BTech in computer science from the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati and had scored 96.5% in 2017 in his Class 10 board exams and got 98% in his Class 12 board exams. The senior Mishra works as a loco pilot with the Indian Railways, and his mother, Saroj Mishra, is a power controller at North Eastern Railway's Gorakhpur headquarters.Divyangi Tripathi, who also hails from Gorakhpur, will attend the ceremony with the Prime Minister along with Mishra. Divyangi, who had scored 99.6% in the CBSE exams last year, praised the government for its initiative. “I am very excited about this. It's a very good initiative launched by the government. Students from all sections of society are selected without any discrimination,” Tripathi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India will celebrate its 72nd Republic Day following social distancing measures as the nation is still reeling from the effects of the pandemic. There is no foreign head of state as a chief guest this year after United Kingdom's PM Boris Johnson cancelled his visit due to rise in Covid-19 cases in his country due to a new mutated variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpur-student-aniket-mishra-to-celebrate-republic-day-with-pm-modi-101611303304153.html
22-01-2021||India||Odisha BJP protests ‘shoddy’ paddy procurement, govt suspends 15 officials||Intensifying their protest over paddy procurement, BJP leaders continued their overnight dharna in front of a police station in western Odisha district of Sambalpur even as the Naveen Patnaik government suspended officials from at least 15 agricultural cooperative societies over alleged irregularities.BJP activists, led by state unit president Samir Mohanty, leader of Opposition Pradipta Naik, Bargarh MP Suresh Pujari and many other leaders, assembled on the premises of the Sambalpur Town police station and continued to stage a dharna for the whole night, while braving the chilly winter to protest against the shoddy affairs in paddy procurement by the State government."Till the government buys the entire paddy lying at the mandis, we would not budge from our protest," said BJP leader Jaynarayan Mishra, who, too, joined the protest at Sambalpur. "We are determined to fight for the farmers," said Mishra. Former MLA from Padmapur and BJP leader Pradip Purohit said they are prepared to spend seven nights protesting for farmers.On Thursday, at least 10,000 farmers and BJP leaders had surrounded the RDC office in Sambalpur town, protesting ‘katani chhatani’ or deductions in farmers’ payments by rice millers alleging poor quality of paddy, non compliance to the FAQ fixed for paddy procurement, non-generation of token in time for farmers, lapsing of token and unnecessary laying of paddy bags at different market yards.The BJP leaders alleged that the government's ‘failure’ in buying paddy from the farmers had resulted in the distress sale of the grain, with farmers in districts like Keonjhar being forced to sell the crop at around ₹1200 per quintal against the MSP of ₹1868 per quintal.Facing political heat over the issue, Odisha food supplies and cooperative minister Ranendra Pratap Swain on Thursday suspended 15 secretaries of primary agriculture cooperative societies that act as agents of Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation and purchase from the farmers. The department suspended secretaries of primary agriculture cooperative societies in western Odisha districts of Bargarh, Sambalpur, Bolangir, Boudh and northern Odisha district of Keonjhar.BJD leader Srimoyee Mishra said BJP was resorting to such agitation to divert attention from the farmers' agitation in Delhi. "This Kharif marketing season, a record 37 lakh metric tonne of paddy have been procured by the government. The government would procure all paddy from farmers," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bjp-protests-shoddy-paddy-procurement-govt-suspends-15-officials-101611303266566.html
22-01-2021||India||India totally self-reliant in terms of Covid-19 vaccines: PM Modi interacts with Varanasi health workers, vaccinators||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday thanked healthcare workers and vaccinators from his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh for instilling confidence in people regarding India’s vaccination programme by getting the first dose. PM Modi said the healthcare workers have taken a definitive step by inoculating themselves in the first phase of the country's vaccination drive and highlighted that it is important for them to get the doses as it will help them work without fear.“2021 has had an auspicious start. Two Made in India vaccines have been launched to help India and the world fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” PM Modi said during his virtual interaction with those involved in the first phase of the vaccination drive in the holy city.The Prime Minister also highlighted that the fact India has developed the two vaccines sends a message to the world that the nation is now self-reliant. He also appealed to doctors, hospitals and vaccinators to complete the vaccination of all health workers in the city as quickly as possible so that the next phase of vaccination can be started soon.Dr Shukla when asked by the Prime Minister regarding the response he received from the people during the vaccination campaign said that people are excited at the prospect of getting vaccinated against Covid-19.Shukla said, “It is a matter of great pride that despite being a developing country we made two vaccines, racing past developed nations. I would like to thank you for selecting healthcare professionals for the first round of vaccination. This is a great step forward and it will also remove apprehensions from people’s minds.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi also reiterated that granting emergency use approval for vaccines is not a political decision but a decision that has been taken after several rounds of discussions with doctors and scientists. He also asked people not to harbour any fear in their minds regarding the vaccination process and should fearlessly get themselves vaccinated once their turn arrives.Healthcare worker from Hathibazar, Shrinkhla Chauhan also thanked PM Modi for choosing healthcare workers first for the vaccination drive. Chauhan who is an auxiliary nurse midwife said after her vaccination she herself vaccinated more than 80 people on the same day. “I took the first dose of the vaccine on January 16 and vaccinated 87 people on the same day,” Chauhan told PM Modi.India has vaccinated more than a million people under the first phase of the vaccination drive. Karnataka ranks highest among the number of people vaccinated so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-totally-self-reliant-in-terms-of-covid-19-vaccines-pm-modi-101611302551245.html
22-01-2021||India||Union ministers start 11th round of talks with protesting farmer unions||The eleventh round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday to break the nearly two-month-long deadlock on the three new agri laws.In the last round of meeting held on Wednesday, the government yielded some ground in its bid to end the farmers' protest on various border points of the national capital. The Centre had offered to put on hold the three laws for 12-18 months and also set up a joint committee to find solutions.However, the farmer unions on Thursday rejected the government's offer and remained stuck to their two major demand -- repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). Farmers group said they will continue protest and also hold tractor rally on January 26, the Republic Day.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here."In a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha..., the proposal put forth by the government...was rejected. A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, had said in a statement on Thursday.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws.Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse.Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court.Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-start-11th-round-of-talks-with-protesting-farmer-unions-101611300987897.html
22-01-2021||India||PM Modi lauds India's cricket win over Australia, says country not afraid of challenges||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday equated the historic win of the Indian cricket team against Australia to a "life lesson" and praised players' approach to fight in challenging conditions. He added that today's India is not afraid of working on experiments for solving problems.Addressing the 18th Convocation of Tezpur University, PM Modi said that people should not be afraid of taking risks and doing experiments."The Indian team in Australia is a great example of the change in approach. Even after losing the first test, they continued fighting. Even after suffering injuries, our players kept fighting for wins and kept looking for new solutions. In challenging conditions, they stood up to challenge. Some players may have been less experienced, but their bravery was no less. They created history with the right talent and temperament. They defeated such an experienced team like Australia. This performance of our players is a life lesson," he said."The first lesson is we should be confident about our ability. The second is if we move forward with a positive mindset then the result will also come positive. The third is if you have an option to go out safely and on the other hand you have an option of a win then you should explore the possibility of a win. Even if you lose, while trying to win, it can't be considered as a loss. You should not be afraid of taking risks and doing experiments. We have to be proactive and fearless," PM Modi added.The Prime Minister said that today's India is not afraid of working on experiments for solving problems."The world's largest banking inclusion campaign is ongoing in India. The world's largest toilet building, house-providing, clean-drinking water providing and vaccination drive is in India," he added.India has recently won Border-Gavaskar Trophy after defeating Australia in Test series by 2-1. What makes the feat even more commendable is how the Indians fought multiple injuries and mental fatigue - due to the bio-bubble restrictions -- to register a historic win.In the first Test against Australia, India was bundled out for 36 and many pundits predicted that the visiting team will face a 4-0 drubbing. But proving every critic wrong, the Rahane-led side registered famous victories in Melbourne and Brisbane.After India emerged victorious in the final test at The Gabba, PM Modi had tweeted: "We are all overjoyed at the success of the Indian Cricket Team in Australia. Their remarkable energy and passion was visible throughout. So was their stellar intent, remarkable grit and determination. Congratulations to the team! Best wishes for your future endeavours."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-india-s-cricket-win-over-australia-says-country-not-afraid-of-challenges-101611300827306.html
22-01-2021||India||HT Environment Conclave: Govt to train village women to test water quality||The Union government will train five women from every village to test the quality of water at nominal charges as part of the ambitious Jal Jeevan mission, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Shekhawat said on Friday, delivering the keynote address at the Hindustan Times Environment Conclave.The government will put up inexpensive water-quality testing infrastructure accessible to every village to achieve the government’s mission to provide safe drinking water to all by 2024, the minister said.“When we need to tests our blood, we all know where to go. But we have problems to test the water we drink. We will set up laboratories that will provide water quality tests for nominal charges,” the minister said.Also read | HT Environment Conclave: Reserve carbon space for developing world, says JavadekarThe minister said the sustainable environment could not be based on the development of any one nation or segment of society. “It has to be based on the ecological integrity of every human being,” he said.Piped drinking water to rural households is a critical component for achieving universal access to safe drinking water in a country where, in 2015, 163 million Indians lacked access to clean water, the highest for any country, according to the NGO WaterAid.A key benchmark is that piped water supply at 55 LPCD under normal conditions should be available within household premises or at a distance of not more than 100 metres from the house.The Jal Jeevan mission aims to provide piped drinking water to all rural households by 2024.Shekhawat said the government used the Covid-19 lockdown period to ramp up infrastructure and logistics to be able to adhere to targets.“When we started off, only 17% of households had piped drinking water. During the pandemic-lockdown period, we managed to provide piped drinking water to 3.30 crore households,” the minister said.The minister said India aspires to be a global leader in achieving a sustainable environment. “The key thing I keep saying is that we should not lead our lives as consumers of natural resources but as custodians so that we can leave a better world than the one we were born into for the sake of our coming generation,” Shekhawat said.The minister said the path before the government was full of dire challenges.There are 52000 places where water is toxic due to excessive fluoride and arsenic etc. Water quality in many regions of Punjab and Rajasthan was hazardous due to overuse of pesticides, he said.“That’s when our PM Narendra Modi decided to reach safe water to every household.”Highlighting the key programmes to make water safe and conserve water, the minister said the Atal Bhujal mission was dedicated to recharging groundwater, while Jal Shakti campaign was devoted to creating awareness.The Dam Rehabilitation Yojana has been launched to run fitness checks on hundreds of historic dams, which is critical for managing water.“The resolve of the Prime Minister to reach drinking water to everyone is the first such resolve in the world,” the minister said.“One water connection to a household makes a big difference you can’t imagine. It brings confidence to the family,” Shekhawat said.Due to the large public-participation programme like “Catch the rain where it falls”, water conservation had become a mass movement.He cited the example of Vadodara where residents were able to save 10 crore gallons of water.Shekhawat complemented the Hindustan Times group for organising an environment conclave to further the cause of the environment and a sustainable future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-environment-conclave-govt-to-train-village-women-to-test-water-quality-101611300763417.html
22-01-2021||India||Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee resigns from post||West Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee has resigned from his office on Friday, days after he alleged that some leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) were not letting him 'work for the people'. "It has been a great honour and privilege to serve the people of West Bengal. I heartily convey my gratitude for getting this opportunity," Banerjee said in his resignation letter, which was tweeted by news agency ANI. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has accepted Banerjee's resignation, ANI reported later.West Bengal Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee resigns from his office as Cabinet Minister. His resignation letter reads, "It has been a great honour and privilege to serve the people of West Bengal. I heartily convey my gratitude for getting this opportunity." pic.twitter.com/EEXl8yzsM0Banerjee had taken to Facebook to criticise senior Trinamool leader earlier in January, saying they have not paid heed to his concerns. "I feel very bad when the youth is not getting jobs and education in West Bengal and can't support their families. I was stopped to do work for the people. When I was called by the senior Party leaders earlier, I informed them about my displeasure but they have not yet heard. I have not been doing it just during the times of election, even in past I have spoken against the injustice," he had claimed during the live session on January 16.Before this, Banerjee had also attended a meeting held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari's before Adhikari joined the BJP. Prior to Adhikari's exit, Banerjee had openly said that loyal party workers in TMC are being "overlooked". He later reiterated that those working in the interest of people and hardworking are not getting due importance in Mamata Banerjee-ruled Trinamool Congress.The tussle between Banerjee and senior leaders in Howrah over alleged nepotism and corruption first surfaced in public in July last year. “The rectification drive initiated by Mamata Banerjee will not succeed if action is taken against small fish and the big ones are allowed to go scot-free,” the minister had said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-forest-minister-rajib-banerjee-resigns-as-cabinet-minister-101611299965808.html
22-01-2021||India||Social media posts against govt, elected representatives will invite action by Bihar Police||Bihar Police will take action against those who make objectionable comments on social media against the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of the Legislative Assembly, or any other officials, said Additional Director General of Police of the Economic Offences Unit Nayyar Hasnain Khan on Thursday."Making objectionable comments against the government, ministers and officials comes under the category of cybercrime. It seems right to take action against such individuals or groups. Economic Offences Unit is the nodal agency of cybercrimes. I request all of you to give information regarding any such crime to the Economic Offences Unit, Patna so that we can take apt action against such people," Hasnain wrote in his letter.The letter was released on the behalf of Economic and Cybercrime Department from Bihar Police Headquarters on January 21. It is regarding the 'objectionable comments' made on social media against ministers and government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-posts-against-govt-elected-representatives-will-invite-action-by-bihar-police-101611300036634.html
22-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Govt's strategy was to throw a net at us, says farmers' leader||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Poison inside sweets’: Farmers’ leader on Centre’s offer to suspend farm lawsA leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) said on Friday the Centre’s proposal to suspend the three contentious agricultural laws for up to 18 months was like “hiding poison inside sweets” and an attempt to end the agitation that has been going since November last year. KMSC's SS Pandher reiterated that the unions will once again discuss their demands for a legal assurance on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and a repeal of the laws in the talks with the Centre on Friday. Read more‘We respect the game’: Siraj reveals how Rahane turned down umpires’ offer to leave the field after racial abuseIndian pacer Mohammed Siraj arrived in India on Thursday after having a terrific Test series Down Under. During a media interaction on his arrival, the Hyderabad bowler revealed an incident from the Sydney Test where the on-field umpires gave the Indian team an option to leave the field midway after he was subjected to racial abuse by the crowd in Sydney. Read moreNora Fatehi channels Madhubala's old Bollywood charm in pearl bustier, dupattaThe old Bollywood vintage vibe has a certain elan to it which we don’t often get to see nowadays. However, Nora Fatehi’s recent black and white image took us straight back to that era and made us fall in love with it all over again. The fashionista, who is holidaying in Dubai at the moment, has been sharing some stunning sartorial moments and giving us the much-needed inspiration. Read moreUP Police shares snippets from Sholay to impart important health advice. WatchGabbar Singh, the famous antagonist from the beloved 1975 Bollywood film Sholay, is a criminal by all accounts. However, instead of looting and murdering (the violations Gabbar is renowned for), UP Police has used this fictional character's example to show punishment issued for a different type of offence. Read moreNatasha Dalal-Varun Dhawan wedding: The bride and her wedding trousseau leave for Alibaug. See picsAhead of her wedding with actor Varun Dhawan, fashion designer Natasha Dalal was seen leaving her house for the wedding venue in Alibaug. Natasha and her family were seen outside their home, getting ready to leave. Read moreMumbai: Ajinkya Rahane welcomed with dhol, flowers after historic Australia tourAjinkya Rahane returned home after leading India to a historic Test series win Down Under. The stand-in skipper landed in Mumbai and received a hero's welcome on his arrival. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-govt-wants-to-end-protests-somehow-says-farmers-leader-and-all-the-latest-news-101611297034509.html
22-01-2021||India||Mhada to draw lottery for over 5600 houses in Pune division||The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) will on Friday draw the lottery for the allotment of 5,647 Mhada houses in the Pune division. Officials said that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Mhada received an overwhelming response of 53,000 applications.The lottery of plots in Pune, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur will be drawn at Nehru Memorial Hall in Pune and the authority has also planned to hold the session on YouTube to avoid overcrowding at the venue. The winners of the lottery will also be notified through text message and the list of the accepted applications will also be made available online on the website.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had launched the online application registration process for the Pune division in December last year. Pawar is also scheduled to be present at the draw.Also Read | Autorickshaw drivers to go by the meter in PCMC“We are providing houses at affordable prices. The price is 30 to 40 per cent less than the market rate. The response is showing that there is a need for houses in the market," Nitin Mane, chief executive officer of Mhada had said earlier this month. “Administration has not appointed any middleman. It is a transparent process to allot houses to people at affordable rates,” Mane had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mhada-to-draw-lottery-for-over-5600-houses-in-pune-division-101611298012198.html
22-01-2021||India||Learn from India’s performance in Australia: Modi at Tezpur varsity convocation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged the young minds of the country to learn from the historic victory of the Indian test cricket team in Australia. “There is a new way of facing and tackling challenges and problems by the youth of today. The latest example of it was witnessed in the cricket field when the Indian team despite loss and hardships, overcame them and won in the next matches,” said Modi while addressing the 18th convocation of Tezpur University in Assam online. “Despite being injured, our players persevered on the field to save the match. Notwithstanding challenging conditions, they didn’t despair and faced them. Some players had less experience but their determination was not and they created history,” he added. Also Read: PM Narendra Modi to chat with beneficiaries during Covid vaccination drive in UPModi said that the team had both talent and temperament to take on the experienced Australian team with senior players and defeat them. “This performance by our players also teaches us big life lessons. One is to have belief in our abilities, second is to have a positive mindset. If we have a positive mindset, the outcome will also be similar,” said Modi. “The third and most important lesson is when you have the option of leaving a challenge safely and on the other hand have the choice of a difficult victory, you should explore the possibility of a win. If you fail in the attempt to win, there is no loss. We should never be afraid of taking risks and experimenting. We have to be proactive and fearless to overcome the fear of failure,” he added. Modi stated that despite questions and concerns about India’s ability to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the country has been able to turn things around for the better. “At the start of this pandemic, concerns were expressed on how India, with such a large population, could be devastated by Covid-19. But India showed the world that if you have resolve and resilience, it doesn’t take long to create resources,” he said. “Instead of compromising with the situation and waiting for the problem to increase, we took quick and proactive steps. As a result, we were able to face and fight the virus effectively. We limited the spread of the disease with made-in-India solutions and improved our health infrastructure. Now our vaccines are giving many countries the assurance of a safety shield,” added Modi. The PM praised the innovation hub of Tezpur University and initiatives like the simple and cheap way of purifying water by the department of chemical science, which is benefiting many villages across Assam and in several other states. “Such technology can strengthen the Jal Jeevan Mission, which aims to provide clean drinking water to all households. Measures to turn waste to energy from crop waste and tasks being done on biogas and organic fertilisers by Tezpur University can solve a big problem for the country,” said Modi. Research and documentation of tribes of the northeast and their disappearing languages, preservation of manuscripts written on birch during the period of Srimanta Sankardeva and digitszation of old books being done at Tezpur University were also lauded Modi. The event witnessed conferring of degrees and diplomas to 1,218 students who graduated in 2020. Among the degree recipients, 48 toppers of various undergraduate and postgraduate programmes were awarded gold medals. The event was held in a blended mode observing Covid-19 protocols, wherein only the PhD scholars and gold medallists received their degrees and medals in person while the rest of the recipients were awarded degrees and diplomas virtually. Governor of Assam Jagdish Mukhi and Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal were also present on the occasion while union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ addressed the convocation online. Friday’s address by the PM comes a day ahead of his visit to Assam to take part in a rally at Sivasagar where he will distribute land allotment certificates to 106,000 persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learn-from-india-s-performance-in-australia-modi-at-tezpur-varsity-convocation-101611298423368.html
22-01-2021||India||‘Poison inside sweets’: Farmers’ leader on Centre’s offer to suspend farm laws||A leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) said on Friday the Centre’s proposal to suspend the three contentious agricultural laws for up to 18 months was like “hiding poison inside sweets” and an attempt to end the agitation that has been going since November last year. KMSC's SS Pandher reiterated that the unions will once again discuss their demands for a legal assurance on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and a repeal of the laws in the talks with the Centre on Friday.“The government's strategy was to throw a net at us, to hide poison inside sweets. They want to end the protests somehow. In our meeting it was unanimously decided that we reject their proposal,” news agency ANI quoted Pandher as saying. “In today’s meeting, we will discuss MSP and repeal of the three farm laws,” he also said.In today's meeting we will discuss MSP and repeal of the three farm laws: SS Pandher, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee https://t.co/ntjhtKq9vKPandher was referring to the decision taken by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmers’ unions leading the protests, to reject the government's offer to put the legislation in abeyance for at least one-and-a-half years during in the 10th round of talks on Wednesday.Of the four demands raised by farmers, both sides have arrived at a consensus on two; however, the negotiations are stuck on the demands for MSP and repeal. While the government has repeatedly said it won’t repeal the laws and has instead offered to amend and set up a committee to review the laws, the unions are adamant on a complete rollback. The implementation of the laws is already on hold, as ordered by the Supreme Court last week.The protesting farmers are gearing up for a mega tractor march on Republic Day. Farmers’ leaders are in talks with the Delhi Police to decide upon its route. The march, they’ve already announced, would be “peaceful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poison-inside-sweets-farmers-leader-on-centre-s-offer-to-suspend-farm-laws-101611297445912.html
22-01-2021||India||More Indians stepping out; surge in flight, hotel bookings: Report||Indians of all age groups have started stepping out of their cities, filling domestic flights to almost 100% capacity, reveals a recent survey.The survey by RateGain Technologies, a SaaS company for travel and hospitality, cites the upcoming long wedding and travel season as the reasons for this surge in domestic travel. SaaS is a web application managed by travel technology providers.Recent reports also stated around 80% Indians were willing to get the Covid-19 vaccine within six to twelve months of it being available, making Indians most optimistic about the vaccine, giving hope to the tourism industry in the fastest growing outbound market of the world of some revival.While international travel continues mostly restricted to UAE, domestic bookings are majorly dominated by last-minute travel bookings, stated RateGain’s report, adding that India consistently made higher travel bookings than last year in December. Highlighting top social media trends, RateGain stated that hotels in Maldives got ten times more engagement on their social media in the last quarter of 2020, owing to the corridor it opened with India, welcoming over 65,000 tourists.“Indian hotels saw their highest surge in engagement during November, due to a surge experienced by hotels in Mumbai, as they received their guests during the long Diwali weekend for staycations. Goa, which was the most booked destination in December and had the most check-ins in December and January, saw three times higher engagement during November on Facebook. Hotels in India are driving more followers on Instagram by almost ten times as compared to new fans on Facebook, showing that hotels are targeting the younger generation that is joining the workforce and would be most likely to travel,” the report stated. “In the new normal, Indian millennial traveller would play a critical role in the recovery of the region and therefore, this recovery is not encouraging for the domestic hotel industry alone but also for neighbouring Asian markets that rely on China and India to drive their tourism markets,” said Kamesh Shukla, executive vice president, RateGain. Tourist destinations such as Goa, Shimla, and Jammu continued to be among the top ten destinations booked even two weeks after the new year. This, according to RateGain, emphasises the role of social media in playing in the recovery of the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-indians-stepping-out-surge-in-flight-hotel-bookingsreport-101611297643058.html
22-01-2021||India||CWC may hold organisational elections between May 15 and May 30||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Friday may consider holding the much-awaited organisational elections, which could see the election of a new president, between May 15 and May 30, after the assembly elections in four states are over. The party is also looking at a possible window in February to hold the internal polls. Four states—Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam—and the Union Territory of Puducherry are due for assembly elections in April-May this year. At least two CWC members said that the party needs to complete its internal polls by February as this will give enough time for the new team to prepare for the polls. The Congress is out of power in all four states. It is in power in Puducherry. Also Read: Ahead of UP polls, Congress releases calendar with Priyanka Gandhi’s photosParty functionaries maintained that a long gap between the assembly polls and the organisational elections is required so that the assembly campaign doesn’t suffer. “The May schedule can allow the new team under the new president time to settle down as it doesn’t have to bother about facing an imminent election. The February schedule for internal poll can also give the new time enough time to face the state elections,” said a functionary. Subject to the endorsement of CWC, the elections could be slated for the second half of February or in May. For its part, the Central Election Authority (CEA) has sought a 25-day timeframe for organising the polls. A key decision to be taken relates to convening the All India Congress Committee (AICC) session or organising the voting at the level of state units. The latter option is doable as the delegates’ list collated and cross-checked by CEA is broadly along the lines of names received from the Pradesh Congress Committees. The CEA was set up last year by interim president Sonia Gandhi for the purpose of holding organisational polls. It has completed the task of drawing up the list of AICC delegates who form the electoral college for the party chief’s election. The poll panel’s recommendations, together with the list of delegates, are understood to have been forwarded to KC Venugopal, AICC general secretary in charge of organisation. They are likely to come up for discussion at Friday’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-working-committee-may-consider-party-polls-in-may-or-february-101611296442778.html
22-01-2021||India||UPI platform to be updated, users may face inconvenience: NPCI||The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has said its Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform will be updated for the next few days and that the process is aimed towards creating a "better architecture for the growth of UPI transactions". NPCI has not specified the time it would take to update the system.“To create a better architecture for the growth of UPI transactions, the UPI platform will be under an upgradation process for next few days from 1AM - 3AM. Users may face inconvenience, so we urge you all to plan your payments,” it said.NPCI is an umbrella organisation which operates retail payments and settlement systems in India. RuPay, IMPS, Bharat Bill Payment System and BHIM are all products of NPCI. The NPCI-developed Unified Payments Interface has seen an exponential annual growth rate of 414 per cent in the ongoing fiscal year 2020. It has also become the most preferred payment product in terms of volume in India.UPI transactions, which are often person-to-merchant (P2M) payments, make up for around 40 per cent of the transactions, news agency PTI reported citing a study carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) last week. The report also outlined that this UPI transaction volume could grow by seven times by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upi-platform-to-be-updated-users-may-face-inconvenience-npci-101611295651120.html
22-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh claims to have procured record paddy at MSP this season||Chhattisgarh government has claimed to have procured 84.44 lakh metric tons of paddy till January 21, a record for the last two decades, said officials.The procurement is still going and the present procurement is 50,000 metric tons more than the quantity of paddy procured last year, the added.In the last paddy season, Chhattisgarh procured 83.94 lakh metric tons of paddy, a press release issued by the government stated.“Till date, 1,954, 332 farmers have sold paddy at support price. Total 2,770,693 metric tons of paddy has been issued to the millers for custom milling, against which, nearly 2,545,512 metric tons of paddy has been transported already,” the release stated.In the year 2017-18, 56.88 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured in the state, whereas in the year 2018-19, 80.83 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased and in the year 2019-20, 83.94 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured.“In the year 2017-18, 15.77 lakh farmers had registered to sell paddy, whereas in the year 2018-19, the number of registered farmers increased to 16.96 lakh, and it further increased to 19.55 lakh in the year 2019-20. This year, there has been a record increase in the number of farmers registered, which now stands at 21.52 lakh,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-claims-to-have-procured-record-paddy-at-msp-this-season-101611295817566.html
22-01-2021||India||CBI files case against Cambridge Analytica for Facebook data theft||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica (CA) and Global Science Research Limited, UK, for allegedly harvesting personal data of Indians from Facebook, officials said on Friday. The agency, after two and a half years of enquiry, has found that personal data of 335 users and around 562,000 additional users who were part of the friend’s network of these 355 users was illegally collected. CBI enquiry revealed that Dr Alexandr Kogan, founder and director of Global Science Research had created an app - “thisisyourdigitallife”. As per the platform policy of Facebook, the app was authorised to collect certain specific data of the users for academic and research purposes. The agency says that the app, however, illegally collected additional unauthorised data of the users as well as their friends’ network in the Facebook. Kogan has been named as accused in the CBI First Information Report (FIR) registered on January 19 and has been charged under sections of criminal conspiracy and Information Technology Act.CBI says that the data was collected with the knowledge and consent of users. The data collected includes demographic information, pages liked on FB, and contents of private messages etc, CBI says. The FB conveyed that 335 users had installed the app in India. They have estimated that data of 562,000 additional users who were part of friends’ network of these 335 users has also been unauthorisedly harvested by the app, CBI adds.Cambridge Analytica earlier faced allegations that it used personal information harvested from 87 million Facebook accounts to help Donald Trump win the 2016 US presidential election. Union law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had told Rajya Sabha in 2018 that the probe will be handed over to the CBI.The anti-corruption agency had launched a preliminary enquiry against CA in July 2018 on the complaint of ministry of Information Technology. During the enquiry, CBI had contacted 335 app users out of which six responded to the agency and were examined during the course of enquiry. “They unanimously stated that they were misled by the app and were not aware of the fact that their personal and friends’ data was harvested. They also said that they would not have used the app if they knew that it would do so,” CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, adds. Global Science Research, CBI says, entered into a criminal conspiracy with CA during 2014 and right to use illegally harvested data sets was given to the latter for commercial purposes. “Facebook had collected written certificates from Alexandr Kogan (Global Science Research) and CA during 2016-17 declaring that all such data obtained by them through the app, thisisyourdigitallife, was accounted for and destroyed. This facts confirms that Global Science harvested data sets and provided the same to CA for commercial purposes,” CBI FIR states. However, CBI adds, enquiry could not authenticate the veracity of claim by Global Science and CA that they had destroyed the data sets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-cambridge-analytica-for-facebook-data-theft-101611296022541.html
22-01-2021||India||'Containing Covid-19 strengthened India's health infrastructure': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday said India has fought against the coronavirus pandemic despite several roadblocks and lack of resources as it contained the spread of Covid-19 and strengthened the health infrastructure through the Make In India mission."From mass production of masks and sanitiser in the country to develop the coronavirus vaccine, the people of India worked day and night to fight against the pandemic," PM Modi said while addressing the 18th convocation ceremony of Assam's Tezpur University virtually. "Our Covid-19 management showed where there are resolve and resilience, resources come naturally," he said.The Prime Minister said India is not afraid of working on experiments for solving problems. "The world's largest banking inclusion campaign is ongoing in India. The world's largest toilet building, house-providing, clean-drinking water providing and vaccination drive is in India," he said.He said that the student's learning and knowledge will boost the nation's progress. "It is an auspicious day for the graduating students. The name of Tezpur University has been added forever in your professional journey. Everything that you have learned in this university will help accelerate the development of the nation," he added.PM Modi innumerable people from Assam have contributed to the nation's freedom struggle. "Several people had sacrificed their lives, their youth. Now you have to live for New India, Aatmanirbhar India," he urged the students.PM Modi said that the grassroots innovations of the students add impetus to 'vocal for local'. He added that the department of chemical sciences in the university has worked towards an easy and affordable technology for clean drinking water which has helped many villages in Guwahati and other states. "These innovations are helping in solving local problems and thus, opening new doors towards development. They have helped in accelerating and empowering the 'Har Ghar Jal' mission," he added.PM Modi also said the effect of converting waste into energy is massive. "Remains of crops have been a big challenge for both our farmers and the environment. The work that you are doing on a technology related to bio-gas and organic fertilisers can solve a major problem of India," he added.He said Tezpur University is working towards conservating the biodiversity and rich heritage of the northeastern region. "They are documenting the languages of the tribal community; this is an appreciable work," he added. Lauding the students, PM Modi said, "Young generation of New India has a zeal of fighting with the troubles with great enthusiasm."He said that new technology has helped in the development of the nation. "It is even possible that someday a whole university will be virtual and its functioning will be online where students and faculty from anywhere in the world can connect together," PM Modi added.Talking about the New Education Policy, PM Modi said that it strengthens the nation's education policy for data analysis, which would help the process of admission, teaching and evaluation. "I am sure Tezpur University will play a major role in realizing these goals of the New Educational Policy 2020," he added.PM Modi also praised the Indian cricket team for their victory against Australia at the Gabba in Brisbane. He said the performance by the players also teaches us big life lessons. "Everyone should take risks without the fear of failure. Self-confidence is a key to success," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-learning-will-boost-nation-s-progress-pm-to-students-of-tezpur-varsity-101611291480104.html
22-01-2021||India||From farm laws to economy: What Sonia Gandhi said at CWC meet||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday criticised the Centre over the ongoing protests by the farmers over the three agricultural laws and the way it has been handling the coronavirus pandemic as well as the state of the country's economy. Gandhi made the remarks during her opening speech at the ongoing Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting. “The agitation of farmers continues and the government has shown shocking insensitivity and arrogance going through the charade of consultations,” she told her party's leaders.The party also discussed the possibility of internal polls in the coming months. It may consider a proposal to hold organisational elections between May 15 and May 30, which could see the election of a new president, party functionaries said on Friday. The Congress could also hold the internal polls in February, they added.Here’s what Sonia Gandhi said at the CWC meet:1. She alleged that Parliament was consciously denied an opportunity for examining any meaningful details, implications and impacts of the new agricultural laws. Reiterating the party’s stand on the legislation, Gandhi said, “We reject them categorically because they will destroy the foundations of food security that are based on the three pillars of MSP, public procurement and PDS.”2. Speaking about the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, Gandhi said she hoped that the process would be completed to the fullest extent. She, however, slammed the BJP government for its handling of the pandemic, saying, “The government has inflicted untold suffering on the people of our country by the manner in which it has managed the Covid-19 pandemic.It will take years for the scars to heal."3. The Congress president also addressed the state of the country’s economy, which she said remained grim, adding “large parts of the economy like MSME and the informal sector have been decimated with the government refusing to extend a lifeline.”4. Alleging that panic privatisation has gripped the government, Gandhi accused it of weakening the labour and environmental laws and called out its “selling off of carefully built-up public assets.”5. In a veiled attack at the government over the Central Vista project, the Congress leader said, “When public expenditure has to be carefully prioritised, it is very painful to find huge amounts of money being allocated and spent on initiatives that can only be described as ‘personal vanity projects.”6. Hinting at leaked chats of journalist Arnab Goswami, Gandhi said, “Very recently there have been very disturbing reports on how national security has been so thoroughly compromised,” adding that a few days back senior party leader AK Antony had said that leaking of official secrets of military operations is treason. “Yet the silence from the government’s side on what has been revealed has been deafening. Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed,” she said without naming anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meet-underway-sonia-gandhi-opens-with-remarks-on-farmers-protest-covid19-101611293373128.html
22-01-2021||India||Kashmir braces for fresh spell of snowfall; traffic to be disrupted||Kashmir is bracing for another spell of snowfall on Friday that is likely to affect air and surface transport once again, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, widespread rain is likely also likely in the plains of Jammu, it added.“This [fresh snowfall] may lead to temporary disruption of surface and air transportation especially on 23 January [Saturday],” an IMD statement said.Srinagar experienced another cold night as the mercury plunged to minus 6.1 degrees Celsius (° C). A cold wave has hit the Valley over the last 10 days as the minimum temperatures have been hovering around -7 to 8° C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-braces-for-fresh-spell-of-snowfall-traffic-to-be-disrupted-101611292722214.html
22-01-2021||India||CBI files case against Cambridge Analytica, Global Science: Key points||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica and UK's Global Science Research Ltd for "illegal harvesting of personal data from Facebook users in India", officials have said. CBI had initiated a preliminary inquiry against Cambridge Analytica and Global Science Research in 2018 for alleged illegal personal data harvesting of Indians from Facebook.The Mark Zuckerberg-owned Facebook had said that the data of about 87 million people – mostly in the US – might have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica. The IT ministry had shot off letters to Facebook and Cambridge Analytica in 2018 seeking clarification on the issue from them after the data breach came to light.Also read | Ex-CEO of Cambridge Analytica banned from running cos for seven yearsThe ministry’s move had come after Christopher Wylie, who blew the lid off the scam involving mining of Facebook user data to manipulate elections, tweeted details that claim to expose the British consultancy’s work in India dating back to 2003.Dr Alexandr Kogan, founder and director of Global Science Research, has been named as accused in CBI's First Information Report (FIR) registered on January 19 and has been charged under sections of criminal conspiracy and information technology act.Here's what CBI has said:1. The agency has said it has found that personal data of 335 users and around 562,000 additional users who were part of the friend’s network of these 355 users was unauthorisedly harvested by the app. Facebook has said that the 335 users had installed the app in India.2. Kogan had created an app - “thisisyourdigitallife”, CBI inquiry has shown. The app was authorised to collect certain specific data of the users for academic and research purposes, according to Facebook's platform policy.3. CBI has said the app, however, illegally collected additional unauthorised data of the users as well as their friends’ network in the Facebook.4. The collected data includes demographic information, pages liked on FB, and contents of private messages etc, CBI has said.5. Facebook had conveyed that 335 users had installed the app in India. They have estimated that data of 562,000 additional users, who were part of friends’ network of these 335 users, has also been unauthorisedly harvested by the app, CBI has said.6. Union law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had told Rajya Sabha in 2018 that the probe will be handed over to the CBI. The anti-corruption agency had launched a preliminary inquiry against CA in July 2018 on the complaint of the ministry of information technology.7. During its inquiry, CBI had contacted 335 app users out of which six responded to the agency and were examined during the course of the inquiry. “They unanimously stated that they were misled by the app and were not aware of the fact that their personal and friends’ data was harvested. They also said that they would not have used the app if they knew that it would do so,” CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, adds.8. CBI has said that Global Science Research entered into a criminal conspiracy with CA during 2014 and right to use illegally harvested data sets was given to the latter for commercial purposes.9. “Facebook had collected written certificates from Alexandr Kogan (Global Science Research) and CA during 2016-17 declaring that all such data obtained by them through the app, thisisyourdigitallife, was accounted for and destroyed. This fact confirms that Global Science harvested data sets and provided the same to CA for commercial purposes,” CBI FIR states.10. CBI has said its inquiry could not authenticate the veracity of the claim by Global Science and CA that they had destroyed the data sets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-cambridge-analytica-uk-s-global-science-research-ltd-101611292060859.html
22-01-2021||India||Shivamogga explosion: Bomb squads en route to ascertain damage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in Shivamogga district of Karnataka in which at least eight people are feared dead after a truck carrying stone blasting material exploded late on Thursday night.“Pained by the loss of lives in Shivamogga. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover soon. The State Government is providing all possible assistance to the affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office posted on its official Twitter handle.A truck carrying explosives detonated near a quarry in Hunasodu near Abbalagere village in Shivamogga, about 300km from Bengaluru. Shivamogga is the home district of Karnataka chief minister BSYediyurappa.Police and other authorities have sealed off the area and are awaiting the arrival of Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) to make further assessments.“We are waiting for BDDS to arrive as we suspect there are more gelatine sticks that need to be neutralised. Only then can we ascertain damages and loss of lives,” said a representative of the Shivamogga police control room.Yediyurappa also condoled the loss of life in a Twitter post on Friday. He added that teams have already been dispatched to the site for assistance and rescue.Also Watch: Karnataka: 8 killed in dynamite blast in Shivamogga, PM Modi condoles deathsThe chief minister has also ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident and assured strong punishment.The quarry is about 8km away from Shivamogga city, according to the police.The mangled remains of the truck and bodies of those killed in the explosion flooded social media after locals shot visuals after the blast.The impact of the explosion was felt in at least two adjoining districts.Several buildings and roads have been damaged in nearby areas.The tremors felt by nearby regions were initially mistaken to have been caused by an earthquake. Geologists and government authorities ruled out the possibility.All senior officials of the district are currently at the site and rescue operations are still underway, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivamogga-explosion-bomb-squads-en-route-to-ascertain-damage-101611291701997.html
22-01-2021||India||R-Day 2021: What’s new, what will be missing in Jan 26 parade||Republic Day is almost here and just like every year, the nation is gearing up to display its military might, which will be showcased as part of the annual parade. There will be certain new additions to the parade but this year’s celebrations will be different from those in previous years due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Here’s a list of what will be new and what will be missing from this year’s R-Day parade:What’s new:1. The Rafale fighter jets, purchased from France and inducted into the Indian Air Force (IAF) in September last year, will participate in the parade for the first time. The air force has thus far inducted 11 of the 36 Rafale jets ordered from France.2. The parade will also witness its first participation by a woman fighter pilot. Flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth, one of India’s first women fighter pilots, will be a part of the IAF’s tableau that will showcase mock-ups of the light combat aircraft (LCA), light combat helicopter (LCH) and the Sukhoi-30 fighters.Also Read | Bhawana Kanth to take part in R-Day parade, first woman fighter pilot to do so3. A contingent of the Bangladesh Armed Forces, comprising 122 soldiers, will participate in the parade. France (2016) and the UAE (2017) are the first two foreign countries to have participated in the R-Day march.4. Uttar Pradesh’s tableau will feature a replica of the Ram Temple, which is currently under construction in the temple town of Ayodhya. The Supreme Court had in November 2019 ended the decades-long land dispute case, paving the way for the construction of the temple.Also Read | Ayodhya, upcoming Ram Temple in Uttar Pradesh’s tableau for Republic DayWhat’s missing/curtailed:1. This will be the first R-Day parade without a chief guest in more than five decades with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson not coming to India. Johnson, who had initially accepted India’s invitation, had to cancel his visit due to the rapid rise of Covid-19 cases in the United Kingdom. India didn’t have a chief guest for the parade in 1952, 1953 and 1966 before this.Also Read | No chief guest this R-Day2. The number of spectators has been reduced to 25,000 from 150,000 allowed last year. The number of media persons, too, has been cut from 300 to 200.3. The parade, unlike previous years, will go only till the National Stadium at the C-Hexagon of India Gate. Only the tableaux will go to the Red Fort.4. The events that have been cancelled altogether include the veterans’ parade by ex-servicemen and women, as well as motorcycle stunts by troops of the army and the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel.5. No children below the age of 15 will be allowed at the India Gate lawns. Also, there will be no enclosure for schoolchildren this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-2021-what-s-new-what-will-be-missing-in-jan-26-parade-101611290104053.html
22-01-2021||India||Delhi: Fire breaks out in building near ITO||A fire broke out in the Institution of Engineers building located at Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg near ITO in central Delhi on Friday morning, prompting the fire department to send a dozen fire tenders to douse the blaze. Atil Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services, said that the blaze was controlled within an hour and no injuries have been reported. The officer said that the blaze broke out in the metre board on the second floor of the building and the fire department immediately sent three fire tenders on receiving a call for help at 8.30am.“Soon, we sent more fire tenders, taking the total count to 12,” said Garg. The fire, however, was controlled sooner than the firefighters hoped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-fire-breaks-out-in-building-near-ito-101611289661657.html
22-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh shelter home manager arrested for raping inmate||The manager of a shelter home for women was arrested on Thursday in Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur district for allegedly raping one of its inmates, police said on Friday. Three inmates had earlier alleged harassment at the shelter home. One of them later accused Jitendra Maurya, the manager, of raping her.“The statements of the three women were recorded before a magistrate under section 164 of the CrPC on Thursday during which one of them stated that she was raped by shelter manager Jitendra Maurya. Another woman alleged that she was physically assaulted,” police superintendent Prashant Agrawal said. He added Maurya has been arrested.The woman, who has accused Maurya of rape, is a gang-rape survivor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-shelter-home-manager-arrested-for-raping-inmate-101611289541661.html
22-01-2021||India||India’s infection tally over 10.62 million with 14,545 fresh Covid-19 cases||India recorded 14,545 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 163 related deaths between Thursday and Friday morning, the Union health ministry's data showed, which have pushed the country's caseload to over 10.62 million. The number of Covid-19 cases is lower than those recorded on Thursday morning at 15,223. According to the health ministry's data at 8am, there are 188,688 active cases of the coronavirus disease and they have been below 200,000 for three days in a row.The health ministry's data also showed that 10, 283,708 people have recovered from the viral disease so far after 18,002 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. The new recoveries have pushed the national recoveries to 96.78%. With this, the gap between active and recovered cases has widened to 10,095,020. India's death toll has risen to 153,032 after 163 fatalities were recorded across the country.Also read | PM Modi to interact with Covid-19 jab beneficiaries, vaccinators in VaranasiThe health ministry has said 10,43,534 health workers have been vaccinated so far and 237,050 getting doses on Thursday. The numbers reported on Thursday are the highest in a single day with little over 200,000 doses that were given on the day of the launch on January 16. India is now the fastest country to breach the million mark, taking only six days compared to nine by the United States, according to data from University of Oxford’s Our World in Data.India sent consignments of the Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to Myanmar, Seychelles and Mauritius from Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport early on Friday. Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Seychelles, Myanmar and Mauritius are part of India’s initial rollout of vaccines as grant assistance in line with its Neighbourhood First Policy.There are also plans to supply doses to Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. Commercial supplies of Covishield to several countries that have agreements with SII will also begin from Friday, people familiar with the development have said. Two flights will carry two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco as well.Also read | Amid India’s Covid vaccine export, China offers 500k doses to PakUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday vaccination against Covid-19 will lead to its eradication in some time as he unveiled posters to address the emerging issue of vaccine hesitancy."The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines, while a section of our own is fomenting misinformation and doubt for narrow political ends," Vardhan said as he commented on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines.He urged everyone to counter the "vested campaigns of untruth and misinformation". "Let us put a stop to these falsehoods," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-infection-tally-over-10-62-million-with-14-545-fresh-covid-19-cases-101611289159988.html
22-01-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to chat with beneficiaries during Covid vaccination drive in UP||The Uttar Pradesh health and family department is carrying out the second round of phase-1 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Friday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries and vaccinators in Varanasi at 1.15 pm.UP health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh said, the state government has planned to give jabs of the two vaccines- Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin-- to 1.50 lakh healthcare workers, including 8,500 healthcare workers in Lucknow, at 1,500 healthcare centers across the state including 85 in the state capital.On the eve of the second round of the vaccination drive, Uttar Pradesh received 9.11 lakh additional vials of the Covishield vaccine. Before the launch of the first round of the vaccination drive on January 16, the state had received consignments of 1,055,500 Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin doses.When asked if Uttar Pradesh had a preference for Covishield for vaccinating the healthcare workers, Singh replied that Uttar Pradesh government has not demanded a particular vaccine and it was the Central government’s mandate to supply vaccines to the states.Singh hoped that the majority of the healthcare workers, whose names were put up on the Co-WIN portal, will turn up to get the vaccine shots. He added that the vaccine was safe and there should be no misconception about it among the beneficiaries. There was no report of any adverse event during the first round of vaccination, he claimed. UP recorded the highest turn out on the vaccination day with 22,643 healthcare workers getting the first jab, he said.The integrated command and control centre (ICCC), set up in all the 75 districts in June last year for monitoring Covid cases, will now collect feedback from the beneficiaries of Covid vaccine on a daily basis, Singh said.A health department officer said, in the first round of vaccination, the healthcare workers were given Covaxin doses at 11 centers in five districts of Ambedkar Nagar, Badaun, Firozabad, Bahraich and Jhansi, whereas, at 306 centers in the remaining districts, Covishield doses were administered to the beneficiaries.The number of the centers for Covaxin shots has been increased in the round two. The health department has made it mandatory to get consent before administering Covaxin.The minister added that health workers not suffering from any disease will be given both Covishield and Covaxin.Also Read: Covid-19: PM Modi likely to take vaccine in second phase of drivePrincipal secretary health and family welfare, Alok Kumar said, the health department has completed all the preparations for the second round of vaccination drive. The vaccine has been stored at 1,298 cold chain stores across the state. The state has planned to vaccinate a total of 9 lakh healthcare care workers and we have adequate vaccines to give the second dose to the beneficiaries after 28 days, said Kumar.The state government has decided to hold the vaccination drive twice a week on Thursday and Friday, while the third and fourth vaccination round will be organized on January 28 and 29, he said.In Lucknow, 35 vaccination centres and 85 vaccination session sites/booths have been made, where 8,500 healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and paramedical, cleaning and other hospital staff will get the jab. In Lucknow, Covaxin will be administered to 600 medical staff at three hospitals.“The vaccination session will begin at 9 am,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge of vaccination in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-chat-with-beneficiaries-during-covid-vaccination-drive-in-up-101611288693828.html
22-01-2021||India||Dissent brews within Karnataka govt: What led to CM Yediyurappa’s isolation||The shuffling of his Cabinet to allocate portfolios to newly inducted ministers triggered a backlash against Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, 77, on Thursday from both the old guard and the new entrants. Here is what we know about Yediyurappa’s seeming isolation and what has led to it:• At the core of the chaos are members of the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular), or JD(S) whom Yediyurappa convinced to resign.• The resignations brought down the previous JD (S)-Congress alliance government.In all, 17 members resigned from the legislature. • In the subsequent by-election, 14 of them contested; 11 won and sought their promised rewards, ministerial berths. • At least three ministers—N Nagaraju, K Gopalaiah, and K C Narayana Gowda—of the seven inducted into his Cabinet on January 13 met at health minister K Sudhakar’s residence and later called on Yediyurappa to express their anger at the distribution of portfolios.Also read | Hours after BS Yediyurappa assigns Karnataka portfolios, ministers complain• Nagaraju said there was not much he can do in the excise department and had asked for a portfolio that is more development-oriented.• Gopalaiah, who was stripped of the food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs ministry, sought to know what he had done to deserve such treatment.• Yediyurappa and his ministerial colleagues, R Ashok and Basavaraj Bommai, among others, swung into damage control mode. The chief minister insisted there is no difference of opinion among the new ministers.• Many of the ministers unhappy with the changes did not attend a Cabinet meeting on Thursday.• Sudhakar, who fought hard to get the medical education department from B Sriramulu at the peak of the pandemic, and succeeded, was stripped of the portfolio in the reshuffle.• With no backing from the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Yediyurappa now finds himself confronting a burst of dissidence that has the potential to end another term of the Lingayat leader in the chief minister’s office ahead of the end of his tenure. • Even J C Madhuswamy, a key member of Yediyurappa’s inner circle, expressed his unhappiness at being divested of the minor irrigation, law, and parliamentary affairs portfolios.• The lack of action against Basanagouda Patil for rebellion against the chief minister was an indication of Yediyurappa’s souring relations with the central leadership of the BJP, analysts said.• Analysts said the central leadership of the BJP seems to have left it to Yediyurappa to deal with the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-brews-within-karnataka-govt-what-led-to-cm-yeddiyurappa-s-isolation-101611288581782.html
22-01-2021||India||At UN meet, India hits out at Pakistan over Hindu temple's vandalism||India on Thursday slammed Pakistan over the vandalism of a Hindu temple that was set ablaze by a mob of hundreds in December last year in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of the neighbouring country. As the United Nations adopted a resolution, “Promoting a culture of peace and tolerance to safeguard religious sites”, India stressed that religious and cultural heritage sites remained vulnerable to terror acts and destruction in the “world of growing terrorism, violent extremism, radicalization and intolerance.”TS Tirumurti, the Indian ambassador to the United Nations, said as a multicultural state, India safeguards all religious and cultural rights and protects places of worship as he criticised Pakistan, saying authorities stood by idly when the temple in Karak town was attacked. Warning against the selective enforcement of laws against attacks on religious sites, Tirumurti stressed that, as long as such selectivity exists, the world will never be able to foster a real culture of peace. “This resolution cannot be a smokescreen for countries like Pakistan to hide behind,” he said.Pakistan's representative, while exercising his right of reply, categorically rejected the “unwarranted assertions” made against his country by India. Speaking about other such events across the globe, India said, “Images of shattering of iconic Bamyan Buddha by fundamentalists are still vivid in our memories. The terrorist bombing of Sikh gurudwara in Afghanistan where 25 worshipers were killed is another example of this vulnerability,” according to news agency ANI.India also reiterated its call for the application of the principles of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality to form the basis of discussions in the United Nations especially on the issue of religion. “United Nations including the UN Alliance of Civilizations should not take sides and as long as such selectivity exists, the world can never truly foster a culture of peace. We must stand united against the forces that supplant dialogue and peace with hatred and violence,” the Indian envoy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-un-meet-india-hits-out-at-pakistan-over-hindu-temple-s-vandalism-101611286543019.html
22-01-2021||India||Govt-farm leaders to meet today, unions adamant on R-Day rally | Key points||Protests against the three contentious farm laws entered Day 58 on Friday. Thousands of farmers, who have been agitating on the outskirts of Delhi since November 26, have refused to budge until all the three laws are repealed. The protesters are also gearing up for a tractor march, which was announced earlier this month against the laws, on Republic Day.Here’s a look at some key points as protests against the farm laws enter day 58:1. The 11th round of talks between the government and farmers' leaders will take place on Friday. Discussions are stuck at two demands by the farmers: a legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the laws. The government has repeatedly said it won’t repeal the laws.2. On Thursday, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmers' unions who are leading the protests, rejected the government’s proposal to suspend the laws for up to 18 months. The government had given this proposal in the 10th round of talks on January 20.3. After SKM rejected the government’s proposal, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met home minister Amit Shah late on Thursday night. Tomar, railways minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state (MoS) for commerce Som Parkash have been representing the government in the talks with the farmers' leaders.4. On Thursday, farmers' leaders met officials of the Delhi Police for a second straight day over the proposed tractor rally on Republic Day. However, just like Wednesday, the meeting was inconclusive. Another round of talks is likely to take place between the two sides.5. The farmers are adamant to hold the rally on Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, albeit “peacefully.” However, the police, apprehensive over a possible law and order situation, have asked them to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, where a “trailer” tractor march was held on January 7.6. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to withdraw its plea filed through Delhi Police seeking an injunction on the tractor parade, calling it a “police matter.” In its plea, the police argued that the parade would “malign the nation’s image.”7. The committee constituted by the top court to oversee negotiations between the Centre and farmers on Thursday held a virtual interaction with farmers' unions from 10 states. The panel currently comprises Ashok Gulati, PK Joshi and Anil Ghanwat.8. A fourth member of the panel, Bhupinder Singh Mann, had recused himself from the committee. A controversy had erupted over the names of the members of the panel as farmers' leaders said that all of them had backed the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govtfarm-leaders-to-meet-today-unions-adamant-on-r-day-rally-key-points-101611285069082.html
22-01-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with Covid-19 vaccination beneficiaries, vaccinators in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries and vaccinators in Varanasi via video conferencing at 1.15pm on Friday. Modi tweeted the interaction will be a first-hand opportunity to hear their experiences as well as feedback as the world’s largest vaccination drive is underway in India and front-line warriors are getting vaccinated.The interaction comes as over a million health workers have now been vaccinated, with over 230,000 getting doses on Thursday alone. The government data shows there has been an increase in daily immunisations after the drive was seen to be losing steam due to vaccine hesitancy and technical glitches.Also Read: Covid-19: PM Modi likely to take vaccine in second phase of driveReports suggest that Modi is likely to address vaccine hesitancy affecting turnouts in his interaction.News agency Press Trust of India quoted the Prime Minister’s Office saying that Modi’s interaction in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi follows his “continuous dialogue and discussion with scientists, political leaders, officials and other stakeholders to proactively ensure smooth conduct of the world’s largest vaccination drive”.Modi launched the inoculation drive on January 16 with over 300 million front-line workers prioritised to get the jabs first.The immunisation numbers reported on Thursday are the highest in a single day. The highest before this was a little over 200,000 doses that were given on the day of the launch on January 16. The increase comes on the back of tweaks in the digital management platform to allow walk-ins and repeated appeals from top government officials for people to come forward.The cumulative number of vaccinations, while still a little over 57% of the target, is an improvement over what was seen on Wednesday when it was 55%. Some regions such as Delhi saw a significant jump in turnout. The city was averaging around 50% but it was over 73% on Thursday.According to the University of Oxford’s Our World in Data, India is now the fastest country to breach the million mark, taking only six days compared to nine by the US. But almost nine million more health workers are still to be vaccinated and, at two doses per person (second doses need to be given 28 days after the first), India will need to ramp up its pace further to achieve the 300 million target it has set for later this summer.The pace in recent days has worried authorities as well as experts and has been leading to wastage of doses since vaccinators at some locations could not find enough recipients to finish quantities from the vials that they had opened.On Tuesday, the top health officials of the country appealed to recipients to not be reluctant and said it was particularly upsetting that doctors and nurses were being hesitant despite adequate data and arrangements to tackle side effects.On Thursday, the government launched a mass awareness campaign.The grant of emergency approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin this month without efficacy data for the home-grown vaccine has triggered criticism from experts and the opposition. The data from the international trials of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, also approved by India’s drug regulator, suggests that it prevents transmission. This requires more research before it can be established. No such data is available for Covaxin as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-vaccinators-in-varanasi-101611285341539.html
22-01-2021||India||Widespread rain and snowfall likely in the hills today: IMD||A Western Disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan region today, bringing widespread rain and snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh till Sunday.Isolated rain or snow is also likely over Uttarakhand and very light rain/thundershower is likely at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on Saturday. Heavy rain or snow is very likely at isolated places over Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Thunderstorms with lightning and hail are also likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad today and over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday.Minimum temperatures over northwest India are likely to rise by 2-4 degrees C (° C) during Saturday and Sunday and fall by 2-4 ° C during the subsequent 48 hours (January 25 to 26), according to IMD.“We can expect the minimum temperature to fall to around 4° C in Delhi around January 26. Chilly, north westerly winds are likely to be blowing over the northwestern plains,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Also read | ‘Extreme weather events may surge in near future’Dense to very dense fog is likely in isolated pockets over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura till Monday and over sub-Himalayan West Bengal during morning hours of Friday and in some pockets over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi also on Friday.Strong surface winds (15-25 kmph) is very likely over plains of northwest India during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-and-snowfall-likely-in-the-hills-todayimd-101611284381078.html
22-01-2021||India||Biden supports ‘successful’ ties between US, India leaders, says White House||President Joe Biden “respects and values” the “long, bipartisan, successful” relationship between leaders of the United States and India and looks forward to continuing it, the White House spokesperson said Thursday.President Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have spoken at least once since the American leader’s election last November, and could again soon as the American leader begins calling up counterparts in allied and partner countries. Biden will start making these calls Friday, with Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister, being the first.“President Biden, who of course has visited India many times, respects and values the long, bipartisan, successful relationship between leaders in India and the United States. He looks forward to a continuation of that,” Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said in response to a question at the daily news briefing.As further proof of Biden’s support for the relationship, Psaki brought up Vice-President Kamala Harris. “Obviously, he selected -- and yesterday, she was sworn in -- the first Indian American to serve as President or Vice President, certainly a historic moment for all of us in this country, but a further, you know, cementing of the importance of our relationship.”Harris’s mother, Shyamala Gopalan Harris, came to the US from Chennai, India and her father, Donald Harris, from Jamaica.Shortly after Biden was sworn-in Wednesday, Modi posted tweets congratulating the president and committing to work with him. “My warmest congratulations to Joe Biden on his assumption of office as the President of the United States of America. I look forward to working with him to strengthen India-US strategic partnership,” he had said in one of them.In the second, he said, “We stand united and resilient in addressing common challenges and advancing global peace and security”. And in yet another post, he had said, “The India-US partnership is based on shared values. We have a substantial and multifaceted bilateral agenda, growing economic engagement and vibrant people to people linkages. Committed to working with President @JoeBiden to take the India-US partnership to even greater heights.”Biden and Modi go back further than the November call. In 2014, Biden, who was vice-president then, had hosted a lunch for the Indian prime minister at the state department. Modi, who was observing Navratri fasts at the time, skipped the meal part of the event, as he had at the dinner hosted for him and his team by President Barack Obama at the White House.Of Biden’s visits referenced by Psaki, the most recent was in July 2013, when he was vice-president. He had visited India in preparation for then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s upcoming US visit. Singh, incidentally, was President Obama’s first state guest, in 2009.Also Read: Joe Biden has no plans to call Donald Trump: White HouseAs the new administration settles in, policy makers and experts in both the US and India are eager to know its policy and approach on India. Mitt Romney, the Republican senator, asked Antony Blinken, the nominee for secretary of states, about it at the latter's confirmation hearing Tuesday.Blinken had spoken of the same bipartisan support, but he had put in the context of ties between the two countries, rather than their leaders. He had gone on to say that given all that has already been done by the previous administration, “One area I think that has a lot of promise, and maybe even necessity, is actually climate,” Blinken said at his confirmation hearing by the senate foreign relations committee. “At the current rate things are going, India is poised over the next two or three decades to catch up to China in terms of the emissions that it produces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biden-supports-successful-ties-between-us-india-leaders-says-white-house-101611283006284.html
22-01-2021||India||Kamala Harris as vice president further cements India-US ties: White House||The relationship between India and the United States has been further cemented with Kamala Harris as the vice president of the country, the White House has said.President Joe Biden, who was sworn in as the 46th President of the United States a day earlier, respects the long bipartisan successful relationship between the two countries, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference.“President Biden, of course, has visited India many times, respects and values the long bipartisan successful relationship between leader in India and the United States. It looks forward to a continuation of that,” Psaki said responding to a question on India-US relationship under the Biden Administration.The historic inauguration of India-origin Kamala Harris, she said, further cements this relationship.“Obviously, he selected and yesterday, she (Harris) was sworn in the first Indian American to serve as president or vice president. Certainly, historic moment for all of us in this country but a further cementing of the importance of our relationship,” Psaki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamala-harris-as-vice-president-further-cements-india-us-ties-white-house-101611282283675.html
22-01-2021||India||Curtailed by pandemic, the Republic Day parade is different this year||Many events that were a regular feature of the Republic Day Celebrations in the national capital will be missing this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the social distancing measures put in place to contain its spread, said government officials.One prominent event that drew crowds and cheers – stunts on motorcycles by the army and the personnel of the paramilitary forces – have been cancelled this year.The veterans’ parade by ex-servicemen and women, too, has been knocked off the programme chart, and so is the parade by recipients of the national bravery awards. In the 2020 Republic Day parade, veterans as old as 99 and 100 years had participated in the parade and the motorcycle stunts were performed by women officers of the Central Reserve Police Force.Government officials, who did not wish to be named, said these events were cancelled because the elderly and children are more susceptible to contract Covid-19. “There will be no enclosure for schoolchildren this year either. The total number of the enclosures has also been reduced -- from 36 to 22. The number of attendees will be 25,000 as against 150,000 until last year. Only 4,000 entries will be through tickets, the others would be invitation-based. The motorcycle stunt event was cancelled as it involved the participants sitting closely together and supporting each other while staying in close proximity on moving motorcycles,” said a senior official involved in the Republic Day arrangements.The official further said no children below the age of 15 years would be allowed at the venue on the India Gate lawns on January 26. Unlike the 12X12 format of the marching contingent with 124 participants, the format this year is 8X12, with only 96 participants.“Not just the spectators but the number of media persons has also been reduced from 300 to 100. The workers on the lawns are currently being tested at the Covid booth set up at the venue. Police personnel who will be at the gates and in charge of frisking will be wearing personal protective equipment suits and will carry thermal scanners. Officers from the security unit, who will guard the VIPs, will undergo Covid-19 testing and are already in quarantine for seven days before the Republic Day function,” a second official, privy to the arrangement details, said.Also, this year, instead of a gallery (benches arranged in rows and raised on platforms) for spectators, the ministry of defence has arranged for chairs -- so that they can be kept apart on the lawns to ensure a distance of six feet between spectators.“Another change is that only the tableaux will go to the Red Fort. The parade will culminate at the National Stadium at the C-Hexagon of India Gate,” the second official said.But there is an addition as well this year. At least 122 soldiers of the Bangladesh Armed Forces will be taking part in the parade. According to a press statement issued by the High Commission of India in Dhaka, this is only the third time since Independence that a foreign military contingent has been invited to participate in the national parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curtailed-by-pandemic-the-republic-day-parade-is-different-this-year-101611281743315.html
22-01-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with Covid-19 jab beneficiaries, vaccinators in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries and vaccinators, who will share their experience of the inoculation campaign against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi on Friday. The vaccination drive has started at six centres in the city and the first shot of the vaccine was administered to a sanitary staff Rashid Khan at the Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), according to news agency ANI.“The interaction follows continuous dialogue and discussion by the Prime Minister with scientists, political leaders, officials and other stakeholders to proactively ensure smooth conduct of the world’s largest vaccination drive,” Modi’s office said in a statement.As many as 10,40,014 health workers have been administered Covid-19 vaccines through 18,161 sessions till Thursday 6pm, Dr Manohar Agnani, the additional secretary in the Union health ministry said citing a provisional report. The health ministry said 187 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were till 6pm on the sixth day of the vaccination drive.In the first phase of the vaccination drive, nearly 30 million health and frontline workers are being administered the shot and in the second phase, around 270 million people above 50 years of age, and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities or with a high risk of infection, will be vaccinated.Top government officials have said that the Prime Minister, 70, is likely to be vaccinated for Covid-19 in the second phase of the immunisation programme, which may happen in March or April. “PM will take the vaccine when his turn will come after completion of the first phase,” said an official in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). “He himself said this in his meeting with chief ministers that politicians shouldn’t try to break the queue and only take the vaccine when their turn comes,” the official added.India is currently administering the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured by Serum Institute of India and known locally as Covishield, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.On Thursday, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said vaccination will be the last nail in the coffin of Covid-19 and that it was unfortunate that some people are spreading misinformation about the vaccination for political reasons. He was referring to doubts raised by opposition leaders against the indigenously developed Covaxin, which is still in the third phase of trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-covid-19-jab-beneficiaries-vaccinators-in-varanasi-101611279958514.html
22-01-2021||India||Dissent escalates in Karnataka BJP against Yediyurappa after cabinet reshuffle||Hours after he shuffled his cabinet to allocate portfolios to newly inducted ministers, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa faced a backlash on Thursday from both the old guard and the new entrants, leaving the 77-year-old seemingly isolated.The new ministers as well as those who were divested of key portfolios hit back at the chief minister. The CM inducted seven ministers into his cabinet on January 13.At least three ministers--N.Nagaraju, K.Gopalaiah and K.C.Narayana Gowda--met at health minister K.Sudhakar’s residence and later called on Yediyurappa to express their anger at the distribution of portfolios.“There isn’t much I can do in the excise department and had asked for a portfolio which is more development -oriented. I have conveyed this to the CM,” Nagaraju said.Gopalaiah, who was stripped of the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs ministry, sought to know what he had done to deserve such treatment.Yediyurappa, revenue minister R.Ashok and home minister Basavaraj Bommai, among others, swung into damage control mode .“There is no difference of opinion among the new ministers,” Yediyurappa claimed, flanked by Ashok and Bommai, who helped him to calm the dissidents, at least temporarily.Many of the ministers unhappy with the changes did not attend a cabinet meeting on Thursday, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.Sudhakar, who fought hard to wrest control of the medical education department from B.Sriramulu at the peak of the pandemic, and succeeded, was stripped of the portfolio in the reshuffle.With no backing from the central leadership of the Bharatiua Janata Party (BJP), Yediyurappa now finds himself confronting a burst of dissidence that has the potential to end another term of the Lingayat leader in the chief minister’s office well ahead of the end of his tenure.Even J.C.Madhuswamy, a key member of Yediyurappa’s inner circle, expressed his unhappiness at being divested of the minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs portfolios.“We will wait till the current crisis to play out and then put in motion our plans to be heard by the party,” said one BJP legislator, requesting not to be named.The lack of action against Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal) for open rebellion against the chief minister was an indication of Yediyurappa’s souring relations with the central leadership of the BJP, analysts said.“This is a repeat of what happened from 2008-13 in Karnataka. Corruption is increasing and in the due course, all these irregularities will be exposed. There is no money for relief measures, but the government is busy with its internal bickering. All this will help the Congress in the future,” said Ramalinga Reddy, working president of the Karnataka unit of the Congress party.The analysts said central leadership of the BJP seems to have left it to Yediyurappa to deal with the problem.“If the high command wants to control dissent, they can, but they have left it at Yediyurappa’s doorstep, stating that you brought them, so you control them. Basically he has been left to fend for himself,” said A.Narayana, political analyst and faculty at Azim Premji University.At the core of the chaos are members of the Congress and the JD(S), whom Yediyurappa convinced to resign, a move that brought down the alliance government of the two parties in the state. In all, 17 members resigned from the legislature. In the subsequent by-election, 14 of them contested , 11 won, and sought their promised rewards, a ministerial berth. The CM’s unsuccessful attempt to meet heir demand has left both the defectors and the party’s old loyalists unhappy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-escalates-in-karnataka-bjp-against-yediyurappa-after-cabinet-reshuffle-101611281326551.html
22-01-2021||India||Will decide in 4 weeks on mercy plea of Rajiv case convict: Tamil Nadu Guv to SC||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday told the Supreme Court that a decision on the mercy petition of one of the convicts serving a life sentence for the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, AG Perarivalan will be taken within four weeks. The petition has been pending with the Governor since December 30, 2015.During pendency of the mercy plea, the Tamil Nadu Cabinet in September 2018 recommended release of all seven convicts including Perarivalan for their involvement in the 1991 assassination. Citing inaction on part of the Governor tin deciding on his clemency plea moved under Article 161 of the Constitution, Perarivalan came to Supreme Court for passing necessary directions.On Thursday, in a surprise turn of events, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the Governor before a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra. Though the Governor is not a party in Perarivalan’s petition, the court wished to know his stand. Mehta informed the court that within three to four weeks, a decision will be taken “as per the Constitution”.The bench recorded this statement and adjourned the matter for four weeks. The court’s order said: “The learned Solicitor General submitted that the application filed by the petitioner under Article 161 of the Constitution of India shall be considered within four weeks from today.”In the past, the court had been critical of mercy petitions not being addressed. In this case, Perivalan has spent almost three decades in jail.Perarivalan was among seven persons convicted by a Special TADA court for being part of the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991. In November 2020, during the arguments on Perarivalan’s petition, the Centre took a legal objection to the Governor having power to decide on the mercy plea. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj who represented the Centre argued that the entire issue of granting remission in such a case lies with the President under Article 72 and not the Governor under Article 161.Article 161 gives the Governor the “power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment or to suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person convicted of any offence against any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the state extends”.The Raj Bhavan in Chennai said that an official statement will be made after receiving information from Solicitor General Mehta.Perarivalan’s counsel, senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan objected to the Centre taking this objection for the first time in these proceedings. He pointed out that in September 2018, the State Cabinet had already decided on the petitioner’s release. If this submission of Centre was accepted, Shankarnaraynan wondered what would happen to the pardon powers exercised by Governors over the past 70 years.Perarivalan in his petition told the Court that after filing his mercy petition, the investigating officer in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case made a disclosure that he made a mistake by excluding the exculpatory parts of the statement given by Perarivalan during the recording of his evidence. Perarivalan has maintained throughout that he had no knowledge of the plot while supplying the battery that would go on to power the belt bomb used by the suicide bomber.Tamil Nadu’s Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan informed the apex court on November 3 last year that the Governor had sought a report from the Union Home Ministry under which a multi-disciplinary probe is underway on the larger conspiracy behind the former PM’s assassination.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which is spearheading the probe filed an affidavit before the top court on November 20, 2020 stating that it had nothing to do with this matter as remission under Article 161 was purely between the convict and the Governor.In Tamil Nadu, both the ruling AIADMK and the Opposition DMK have previously spoken in support of the convicts’ release. In November last year, DMK president MK Stalin met the governor and urged him to release the seven prisoners on humanitarian grounds.(With inputs from Divya Chandrababu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-decide-in-4-weeks-on-mercy-plea-of-rajiv-case-convict-tamil-nadu-guv-to-sc-101611281131683.html
22-01-2021||India||Sasikala tests positive for Covid days before release from prison||VK Sasikala, the jailed associate of late Tamil Nadu chief minister J. Jayalalithaa, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday at a Bengaluru hospital, six days before she is to be released from prison.“She tested positive for Covid-19 but there are no other complications and her oxygen saturation is around 98% with about 10 litres of oxygen. There is a lung infection,” Dr K.Ramesh Krishna, medical superintendent at Victoria Hospital, said on Thursday.He said that doctors would decide when she would be discharged, but added that treatment it could take as long as a week or 10 days.Sasikala had tested negative on Wednesday when she was taken to Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru after complaining of breathlessness and fever.Sasikala, 63, is due to be released from Bengaluru’s Parappana Agrahara prison on January 27 after serving a four-year term following her conviction for amassing assets disproportionate to her income. She will be released months before assembly elections are held in Tamil Nadu.Sasikala’s nephew and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) chief TTV Dhinakaran reached Bengaluru on Thursday morning and met her for a few minutes when she was being shifted from Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute to Victoria Hospital for treatment.“She is looking good. Two of our relatives who are doctors have also met her,” Dhinakaran told reporters outside the hospital.Whether Dhinakaran returns to Chennai or stays back in Bengaluru depends on Sasikala’s health, said a person close to him on condition of anonymity.The expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader has comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism.On Tuesday, after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, Tamil Nadu chief minister and ruling AIADMK coordinator Edapaddi Palaniswami ruled out inducting Sasikala into his party.Although Sasikala appointed Palaniswami to be chief minister, he subsequently joined hands with the man he replaced, O Paneerselvam, Jayalalithaa’s deputy; the party expelled Sasikala and Dhinakaran in 2017. Dhinakaran, an independent MLA, started the AMMK and won a 4% vote share in the 2019 parliamentary elections in Tamil Nadu.Palaniswami will also inaugurate a memorial to Jayalalithaa in Chennai on January 27--the day Sasikala is expected to walk out of prison. The Rs. 79-crore memorial is located at Chennai’s Marina beach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-tests-positive-for-covid-days-before-release-from-prison-101611280874242.html
22-01-2021||India||India sends Covishield vaccines to Mauritius, Seychelles, Myanmar||India on Friday dispatched consignments of Serum Institute of India's (SII's) Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to Myanmar, Seychelles and Mauritius as part of the donation program to its neighbours and key partners. Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Seychelles, Myanmar and Mauritius are part of India’s initial rollout of vaccines as grant assistance. There are also plans to supply doses to Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. Commercial supplies of Covishield to several countries that have agreements with the Serum Institute of India will also begin from Friday, people familiar with the development have said. Two flights will carry two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco early on Friday morning.Under India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy, India has already dispatched vaccines to Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and the Maldives as India has assured that friendly nations get every form of support. Between March and April 2020, when the world was coming to grips with the outbreak of Covid-19 and lockdowns in every major capital city of the world, India helped the Maldives in the evacuation of its citizens from China's Wuhan and deployed a 14-member Rapid Response Team consisting of doctors and paramedics to guide the Maldivian authorities and personnel in tackling Covid-19.India also sent large shipments of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol tablets to Brazil, the United States (US) and South Africa and more than 140 other nations also received essential medical supplies from India under Operation Sanjivani. Brazil, Morocco, South Africa and Saudi Arabia also will receive vaccines from India under the commercial agreement signed with Serum Institute of India (SII).Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that India will continue to prioritise the healthcare needs of its people as well for humanity at large as governments across the world try to end the coronavirus pandemic.PM Modi in his speech in the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) last October had highlighted that India continues to remain the ‘pharmacy of the world’ and is committed to ensuring that nations across the world get the requisite amount of medical help in times of crisis. “As the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” the Prime Minister had said.Here is a list of countries which has received vaccines from India:The following countries will receive Covishield under grant assistance from India on Friday:India will also dispatch on Friday Covishield vaccines to these countries under the commercial agreement:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-covishield-vaccines-to-mauritius-seychelles-myanmar-101611280448648.html
22-01-2021||India||May induct women officers in specialised anti-maoist force: CRPF DG||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is considering inducting women officers in its specialised jungle warfare commando force to fight Maoists, Dr AP Maheshwari, the director general of the world’s largest paramilitary force, said on Thursday.“We are favourably considering inducting women in CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action),” Maheshwari said, addressing mediapersons at a press conference.At present, CoBRA has around 12,000 personnel, who are mainly deployed in states affected by Left-wing extremism. The elite commando unit was raised in 2009.Maheshwari also said that keeping in mind the increasing responsibility of its VIP security wing, the force is enhancing its skills to match up to the Special Protection Group (SPG), which protects the Prime Minister and is a separate agency.“We have improved our VIP security skills. We are following the best security standards... we are working to match our skills with the best standards of the SPG,” he said.The CRPF provides security to 62 VIPs, including home minister Amit Shah, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, her children Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and former prime minister Manmohan Singh, among others.Maheshwari also said that IED attacks are currently a major threat for the force. “There are tools to detect IEDs (improvised explosive devices), but none of them is perfect. This is a field in which internationally all organisations are trying,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-induct-women-officers-in-specialised-anti-maoist-force-crpf-dg-101611280732001.html
22-01-2021||India||No clear definition, computer-aided offence a cybercrime: MHA report||The Union home ministry, in its report submitted to the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs, has said that even as there is no “legislative definition for cybercrime”, any offence committed “against a computer resource or with the aid of a computer resource is called a cybercrime”.“Such offences are dealt as per the legal provisions of the Information Technology Act, Indian Penal Code, POSCO etc,” the ministry has said.It added that government has also straightened the legal framework by dealing with cybercrime cases against women and children as child sex abuse materials. Last year, the government rolled out the Cyber Crime prevention against Women and Children scheme, with an online cybercrime reporting platform.It added that the ministry has also provided ₹95.77 crores to states and Union territories under the scheme to set up cybercrime forensic cum training laboratories.The panel was meeting officials from the ministry of Home Affairs to get feedback on the ministry’s action on cybercrime against women and children, and the number of cases it has so far found.It has also noted that the total number of cases regarding cybercrimes against women were 4,232 in 2018, 6,030 in 2019 and 8,379 in 2020. The number of persons convicted were 30, 31 and 70, respectively. In February 2019, the ministry of Home Affairs had noted that over 60,000 cybercrime cases had been recorded from 2016-2019. “As per data maintained by National Crime Records Bureau, 12317, 21796 & 27248 cases of cybercrime incidents have been registered in year 2016, 2017 & 2018, respectively. Data pertaining to year 2019 is not compiled. As awareness and recording of cybercrimes has improved, there has been an increase in reporting of cybercrimes,” the home ministry told Lok Sabha in response to an unstarred question.TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi said that considering the vast nature of cybercrime and transnational implications, a separate ministry should be set up to look into it, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. “The intervention was made by TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi,” a person said. “He said that considering cybercrime transcends geographical boundaries, it requires a separate ministry.”People familiar with the matter added BJP MP and union minister Satya Pal Singh also asked what the ministry was planning to do regarding cybercrimes such phishing scandal, while BJP MP Rakesh Sinha raised the issue of social media websites being misused to lure women and children.“He (Sinha) asked if the ministry was considering working in tandem with social media websites such as Facebook and Twitter to adopt a more targeted approach to stop this,” the person mentioned above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-clear-definition-computer-aided-offence-a-cybercrime-mhareport-101611280208763.html
22-01-2021||India||Amid India’s Covid vaccine export, China offers 500k doses to Pak||China has offered 500,000 doses of a coronavirus vaccine to its ally Pakistan, an apparent response to the rolling out of supplies by India for its neighbours and key partners, including three million doses delivered to Bangladesh and Nepal on Thursday.Two Indian flights carried two million doses of Covishield to Dhaka and one million doses to Kathmandu, and people familiar with matter said on condition of anonymity that supplies would be sent to Seychelles (50,000 doses), Mauritius (100,000 doses) and Myanmar (1.5 million doses) on Friday. Seven countries – Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Seychelles, Myanmar and Mauritius – are part of India’s initial rollout of vaccines as assistance. There are plans to supply doses to Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. The people added commercial supplies of Covishield to several countries that have agreements with the Serum Institute of India will also begin Friday. Two flights will carry two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco.After a phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi announced on Thursday that Beijing had gifted 500,000 doses of the Sinopharm vaccine as aid.“I want to give the nation the good news that China has promised to immediately provide 500,000 doses of vaccine to Pakistan by January 31,” Qureshi said. “They (China) have said you can send your airplane and immediately airlift this drug.”Pakistan is currently the world’s most populous country that hasn’t rolled out a vaccination drive. It is also the only country in the region to have approved the Sinopharm vaccine for emergency use. The approval for Sinopharm earlier this week came days after Pakistan cleared the AstraZeneca vaccine.In Kathmandu, while handing over vaccine supplies to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli , Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra said this reflected “India’s Neighbourhood First policy in action”. Oli thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian government for the “generous grant...”Observers have noted that India speedily rolled the aid despite the massive requirements of its own vaccination drive that began on January 16. The assistance came against the backdrop of China’s efforts to forge cooperation in fighting Covid-19 within South Asia by holding meetings with Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh since last year.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash lauded the alacrity with which India responded to needs of its neighbours, saying it was in line with its efforts to be the first responder in all emergencies.“This is my definition of the Neighbourhood First policy. It is the kind of policy and approach that we need to follow and its shows the difference between India and other countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-india-s-covid-vaccine-export-china-offers-500k-doses-to-pak-101611279591212.html
22-01-2021||India||Hawk-i aircraft test-fires DRDO’s smart weapon||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Thursday announced that a Hawk-I aircraft successfully fired a Smart Anti-Airfield Weapon (SAAW) for the first time off the coast of Odisha, in what is being seen as a significant boost to an upgrade programme for the Hawk advanced jet trainer operated by the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy.The SAAW is a precision strike weapon that can be used to target enemy airfield assets such as radars, bunkers, taxi tracks and runways. Indigenously developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s research centre Imarat, the weapon has a range of 100 km. It was test-fired from the IAF’s Jaguar fighter planes.It is the first smart weapon to be fired from an Indian Hawk Mk132 trainer aircraft. “HAL has been focusing on the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. The company-owned Hawk-I platform is being extensively used for certification of systems and weapons developed indigenously by DRDO and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research labs,” HAL chairman R Madhavan said. The plane was flown by HAL test pilots Wing Commanders (retd) P Awasthi and M Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hawki-aircraft-test-fires-drdo-s-smart-weapon-101611279354221.html
22-01-2021||India||Covid-19: PM Modi likely to take vaccine in second phase of drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to get vaccinated for Covid-19 in the second phase of the immunisation programme, and it may happen in March or April, said three top government officials , underlining that the leader opposed politicians jumping the queue of inoculation determined by the government and experts.India is currently administering vaccines to 30 million health care and frontline workers. The second phase of the programme will involve 270 million people over 50 and those with compromised immunity or underlying medical conditions that make them vulnerable to Covid-19. Modi, 70, is likely to be in this batch, said a highly placed official in the vaccination drive, adding that the exact dates hadn’t been determined.“PM will take the vaccine when his turn will come after completion of the first phase,”said an official in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). “He himself said this in his meeting with chief ministers that politicians shouldn’t try to break the queue and only take the vaccine when their turn comes,” the official added. He was referring to a January 11 meeting between Modi and chief ministers where the PM shot down suggestions of including politicians in the first phase of vaccination.A third official, from the Union health ministry, said the PM’s turn is likely to come by March or April. When asked if the PM would opt for a particular vaccine, the official refused to respond. “It’s too early to say anything,” he said.The country is currently administering the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, made by Serum Institute of India and known locally as Covishield, and the Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin.Dr Vinod Paul, member (health) of Niti Aayog and who heads the government’s Covid-19 task force, said the second phase was crucial. “Phase 2 is our real focus of effort after health care and frontline workers. These are people who are above 50 and most political leaders would feature in this section,” said Dr Paul.Currently, about 10 million health care workers are being administered the vaccine. Other frontline workers will perhaps start getting the vaccine in about a week’s time, according to Dr Paul.It wasn’t clear whether the Prime Minister would have to register on the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) app, which is being used to monitor vaccinations. HT reported last week that the Centre may allow self-registration by the elderly and those with comorbidities on platform, which is currently closed to the public, for faster and easier enrolment of beneficiaries. Neither the PMO nor the Union health ministry had details about the logistics for the PM’s vaccination.On Friday, Modi will interact with people who have been vaccinated and vaccinators in Varanasi at 1:15pm via video conferencing. The participants in the interaction will share their experience of vaccination. The interaction follows continuous dialogue and discussion by the PM with scientists, political leaders, officials and other stakeholders to proactively ensure smooth conduct of the drive.Dr Paul said the government was trying to fight vaccine hesitancy. “We are trying to make ‘role models’ of prominent doctors taking vaccines willingly to remove hesitancy about vaccines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pm-modi-likely-to-take-vaccine-in-second-phase-of-drive-101611279162725.html
22-01-2021||India||‘Construction in our own territory’: China on Arunachal village report||China on Thursday dismissed a report that said it had built a village in Arunachal Pradesh, saying the construction activities were within its own territory and its sovereign right.The Chinese foreign ministry was responding to the report based on satellite imagery, which showed rows of houses in Indian territory that has been under Chinese control since 1959, and which is disputed.“First, I would like to tell you that China’s position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China’s Tibet), is consistent and clear. We have never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh illegally established on Chinese territory,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing while responding to a question on the report on Thursday.“China’s normal construction on its own territory is entirely a matter of sovereignty,” Hua added.China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet opposing New Delhi’s consistent stand that the northeastern state is an integral and inalienable part of India.Using satellite images dated November 1, 2020, television channel NDTV reported the village is located on the banks of the Tsari Chu river, which lies in the area disputed between India and China.The report said the village comprises more than 100 homes; an image dated August 26, 2019, did not show any habitation in the same area.The India-China border dispute covers the 3488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC).The report about the new village in Arunachal Pradesh comes amid a military stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh, which has lasted for over eight months.India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off in eastern Ladakh but no significant headway has been made so far.Earlier this week, Chinese state media said New Delhi was trying to hype news about the village.The Indian media reports were “a blatant attempt to stir up troubles on the China-India border,” Zhang Yongpan, a research fellow of the Institute of Chinese Borderland Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), told the tabloid Global Times on Tuesday.The external affairs ministry in India when asked about the development said on Monday that it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country’s security and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.India had stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens, MEA said.“Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-in-our-own-territory-china-on-arunachal-village-report-101611278481343.html
22-01-2021||India||IT panel quizzes Facebook, Twitter over data protection||The parliamentary panel on information technology on Thursday quizzed Facebook and Twitter over their data-sharing and protection protocols in the wake of recent changes to WhatsApp’s privacy policy that have since been deferred , people familiar with the proceedings said.“It was a constructive debate, with all parties agreeing that technology is evolving everyday,” said a person familiar with the matter, speaking on condition of anonymity. “It is a constant and persistent challenge and everyone agreed that they need to work together to find a solution.”The panel summoned Facebook, WhatsApp’s parent company, after the latter’s new privacy policy, which stated that the messaging app would mandatorily share data with the social media website, caused a storm. Some of WhatsApp’s users decided to leave the platform. The resulting controversy forced WhatsApp to defer the implementation of its policy from February to April. Experts said the new policy would allow Facebook to collect a vast amount of metadata.The ministry of electronics and information technology has also written to WhatsApp asking it to withdraw the changes. Officials from the ministry were present at the meeting and said that they were keeping tabs on the situation, with the need of the hour being straightening India’s personal data policy.At the meeting, Facebook did not mention whether the policy will be revoked. “They did reassure the panel that individual rights were its priority and asserted that the policy was introduced in 2016. They maintained that the new policy will not infringe on the rights of users and there should be no concerns regarding data sharing.”A Facebook spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Twitter also faced criticism for doing too little to curb hate speech, the person mentioned above said.Twitter said it takes immediate action when it comes to tackling abusive content. “We appreciate the opportunity of being able to share our views before the Standing Committee on Information Technology. We put the people who use our service first at every step, and have made progress when it comes to making Twitter a safer place,” a Twitter spokesperson said.Interestingly, one of the panel’s members, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Nishikant Dubey, criticised Twitter for overreach in banning former US President Donald Trump from the platform.“Twitter can’t act as both an intermediary and a publisher, it has to be one or the other,” a second person familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Representatives from WhatsApp also attended the meeting. “We wish to thank the Honorable Parliamentary Committee for giving us an opportunity to appear before them and provide our views. We look forward to assisting the Hon’ble Committee in future as well,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-panel-quizzes-facebook-twitter-over-data-protection-101611278197941.html
22-01-2021||India||Kashmir’s saffron yield breaks decade-old record||Kashmir’s saffron output crossed 13.36 tonnes in 2020, the most in a decade, thanks to a the introduction of a scheme in 2010 to rejuvenate the cultivation of the spice , officials said.Saffron is reputed to be the world’s most expensive spice and is known as the king of condiments. It fetches between ₹1.5 lakh and ₹2.5 lakh per kilogram.Saffron production peaked in Kashmir in the 1990s with an annual average output of around 15.5 tonnes. It has since declined as saffron fields, mainly in Pampore near Srinagar, depended on rain for irrigation, particularly in September and October. Either too much or too little rain was among the reasons for the decline in production.The production was 11.72 tonnes in 2015 compared to 1.4 tonnes four years earlier.Kashmir is the only place in India where saffron is cultivated. It is the region’s second-largest revenue earner after horticulture and is estimated to support around 20,000 families.Chief agriculture officer Mohammad Qasim Ghani said the credit for the increase in the production goes to the National Mission on Saffron launched in 2010 under which root rejuvenation of the crop and sprinkler irrigation were launched.Saffron yield in the area where the scheme was implemented has increased to 4.5 to 5 kilograms per hectare, Ghani said. “Kashmir has the potential to produce 6 to 7 kilograms of saffron per hectare. Earlier, in the 1980s, our production was over 6 kilograms {per hectare}.”Ghani blamed dry weather spells among the reasons for the earlier dip in the yield.In a tweet, Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s office praised the achievement. “Great Achievement: Annual yield of the world’s costliest spice, #Saffron, cultivated in Kashmir has crossed 13 metric tonnes for the first time in the last 10 years.”Zahoor Ahmad, a saffron grower, said timely rain and snow had boosted production. “We hope that from now onwards the production will keep rising,” Ahmad added.Officials said saffron is grown across 3,700 hectares in Kashmir compared to 5,500 hectares in the late 1980s. The ₹410 crore National Mission on Saffron Mission has been implemented on 3,500 hectares. Of this, 3,200 hectares of the land is located in Pampore, and the rest in Srinagar and Budgam.Officials said the mission had helped bring more land under saffron cultivation. Many growers had earlier started converting saffron fields into apple orchards and using them for commercial purposes because of their prime locations, mostly along the Srinagar-Jammu highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmirs-saffron-yield-breaks-decade-old-record-101611273444209.html
22-01-2021||India||Deadline over, CBI yet to take a call on Babri case||Although the 90-day deadline for filing an appeal in the Babri Masjid demolition conspiracy case expired about two weeks ago, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is yet to take a call on the matter and is examining if it should approach the concerned high court against the verdict, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.One of the people, a senior CBI officer, said that “the Special CBI Court judgement (dated September 30 last year) is still being examined , but we are still undecided.”Legally, a final call on whether to go for an appeal rests with the Centre.“Technically, the deadline for filing an appeal in any judgement is 90 days from the date of receiving the copy of the court’s order, but if the agency has genuine reasons for explaining the delay, the appeal can be filed anytime. In the past too, CBI has challenged court verdicts even after one year or two years,” added the officer cited above.Further explaining the procedure, this officer said: “Any file related to an appeal is first examined by the investigation team and the legal team of CBI; then by supervisory officers, additional director/special director before it reaches the CBI Director and his legal advisor for their views. If it is decided that CBI should challenge the order, the file is sent to the government for its approval. The DoPT {Department of Personnel and Training}seeks the views of the law ministry, which may or may not seek attorney general’s opinion. Sometimes, all this takes a few weeks and sometimes, several months”.But if asked by the Allahabad high court, CBI will have to file a reply on an appeal filed by two Ayodhya residents against the Lucknow special court’s September 30, 2020 verdict acquitting all 32 accused, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi.Haji Mahboob and Sayyyad Akhlaq Ahmad, witnesses in the case, filed a revision petition in the Allahabad high court on January 8 saying that the trial court committed an error in not convicting the accused while there was ample evidence on record.All India Muslim Personal Law Board executive member and counsel for Mahboob and Ahmad , Zafaryab Jilani, said : “It is CBI’s duty to file an appeal in the case because they filed a charge-sheet. The high court is currently examining our revision petition”.CBI didn’t respond to a detailed email query sent by HT.The central agency had alleged during the probe and trial that there was a conspiracy to destroy the disputed structure so that a Ram Temple could be built at the site.During the trial, the agency had produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence.CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav, while ordering the acquittal last year, cited a lack of evidence and added the probe agency could not prove the authenticity of the audio and video evidence submitted. He said the demolition was not pre-planned and that the accused tried to stop “anti-social” elements who razed the mosque on December 6, 1992.The larger Ram Janmabhoomi - Babri Masjid case was decided by the apex court in late 2019; the court allowed the construction of a Ram temple at the site and ordered the creation of a trust for the purpose. It also ordered that 5 acres of land be given to the All India Muslim Personal Law Board in lieu of the disputed site, for the construction of a mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-over-cbi-yet-to-take-a-call-on-babri-case-101611272035318.html
22-01-2021||India||Covid-19: 10 months on, women running Imphal market seek to reopen shop||For 15 years, N Bina Devi sold seasonal agricultural produce in Nupi Keithel, the market in Imphal run only by women, to support her four-member family. That was until March of last year when the Manipur government ordered the market to shut down in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic.The 48-year-old vendor in Nupi Keithel (literally, women’s market) says it’s time the authorities reopen the market, where licensed store owners sold a variety of wares ranging from vegetables and fruits to toys and textiles, fish and spices.“The closure of the market not only affects the women vendors, but also the money lenders and product suppliers,” Bina Devi,a resident of Imphal West district, explained. “So the government should work out a method to reopen the market by allowing shops to open on a rotational basis.”Tracing its roots back to the 16th century, Nupi Keithel, also known as Ima Keithel (mother’s market), is reputed to be one of the oldest all-women markets in Asia. Its closure has badly hurt the livelihoods of woman vendors hosted by the market, whose closure chief minister N Biren Singh has promised to review after a meeting with vendors.“The government should reopen the market by introducing necessary arrangements as per existing guidelines,” said Laishram Mema Devi, 70, who sold handmade jewellery at the market for about four decades until it was shut on March 21, 2020, to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.“As you know, everyone who depends on these markets is suffering a lot due to the closure,” she added.An independent social researcher based in Imphal has calculated the loss from the 10-month closure of Nupi Kiethel at ₹3,879 crore.“If we calculate the number of closure days and number of license holding women vendors at the Nupi Keithel along with the average per day establishment profit based on available official data, it has caused this loss,” the researcher, Serto Tondana Kom, claimed.Until January 19, the closure had lasted 304 days. Nupi Keithel hosted 3, 614 license holding vendors. Assuming that each woman vendor earned ₹353 per day -- the per capital state gross domestic product -- the loss to the 3,614 vendors worked out to ₹12, 75,742 a day and ₹3,879 crores in 304 days, Kom added.The researcher says the state government should act to bring relief to the vendors on the lines of the financial assistance it provided to residents of Manipur who were stranded outside the state during the initial days of the lockdown that followed the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-10-months-on-women-running-imphal-market-seek-to-reopen-shop-101611270217264.html
22-01-2021||India||Govt denies RTIs on agri laws citing court hearings||The Centre has cited hearings in the Supreme Court and high courts on the three farms bills and the Niti Aayog Council not having studied a report on amendments to the Essential Commodities Act as reasons to deny information on the these bills to separate Right To Information (RTI) applications filed by activists.Several RTI applications have been filed with the agriculture ministry and Niti Aayog since November 27, when farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh started their protests against the three farm bills.The farmer bodies are seeking repeal of the three farm bills. The government has ruled out repealing of the laws and said consultations were being held with states and other stakeholders over the past decade.In his RTI application, Noida-based activist Vikrant Tongad sought inspection of all files related to the farm bills; another activist, Anjali Bhardwaj of Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS) wanted to know whether pre-legislative consultation on the bills was done.In a reply to Tongad, Ashish Bagde, central public information officer of the department of agriculture cooperation and farmer welfare, said the information sought involves laws challenged in the Supreme Court and high courts. “As such being a sub-judice matter it may not be feasible at this moment to provide the information under section 8 (1) (b) of the RTI Act, 2005,” Bagde said.Section 8 (1) (b) prohibits sharing of the information which has been “expressly forbidden to be published” by the court or tribunal and where providing such information may constitute contempt of court. “No court has so far prohibited the government from sharing of information on farm bills,” said Nikhil Dey, a member of National Campaign for People’s Right to Information.Bhardwaj filed two RTI applications. The first was with the agriculture ministry regarding the consultation with agriculture department of various states, some progressive farmers and prominent agriculture mandi (market) officials with respect to the three Ordinances.She received the same reply that Tongad did.Her second RTI application was filed with Niti Aayog on the High Powered Committee of Chief Ministers for Transforming Indian Agriculture, which the Central government claimed, had recommended changes in the Essential Commodities Act. She sought a copy of the committee’s report, details of all meetings of the committee and its minutes.During the debate on the introduction of the three farm bills on September 14, 2020, junior agriculture minister Raosaheb Danve said that the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act were discussed and approved by the high powered committee. The amendments have removed stock limits for agriculture produce such as onions, cereal, pulses and oilseeds from the list of essential commodities so as to remove fear of private investors of excessive regulatory interference. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has already refuted his claim.In a response to the application, NITI Aayog’s central public information officer, Manash Chaudhary, said he was “constrained” in sharing the committee’s report as the same was yet to be placed before the Governing Council of the body. He also said the minutes of the meetings cannot be shared as they are part of final report.Bhardwaj said the reply clearly shows that the final report has not been discussed with all chief ministers. “It is unfortunate as the issue of deliberations and consultations on the ordinances and legislations are a matter of great public interest,” she said.Venkatesh Nayak of Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative said the government should have proactively put information about public consultations on three farm laws in public domain.He added that this would have shown that “ the government has done excessive consultation with stakeholders, as being claimed by ministers, and the farm laws have backing of prominent farmer bodies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-denies-rtis-on-agri-laws-citing-court-hearings-101611269927801.html
22-01-2021||India||Farmer unions reject offer to put farm laws on hold||Farm unions protesting three new agricultural laws have rejected the Union government’s offer to put the legislation in abeyance for at least one-and-a-half years — a decision that has deepened the crisis just when it appeared that a 56-day-long agitation by tens of thousands of farmers on the Capital’s borders could finally be resolved.In the 10th round of negotiations with a 41-member delegation representing farm unions on Wednesday, the Union government offered to suspend the three pieces of legislation in its most far-reaching proposal yet.But the farmers, instead of agreeing to meet the government midway, hardened their already rigid position on Thursday, saying they will not budge from their demand for a complete repeal of the laws.After several rounds of internal discussions over the government offer, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the platform of farm unions leading the agitation, said on Thursday evening that the farmers had unanimously rejected the proposal.“The proposal to suspend the laws is not acceptable because our demand is a repeal of the laws,” said Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the agitation.A statement put out by the unions said a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha was held on Thursday. “The proposal put forth by the government yesterday, was rejected. A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP [minimum support price] for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement,” the statement said.In Wednesday’s talks, the government said that it would move an affidavit before the Supreme Court stating it’s decision to put the laws in abeyance till a solution to farmers’ demands was found. To discuss the issues raised by farmers, which includes a law guaranteeing assured prices for their produce, the government had also told farm unions that it proposed to set up a committee of representatives as well as experts who should be nominated both by farm unions and the government to examine “all agitation-related issues”.The move was hailed by experts as a step back by the government, and they expected farmers to reciprocate. The farm unions, too, said they would discuss the government’s fresh offer, sparking hopes of a resolution. But Thursday’s inflexible position by the farmers now leaves few options to resolve the crisis.Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction) said the full general body of the farm unions felt that accepting the government’s proposal would defeat the purpose of the agitation. “We will attend the talks with the Centre tomorrow where we will tell them that their proposal is not acceptable,” he said.Joginder Singh Ugrahan, another senior farm leader, said the government’s proposal would “divert and delay” the farmers’ demands.The government has pushed a set of agricultural laws to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.Farmers staging a massive protest on several of Delhi’s border points say the laws will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. They have demanded a full repeal of the three agricultural laws and have also sought a legal guarantee of assured prices for farm produce.On January 12, after two days of deliberation, the Supreme Court suspended the pro-reforms farm laws until further order. The bench dealing with the case — headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde — also appointed a committee to look into farmers’ grievances over the laws.Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the Supreme Court had put the laws in abeyance for a short time. “Our proposal is to put the laws on hold for a full year-and-a half or even more till a solution is found.”Tomar added that if farmers were to accept the proposal in principle, then it would begin work on setting up the committee and its modalities, saying the laws would be suspended so that a committee could find a settlement.“The farm unions have closed the option of any possibility of amendments. They want status quo. That is why they have showed no flexibility in dealing with the government,” said Abhinav Saikia, an agronomist with farm startup IndAgro.There are some other farm unions that are in support of the new laws.“The government seems to have conceded a lot of ground with several proposals it has made so far, from diluting the laws’ provisions to putting them on hold, but the latest stand of farmers have brought matters to a standstill. We don’t want a repeal,” said Anil Bijoria, the leader of Haryana Farmers’ Producer Association, a pro-reform farm organisation.“The government has said that farmers can ask for anything other than repeal. The government now has to decide between repealing the laws or see a more intense agitation,” said RS Mani, a retired faculty at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-reject-offer-to-put-farm-laws-on-hold-101611268669847.html
22-01-2021||India||Internal elections, upcoming assembly polls in focus as Cong Working Committee meets today||The Congress Working Committee meeting on Friday might consider the upcoming assembly elections in four states and the time required for the party’s central election authority (CEA) to prepare the ground for internal elections, before drawing up a schedule for the latter, which could see the election of a new president.The meeting is being closely watched both by the old guard, including the 23 signatories to a August letter to party president Sonia Gandhi seeking sweeping changes in the Congress’ functioning, as well as the young Turks, mainly leaders allied with former party president Rahul Gandhi.The signatories said they are waiting to see how the meeting tries to address the issues they raised. “We also want the Bihar election results taken up for discussion in the CWC,” said one of the letter writers. The Congress fared poorly in the election, winning 19 of the 70 seats it contested.The young Turks, some Congress leaders said, may yet again demand that the CWC pick Rahul Gandhi as the next party chief . CWC, the highest executive body of the Congress, can appoint a provisional President pending the election of a regular President by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) .Gandhi himself has given no indication so far that he wants to return to the post he quit after the party’s dismal showing in the 2019 Lok Saha elections. “We asked him several times in the past few months but he hasn’t even given a hint of interest,” added this person who asked not to be named.If it takes up the issue of organizational elections to the post of the party chief, CWC will also take a call on whether a full-fledged session of the AICC plenary needs to be called or voting can be held at the level of state units.Four states—Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam—and the UT of Puducherry will face assembly elections in April-May this year. At least two CWC members said that the party needs to complete its internal polls by February as this will give enough time for the new team to prepare for the polls. The Congress is out of power in all four states.Subject to the endorsement of CWC, the elections could be slated for February. For its part, CEA has sought a 25-day time-frame for organizing the polls. A key decision to be taken relates to convening the AICC session or organizing the voting at the level of state units. The latter option is doable as the delegates’ list collated and cross-checked by CEA is broadly on the lines of names received from the Pradesh Congress Committees.The Central Election Authority set up last year by interim president Sonia Gandhi for the purpose of holding organizational polls has completed the task of drawing up the list of AICC delegates who form the electoral-college for the party chief’s election. The poll panel’s recommendations, together with the list of delegates, are understood to have been forwarded to KC Venugopal, AICC general secretary in charge of organisation. They are likely to come up for discussion at Friday’s meeting.A senior leader said on condition of anonymity that Venugopal and Ambika Soni have also been in contact with Rajya Sabha Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the 23 signatories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internal-elections-upcoming-assembly-polls-in-focus-as-cwc-meets-today-101611268021899.html
22-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccinations cross 1 million, drive picks up pace in Delhi||More than one million health workers in India have now been vaccinated for the coronavirus, with over 230,000 getting doses on Thursday alone, according to government data that at last shows an increase in daily immunisations after the drive was seen to be losing steam due to vaccine hesitancy and technical glitches.The numbers reported on Thursday are the highest in a single day — the most before this was a little over 200,000 doses that were given on the day of the launch on January 16 — and come on the back of tweaks in the digital management platform to allow walk-ins, and repeated appeals from top government officials for people to come forward.The cumulative number of vaccinations, while still a little over 57% of the target, is an improvement over what was seen as on Wednesday when it was 55%. Some regions such as Delhi saw a significant jump in turnout — the city was averaging around 50% but it was over 73% on Thursday.Officials credited the improvement to changes in the Co-WIN application that now allows vaccinators to administer shots to walk-in health care workers if those scheduled did not turn up. “The app has been modified to allow creation of more session sites, more sessions per site, and change in site location as per the local requirement. Instead of daily plan, officials concerned can now plan and schedule the sessions for the entire weak,” said Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, health ministry.Data from University of Oxford’s Our World in Data shows that India is now the fastest country to breach the million mark, taking only six days compared to nine by the United States. But almost nine million more health workers are still to be vaccinated and, at two doses per person (second doses need to be given 28 days after the first), India will need to ramp up its pace further to achieve the 300 million target it has set for later this summer.The pace in recent days has worried authorities as well as experts, and has been leading to wastage of doses since vaccinators at some locations could not find enough recipients to finish quantities from the vials that they had opened.On Tuesday, the top health officials of the country appealed to recipients to not be reluctant, and said it was particularly upsetting that doctors and nurses were being hesitant despite adequate data and arrangements to tackle side effects.On Thursday, the government launched a mass awareness campaign, tapping even an old Bollywood classic — a Kishore Kumar song from the 1972 Rajesh Khanna starrer Amar Prem — to drive home its message.“Kuch toh log kahenge, logon ka kaam hai kehna…” goes the song composed by the late RD Burman, whose lyrics have been modified and appear on a series of posters developed by the Union health ministry asking people to ignore vaccine-related rumors. The lyrics translate as “people will say something; then it is their job to say this...”The posters also have quotes from health care workers who took the shot against Covid-19.“You are aware that I have taken Covaxin and I have zero side-effects. Data shows that these two vaccines are safe, safe, safe,” says VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, in one of the posters. Paul took the shot on January 16, the day of the launch of the vaccination drive, at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“The misinformation must be countered fiercely. States must do all they can to counter rumour-mongering against Covid-19 vaccines. Let us put a stop to these falsehoods,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said while launching the posters on Thursday.“The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines while a section of our own is fomenting misinformation and doubts for narrow political ends,” he added.He assured people that the vaccines were absolutely safe.“All eminent doctors of well-known hospitals have taken the vaccine and praised the exercise for its desired end. The elimination of polio and smallpox was made possible by large-scale immunisation,” he said.To be sure, while the data from the international trials of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine (Covishield is the Indian version of this) suggests that it prevents transmission, this requires more research before it can be established. No such data is available for Covaxin.Former Union health secretary K Sujatha Rao also said the initial period after a vaccine’s launch was usually tough, and required efforts to convince people to take the preventive shot.“It was a task for us to ensure people accepted vaccines, during the initial period of launch of the universal immunisation programme. We had to launch massive door- to-door information, education, and communication campaigns along with our development partners at that time to create awareness among people. It was by no means an easy task at the beginning but gradually picked up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccinations-cross-1-million-drive-picks-up-pace-in-delhi-101611267529354.html
22-01-2021||India||Army plans to deploy 10,000 troops as LAC reinforcements||With a planned and gradual drawdown of soldiers underway in the Northeast, where the security situation has significantly improved, the Indian Army plans to redeploy up to 10,000 extra troops by the year-end to carry out the force’s primary task --- dealing with the Chinese threat in the eastern sector, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity.These soldiers are part of a reserve division whose elements can be swiftly marshalled to support front-line troops guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China to deal with any contingency in the sensitive sector, the people said.While around 3,000 soldiers have already been pulled out of counter-insurgency and internal security duties in the Northeast, another 7,000 soldiers are expected to be withdrawn by the year-end, said one of the people cited above.The move will help the army focus on the borders and train for conventional operations, experts said.Several parliamentary panels have made recommendations in their reports to reduce the army’s exposure to counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism duties because it results in blunting the force’s focus on its main task --- defending the country from external aggression.Also, the Kargil Review Committeem (KRC), which tabled its report in Parliament in February 2000, said the army’s role in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism duties was resulting in the development of a mindset that distracts it from performing its primary role. The KRC underlined the pressing need to evolve a long-term strategy to reduce the army’s role in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations.On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said the army was in the process of reducing its footprint in the Northeast to sharpen its focus on external threats. No such drawdown of troops is currently planned in Jammu and Kashmir though, he stressed.The planned pull out of some units from a counter-insurgency role in the Northeast is a good step, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“The security situation is almost completely under control and it can now be handled by the police and central armed police forces. It will enable Eastern Command formations to focus on their primary role along the Northern borders,” he said.With both the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan and LAC being volatile, any reduction in internal security duties would be of great help in effective management of the borders and training for conventional operations, Hooda added.The internal security situation in the Northeast has improved considerably with a large number of insurgent cadres surrendering before the security forces, and successful operations carried out last year.Compared to 2018, there was a 40% increase in the apprehension of insurgents last year, a 60% decline in violent incidents and a140% increase in seizure of contraband, resulting in choking the supply of funds, according to government data accessed by Hindustan Times.“There has been a progressive decline in violence over a period of time. However, continued efforts are needed to achieve the desired level of peace, especially in Manipur, Nagaland and south Arunachal Pradesh,” said a second official. More troops will be withdrawn when the situation further stabilises in these states.Excellent coordination with Myanmar (Op Sunrise) has also made it hard for Indian insurgent groups to set up camps and operate from there, said a third official. However, one concern that remains is that the cadre strength of valley-based insurgent groups (VBIGs) in Manipur remains intact, he said.“The current focus of all stakeholders is primarily on the ongoing Naga peace talks,” said a fourth official.On the situation in Assam, he said the army had gradually started disengaging from the counter-insurgency grid in lower Assam and begun handing over the operational responsibility to the state government.“A comprehensive view of the security situation in lower Assam is being taken post the Bodoland Territorial Council elections that were held in December 2020 and a decision on disengagement of remaining forces will also be deliberated upon subsequently,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-plans-to-deploy-10-000-troops-as-lac-reinforcements-101611266923783.html
22-01-2021||India||SC notice on plea to ban Mirzapur web series, set up pre-screening body for OTT||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice on a petition seeking a ban on the popular web series ‘Mirzapur’ on Amazon Prime Video for its obscene, vulgar depiction of women and showing the city, otherwise famous for its rich cultural and historical value, as a city of goons, criminals and women indulging in adultery.The petition filed by Sujeet Kumar Singh, a resident of Mirzapur district in Uttar Pradesh, said, “Showing such ridiculous and shameless things on a city or district is an insult to approximately 30 lakh population (residing in Mirzapur) and the rich culture of Mirzapur.” The web series Mirzapur was launched in 2018 by Excel Entertainment and due to its successful run, the second edition of the web series was launched in October 2020.The petition demanded an immediate ban on further screening of the web series and sought directions from the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to set up a pre-screening committee for censoring content of similar web series, movies or other programmes release on over the top (OTT) platforms. Further, no content should be released on the online streaming platforms without obtaining a certificate from the said authority, the petition added.“The web series ‘Mirzapur’ is full with nudity, vulgarity, harsh and abusive language which is a violation of Cinematograph Act and Information Technology Act. It (web series) also violates Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act as it shows women as sex toys…. raises a finger on relation of daughter-in-law and father-in-law,” stated the petition drawn up by Rudra Vikram Singh. In this regard, the petition even sought action against Excel Entertainment, Amazon Prime Video and the actors in the web series for violating the above laws.Quite contrary to what is being depicted, the petition highlighted the rich legacy of this district that once served among the biggest trading centres in northern India of the 17th century. This place is home to the famous Vindhyachal temple which is situated here River Ganga meets Vindhya Range and the red marbles of Mirzapur were used by Emperor Ashoka to make Ashok Stambh and Baudh Stup, the petition stated.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice on the petition. The petitioner informed the Court that the matter could be heard along with a separate PIL pending consideration before the Court where a demand has been raised to monitor and regulate content on the OTT platforms.On this petition filed by two lawyers Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia , the Court issued notice on October 15 last year. The petition had pointed out the legal loophole that allowed uncensored screening of movies or web series on OTT platforms. The Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) certificate applies for movies meant for theatrical exhibition alone, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-on-plea-to-ban-mirzapur-web-series-set-up-pre-screening-body-for-ott-101611258594983.html
22-01-2021||India||SC issues notice on BJP leader's plea, wants Mumbai mayor's response in 15 days||The Supreme Court on Thursday set out to examine a plea by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staking claim for the post of the Leader of the Opposition in the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) which currently has the Mayor and the LOP, both belonging to different political parties but having allegiance to the same ruling coalition in the state.The plea before the court was made by BJP councillor Prabhakar Tukaram Shinde, who is currently the Group Leader of the BJP in MCGM.Issuing a notice on Shinde’s petition, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde asked the MCGM and its Mayor to respond whether the power to have a Leader of Opposition for the House could be exercised only once during the term of the House.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We want to know if the power of the Mayor (in appointing a Leader of Opposition) once exercised cannot be exercised again.” Shinde’s petition was aggrieved by the order passed by the Mayor on March 5, 2020 rejecting his demand to be made Leader of Opposition in MCGM.In the 227-member House, Shiv Sena has 97 councillors while the second largest party having numerical strength is the BJP with 83 seats. The Indian National Congress (INC) with only 29 seats presently has its member as Leader of Opposition. In 2017, when elections to MCGM were held, BJP remained neutral and decided against taking up the post of the Leader of Opposition. Thus the post fell in favour of INC councillor Ravi Raja.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for Shinde said, “When the leader of the largest opposition party is willing to take up the responsibility of the leader of opposition, the law does not deny him the same merely because he had initially expressed unwillingness to do so for various considerations.” Shinde had earlier approached the Bombay High Court which rejected his petition on September 21 last year.The CJI-headed bench asked Rohatgi, “You chose not to be the leader of opposition.” Rohatgi said that the matter involved the interpretation of Section 37-IA which provides that the post of Leader of Opposition is not permanent and can be changed looking at the changed political dynamics in the state. This fact was recorded by Shinde in his petition, stating, “This arrangement wherein member of the ruling coalition occupy the Treasury as well as post of Leader of Opposition is nothing but a mockery of democracy.”Senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram appeared for the MCGM and the Mayor and agreed to respond to Shinde’s petition. The bench sought their response in 15 days and made it clear to all parties that the issue will be decided on the next date of hearing and the matter shall be disposed. The tenure of the House is due to get over by February 2022. Shinde told the Court, “Four years have gone by. I want to be appointed as leader of opposition for at least one year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-on-bjp-leader-s-plea-wants-mumbai-mayor-s-response-in-15-days-101611256100578.html
22-01-2021||India||Nadda meets UP ministers, asks them to prep for 2022 assembly polls||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda held a meeting with ministers of the Yogi Adityanath cabinet and office bearers of the party’s state unit on Thursday to prepare the party for the 2022 assembly polls. The meeting took place after Nadda arrived in Lucknow for a two-day visit.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya, Dinesh Sharma and the BJP’s UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh were present at the meeting.BJP state unit general secretary Ashwani Tyagi said the party’s national chief reviewed the working of the ministers. He applauded the state government and chief minister Yogi Adityanath for providing momentum to development work amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Tyagi said.The state government and party organisation worked in coordination and the benefits of government welfare schemes reached the common people, he said. A large number of young men were given employment, he added.Earlier, the chief minister welcomed Nadda at the Chaudhary Charan Singh airport in Lucknow while BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh greeted him at the party’s state unit office.Nadda was due to arrive in the afternoon, but his programme was rescheduled due to certain engagements in Delhi.Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary BL Santhosh held a separate meeting with the state unit office bearers. He praised the party workers for ensuring that the relief and welfare schemes launched by the state government during the pandemic reached the common people.Nadda will visit Chinhat on Friday to hold a meeting with the workers of the rural areas. Later, he will attend a meeting of the BJP booth committee members, besides office bearers of the Awadh, Lucknow and Kanpur units.After meeting city-based intellectuals, the party president will leave for Delhi in the evening, Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-meets-up-ministers-asks-them-to-prep-for-2022-assembly-polls-101611254473854.html
22-01-2021||India||Citizenship row hits GTA chairman Anit Thapa after Nepalese portal’s claim||A Kathmandu-based news portal sparked a row in the north Bengal hills on Thursday with a report that claimed that Anit Thapa, chairman of board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), is a Nepali citizen.Thapa, who is also the general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binoy Tamang faction) refuted the allegations and said: “It is a conspiracy to malign me.”The Nepali news portal on Thursday morning published news with the heading “India’s leader Nepal’s citizenship.”In its report, the portal said that Thapa had gone to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates in 1995. It also claimed Thapa’s Nepali citizenship was issued from Nepal’s Jhapa district in 1994 and he was shown as the son of one Binod Thapa but there was man by that name in the said address. Thapa had stayed in Dubai for two years before he returned to Nepal, the news portal wrote.Later in the day, Thapa issued a statement saying: “The allegation is baseless and is a conspiracy against me. If anyone can prove the allegation, he can file a case against me. Every time when Darjeeling hills raise the voice in the interest of Indian Gorkhas, conspiracy is hatched to throttle the voice.”He denied going to Dubai and said: “I went to Sweden and Europe on Indian passport. I was an Indian citizen and I am an Indian citizen.”For years, Thapa has been accused of holding dual citizenship (of India and Nepal). In January, 2020 the sub-divisional officer of Kurseong in Darjeeling district had issued a general notice asking people to appear before him in connection with the information regarding Thapa’s alleged Nepali citizenship.The notice was issued with reference to an anonymous letter written to the Union home minister on August 12, 2019 in connection with Thapa’s alleged Nepali citizenship.“We had conducted the enquiry and had forwarded the findings to the district magistrate,” said Abhishek Chaurasia the Kurseong sub-divisional officer.While Shashank Sethi, the district magistrate of Darjeeling could not be contacted despite repeated attempts, Chaurasia refused to divulge any details of the enquiry.The opposition parties in the hills attacked Thapa soon after the news went viral.Mahendra Chettri, the Gorkha National Liberation Front spokesperson said, “We demand action against Thapa for holding dual citizenship.”Kalyan Dewan, president of the BJP’s Darjeeling hills district committee said: "The allegation is serious and the onus of proving the allegations false lies with Thapa himself."Santa Chhetri, TMC's Rajya Sabha MP said: "It is the duty of the government to investigate."Roshan Giri, general secretary of the GJM (Bimal Gurung faction) said, “We will comment only after consulting legal experts.”Thapa was one of the main trusted lieutenants of Bimal Gurung who founded the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) in 2007 to spearhead the movement for a separate state of Gorkhaland in Darjeeling hills.In 2017, when the Gorkhaland movement had rocked the Darjeeling hills for three months, Thapa and Binoy Tamang joined hands with the West Bengal government that effectively derailed the movement.The GJM split and Tamang headed the new faction while Gurung went into hiding after being charged under anti-terror law by the Mamata Banerjee government. The state government installed Tamang as the chairman of the board of administrators in the semi-autonomous GTA in September 2017. Thapa became its chairman, after Tamang resigned from the post to unsuccessfully contest a bye-election for Darjeeling assembly seat in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizenship-row-hits-gta-chairman-anit-thapa-after-nepalese-portal-s-claim-101611254321574.html
22-01-2021||India||Dissent escalates in K’taka BJP against BSY after cabinet reshuffle||Bengaluru: Hours after he shuffled his cabinet to allocate portfolios to newly inducted ministers, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa faced a backlash on Thursday from both the old guard and the new entrants, leaving the 77-year-old seemingly isolated.The new ministers as well as those who were divested of key portfolios hit back at the chief minister. The CM inducted seven ministers into his cabinet on January 13.At least three ministers--N.Nagaraju, K.Gopalaiah and K.C.Narayana Gowda--met at health minister K.Sudhakar’s residence and later called on Yediyurappa to express their anger at the distribution of portfolios. “There isn’t much I can do in the excise department and had asked for a portfolio which is more development -oriented. I have conveyed this to the CM,” Nagaraju said. Gopalaiah, who was stripped of the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs ministry, sought to know what he had done to deserve such treatment. Yediyurappa, revenue minister R.Ashok and home minister Basavaraj Bommai, among others, swung into damage control mode . “There is no difference of opinion among the new ministers,” Yediyurappa claimed, flanked by Ashok and Bommai, who helped him to calm the dissidents, at least temporarily. Many of the ministers unhappy with the changes did not attend a cabinet meeting on Thursday, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. Sudhakar, who fought hard to wrest control of the medical education department from B.Sriramulu at the peak of the pandemic, and succeeded, was stripped of the portfolio in the reshuffle. With no backing from the central leadership of the Bharatiua Janata Party (BJP), Yediyurappa now finds himself confronting a burst of dissidence that has the potential to end another term of the Lingayat leader in the chief minister’s office well ahead of the end of his tenure.Even J.C.Madhuswamy, a key member of Yediyurappa’s inner circle, expressed his unhappiness at being divested of the minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs portfolios. “We will wait till the current crisis to play out and then put in motion our plans to be heard by the party,” said one BJP legislator, requesting not to be named. The lack of action against Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal) for open rebellion against the chief minister was an indication of Yediyurappa’s souring relations with the central leadership of the BJP, analysts said. “This is a repeat of what happened from 2008-13 in Karnataka. Corruption is increasing and in the due course, all these irregularities will be exposed. There is no money for relief measures, but the government is busy with its internal bickering. All this will help the Congress in the future,” said Ramalinga Reddy, working president of the Karnataka unit of the Congress party. The analysts said central leadership of the BJP seems to have left it to Yediyurappa to deal with the problem. “If the high command wants to control dissent, they can, but they have left it at Yediyurappa’s doorstep, stating that you brought them, so you control them. Basically he has been left to fend for himself,” said A.Narayana, political analyst and faculty at Azim Premji University. At the core of the chaos are members of the Congress and the JD(S), whom Yediyurappa convinced to resign, a move that brought down the alliance government of the two parties in the state. In all, 17 members resigned from the legislature. In the subsequent by-election, 14 of them contested , 11 won, and sought their promised rewards, a ministerial berth. The CM’s unsuccessful attempt to meet heir demand has left both the defectors and the party’s old loyalists unhappy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-escalates-in-k-taka-bjp-against-bsy-after-cabinet-reshuffle-101611254490614.html
22-01-2021||India||Will decide in 4 weeks on mercy plea of Rajiv case convict: TN Guv to SC||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday told the Supreme Court that a decision on the mercy petition of one of the convicts serving a life sentence for the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, AG Perarivalan will be taken within four weeks. The petition has been pending with the Governor since December 30, 2015.During pendency of the mercy plea, the Tamil Nadu Cabinet in September 2018 recommended release of all seven convicts including Perarivalan for their involvement in the 1991 assassination. Citing inaction on part of the Governor tin deciding on his clemency plea moved under Article 161 of the Constitution, Perarivalan came to Supreme Court for passing necessary directions.On Thursday, in a surprise turn of events, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the Governor before a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra. Though the Governor is not a party in Perarivalan’s petition, the court wished to know his stand. Mehta informed the court that within three to four weeks, a decision will be taken “as per the Constitution”.The bench recorded this statement and adjourned the matter for four weeks. The court’s order said: “The learned Solicitor General submitted that the application filed by the petitioner under Article 161 of the Constitution of India shall be considered within four weeks from today.”In the past, the court had been critical of mercy petitions not being addressed. In this case, Perivalan has spent almost three decades in jail. Perarivalan was among seven persons convicted by a Special TADA court for being part of the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991. In November 2020, during the arguments on Perarivalan’s petition, the Centre took a legal objection to the Governor having power to decide on the mercy plea. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj who represented the Centre argued that the entire issue of granting remission in such a case lies with the President under Article 72 and not the Governor under Article 161.Article 161 gives the Governor the “power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment or to suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person convicted of any offence against any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the state extends”. The Raj Bhavan in Chennai said that an official statement will be made after receiving information from Solicitor General Mehta.Perarivalan’s counsel, senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan objected to the Centre taking this objection for the first time in these proceedings. He pointed out that in September 2018, the State Cabinet had already decided on the petitioner’s release. If this submission of Centre was accepted, Shankarnaraynan wondered what would happen to the pardon powers exercised by Governors over the past 70 years.Perarivalan in his petition told the Court that after filing his mercy petition, the investigating officer in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case made a disclosure that he made a mistake by excluding the exculpatory parts of the statement given by Perarivalan during the recording of his evidence. Perarivalan has maintained throughout that he had no knowledge of the plot while supplying the battery that would go on to power the belt bomb used by the suicide bomber.Tamil Nadu’s Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan informed the apex court on November 3 last year that the Governor had sought a report from the Union Home Ministry under which a multi-disciplinary probe is underway on the larger conspiracy behind the former PM’s assassination. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which is spearheading the probe filed an affidavit before the top court on November 20, 2020 stating that it had nothing to do with this matter as remission under Article 161 was purely between the convict and the Governor. In Tamil Nadu, both the ruling AIADMK and the Opposition DMK have previously spoken in support of the convicts’ release. In November last year, DMK president MK Stalin met the governor and urged him to release the seven prisoners on humanitarian grounds. (With inputs from Divya Chandrababu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-decide-in-4-weeks-on-mercy-plea-of-rajiv-case-convict-tn-guv-to-sc-101611254430555.html
22-01-2021||India||Ahead of elections, TMC says BSF being misused||Kolkata The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India alleging that the Border Security Force was threatening people living in areas in the state bordering Bangladesh, asking them to vote for a particular political party. While the party did not name the Bharatiya Janata Party, it implied that it was referring to the national party which has emerged its main rival in the state. The BJP, meanwhile has alleged that at least 400,000- 500,000 Rohingyas, who illegally entered the country through the Indo-Bangla border, have been included in the voters’ list and urged the poll panel to order a special audit of the electoral roll. Elections in the state are likely in the first half of the year. “BSF personnel are going to border villages and threatening villagers to vote for a particular political party. Villagers are being told that the state administration won’t be able to help them and that they would be left at the mercy of BSF. We have taken up the matter with the ECI,” said Partha Chatterjee, TMC general secretary and state education minister, after meeting the Chief Election Commissioner.  BSF, however, has refuted the charges saying that the allegations were baseless and far from truth “ BSF is a professional border guarding force. We have actively checked on illegal infiltration and smuggling and criminals involved in such activities have been brought to book. The statements made by Chatterjee, are without any basis and far from truth,” said a statement issued by the force. Representatives of both parties met Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and the two election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar on Thursday. The full bench of the ECI is in West Bengal on a two-day visit to take stock of the election preparedness and law and order situation in the poll-bound state. “Border areas are very sensitive. We have urged ECI to cross-check the voters’ list in some areas where there has been an alarming increase in number of electors,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal , claiming that at least 400,000- 500,000 lakh Rohingyas have been included in the list. The BJP in its letter to ECI alleged that at least five border districts – Malda, Murshidabad, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakshin Dinajpur, and South 24 Parganas – have registered high population growth in the last four years. Three of these – Malda Murshidabad and Uttar Dinajpur have a Muslim majority, according to the 2011 census. HT could not independently ascertain whether this is the case. The BJP team has also demanded that central forces be deployed at least 15 days before the polls. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha pols where the party won 18 of the 42 seats in the state, the BJP has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the 294-seated legislative assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-elections-tmc-says-bsf-being-misused-101611254310518.html
22-01-2021||India||Lalu Prasad under observation at RIMS after contracting pneumonia||Incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad developed breathing trouble with congestion in his chest on Thursday evening following which he was put under treatment, doctors at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said.The RJD chief has been at the RIMS since December 2018 for kidney-related ailments.The doctors treating Lalu including Dr Umesh Prasad, a professor at the department of medicine, RIMS director Dr Kameshwar Prasad and RIMS superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap rushed to the paying ward where he has been admitted and checked his vital parameters.Dr Kameshwar Prasad said it seems to be a case of acute pneumonia and he has been put under round-the-clock observation.A junior doctor, who did not wish to be named, said, "Dr Umesh Prasad had checked Lalu Prasad's vital parameters which were reported to be stable," the doctor said.Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta also rushed to RIMS receiving the information.The doctors conducted a rapid antigen test for Covid-19 which was negative, sources said. The doctors also took his swab sample for an RT-PCR test. The report will come on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-under-observation-at-rims-after-contracting-pneumonia-101611252426368.html
22-01-2021||India||India sends 3 mn vaccine doses to neighbours, Pak gets some from China||China has offered 500,000 doses of a Coronavirus vaccine to its ally Pakistan, an apparent response to the rolling out of supplies by India for its neighbours and key partners, including three million doses delivered to Bangladesh and Nepal on Thursday.Two Indian flights carried two million doses of Covishield to Dhaka and one million doses to Kathmandu, and people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that supplies would be sent to Seychelles (50,000 doses), Mauritius (100,000 doses) and Myanmar (1.5 million doses) on Friday.Seven countries – Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Seychelles, Myanmar and Mauritius – are part of India’s initial rollout of vaccines as grant assistance. There are also plans to supply doses to Afghanistan and Sri Lanka.The people added commercial supplies of Covishield to several countries that have agreements with the Serum Institute of India will also begin from Friday. Two flights will carry two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco early on Friday morning.After a phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi announced on Thursday that Beijing had gifted 500,000 doses of the Sinopharm vaccine as aid.“I want to give the nation the good news that China has promised to immediately provide 500,000 doses of vaccine to Pakistan by January 31,” Qureshi said. “They (China) have said you can send your airplane and immediately airlift this drug,”Qureshi quoted Wang as saying that Pakistan was the first country China thought of assisting with vaccines in view of their "all-weather strategic relationship". He also said China would supply more than a million doses by February.Pakistan is currently the world’s most populous country that hasn’t rolled out a vaccination programme. It is also the only country in the region to have approved the Sinopharm vaccine for emergency use. The approval for Sinopharm earlier this week came days after Pakistan cleared the AstraZeneca vaccine.The two million doses gifted by India to Bangladesh were handed over by Indian envoy Vikram Doraiswami to foreign minister AK Abdul Momen and health minister Zahid Maleque in Dhaka. This was the single largest consignment of vaccines provided by India to any country so far.Momen said India had stood by Bangladesh during the Liberation War of 1971 as well as the pandemic that had impacted the world. “This proves the true friendship between Bangladesh and India,” he said.India’s vaccine assistance reached Nepal within a week of a request made by visiting Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali during a visit to New Delhi last week. While handing over the supplies to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli in Kathmandu, Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra said this reflected “India’s Neighbourhood First policy in action”.Oli thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian government for the “generous grant of one million doses of Covid vaccine to Nepal at this critical time when India is rolling out vaccination for its own people”.Observers have noted that India speedily rolled out millions of doses as aid despite the massive requirements of its own vaccination drive that began on January 16. The assistance came against the backdrop of China’s efforts to forge cooperation in fighting Covid-19 within South Asia by holding meetings with Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh since last year.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash lauded the alacrity with which the Indian government had responded to the needs of its neighbours, saying it was in line with its efforts to be the first responder in all emergency situations.“This is my definition of the Neighbourhood First policy. It is the kind of policy and approach that we need to follow and its shows the difference between India and other countries. I can’t think of such selflessness by any other country in an hour of need.”Observers have noted that India speedily rolled out millions of doses as aid despite the massive requirements of its own vaccination drive that began on January 16. The assistance came against the backdrop of China’s efforts to forge cooperation in fighting Covid-19 within South Asia by holding meetings with Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh since last year.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash lauded the alacrity with which the Indian government had responded to the needs of its neighbours, saying it was in line with its efforts to be the first responder in all emergency situations.“This is my definition of the Neighbourhood First policy. It is the kind of policy and approach that we need to follow and its shows the difference between India and other countries. I can’t think of such selflessness by any other country in an hour of need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-3-mn-vaccine-doses-to-bangladesh-nepal-china-steps-in-for-pakistan-101611237943645.html
22-01-2021||India||UAE Air Force to help 3 Rafale fighters reach India, 7 more in April||At a meeting of the consultative committee of the external affairs ministry on January 16, foreign minister S Jaishankar had underscored India’s deepening relationship with Gulf countries. He had told the Congress MPs that it was due to the intense efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that India’s relationship with Gulf countries had gone way beyond diaspora and energy as in the past.The state of the relationship will be on display later this month when the United Arab Emirates Air Force will handle the mid-air refuelling of India’s three Rafale fighter jets flying into the Indian Air Force station at Ambala from France, people familiar with the matter said.The UAE air force’s Airbus multi-role transport tanker will twice refuel the three Indian fighter jets on their non-stop eight-hour flight from Bordeaux-Merignac base in France to join the Golden Arrows Squadron in Ambala.When five Rafale fighters flew non-stop to India from France on July 29, 2020, the aircraft was refuelled four times by a French MRTT.The UAE air force’s gesture is the first-of-its-kind and reflects how the two countries are rapidly cementing their security ties, a person familiar with the matter said. The next level would be trilateral military exercises involving France, UAE and India.Officials said National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, one of the key architects of relations with UAE and Saudi Arabia, and Diplomatic Advisor to the French President, Emmanuel Bonne, had discussed the trilateral military exercises during the strategic dialogue held during Bonne’s India visit on January 6.Also Read: On Rafale and deadly Panther choppers, India gets a huge offer from FranceIndia and UAE have forged a very close relationship since 2014 with PM Modi leading the initiative. This is in sharp contrast to the state of bilateral ties in 1999 when UAE hadn’t allowed the Indian Ambassador to enter the airbase where Indian Airlines’ hijacked plane, IC-814, had refuelled before flying to Taliban-controlled Kandahar airport. Today, New Delhi and Abu Dhabi not only have multi-faceted security ties but also exchange vital information about the respective regions. It is due to such close ties, that UAE has deported over 100 Indian criminals taking shelter in the Emirates since 2014, a senior diplomat said.The UAE Air Force will also provide mid-air refuelling to the next batch of seven Rafale fighters coming to India in the second half of April. As of now, four French Air Force’s Rafale fighters along with an Airbus MRTT are exercising with the Indian Air Force in the skies over Pokhran. The French fighters will later participate in annual exercises with the Australian Air Force. India is also considering Airbus MRTT as one of the options to boost IAF’s power projection and endurance in Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-3-rafales-reaching-india-to-be-refuelled-mid-air-by-uae-air-force-101611209885564.html
